Hazardous situations related to aircraft altitude can remain unnoticed by the flight crew and the controller. The controller’s workload and priorities may cause an imminent hazardous situation to remain undetected if not alerted by MSAW. This is especially likely to occur during heavy workload conditions. For the successful implementation of MSAW, it is necessary to tune the function taking into account the specifications and local environment and to provide the relevant training to ATCOs and engineers. ICAO Doc. 4444 PANS-ATM, Chapter 15, Para 15.7.4. specifies MSAW procedures: 15.7.4.1: "Local instructions concerning the use of the MSAW function shall be specified, inter alia: a) the types of flight which are eligible for generation of MSAW; b) the sectors or areas of airspace for which MSAW minimum safe altitudes have been defined and within which the MSAW function is implemented; c) the values of the defined MSAW minimum safe altitudes; d) the method of displaying the MSAW to the controller; e) the parameters for generation of MSAW as well as warning time; and f) conditions under which the MSAW function may be inhibited for individual aircraft tracks as well as procedures applicable in respect of flights for which MSAW has been inhibited." 15.7.4.2: "In the event an MSAW is generated in respect of a controlled flight, the following action shall be taken without delay: a) if the aircraft is being vectored, the aircraft shall be instructed to climb immediately to the applicable safe level and, if necessary to avoid terrain, be assigned a new heading; b) in other cases, the flight crew shall immediately be advised that a minimum safe altitude warning has been generated and be instructed to check the level of the aircraft." 15.7.4.3: "Following an MSAW event, controllers should complete an air traffic incident report only in the event that a minimum safe altitude was unintentionally infringed with a potential for controlled flight into terrain by the aircraft concerned." The performance of the MSAW function can be described as the best balance between warning time and nuisance alert, taking into account local environment. In this way the air traffic controller would be able to rely on the MSAW during the provision of service. The operational use of MSAW has not always led to the best advantage being taken of its potential as a safety net. Investigations of accidents and serious incidents which occurred in an ATS environment where MSAW was available sometimes disclosed problems with the display of MSAW alerts to controllers, its selection and serviceability and with the operational procedures and associated training. The operational use of MSAW will depend on the controller’s trust in the system. Trust is a result of many factors, such as reliability and transparency. Neither mistrust nor complacency are desirable and training and experience are needed to build trust at the appropriate level. An excessive number of false alarms can reduce the ATCO's confidence in the MSAW. Best practices for using the MSAW have shown that the increasing complexity of the MSAW and