250°. Immediately after this, flight CTV878 advised that it had followed its TCAS RA “by descending the aircraft to FL180” and following the controller’s acknowledgement asked if the other traffic had also descended. The controller responded by asking CTV878 to standby and then instructed CTV635 to turn right on heading 250° and maintain FL200. The subsequent readback from CTV635 included the instruction and late notification of the fact that it had received a TCAS RA and in a follow-on communication then advised that a “CLEAR OF CONFLICT’ annunciation had been received and that FL200 was being maintained. Forty seconds later, flight CTV878 confirmed that they had also received a TCAS ‘CLEAR OF CONFLICT’ message and maintaining FL180 in the EMARA hold. Both the previously conflicting flights were then completed without further event and both aircraft landed on runway 18. It was noted that the applicable traffic separation standard when radar control service was being provided was 5nm horizontally and 1000 feet vertically. It was noted that the Radar Unit involved was supervised by a Watch Supervisor and provided service within the Surabaya CTR (one sector) and within the Surabaya TMA (two sectors). The investigated loss of separation occurred in the TMA East sector. The Watch Supervisor was provided with a dedicated controller working position in order to monitor the actions of the three radar sector controllers. The controller in the TMA East position was supported by an Assistant Controller who had been assigned to assist the controller because that sector often had more traffic than the TMA West sector. At the time of the conflict, it was noted that the controller involved had been in position for almost two hours during which he had provided service to up to ten aircraft at a time. Most of this traffic was flights inbound to Surabaya where the prevailing weather conditions had resulted in the use of non-standard holding patterns. Prior to the conflict neither the Assistant Controller nor the Watch Supervisor had recognised the potential conflict between flights CTV878 and CTV635 but the Supervisor was aware that prior to it, the controller involved had “several times provided a response to the wrong pilot” but had taken no action. The first awareness of the conflict which then triggered TCAS RAs as resolution was the sighting of one aircraft by the other. The normally available STCA system was not available because it had been de activated pending repair after it had been observed to be duplicating some aircraft targets because of a misalignment of one of the radar heads. The Investigation noted that in the absence of STCA, it was considered that the availability of other means of increasing controller alertness during duty should have been considered. Although no conclusive evidence that the experienced controller’s errors could be attributed to fatigue was found, it was assessed to be of potential relevance. The Investigation therefore referred to both the ICAO Doc 9966 ‘Manual for the Oversight of Fatigue Management Approaches’ and to the ICAO/IFATCA/CANSO publication