to accommodate separation from other aircraft.. Since information on the radar monitor in the tower showed that the aircraft on approach was maintaining an abnormally high speed, the tower controller would have been wise to wait before giving take off clearance to the departing aircraft and to also instruct the approaching aircraft to go around.. If the aircraft on approach had been able to complete a landing, the separation between its landing position and the departing aircraft would have been less than the full runway length.. The Tower controller’s assessment not to cancel the take off clearance given to the departing aircraft once the potential conflict had arisen was reasonable since the aircraft was about to rotate and had consequently continued too far to initiate a rejected take off.. Although aircraft should not normally deviate from ATC clearances, the decision of the crew of the aircraft on go around to turn away from the aircraft which had just taken off ahead of them and was located below them was a sound assessment.. The decision of the crew of the departing aircraft to reduce their rate of climb when they became aware of the conflicting aircraft immediately above them was a sound one.. A similar event at Bergen on 4 October 2011 which had also been investigated by the AIBN was noted. In this case, a Norwegian Air Shuttle Boeing 737-800 had discontinued its approach to runway 17 just before landing when its crew considered it unlikely that a Boeing 737-300 on the runway and in receipt of a take off clearance would be clear of the runway before their likely time of landing. They were subsequently unaware that the aircraft they were concerned about had actually taken off and was ahead of them until they saw it and made an immediate turn off the same track. Although minimum separation had been only 0.5 nm horizontally and 400 vertically, the Investigation concluded that there had not been any real risk of collision despite the potential for it. This Investigation, with the Final Report published only in Norwegian, had led to the issue of three Safety Recommendations to the State ANSP Avinor, two of which were still open in October 2013, one of which was as follows and was considered to be equally relevant to the Oslo event: that Avinor assess whether other air traffic control units that bear responsibility for control tower and/or approach control have satisfactory local guidelines for handling traffic management during a missed approach. [SL No. 2012/06T]. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: “The two aircraft came into conflict with each other during go-around and simultaneous departure, respectively. AIBN’s assessment is that there was a real danger of collision during this incident. But once the situation was a fact, situational awareness and sound assessments on the part of the aircraft crews and the tower controller prevented a further escalation of the conflict. AIBN considers established and practiced procedures to be conducive to recognising situations and