3.7nm from the runway threshold at an altitude of 2100 feet (equivalent to 1400 feet aal) and still had a ground speed of 250 knots. Immediately after acknowledging the aircraft checking in, the TWR controller issued take off clearance to the departing aircraft - which had already been advised to commence any required run up and be read to roll immediately they were cleared to do so. Although the inbound aircraft crew heard this clearance, they stated that they did not appreciate its significance as they continued their approach attempt. They had selected Flap 15 shortly before visual contact with the runway when there was approximately 1nm to go but they were still at 700 feet aal (and therefore 400 feet above the ILS GS altitude) and with an airspeed still around 190 knots. At this point - well beyond the 1000 feet aal stabilised approach ‘gate’ which formed part of their operating procedures, the aircraft commander determined that a go around was necessary and advised TWR as it was initiated. TWR acknowledged and added “departing traffic below, essential traffic”. The go around was commenced as per the procedure, straight ahead on the runway extended centreline and 15 seconds later, the aircraft overflew the threshold of the runway with a groundspeed of 190 knots. At this point the departing aircraft had just become airborne with a groundspeed of 154 knots approximately a mile ahead. Shortly afterwards, as the departing aircraft passed 700 feet agl, the TWR controller instructed the aircraft on go around “when able, left turn heading 270.” This instruction was then acknowledged by both aircraft - although ATC heard only the incorrect acceptance from the departing aircraft and did not respond to either aircraft - and the aircraft on go around did not hear the incorrect acceptance transmitted by the departing aircraft. Soon after the departing aircraft initiated the left turn, it received a TCAS TA with the other aircraft symbol showing 400 feet above on the TCAS display and the crew acted to reduce their rate of climb. Since the TWR controller no longer had either aircraft in sight due to the low cloud base but could see from the radar monitor that both had or could be expected to shortly begin left turns, they advised the departing aircraft of “essential traffic above on missed approach turning left shortly” which was acknowledged. Twenty seconds later, minimum separation of 0.19nm was reached with the aircraft on go around passed an altitude of 1800 feet (equivalent to approximately 1100 feet agl/aal) some 500 feet above the and ahead of the departing aircraft - which was still below 1000 feet agl/aal. With the conflict resolved, the TWR controller transferred both aircraft to the next appropriate frequency. Subsequently the aircraft on go around also reported receiving a TCAS TA when in cloud and after starting its left turns. When their TA occurred, the flight crew of this aircraft did not see a height tag against the traffic symbol for the departing