averting them before they become critical.” Three Significant Findings which were considered to be of decisive significance for the sequence of events or are especially important viewed from a flight safety perspective were also highlighted as follows: The crew of the aircraft on approach had unrealistic expectations of becoming stabilised not later than (the prescribed) 1 000 feet aal. The decision to implement a missed approach was taken at a late stage.. The Final Approach and Tower controllers’ expectations that the speed of the approaching aircraft would be reduced sufficiently were not fulfilled and as a result he aircraft came into conflict with the simultaneous departure of the other aircraft.. Since runway 01L was being used both for landings and departures, the Tower controller needed to secure sufficient separation during any go-arounds as well as for landings and take offs. ATC did not have documented local guidelines that could help the tower controller assess whether there might be enough time to take a departure ahead of a landing under the prevailing conditions. Nor were there any documented guidelines for how the tower controller should handle traffic management during missed approach and simultaneous departure from the same runway.. The Investigation was completed on 7 November 2013, the Final Report published in Norwegian on 11 November 2013 and the Final Report in English was subsequently published on 25 February 2014. The only information documented in respect of significant Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation was that to address callsign confusion risks, the aircraft operator involved had since made changes to a number callsigns for flights likely to be operating in the same area at the same time, including changing the callsign for the departing NAX 741 to NAX 1YE to avoid possible confusion with the arriving NAX 740. No new Safety Recommendations were made because the content of one which might otherwise have been was already contained in the previously quoted and still open one made to ANSP Avinor following the similar conflict at Bergen on 4 October 2011.