An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). DFDR data from both aircraft and recorded ATC radar and communications were available to support the Investigation but no action was taken to prevent the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recording on either aircraft from being overwritten. The Investigation noted that all the pilots involved were experienced in their assigned roles and generally, as well as being very familiar with Oslo Airport and its air traffic procedures and the fact that the Gardermoen CTZ was class ‘D’ airspace. It was established that on-the-job training (OJT) was in progress at the Oslo APP position, the final radar frequency worked at the Oslo ACC before inbound traffic was handed off to the TWR. It was also noted that there had been a changeover at the TWR position just four minutes prior to the investigated occurrence. The Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast accessed by the crew of the arriving aircraft was noted to have included the remark “tailwind on final to 2000”. It was found that at the time of the event, the airport was operating with a single runway (01L) in use for both take offs and landings due to periodic 15 minute closures of alternate (parallel) runways to facilitate snow clearance operations. Three landings had been planned on 01L during the period of single runway operations based on a target distance between successive landings of 8nm - one of them being the aircraft which was involved in the investigated conflict whilst on go-around. It was apparent to both the flight crew and ATC from an early stage that the aircraft on approach was both too high and too fast relative to a normal Instrument Landing System (ILS) closure and profile. The Investigation noted that although the aircraft was established on the ILS LOC at a range of 9.5nm, this occurred at 220 KIAS and above the ILS GS at in excess of 4000 feet aal. The Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS)-alerted tailwind component was also present. Although the aircraft commander of this aircraft told the Investigation that “it was difficult to get down to the glide path and at the same time reduce the speed because of the strong tailwind”, they had chosen to continue the approach, “hoping that the tailwind would decrease”. He stated that “they had not applied airbrakes during their descent or during the final approach stage because he considered the effect to be small and it would have led to vibrations in the aircraft, which would have increased further when they set flaps”. The aircraft was transferred from Radar APP to TWR at 6nm out with an instruction to reduce speed to 180 KIAS or less - airspeed was still indicating in excess of 210 knots at that time with a ground speed of 250 knots. The crew inadvertently selected the wrong TWR frequency and called APP instead so that actual check in with TWR was delayed. By this time, the aircraft was