aircraft but observed that the traffic symbol for it was almost co-located with their position on the TCAS display. They stated that, upon realising for the first time that the other traffic ahead of them had just taken off, they increased thrust to increase their rate of climb. Noticing that it was also turning left, they reported that they had also responded by reversing their direction of turn and going to the right ahead of the complimentary instruction from the TWR controller being received soon afterwards instructing a right turn onto a heading of 360°. Correlation of FDR data showed that the minimum horizontal distance between the two aircraft occurred with the departing aircraft climbing through 1300 feet QNH (approximately 600 feet aal) and the go around aircraft climbing through 1800 feet QNH when they were 0.19 nm apart. The Investigation noted (listed below in no intended order of significance) that: There were no instructions at Oslo ACC to prescribe where OJT instructors should be seated when they were working in position with trainees, although the ability to override trainee communications was available at all positions.. Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) had “no practical application in this incident” because it was configured to be active only if at least one of the aircraft in a conflict was above 5500 feet.. The Norwegian Air Shuttle Operations Manual stated unequivocally that any approach should be stabilised before the aircraft reaches 1000 feet aal.. ATC controller training is delivered in accordance with the EUROCONTROL specification for ‘Common Core Content’.. Although the use of a tower simulator for controller training was not mandatory in Norway in line with EU Regulation 805/2011 at the time of the investigated event, such a simulator had been in use at Oslo for many years.. the first leg of the outbound flight procedure from runway 01L and the missed approach procedure for runway 01L both initially follow magnetic heading 014°, i.e. straight ahead along the extended runway centreline.. the prevailing separation standards after the inbound aircraft had commenced its missed approach were 3 nm horizontally or 1000 feet vertically.. Go around procedures did not address separation between an aircraft on missed approach and a simultaneous departure off the same runway, only the case of normal parallel runway operations with one runway for take off and one for landing.. There was no standardisation amongst those controllers qualified as TWR Supervisor in respect of what they considered was a sensible number of landings to be accepted on a runway also being used for departures during 15 minute snow clearance periods.. The failure to secure CVR data meant that the Investigation lacked relevant information which could have helped to understand the sequence of events in detail.. In its analysis of the facts gathered, the Investigation’s observations included the following: By going around at an earlier stage, the crew (of the approaching aircraft) would have had more time to implement necessary corrective measures (and) the tower controller would also have had more space