in accordance with the ILS GS. At approximately 900 feet agl, the Captain disconnected the AP and when the First Officer made a call “500 to minimum”, the Captain responded with “runway in sight”. He then informed the First Officer that he intended to touch down right at the beginning of the runway so as to avoid entering fog patches during the landing roll. He stated that he then flew one dot below the GS in order to touch down on the threshold but he had not communicated this intention to the First Officer. As the aircraft began to descend below the GS, the First Officer asked if he should disable EGPWS alerting to which the Captain responded in the affirmative and this action was taken at approximately 500 feet agl. Shortly afterwards, the GS deviation reached one dot below the GS and the Captain noted that the PAPI was indicating one white and three red lights. The automated ‘MINIMUMS’ call was annunciated at the procedure DA (281 feet QNH) with a full scale GS deviation displayed and thereafter the beginning of thrust reduction towards flight idle was recorded. The Captain called “continue” and subsequently stated that he had continued to have visual contact with both the approach and runway lighting. The First Officer stated that he had concluded that the Captain “had sufficient visual cues to continue the approach and landing”. CVR data showed that the First Officer had not at any time made calls of altitude or GS deviation. The commander subsequently stated that he had “noticed passing a white crossbar, a second white crossbar and then red lights” which he had considered “indicated the beginning of runway 10R” and so he had initiated the flare. Almost immediately the aircraft collided with the runway 28L ILS LOC antenna infrastructure at a distance of 450 metres from the runway threshold and then touched down on the grass surface of the 28L RESA after a further 60 metres. After a further 60 metre landing roll, the nose landing gear impacted another part of the antenna assembly and collapsed. The aircraft then rolled on the main landing gear whilst skidding on the nose section and entered the runway 28L stopway, before finally, at an approximate distance of 230 metres past the runway threshold, coming to a stop. Due to the disposition of the prevailing fog patches, neither the personnel in the airport office nor the TWR controller had had visual contact with the aircraft at any time when it was on the approach or on the ground so the latter was surprised when the First Officer called, reportedly in a calm voice, saying “Tower, Delta Whiskey Mike, we had a crash landing” (no MAYDAY call was made). The controller responded by asking him to “say again” but when there was no response, he initiated airport emergency procedures and notified the area emergency despatch centre. Meanwhile, in the absence of any instructions from the flight deck, the cabin crew had opened the