An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Aviation Unit of the Danish Accident Investigation Board. Data from the SSCVR and SSFDR were successfully downloaded for use by the Investigation by the BFU Germany. The 53 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident sector, held an Austrian-issued licence and had a total of 2,757 hours flying experience which included 1,311 hours on type. The 36 year-old First Officer held a German-issued licence, had a total of 654 hours flying experience all on type and was in his first job as a professional pilot. Following his most recent Operator's Proficiency Check (OPC) assessment just over two months prior to the accident, his performance against the 29 “elements” was found to have been recorded as either “acceptable” (the majority) or “poor”. As a consequence of these “poor” assessments, the operator’s Head of Training & Standards had restricted the First Officer to operating with “supervision commanders”. It was noted that the inclusion of a cabin crew member was not a regulatory requirement and their duties were only to “serve and entertain the passengers” and they had not received any aircraft-specific training and had no formal responsibility for cabin flight safety. The pre departure TAF had indicated that fog patches could be expected for the arrival at Aarhus. During descent, it was decided not to descend below FL170 if the reported conditions were below approach minima and that in this case, a diversion to the alternate, Billund, would be made. Having obtained the latest weather from Aarhus TWR to facilitate this decision, the First Officer passed it to the Captain but stated that the prevailing visibility was 2,500 metres rather than the 250 metres which he had been informed it was. However, all other details were provided correctly, including the RVRs for the expected landing runway of 900 metres / 750 metres / 400 metres and the lowest cloud FEW at 200 feet aal. These conditions were within the approach minima applicable to the runway 10R ILS and the Captain then completed an approach briefing accordingly. Aarhus APP subsequently provided radar vectors to the 10R ILS LOC having advised that LVPs were in force. Once established on the LOC level at 2000 feet QNH with the AP remaining engaged, the Captain called for flap 15. Shortly before beginning descent on the ILS GS, the Captain called visual contact with the ALS (approach light system) through shallow fog and the First Officer stated that he had also observed the ALS together with the green runway threshold lights. Both pilots could see that a fog patch was present above the middle of the runway. With the landing gear selected down and flaps 35 selected, configuration for landing was complete and the flight was cleared to land with the wind reported to be virtually calm. Passing approximately 1500 feet agl, the TDZ and both ends of the 2702 metre-long runway were visible and the PAPI indication confirmed that the aircraft was descending