main cabin door and oversaw the evacuation of the passengers. As this was being accomplished, fuel leaking from the left wing of the aircraft, which had been damaged by the first LOC antenna impact, ignited. The First Officer entered the cabin, saw that it was already empty and observed through the cabin door that fuel was leaking onto the ground and had ignited sufficiently for the resultant heat to be felt. He quickly alerted the Captain about the fire and then left the aircraft and ran towards the group of passengers and the cabin crew with them with the Captain following soon afterwards. Almost 90 seconds after the First Officer’s only post crash transmission, the airport RFFS chief requested and received ATC permission to enter the runway with one first response vehicle and two fire engines. After a little over half a minute, he reported back to ATC saying that he had obtained visual contact with the aircraft at a range of about 350 metres. After a further three and a half minutes, the RFFS chief called ATC and reported that all those on board had been accounted for and that none of them had sustained any injury. The fuel fed fire slowly increased in intensity, eventually completely destroying the left side of the aircraft rendering it a hull loss. The wreckage once the fire had been extinguished. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Impact damage to the runway 28R ILS LOC antenna. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Findings of the Investigation based on analysis of the available evidence included the following: The reported controlling RVR values were above the applicable CAT 1 approach minima and did not prevent the flight crew from performing the ILS approach for runway 10R.. From an operational point of view, the commander’s concern about entering fog patches during the landing roll was unjustified.. The Captain communicated to the First Officer his intention to touch down at the beginning of the runway but not how he intended to achieve this. The First Officer did not then challenge this stated intention and thereafter made no other calls relating to the deviation from the correct vertical profile which then followed.. Both pilots agreed that EGPWS alerting of potential or actual terrain proximity hazards should be disabled which was directly contrary to procedures applicable to this equipment.. The First Officer seemed to be familiar with the non-standard procedure of flying below the ILS GS, notably by making the initial suggestion that, given the Captain’s intention to land at the beginning of the runway, the EGPWS terrain proximity alerting function should be disabled.. The First Officer mentally seemed to rely on the commander’s perception of external visual cues and, although expected to monitor the flights instruments, did not challenge when a full scale GS deviation was reached.. The Captain may have confused the two red omnidirectional aerodrome perimeter fence obstacle lights with the stopway red edge lights for runway 28L and may have also have “misinterpreted” the configuration of