for the limit loads generated when the airplane is subjected to a 65 knot horizontal ground gust from any direction while parked and taxiing”. The aircraft type involved had, as the Douglas DC-9, been originally certified with a ground gust limit load equivalent to approximately 52 knots, and revised to 65 knots in 1997. Boeing advised the Investigation that they had not received any previous notifications of an elevator jam on an aircraft exposed to ground gusts above this revised limit. No evidence that the prevailing wind once the aircraft had been powered up for the accident departure had been outside the certification limits was found and so available information on the wind conditions which had prevailed whilst the accident aircraft had been parked in the lee of a very large hanger at Ypsilanti was assembled. The open space recorded wind speeds were found to be well within the 65 knot ground gust limit load but it was suspected that this may not have been true of air movements around the aircraft tailplane because of localised turbulence generated in the lee of the adjacent large hangar. A virtual reality 3-D scale model of the hangar structure and its environs in relation to the position and profile of the parked aircraft was therefore created using data gathered using a sUAS and this and the available wind data were then passed to Boeing in order to populate a wind simulation model based on the principles of computational fluid dynamics (CFD). The results of this CFD modelling were then applied to a test rig of the MD83 horizontal stabiliser and elevator system and it was possible to show that wind eddy effects were indeed likely to have led to vertical wind forces in excess of the type certification limit being intermittently exerted on the right hand elevator (only) and that these would have been capable of causing the damage found to its actuator mechanism which had led to it being locked trailing edge down. In the course of the main thrust of the Investigation, other safety matters considered included the following: On an aircraft with this type of elevator control system, it was impossible for the flight crew to detect the jammed right elevator during either the external pre-flight inspection or the “full and free” control column check whilst taxiing out for takeoff.. The decision of the flight crew to increase Vr for the accident takeoff by about 5 knots because of the gusty wind conditions was within Ameristar SOPs and considered to have been appropriate by the Investigation.. Although Ameristar SOPs in the case of a rejected takeoff clearly established that the responsibility for the go/no-go decision was exclusively that of the aircraft commander, in this case the Check Pilot and in the accident takeoff this had created potential for confusion, it was noted that the Check Pilot had not taken control of the aircraft but having observed that the PF had initiated a rejected takeoff, had then assisted this. It was