not inflate and the tailcone exit door could not be opened fully because a seatbelt buckle “became wedged under it”. By the time the seatbelt buckle had been removed by one of the cabin crew, everyone had evacuated through the other available exits. Damage to the aircraft was considerable and included all the landing gear assemblies being “bent, fractured and displaced aft” and lower fuselage damage consequent on gear collapse with lower skin panel assemblies showing severe buckling and deformation with some missing sections and damaged internal structure evident in places. It was quickly obvious on an initial examination of the aircraft that the right elevator was jammed with its trailing edge down and could not be moved by hand as should have been possible. FDR data showed that after being powered up prior to departing on the accident flight, the left elevator had moved in the wind between approximately 16° trailing edge down and 27° trailing edge up but the right elevator had not moved at all from approximately 16° trailing edge down. An examination of relevant maintenance records found no evidence of any prior issues with either of the aircraft elevators. The elevators on this aircraft type are primarily moved indirectly by the action of the control column on the control tabs and there is no direct link between the movement of the control column and the position of the elevators. The elevators are attached to the rear spar of the horizontal stabiliser by hinges and equipped with control, geared and anti-float tabs at their trailing edges. Elevator travel is possible in the range 27° up to 16.5° down limited in each case by mechanical stops. Each elevator also has a damper to prevent elevator flutter during flight and to dampen rapid movement of the elevator during gusting winds when the aircraft is on the ground. This means that when the aircraft is parked, each elevator is free to move independently if acted upon by an external force such as the wind or during maintenance activity and there is no gust lock and no connection between the left and right elevators. Further examination of the aircraft showed that control column movement produced the expected response in the control tab positions although structural damage caused during the overrun was preventing the cables linking the two from moving smoothly. However, inspection of the elevators then found that the actuating mechanism controlling the movement of the right elevator had been forced beyond its normal range of travel and had become locked in an over-centre position thus effectively jamming the elevator in a full trailing edge down position so that it would not respond to any control tab movement. The possible effect of gusting winds on this elevator mechanism whilst the aircraft had been on the ground prior to the accident flight became the focus of attention. Airworthiness standards applicable at the time of the accident were found to require that “flight control systems and surfaces of transport-category airplanes must be designed