considered that had the Check Pilot assumed control of the aircraft after the Captain decided to reject the takeoff, “the results could have been catastrophic”. It was concluded that the Check Pilot had “demonstrated disciplined restraint in a challenging situation”.. In respect of the malfunctioning evacuation slide at door 1R, it was concluded on the evidence available that it was “the incorrect installation of the valve release cable in the valve assembly” that had led to the failure of the slide to inflate. It was noted that the OEM had revised the CMM to include more description of the valve testing procedures intended to prevent improper cable installation.. Although it had no direct bearing on the accident or its cause, it was found that prior to an evacuation of the building where he was based, the duty meteorological observer at Ypsilanti had failed to change the designation of subsequent METARs to AUTO during an unscheduled absence and that there was no FAA procedure to require this.. As a result of the Investigation, six Safety Issues were formally identified as follows: Lack of a means to enable flight crews of Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes to verify before takeoff that the elevators are not jammed.. Need for lower ground gust criteria for elevator physical inspections and operational checks by maintenance personnel for Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes.. Potential inadequacy of ground gust limit loads for the certification of transport category airplanes.. Lack of procedures for operators of Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes to monitor the wind that affects parked airplanes.. Lack of procedures for weather observers related to sign off and backup augmentation responsibilities during a facility evacuation.. Evacuation slide malfunction.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to be “the jammed condition of the airplane’s right elevator, which resulted from exposure to localized, dynamic wind while the airplane was parked and rendered the airplane unable to rotate during takeoff”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the effect of a large structure on the gusting surface wind at the airplane’s parked location, which led to turbulent gust loads on the right elevator sufficient to jam it, even though the horizontal surface wind speed was below the certification design limit and maintenance inspection criteria for the airplane.. the lack of a means to enable the flight crew to detect a jammed elevator during preflight checks for the Boeing MD-83 airplane.. It was additionally found that the survivability of the accident had been aided by: the Captain’s timely and appropriate decision to reject the takeoff. the Check Pilot’s disciplined adherence to standard operating procedures after the Captain called for the rejected takeoff. the dimensionally compliant runway safety area where the overrun occurred.. Safety Action taken whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included but not necessarily been limited to the following: Boeing began developing a SB to modify the elevator structure of DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 aircraft by attaching a secondary