An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 54 year-old Captain under supervision who had been acting as PF and occupying the left hand pilot seat had a total of 15,518 flying hours which included 8,495 hours on DC 9 variants. He had been employed by Ameristar just over a year earlier as a DC9 First Officer and had been given a command a month later. The 41 year-old MD83 Company Check Pilot who was in command of the accident flight had a total of 9,660 flying hours which included 2,462 hours on DC 9 variants. He had been employed by Ameristar since 2004 and had received his initial DC9 type rating in 2007, subsequently upgrading to the MD80 variant in 2011. It was established that after being parked at Ypsilanti for two days prior to the accident takeoff, the aircraft crew had been obliged to follow their Company’s procedures for non-towered airports for their departure after the ATC TWR service had been withdrawn following an interruption to electrical power supplies caused by high winds. The Captain under supervision carried out the pre flight external check with no untoward findings and the two pilots agreed the applicable takeoff speeds V1 / Vr / V2 as 139 / 142 / 150 KIAS respectively. Given the gusty conditions, wind forecast to be from 250° at 32-48 knots, it was agreed that for the takeoff from the 2300 metre-long runway 23L, rotation would be delayed. Control checks whilst taxiing out were normal and the takeoff was commenced but when Vr was called, the PF reported having been unable to get the expected pitch up response to his aft movement of the control column. In response to the reject call, the supervising pilot was recorded as responding “no, not above…” and then “…don’t abort above V1 like that,” with the Captain replying “it wasn’t flying” but thereafter supported rejected takeoff procedure being followed with both pilots applying maximum braking. FDR data showed that the maximum speed reached was 173 KCAS and integrated groundspeed data showed that brake application to reject the takeoff had commenced with about 480 metres of runway remaining. The aircraft reached the end of the runway, continued across the 61 metres paved blast pad and, having left this surface at 100 KCAS, then began to gently deviate to the left of the extended centreline across the grassed part of the runway safety area before exiting the airport perimeter through a fence and crossing a slightly elevated road and coming to a stop just beyond it with the tail resting on the road - see the reconstruction of the ground track followed below. An emergency evacuation was immediately ordered by the Check Pilot and was accomplished using just four of the eight emergency exits. Two of the 4 overwing exits were not used, the evacuation slide at door 1R did