travel stop that would prevent the excessive elevator trailing edge down travel that could result in the elevator actuation mechanism becoming inoperative.. Boeing began developing an AMM revision for DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 aircraft to add new elevator wind damage inspection procedures which would also include a lower recorded wind speed threshold for such an inspection. These new inspection procedures would not apply to any aircraft which had the secondary stop introduced in the above SB incorporated.. Ameristar prepared and obtained FAA support for a Bulletin directed at their flight following personnel which required a more robust process of monitoring and assessment of available meteorological data at locations where company DC9/MD-80 series aircraft were parked out of service between flights.. A total of six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Boeing Company complete the development of a modification for Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes that will prevent the possibility of elevator jamming due to ground wind exposure. [A-19-1]. that the Boeing Company develop new preflight procedures or other mitigations for Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes that will enable a flight crew to verify before takeoff that the elevators are not jammed. [A-19-2]. that the Boeing Company, until the actions in Safety Recommendations A-19-1 and -2 are completed, revise the Aircraft Operating Manual and Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) for Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes to lower the ground gust criteria that will require physical inspections and operational checks of the elevators by maintenance personnel. [A-19-3]. that the Federal Aviation Administration determine if the ground gust limit loads contained in Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations 25.415 adequately ensure that critical flight control systems are protected from hazards introduced by ground gusts that contain dynamic, vertical wind components. [A-19-4]. that the Federal Aviation Administration ensure the operators of Boeing DC-9/MD-80 series and 717 model airplanes have procedures that define who is responsible for monitoring the wind that affects parked airplanes and for notifying maintenance personnel when conditions could meet or exceed the ground gust criteria specified in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual. [A-19-5]. that the Federal Aviation Administration revise Order JO 7900.5D, Surface Weather Observing, Change 1, to specify sign-off procedures and backup augmentation responsibilities for all types of weather-observing personnel when they are unable to perform their prescribed duties from their normal duty station during normal duty hours. [A-19-6]. In accordance with the ICAO guidance for reporting of accident investigations under the heading “effective new investigation techniques” the use of an sUAS to obtain the imagery necessary to produce an accurate, photogrammetric 3-D model of the hangar, other buildings, and terrain near the area where the aircraft had been parked was highlighted. The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted on 14 February 2019 and published on 7 March 2019.