Under the Chicago Convention, States are required to put in place a safety oversight system to promote aviation safety by observing and assessing the compliance of aircraft operators/service providers with the applicable regulations, procedures and recommended practices. This is to be achieved through a mix of activities, including safety audits. Such audits conducted by a safety regulatory authority should take a broad view of the safety management procedures of the audited organisation. The key issues in such audits should be: Surveillance and compliance - the authority needs to ensure that international, national and local standards are complied with prior to issuing any licence or approval and continue to be complied with afterwards;. Areas and degree of risk - the audit should assess how risks are identified and how any necessary changes are made to ensure that all safety standards are met;. Competence - the audited organisation should have adequately trained staff for all safety related positions. Safety management - ensure that the organisation’s SMS is based on sound principles and procedures, and that the organisation is meeting its safety performance targets.. ICAO Document 9734-A - The Establishment and Management of a State’s Safety Oversight System defines Eight Critical Elements of a State’s Safety Oversight System in - as shown in the diagram below: Ideally the State regulatory authorities should have established procedures and criteria to focus inspections, audits and surveys (in an annual audit programme) on those areas of greater safety concern or need, as identified by the analysis of operational hazard data and risk areas. Regulatory audits are independent of internal auditing activities undertaken by the organisation concerned within the framework of its safety management system. Safety audit is an essential safety oversight tool for international and national regulatory and supervisory authorities. In 1999 ICAO established the Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP) with the objective to oversee the effective application of ICAO standards regarding the development of safety regulatory frameworks by Member States. In the area of Air Traffic Management the EUROCONTROL Permanent Commission approved in November 2002 the establishment of the ESARR Implementation Monitoring and Support (ESIMS) Programme. The ESIMS audits are focused on the States’ overall safety oversight, including safety audit capabilities. In Europe, the two safety oversight programmes have been coordinated to achieve an efficient use of avialable resources. ESIMS audits had been carried out for a decade and were replaced by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) standartisation inspections.