ATC, but two seconds after that, coordinated TCAS RAs were annunciated in both aircraft. The Tu154 RA was a ‘Climb’ and the 757 RA was a ‘Descend’. The 757 followed the RA promptly with AP disconnection after 2 seconds and 1500fpm descent attained 12 seconds after that. The Tu154 crew ignored the RA and continued the descent. When ATC called again to instruct the descent, this time adding ‘expedite’, the Tu154 crew acknowledged the descent instruction immediately but did not report their (ignored) TCAS RA in the contrary direction. ATC advised of traffic (the 757) at FL360. Fourteen seconds after the initial RAs, the 757 received an ‘Increase Descent’ RA which was actioned. Soon afterwards, with the rate of descent now 2600 fpm, ATC were advised by the 757 of their TCAS Descent. Five seconds after the 757s ‘Increase Descent’ RA , the Tu154 received an ‘Increase Climb’ RA. Eight seconds later, at 21:35:32 UTC, the aircraft collided at an altitude of 34890 feet. The 757 had begun to pass just beneath the Tu154 but a reconstruction by the Investigation (see below) indicated that the vertical stabiliser of the 757 had impacted the left side of the Tu154 fuselage. The 757 lost most of its vertical stabiliser in the collision and was destroyed by impact forces and the 154 broke into several pieces in flight. Ground impact of the 757 was followed by an extensive fire which also involved the surrounding forest. In the case of the Tu154, the aircraft broke up in flight and some of the pieces caught fire at this juncture. The Investigation examined the situation which had prevailed at Zurich ACC in the period leading up to the collision and concluded that despite the effects of the overnight maintenance, “the technical capability of the radar system in the fallback mode was sufficient to ensure safe flight operations”. However, the manning level - specifically the fact that only a single controller had been working all ACC traffic and the effects of this on the failure to resolve the conflict - was examined. It was found that whilst it was quite normal and accepted for only two controllers plus assistants to be on duty for the night shift, there were no specific night shift procedures covering this method of working. It was found that the practice of rostering only two controllers at night “had developed because of the personnel situation” whereas the previous practice had been to roster three controllers for such shifts which ensured that two controllers were always at their positions whilst the third took a break. In this earlier regime, it was found that the resting controller taking an extended break during times of light traffic had become an unofficial practice and that this had then been continued when the night shift was reduced to two controllers. The single controller was required to undertake the duties normally divided between a radar planning controller and a radar executive controller. The Investigation considered that this meant that