less in en-route air-space. No. 12/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic control units of the air traffic control service provider are equipped with system recording and replay facilities in accordance (with) a recommendation of EUROCONTROL that enables a complete reconstruction of the surveillance data presentation, display settings and selections at controller display positions. [No. 13/2004]. that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) of the Russian Federation should ensure that the ACAS training for flight crews is in accordance (with) the requirements and guidelines of Attachment B to State letter AN 11/19-2/82. The following aspects should be covered: Flight simulators equipped with ACAS or inter-active Computer Based Training (CBT) should be utilised for training of ACAS manoeuvres. ACAS event scenarios should be included in Crew Resource Management (CRM) and Line-Oriented Flight Training (LOFT) programmes. [No. 14/2004]. Flight simulators equipped with ACAS or inter-active Computer Based Training (CBT) should be utilised for training of ACAS manoeuvres.. ACAS event scenarios should be included in Crew Resource Management (CRM) and Line-Oriented Flight Training (LOFT) programmes. [No. 14/2004]. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States of America should ensure that the TCAS 2000 manufacturer re-phrases the TCAS 2000 Operating Manual to reflect the ACAS/TCAS system philosophy and the international ACAS/TCAS regulations and operating procedures in an unambiguous and consistent manner. [No. 15/2004]. that by utilising its own mechanism and international resources available, ICAO should ensure that all ACAS/TCAS users are consistent in their response to the equipment advice. ICAO auditing processes must pursue compliance with its ACAS SARPs and training objectives at all levels within the aviation industry. [No. 16/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic service provider takes appropriate action to assure an effective operation of their safety management system in as much as that international requirements (ICAO SARPs, EUROCONTROL ESARRs) are assured, and appropriate safety strategies, management techniques and quality procedures are incorporated and evaluated. [No. 17/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic service provider conducts an evaluation of the staffing levels required. The evaluation should not be limited to identifying the number of personnel required but also consider the qualification and experience required of specialist functions. [No. 18/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic service provider develops and implements refresher and safety related training compliant with ESARR 5 and adapted to the operating environment. [No. 19/2004]. that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) of the Russian Federation should ensure that exposure to Crew Resource Management training within the airline industry is (improved). The use of flight simulators or appropriate synthetic training devices for Line-Orientated Flight Training should be promoted. [No. 21/2004]. The Investigation was completed on 19 May 2004 and the Final Report issued. Appendices to the Final Report which include a reconstruction of the flight path according to radar data, extracts from CVR and FDR recordings, a