At the conclusion of the Investigation, on 19 May 2004, the following fifteen Recommendations were issued: that ICAO should ensure that rules and procedures regarding ACAS are uniform, clear and unambiguous. Compliance should be ensured in the ICAO Annexes 2, 6, the PANS and the Guidance Material. The procedure for pilots should include the following elements: In the event of an ACAS Resolution Advisory (RA) to alter the flight path pilots shall: Respond immediately and manoeuvre as indicated, unless doing so would jeopardise the safety of the airplane. Never manoeuvre in the opposite sense to an RA, nor maintain a vertical rate in the opposite sense to an RA. [No. 06/2004]. Respond immediately and manoeuvre as indicated, unless doing so would jeopardise the safety of the airplane.. Never manoeuvre in the opposite sense to an RA, nor maintain a vertical rate in the opposite sense to an RA. [No. 06/2004]. that ICAO should ensure that a high level of acceptance and confidence of pilots in ACAS (exists) by improving education and training. Therefore the Attachment B to State letter AN 11/19-2/82[1] should be transferred in a PANS (Procedures for Air Navigation Services). [No. 07/2004]. that to enhance the performance of ACAS, ICAO should initiate the development of down-linking RAs to ATC, using such technologies as SSR Mode S and Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B)). [No. 08/2004]. that to improve the investigation of future accidents and incidents, ICAO should require ATS units - in addition to present regulations - to be equipped with a recording device that records back-ground communication and noises at ATCO workstations similar to a flight deck area microphone system. [No. 09/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic control units of the air traffic control service provider are equipped with an effective Short Term Conflict Alert system covering the following minimum demands: An appropriate indication of failure or unavailability of STCA at the affected air traffic controller workstation. An adjustment of volume that prevents the controller from missing the acoustical STCA warning. When activated the acoustical STCA warning should sound permanently until acknowledgement at the affected workstation by the ATCO. [No. 10/2004]. An appropriate indication of failure or unavailability of STCA at the affected air traffic controller workstation.. An adjustment of volume that prevents the controller from missing the acoustical STCA warning.. When activated the acoustical STCA warning should sound permanently until acknowledgement at the affected workstation by the ATCO. [No. 10/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the air traffic control service provider equips air traffic control units with telephone systems which in case of a failure or shutdown of the main telephone system reroutes incoming telephone calls automatically to the bypass telephone system. [No. 11/2004]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the radar system of the air traffic control service provider is technically equipped in a way that enables display updates within 8 seconds or