the manning level was insufficient for the traffic situations that might arise. It was also found that during the period when the conflicting clearances remained undetected by the controller, he had unexpectedly been dealing with a delayed A320 inbound to Friedrichshafen and this had necessitated a move to an adjacent workstation where he had devoted more time than expected to an unsuccessful attempt to contact the airport caused by a technical defect. Because of this, he had “neglected the control of the two other aeroplanes” both prior to his action intended to resolve the conflict by giving a descent to the Tu154 and again afterwards, since further attention to the Friedrichshafen inbound at the other position and on a different frequency had meant that he did not hear the TCAS Descent message transmitted by the 757 which could have alerted him to the significant and continuing risk of a collision. It was noted that, although Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) was installed at the ACC and covered the area where the conflict developed, the normal optical STCA function was inactive with the radar system in a degraded mode - a fact that the controller did not remember at the time. This visual alert would have been triggered approximately 2.5 minutes before the collision whereas the aural alert occurred only 32 seconds before the collision, just 4 seconds after the 7nm separation had been breached and the two aircraft had received their coordinated TCAS RAs. Although this second alert did activate normally, it was not heard by anyone in the control room and in any case, the controller had already recognised the conflict and responded accordingly. It was also established that whilst a degree of separation could still have been achieved by an instruction issued at the time the aural alert occurred, it would not have resulted in the achievement of the prescribed 1000 feet vertical separation to have been achieved for two aircraft initially at the same level. It was noted that had the descent to the Tu154 been given earlier (but nevertheless still after the point when the visual STCA activation would normally have occurred), there would have been no loss of separation and no TCAS TA or RA would have been issued. It was concluded that “in case of a separation infringement with high closing speeds the aural STCA offers little use”. In respect of the lack of any response by the Tu154 crew to their two TCAS RAs, it was established that “neither of the two pilots had any practical experience of reacting to real TCAS RAs” and given that a response in accordance with them is only required in specified regions outside the Russian Federation where they had conducted only a few flights - 12 in the case of the left seat pilot and 4 in the case of the right seat pilot “in the year 2002” - this was considered to represent a “marginal practical TCAS experience” in any mode of activation. The Operations Manual