The procedure shall include the following aspects: Stipulating the detailed responsibilities of the Operational Division and the Technical Division. Personnel reserve planning of the operational staff for maintenance work on the ATC Systems. Timely dissemination of procedure to the controllers, in order to prepare them to deal with the situations. Establish and implement the checklists for the maintenance as well operational staff, when maintenance work on the ATC Systems is undertaken, to enhance the safety net. Selection of best possible time from operational aspects for the maintenance work on the ATC Systems. [No. 01/2003]. Stipulating the detailed responsibilities of the Operational Division and the Technical Division.. Personnel reserve planning of the operational staff for maintenance work on the ATC Systems.. Timely dissemination of procedure to the controllers, in order to prepare them to deal with the situations.. Establish and implement the checklists for the maintenance as well operational staff, when maintenance work on the ATC Systems is undertaken, to enhance the safety net.. Selection of best possible time from operational aspects for the maintenance work on the ATC Systems. [No. 01/2003]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA), Switzerland should that the ACC Zurich is manned with the minimum number of air traffic controllers as follows: There shall be at least two controllers on active duty at all times. There shall be at least two controllers to manage enroute sectors; i.e. one Radar Planner (RP) and one Radar Executive (RE). When ACC is required to manage the approach services for Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein/St. Gallen, one additional controller shall be assigned to this task. Alternatively, this task should be taken over by APP Zurich. Additional controllers shall be assigned to manage breaks. [No. 02/2003]. There shall be at least two controllers on active duty at all times.. There shall be at least two controllers to manage enroute sectors; i.e. one Radar Planner (RP) and one Radar Executive (RE).. When ACC is required to manage the approach services for Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein/St. Gallen, one additional controller shall be assigned to this task. Alternatively, this task should be taken over by APP Zurich.. Additional controllers shall be assigned to manage breaks. [No. 02/2003]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA), Switzerland should ensure that the air traffic controllers are imparted with the initial and recurrent training covering the theoretical and practical (simulator) emergency procedures, particularly covering the following aspects: Recognition of potential air traffic conflict and maintenance of aircraft separation in accordance with the international standards. A quick re-establishment of the minimum separation, in an event of having fallen below it. The use of appropriate phraseology, with an emphasis on achieving maximum effects within minimum possible time/radio transmission. [No. 03/2003]. Recognition of potential air traffic conflict and maintenance of aircraft separation in accordance with the international standards.. A quick re-establishment of the minimum separation, in an event of having fallen below it.. The use of appropriate phraseology, with an emphasis on achieving maximum effects within minimum possible time/radio transmission. [No. 03/2003].