to which they were required to fly was also considered to lack clarity on the subject of the relative priority of conflicting TCAS RA and ATC instructions. Whilst this Manual did explicitly prohibit manoeuvres which were contradictory to the guidance provided by a TCAS RA, it was found to also state that “ATC measures are the main and major condition of collision avoidance” and went on to state that the most important actions for the avoidance of in-flight collisions were “the visual control of the situation in the airspace by the crew and the correct execution of all instructions issued by ATC” with the following reference to TCAS stating merely that it “is an additional instrument which ensures the timely determination of oncoming traffic, the classification of the risk and, if necessary, planning of an advice for a vertical avoidance manoeuvre”. In respect of Cause, the Investigation found as follows: Immediate Causes The imminent separation infringement was not noticed by ATC at the time. The instruction for the TU154M to descend was given at a time when the prescribed separation to the B757-200 could not be (assured) anymore.. The TU154M crew followed the ATC instruction to descend and continued to do so even after TCAS advised them to climb. This manoeuvre was performed contrary to the generated TCAS RA.. Systemic Causes The integration of ACAS/TCAS II into (the aviation system) was insufficient and did not correspond in all points with the system philosophy. The regulations concerning ACAS/TCAS published by ICAO and as a result the regulations of national aviation authorities, (the operating) and procedural instructions of the TCAS manufacturer and (of) the operators were not standardised (and were) incomplete and (in part) contradictory.. Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company did not ensure that during the night all open workstations were continuously staffed by controllers.. Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company (had accepted) for years that, during times of low traffic flow at night, only one controller worked and the other retired to rest.. A total of 19 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation, four whilst it was in progress and the remaining fifteen at its conclusion. On 1 October 2002, one Recommendation was issued as follows: that ICAO should change the international requirements in Annex 2, Annex 6 and PANS-OPS (DOC 8168) so that pilots flying are required to obey and follow TCAS resolution advisories (RAs), regardless of whether contrary ATC instruction is given prior to, during, or after the RAs are issued. Unless the situation is too dangerous to comply, the pilot flying should comply with the RA until TCAS indicates the airplane is clear of the conflict. [No. 18/2002]. On 21 July 2003, three further Recommendations were issued as follows: that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation (FOCA), Switzerland should ensure that the air traffic control service provider issues and implements procedure to undertake maintenance work on the ATC Systems stipulating operational effects and available redundancies.