laterally and 670 feet vertically was reached twelve seconds after the A319 “descend” RA had been annuciated. The A321 climbed to FL375 and the A319 reached a maximum of FL361 before beginning to descend. Neither crew initiated a report to ATC that they were following an RA, but when the A321 was given traffic information on the A319 13 seconds after receiving their RA, the crew responded that they were following one. Neither crew acquired visual reference with their conflicting aircraft at any time during the encounter. It was established that the First Officer had been the PF on both aircraft. The actions of the Alitalia crew were found to be in accordance with expectations. It was found that the commander of the EasyJet A319 was a Training Captain and that the First Officer, who had only held a professional pilot licence for 9 months and had a total experience as pilot of 408 hours, was undergoing Line Training on the incident flight. In respect of the failure of this crew to select the same flight level on their FMS as they read back, the Investigation concluded that “the principle of confirmation of information received (closed loop) did not operate” in that the trainee PF failed to enter the correct level and the supervising PM did not notice the error. It was considered that “EasyJet's SOPs relating to the entry and checking of a cleared flight level merit reconsideration”. In respect of the failure of ATC to detect the error early enough to resolve its effects before TCAS RAs took over, it was found that both aircraft were equipped with correctly functioning Mode S transponders which transmitted aircraft data (DAP) including the selected flight level (SFL). However, at the time of the occurrence, the Geneva controllers involved were unable to access this data and therefore unable to receive any automatic alert in the event that the SFL was different to the clearance accepted. It was found that had the necessary equipment been installed, an alert to the potential conflict would have been generated at ACC Geneva more than 6 minutes before the Geneva STCA was activated. The same safety net deficiency was also found during the concurrent investigation by the SAIB of another loss of separation: A319 / PRM1, en-route, near Fribourg Switzerland, 2011, which had occurred two months earlier. In this respect, it was noted that this Investigation had already led to a Safety Recommendation calling for the introduction of a controller alerting system in the event of a discrepancy between the authorised and the selected level. Safety Action by ANSP Skyguide following both these events was noted: with effect from 29 June 2012, a Mode S Identification tool (MSID) was made available to controllers. This allows them to ‘hook’ the label of a specific flight so that a window opens which contains the Mode S data, including the selected flight level (SFL).. plans have been made to introduce a discrepancy alert which is activated if the cleared flight