evidence was found that the aircraft operator had regulatory approval to substitute the required passenger seat with a sleeping bag.. The First Officer acting as PM at the time of the incursion had only been able to rest for under two hours during the previous five sectors, in four of which he had also been a member of the operating crew throughout.. The Cause of the investigated Runway Incursion was determined to have been “the PF assuming that ATC clearance had been given for their flight to enter the runway and their failure to notice that the red stop bar lights were illuminated, indicating that the flight was to stop at the holding point on taxiway E11”. Other Findings in relation to the event were, in summary, as follows: It was suspected that both pilots may have been suffering from some degree of tiredness, considering that they had been on duty for more than 13 hours at the time of the event.. The aircraft operator’s flight rostering system did not allocate the roles of the three pilots involved and they were free to decide amongst themselves how to share these duties during their six sector FDP. This resulted in an arrangement whereby the two Captains each operated three sectors in command and rested on the rest apart from one of them doing a fourth sector as a First Officer to reduce the First Officer’s operating sectors to 5.. The aircraft operator did not include cross-checking of line-up/take-off clearance in the Before Takeoff Checklist since such cross-checking was treated as a memory item. In the investigated event, there was no cross-checking of the line-up clearance.. There were a number of instances in the lead up to this incursion where the flight crew’s performance in terms of CRM was not optimal.. The Relief Captain was available as a crew resource on the flight deck but was not assigned any duties.. The State of the Operator’s regulations require the availability of a passenger seat as a condition for the extension of maximum duty time by using an Augmenting Flight Crew Member (in this case the Relief Captain) to operate a flight or flight sequence but there was no passenger seat in the aircraft.. The aircraft operator issued sleeping bags to the flight crew so that they could rest in them on the galley floor when they were not required to be on the flight deck. However, there was no restraint system for the person resting in such a sleeping bag and there was no evidence that this resting arrangement was acceptable to the State of the Operator.. In determining the maximum duty time, the aircraft operator did not include the number of sectors as a planning parameter. Also, the State of the Operator did not have a requirement for the aircraft operator to include the number of sectors for short haul flights as a planning parameter when determining duty time limits.. Safety Action taken during and known to the Investigation as a result