An Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB). Relevant FDR recorded ATC data were available but relevant CVR data had been overwritten. The flight investigated was the last of six consecutive sectors for the flight crew involved. The 37 year-old Captain who was acting as PF for the flight had a total of 5,662 hours flying experience which included 1,576 hours on type and he was operating his third sector of the duty. The 26 year-old First Officer with him had a total of 742 hours flying experience all but 151 hours of which were on type and he was operating his fifth sector of the duty. A second Captain on board as an Augmenting Flight Crew Member and was occupying the flight deck supernumerary seat as required by the applicable regulations when below 10,000 feet. However under those regulations he had no assigned duties and none were assigned by the aircraft operator. Whether this pilot had been wearing a headset for the departure was not recorded. Three other non-pilot employees of the operator were also on board, one on a flight deck seat immediately behind the left side pilot seat and the other two on the rear facing pair of crew seats in the main cabin area located next to Door 1L. The flight crew’s six-sector overnight duty was scheduled to exceed the maximum permitted two pilot 14 hour flight duty period (FDP) for the starting time involved but with an augmenting crew member, it was noted that this maximum FDP could be increased to 16 hours. The actual FDP worked from the crew’s report time prior to departure from Jakarta Halim the previous evening and their off duty time after arriving back there on completion of the flight from Singapore was 15 hours 35 minutes, just inside the maximum permitted 16 hours for an augmented crew starting a duty at the time they did. It was noted that the aircraft operator’s rostering system did not specify the role to be performed by each pilot during the duty period, rather the crew were left to decide amongst themselves how to share PF/PM/Observer roles. It was established that the flight had been instructed by the GND controller to via taxiway P, taxiway P1 and taxiway P4 to join the parallel taxiway EP and hold short of its intersection with Taxiway SC1. Whilst following this clearance, the flight was instructed to change the TWR frequency and did so. The TWR controller then cleared the flight to continue on taxiway EP to holding point E11 and hold short of Runway 02 (see the annotated illustration below). The readback of this re-clearance omitted the words “hold short” but the partial readback was not challenged by the controller who considered that as it contained the words “holding point E11” this meant that it had been understood that they did not have clearance to enter Runway 02C and were to hold clear of it on E11. The First Officer stated