to decide if they wish to add other items to these ‘essential item’ checklists. Boeing also states that the Before Takeoff Checklist “is meant to be completed before entering the runway to avoid high workload period such as taking off from a runway”. Other relevant information included: Between the time when the aircraft checked in on the TWR frequency and the incursion, there were no communications with any other aircraft on that frequency.. Enhanced centre taxiway centreline marking is provided immediately prior to the runway holding point as an additional alert to pilots that they should be prepared to stop unless clearance to enter the runway has been received.. MBDs are linked to the corresponding holding point stop so that they are only active when the stop bar is red.. It was confirmed that at the time of the incursion, all relevant airport and ATC equipment had been operating normally.. The pilots involved confirmed that they had been adequately rested prior to commencing their FDP.. In respect of the absence of any assigned duties to a third pilot required to occupy the flight deck supernumerary crew seat, the aircraft operator stated that it expected any pilot in such a role “to pay attention to the operation of the flight (including radio transmissions) and monitor the actions of both the PF and PM during take-off and landing” although this expectation was not documented and no evidence was found that pilots are made aware of this expectation.. Although an aircraft commander may assign duties to a pilot fulfilling a required supernumerary role, no such duties were specified by the Captain in command for the incursion sector nor had he assigned any such duties to himself when fulfilling that role during previous sectors.. The operator did not set any limit on the maximum number of sectors which could be flown within the maximum duty time and no such requirements were included in the applicable regulatory requirements for short haul flights. However, it was noted that the ICAO Doc 9966 ‘Manual for the Oversight of Fatigue Risk Management Approaches’ does suggest this.. No guidance was provided by the aircraft operator in respect of how pilots who were part of an augmented crew required for FDP compliance purposes should rest during flight when not required to be on the flight deck, although the applicable regulatory requirements did specify that “a passenger seat” must be available for that purpose. Those regulatory requirements were found not to define “a passenger seat” but the Investigation team “understood from the State of the Operator that none of the seats in the aircraft involved met the requirements of a passenger seat”.. The aircraft operator issued sleeping bags to all three pilots and advised that an augmenting flight crew member could, when not required to be on the flight deck, “choose to rest in a sleeping bag on the galley floor” although it was noted that there was no restraint system for any person resting in such a sleeping bag.. No