that he had indeed understood the clearance limit but the Captain stated that “he was informed by the First Officer to continue to taxi via EP and E11 to runway 02C” and that he had not said anything about holding short of Runway 02C or holding at the holding point on taxiway E11 so he had assumed that there was clearance to enter the runway. The Captain also stated that as no traffic was visible on the ND and no other communications had been heard on the TWR frequency, he had “believed that his was the only aircraft using runway 02C” An overview of the taxi route along the parallel taxiway to the runway 02C holding point. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the flight approached taxiway E11, the Captain asked the First Officer to run the Before Takeoff Checklist and as this was being done, the flight continued from taxiway E11 onto runway 02C without stopping. According to the First Officer’s account, as this happened he had been busy reading out the requested Checklist and noting the Captain’s responses and “did not have a chance” to remind him that they did not have clearance to enter the runway. In his account, the Captain stated that he “did not notice the red stop bar lights in front of the runway holding position marking nor the runway guard lights”. The second Captain occupying the centrally positioned supernumerary crew seat stated that he “had not been paying attention to” the First Officer’s exchanges with ATC and was unaware that clearance to enter the runway had not been given. Immediately after the aircraft passed the holding point/clearance limit on taxiway E11, the installed Microwave Barrier Detectors (MBDs) located just after the holding point activated an alert to the controller. At this time, another aircraft was on an approximate 3nm final approach to land on runway 02C and so the controller immediately instructed the 737 to vacate the runway onto taxiway E10. This instruction was acknowledged and actioned which enabled the controller to then issue a landing clearance to the approaching aircraft. Once it had landed, the 737 was cleared for takeoff and the rest of its flight was uneventful. According to the flight crew “they would typically cross-check with each other on whether take-off/line-up clearance had been obtained before lining up on the runway for departure (as) this was part of their training and was stipulated in the aircraft manufacturer’s (FCTM)”. However, such a cross-check was not included in the operator’s Before Takeoff Checklist and instead, it was specified that the PM was responsible for remembering to carry out such memory items. It was found that the Boeing Before Takeoff Checklist as used by the aircraft operator contained only two items - ‘Flaps’ and ‘Stabiliser trim’. According to Boeing, this Checklist includes “only the minimum items needed to operate the aircraft safely (so) the cross-checking of clearances, which is considered basic airmanship, is not included". Boeing leaves it up to individual aircraft operators