An Investigation was carried out by the Korean Aviation and Railway Accident Investigation Board. Recorded data from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were successfully downloaded and recorded data from the ASDE showed when the aircraft crossed the landing runway (16) threshold and where and when the aircraft made its initial and second touchdowns and subsequently cleared the runway. It was established that the 46 year old aircraft commander had accumulated 722 hours in command of the A321 after promotion to Captain just over a year earlier. The 32 year old First Officer had recently joined the airline and had 383 total flying hours including 33 hours accumulated since appointment as an A321 First Officer two weeks prior to the accident. It was established that the commander had taken over as PF upon being informed by ATC that the cloudbase was 200 feet aal just over two minutes before touchdown. Prior to this, the First Officer had been flying the aircraft manually during descent to gain familiarity with the PFD. The A/T was disconnected about 3.5nm from touchdown passing 1200 feet aal but the PF made no callout. The aircraft was stabilised as required at the 1000 feet 'gate' and remained so until the aircraft descended below 100 feet aal when airspeed began to drop below the declared VApp and an excessive sink rate developed without any callout by the PM. The PF increased the thrust to compensate but the aircraft still touched down hard (almost 2g vertical acceleration was recorded) just 155 metres from the threshold of the 4000 metre runway. Touchdown pitch attitude was recorded as 6.7º and during the following 5 second bounce, it increased further to reach 9.8º before peaking at 10.9º at the second touchdown which occurred 491 metres from the threshold. The progress of the aircraft as depicted on and recorded by the ASDE is reproduced below. The A321 FCOM states that for an A321 with fully extended and compressed main landing gear, the pitch attitude limit is 9.7º - with the second touchdown occurring at 1.2º beyond this limit. The Investigation concluded that "the PF failed to think of pitch attitude limitations required for avoiding a tail strike when the aircraft pitch attitude was increasing during the bounce on the initial touchdown" and that, as a result, he had failed to maintain a pitch attitude which would ensure that the aircraft touched down at a pitch attitude below the limit. It was noted that the PF, like all other Asiana pilots, had learned about bounce recovery techniques during a ground school course but had never been trained in the simulator to demonstrate proficiency in bounce recovery, which requires that pitch attitude should not be increased and thrust should be kept at idle. After the accident, a simulator was used by the Investigation to see how an experienced Asiana Captain responded to a bounce and it was found that a tail strike occurred. It was considered that this indicated that