"theoretical learning in the ground school course alone cannot allow the flight crew to make a safe touchdown after actual bouncing" and that such practical experience should be added to simulator training - with the ground impact recognition function disengaged. The Investigation noted from the CVR recording that no approach briefing was given and that on a number of occasions throughout descent and approach, both pilots failed to make standard callouts and responses. The formally documented determination of Causes of the investigated accident were as follows: The PF failed to maintain the proper approach speed until the flare just before touchdown, and the airplane bounced on touchdown because higher-than-normal vertical gravity was applied due to a high sink rate and increased thrust and speed just before touchdown.. The aircraft made a second touchdown at the pitch attitude exceeding an A321 aircraft limitation and sustained a tail strike because the PF failed to keep thrust at idle and establish the proper pitch attitude during the bounce.. It was further determined that there were six Contributory Factors: (1) the inadequacy of the pilot training program dealing with the recovery form the bounce; (2) lack of pre-landing preparation due to a failure to conduct an approach briefing on pitch attitude; (3) the failure of the PF to properly allocate his attention due to his delegation of flight control to the pilot monitoring (PM) who failed to meet flight control requirements; (4) the inadequate advice and monitoring from the PM due to the failure of the PF to make standard callouts; (5) the disconnection of the autothrottle and a failure to manually control thrust and speed; (6) a failure to execute a go-around when stabilised approach criteria are not met. Six Safety Recommendations were made a result of the Investigation: that Asiana Airlines should re-emphasise through their pilot training programs their (existing) policy that if a stabilised approach is not established, executing go-around is the safest choice for safe operation so that flight crew can be fully aware of it. [AAR1303-1]. that Asiana Airlines should train its pilots in a simulator to ensure that they can operate the aeroplane in a stable manner after bouncing on touchdown and add this training to the ground training program. [AAR1303-2]. that Asiana Airlines should train its pilots to comply with the Pilot Operating Manual requirements for flight control delegation to the First Officer, to put top priority on the performance of roles as the PF and the PM during flight and incorporate training outcomes into evaluation. [AAR1303-3]. that Asiana Airlines should reinforce flight crew adherence to Pilot Operating Manual requirements for approach briefing and standard callout procedures on every flight through its training programs. [AAR1303-4]. that the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (Office of Civil Aviation) should, during line qualification check and aviation safety inspection, strictly check whether the pilots of all air carriers conduct an approach/landing briefing and comply fully with standard callout procedures and take complementary institutional measures. [AAR1303-5]. that the Ministry of Land,