descent had increased to 784 fpm, over 200 fpm more than the ‘normal’ rate of descent. Then, at a recorded height of 27 feet above the runway and two seconds prior to touch down, it was apparent that the aircraft had encountered a wind shift which further increased the descent rate. Both operating pilots stated that they had “felt a sudden increase in descent rate at that point” and in response, the Captain “immediately called more urgently for an increase in power and manually intervened by advancing the power levers slightly” (by a recorded 3%). Two seconds later, anticipating a bounced landing, the Captain instructed the First Officer to commence a go-around but “almost immediately” the aircraft, by now descending at 928 fpm, touched down at a recorded 2.97g on the main landing gear, the tail skid and the underside of the rear fuselage. The aircraft did not bounce and so the Captain “cancelled the go-around, took control and completed the landing roll” following which he taxied the aircraft to the allocated gate. The damage sustained to the fuselage during the landing was subsequently found to be limited to impact and abrasion damage to the tail skid and the underside of the rear fuselage forward of it, with re-skinning of sections of the lower fuselage and replacement of the tail skid and a drain mast required before the aircraft could be returned to service. After completion of the flight, the Check Captain assessed the First Officer’s Line Check as a fail and the Captain’s Line Check as a Pass but “the operator required both flight crew to undergo retraining prior to resuming normal flying duties”. During a subsequent interview, the Check Captain stated that “he would have intervened in the conduct of the flight if he felt that the safety of the flight was compromised (but) after recognising that the approach had become unstable” he had “assessed that the landing would be ‘untidy’, but not unsafe” noting that “at that stage, input from him was outside of his role, might distract the flight crew and would not assist in the recovery of the approach”. The Captain being line checked subsequently stated that during Check Flights, “he had a tendency to modify his behaviours and allow First Officers more margin than normal when correcting deviations in the operation of the aircraft […] in order to allow them an opportunity to rectify any deviations (whereas) during normal operations, he would intervene more quickly after identifying a deviation”. Noting that the already excessive rate of descent after the almost complete absence of power below a recorded 118 feet agl had been increased by the effect of changes in wind velocity, the computed wind in the final 5 seconds of the flight were examined and it was found that the 10-12 knot headwind component between 5 and 3 seconds prior to touchdown had then rapidly reduced to zero and then become a 2 knot tailwind component. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that “The