An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data from the aircraft FDR and CVR were downloaded and provided useful information. It was noted that the Captain, who was a current Training Captain with the operator who had previously undertaken some of the operational training of the First Officer and had been designated as PF for the flight, had over 8,160 hours flying experience of which over 1900 hours were on type. The First Officer had over 1,320 hours flying experience of which over 320 hours were on type, accumulated over the preceding 6 months after he had obtained his type rating. The accident flight was the final one of a four sector duty which was rostered as a routine annual Line Check on the Captain and a six-month Line Check on the First Officer to be carried out by a Check Captain occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seat. Prior to commencing descent, the First Officer briefed the approach and landing for runway 35 at Canberra noting that, based on the ELW of 21.6 tonnes, the VAPP would be 113 KIAS and also noting that the north easterly surface wind there would mean that a 15 knot crosswind component could be expected. He also stated that “due to the heavy aircraft weight and the possibility of a tailwind at times during the approach, he would slow the aircraft earlier than normal to ensure the approach commenced at the target speed”. A visual approach to runway 35 was subsequently commenced “in conditions of light turbulence” with the AP engaged and was initially stable. Passing approximately 400 feet aal, the First Officer disconnected the AP and continued the approach manually. As the aircraft descended through 265 feet, the aircraft speed reduced and the PF increased power to compensate but as descent continued through 193 feet agl, the prevailing light turbulence “combined with the increased power setting to increase the speed further” and after eight seconds, with the aircraft 118 feet agl, it had reached VAPP + 14. The First Officer “did not recognise” the fact that the criteria for a stable approach were no longer satisfied but, having assessed the presence of an increased headwind component, he had responded by reducing engine power from 26% torque to idle, an action which itself was contrary to the operator’s stabilised approach criteria. As a result of this power reduction, the rate of descent increased and the airspeed decreased. At about the same time, the Check Captain reported having “recognised that the power setting was too low but assessed that input from him would not assist in the recovery of the approach”. With just five seconds to go before the touchdown, the Captain reported realising that the First Officer’s idle power setting was too low and had advised him to “ease on a bit” (of power). The First Officer verbally acknowledged the advice but did not follow it and at 50 feet agl the aircraft rate of