continuation of the approach when a go-around should have been conducted allowed the subsequent conditions to develop, leading to the hard landing”. Four Contributing Factors were identified as: During the approach, the pilot flying did not identify that the speed had exceeded the stabilised approach criteria, which required immediate correction or initiation of a go-around.. In response to an assessment of overshoot shear, the pilot flying reduced power to idle at a height greater than that stipulated by operator procedures. This resulted in an abnormally high descent rate that was not reduced prior to touchdown.. A significant change in the wind direction and strength immediately before the aircraft touched down further increased the aircraft's descent rate and contributed to the resultant damage.. Verbal and physical intervention by the pilot monitoring did not prevent the hard landing.. Safety Action known to have been taken by Virgin Australia Airlines in respect of ATR 72 flight operations as a result of the investigated event was noted to have included: amending operational documentation to strengthen guidance on the effects of sustained low power settings during approach and landing and the importance of avoiding that situation.. reinforcing existing pilot training on speed management during approach and landing.. adding additional criteria to its OFDM programme to detect low power settings at low heights during normal operations.. On the basis of the findings of the Investigation, the ATSB formally documented a Safety Message as follows: Unstable approaches continue to be a leading contributor to approach and landing accidents and runway excursions. This occurrence demonstrates the importance of crews adhering to standard operating procedures and conducting a go-around when an approach becomes unstable. It also highlights the risks associated with the incorrect handling of an approach to land and the need for prompt and decisive action as the available time to remedy the situation is limited. The Final Report was released on 12 November 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.