to ‘HOLD’ status where, with no further intervention, it would then, by design, remain until the aircraft was above 400 feet agl. The fact that the A/T had not engaged was evident from the FMA ‘THRUST’ indication which remained illuminated and coloured white instead of changing to green but this went unnoticed by the crew. At the 80 knot call, it appears that the specified ‘thrust achieved’ check was not always performed with the concurrent speed cross check. Only a perception that acceleration had been slow, that the takeoff roll was taking longer than usual and that the end of the runway was nearer than expected then remained to trigger an explicit check of the thrust set and corrective action. Secondly, spoiler deployment occurred automatically as the aircraft speed increased through 60 knots without any alert to the crew simply because the TLA was not above 23°. This potential activation of a system intended to support safe landings was considered to “carry great safety risks” and had quite clearly not been considered when the spoiler system was designed and the aircraft certificated. SOPs for checking that the thrust intended to be used is achieved were found to rely on the 80 knot speed cross check, with which the ‘thrust set’ check was linked. It was considered that this as a first and only check is too late and that an earlier and more explicit requirement to confirm that it has been reached is required. It is therefore considered essential that progress towards the achievement of the required takeoff thrust is continuously monitored by the PM and confirmed immediately it occurs. The existing SOP was found to include only a general requirement that flight and engine displays should be “monitored” prior to the 80 knot check. Also of note in this respect was the fact that any correction to increase achieved thrust after 60 knots will mean the A/T will be in ‘HOLD’ mode and would therefore disconnect should a corrective increase in thrust be made manually. The Investigation found that Swiss International Airlines had, between 14 February 2018 and 30 July 2018, recorded five similar takeoff performance events on their Airbus A220 fleet in which the required N1 was not set properly, all caused as in the investigated case by the setting of a TLA below the minimum required to activate the A/T. In four of the five cases, this went unnoticed by the flight crews involved and it was not possible to tell from their recorded statements whether the required 80 knot ‘thrust set' check had been made. The fifth case, involving a different aircraft to the one in the investigated event, was almost identical. The initial TLA setting was below 23° and when 60 knots was exceeded, the spoilers extended without a CONFIG SPOILER warning until five seconds after the TLA was advanced above 23° which was followed by the spoilers retracting and the A/T automatically disconnecting and the takeoff then being rejected from around 90 knots. The