only difference in response was that the takeoff was rejected from below V1 rather than continued from above it. The Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “the flight crew was too late to notice that the engine power required for takeoff was not set”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as: Non-compliance with the aircraft operator’s standard operating procedures (SOPs).. Inappropriate prioritisation by the flight crew during the takeoff roll.. Two Risk Factors which did not influence the development and course of the Serious Incident were also identified as: The design of the spoiler deployment system.. The design of the autothrottle (A/T) system whereby the A/T switches (automatically) to ‘HOLD’ mode during the takeoff roll even if the required takeoff power (target N1) has not yet been reached.. Safety Action known to have been taken whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included but not been limited to the following: Airbus issued an AOM to A220 aircraft operators to remind their flight crews to ensure the A/T is engaged when taking off with A/T (the A/T engages at 23° TLA or 68 % N1) and to ensure that the required takeoff engine thrust is properly set.. Swiss International Airlines added two new callouts to their takeoff SOP, a requirement for the Captain to call ‘THRUST ARMED’ and receive the response ‘CHECKED’ before beginning takeoff and a requirement for the PF to call “THRUST” after observing clear A/T-driven thrust lever movement and then checking that the FMA A/T indication has changed to green and receive the reply ‘CHECKED’ from the PM.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Transport Canada, as the aircraft type certification authority, should ensure that the spoilers are not automatically deployed when taking off with insufficient takeoff power (set).. The Investigation noted the following initial response from Transport Canada: This incident investigation has brought to light that the FMA Autothrottle (A/T) annunciations could be misleading during the takeoff flight phase. Transport Canada (TC), will recommend the OEM investigate the A/T mode annunciation design. In addition to recommending that the manufacturer investigate possible improvements to the automatic Ground Lift Dumping (GLD) function robustness, TC acknowledges that a better description of the spoiler’s auto deployment conditions and criteria during takeoff could be useful, and this will be investigated with the manufacturer. The STSB also issued ‘Safety Advice No 26’ to the aircraft operator which stated that it “should use suitable measures to ensure that the required takeoff thrust is immediately checked and confirmed by the flight crew after it has been set”. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 25 February 2020 and subsequently published on 11 March 2020.