No notification of the event was made to either to the Portuguese Air and Rail Accident Investigation Agency (GPIAAF) or the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB) until the latter was advised of it 9 days later. After passing this information to the GPIAAF, they delegated investigation to the STSB who then carried out a comprehensive investigation. Relevant data on the CVR had long since been overwritten but DFDR data was downloaded and recorded ATC data from Porto was also retrieved. It was noted that the Captain (born 1959 and a Swiss national) who had been PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 14,766 flying hours of which 301 hours were on type and that the First Officer (born 1984 and also a Swiss national) had a total of 1,783 flying hours of which 397 hours were on type. It was additionally noted that the flight from Porto to Geneva was the crew’s second sector since beginning their current flight duty period after being free of duty for in excess of 20 hours at Geneva. It was established that flight crew had calculated and set the engine thrust required for takeoff from runway 35 using intersection ‘C’ based on load and trim sheet data (including a takeoff mass of 48,413 kg which was well below the 60,000 kg MTOM) and prevailing meteorological conditions and had decided that a maximum allowable de-rated thrust setting of 80.7% N1 would suffice. The associated speeds were calculated as V1 117 KIAS, VR 122 KIAS and V2 129 KIAS. After subsequently receiving their departure clearance and entering it into the FMS, the crew noticed that “contrary to expectations the flight plan displayed a discontinuity” and when then giving the takeoff brief, the Captain asked the First Officer to “keep a close eye on the FMS during the takeoff roll”. During the taxi out, TWR cleared the flight to line up and take off at intersection ‘C’ and on reaching the runway, the Captain armed the A/T and, once on the runway centreline, initiated a rolling takeoff by advancing the thrust levers to a Thrust Lever Angle (TLA) of 20.6°. Unknown to the crew at this stage, a TLA above 23° was needed to automatically change the A/T status from ‘armed’ to ‘engaged’. As the speed increased, FDR data showed that, as wheel speed exceeded 60 knots, the spoilers (as per system design) had automatically extended without activating a corresponding information or alert message to the flight crew. At the 80 KIAS flight deck callout to verify that the required takeoff thrust is set and that both primary airspeed indications are the same, FDR data showed that the N1 had only reached 65.3 % instead of the required 80.7 %. During subsequent interviews, both pilots stated that “they could not say for certain whether they had executed the 80 KIAS check including the associated monitoring of the power output". The Captain stated that as the speed approached 100 KIAS, the First Officer had advised