that the FMS discontinuity had disappeared and that he (the Captain) had considered that acceleration seemed slower than usual, although this did not seem significant at the time given that a maximum de-rated thrust takeoff was being performed. Nevertheless, it prompted him to check the thrust and, having realised it was too low, he had then pushed the thrust levers further forward. The data shows that this action was taken at 109 KIAS and that it resulted in the N1 increasing to 76.6 % - still below the originally calculated required N1 of 80.7%. According to both pilots, almost simultaneously an EICAS ‘CONFIG SPOILER’ warning lasting for 4 seconds was activated which led the First Officer to immediately see and call that the spoiler lever was in the (correct) retracted (RET) position. The Captain stated that he had briefly considered rejecting the takeoff but as V1 had by then been exceeded, he had decided to continue. The aircraft subsequently became airborne after a 52 second takeoff roll and after travelling 150% of the (correctly) calculated takeoff distance with approximately 1,000 metres of the 3,480 metre-long runway remaining. A simulator replication of the investigated takeoff was made but without the corrective manual thrust increase. As expected, the spoilers extended at 60 knots and remained deployed. Without any thrust increase, the V1 of 117 KIAS was reached at virtually the same time but it then took 6 seconds longer to reach VR and the subsequent rotation was also slow, and after 900 metres had resulted in a tail strike rather than a lift off. Had a rejected takeoff been initiated at this point, it was found that “it would not have been possible to bring the aircraft to a stop on the runway”. The Investigation observed that given the remaining length of the runway and the required obstacle clearance during the climb out, in particular in the event of an engine failure, it is desirable that if it is recognised at any stage that takeoff thrust has not been reached, the thrust levers should be “firewalled” which whilst it would disconnect the A/T, it would result in the maximum possible takeoff thrust being applied, a particularly relevant response during a takeoff with de-rated thrust. The Investigation found that although relevant aircraft systems appeared to have functioned as designed and as documented in most - but not all - respects, even the correct supporting documentation was not presented at all the points where system function awareness was needed and information of considerable importance to the operation of the aircraft type had thus remained widely unappreciated by both the aircraft operator and its pilots. This had indirectly led to an inadequate focus on takeoff safety and the procedures intended to support it. Because the Thrust Lever Angle (TLA) initially set when the takeoff was commenced was less than the minimum required to ensure that the A/T was activated, the thrust ceased increasing at 60 knots when the previous ‘ARMED’ status of the A/T changed