led to a very brief and slight turn to the left but the deviation to the right resumed almost immediately. When the Captain recognised that the aircraft was approaching the right hand edge of the runway, he realised that it was uncontrollable and decided to reject the takeoff but it was too late to prevent the aircraft departing the side of the runway and immediately becoming bogged down in very soft ground and coming to a stop after reaching a maximum ground speed of 42 knots. The First Officer stated on interview that although he had initially been monitoring the engine instruments during the takeoff, “he had not noticed any anomalies” and had soon shifted his attention to his air speed indicator. When he heard the loud “bang” noise from the right side of the aircraft and noticed that the aircraft was tracking to the right, he was recorded as having called out “off, abort, abort, abort”. In a subsequent interview, he stated that he had not known what had happened and had merely been “convinced” that the takeoff had to be rejected. Witnesses on the ground also heard the loud bang shortly after the takeoff started but nobody recognised what had caused it. FDR data showed that the engine 4 N1 decrease began 160 metres from the start of the 2750 metre-long runway with full left rudder applied after a further 24 metres as the aircraft continued to deviate to the right. Braking commenced 60 metres after the point where engine 4 failed and after travelling a further 90 metres, the aircraft crossed the right hand edge of the runway as the recorded ground speed increased through 35 knots. Thrust was not reduced to idle until soon afterwards and the aircraft eventually stopped 363 metres from the beginning of the runway full length. The event under investigation was reconstructed in a full flight simulator and one of the findings was that if the power of the remaining three engines is maintained for more than approximately 4 seconds after failure of the right outer (number 4) engine, the tendency of the aircraft to yaw to the right cannot be corrected. FDR data showed that contrary to the Captain’s recollections, he had in fact not reduced thrust to in order to begin rejecting the takeoff until 8 seconds after the thrust asymmetry due to the failure of engine 4 had begun. It was noted that “in the case of a full-rated takeoff, the available response time would be even shorter”. It was also found from the tyre marks in the soft ground that the derived steering angles clearly exceeded the maximum steering angle of 7 degrees achievable using rudder steering alone and must therefore have been generated using the steering tiller. FDR evidence of the Captain’s control column inputs indicated that his right hand had remained on the control column until it was moved to the thrust levers to retard them to idle and initiate a rejected takeoff. This was both