An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board with relevant data successfully downloaded from the removed aircraft SSFDR and SSCVR. It was noted that the 63 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 18,550 flying hours experience of which 3,030 hours was on type and that the 42 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,462 flying hours experience of which 2,042 hours were on type. Both pilots were Turkish nationals. Two other crew members were the only other occupants, a ground engineer occupying a supernumerary crew seat on the flight deck and a loadmaster seated in the forward cabin. It was established that after the Captain had sought and obtained a one hour extension to the beginning of the normal night closure of the airport, the flight crew were able to complete their pre departure flight preparations. It was found that although both pilots were as normal wearing their (active noise cancelling) headsets, the First Officer had been wearing his with one ear uncovered, a distinction that was to be of significance. After pushback and engine start, the crew decided that as the taxi distance to the full length runway 21 entry point which they would be using was only 300 metres, they would run both the ‘Before Taxi’ and ‘Before Takeoff’ Checklists before commencing taxi. SSFDR data showed that the aircraft was configured for a flap 20 takeoff. The prevailing weather conditions were benign with the reported surface wind being very light from a variable but generally westerly direction. Once the normal engine warm-up criteria had been met, taxi clearance was obtained and with takeoff clearance received, a rolling takeoff using de-rated thrust was commenced. The thrust levers were advanced initially to obtain around 42% N1 and once stabilised further to achieve approximately 70% N1 with a small amount of left rudder being applied. The required full takeoff thrust was then set using the TO/GA switches which engaged the A/T. Four seconds later, a loud noise was audible on the CVR which the First Officer (as well as the engineer and the loadmaster, neither of whom were wearing headsets) described as a “loud bang” coming from the right hand side of the aircraft. Just prior to this noise occurring, FDR data showed that, with the aircraft accelerating through 30 knots groundspeed, as the N1 for engine 4 reached 92% compared to the 82% of the other three engines, the engine 4 N1 suddenly dropped uncommanded to around 20% whilst engines 1, 2 and 3 remained stabilised at around 97%. During subsequent interview, the Captain stated that he had not heard the “loud bang” and attributed this to the active noise cancelling function of his headset. However, he did notice that the aircraft had begun to yaw to the right but did not recognise why and had therefore instinctively attempted to correct this deviation using the steering tiller and left rudder and then adding some left rudder pedal toe brake. This initially