An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC/KNKT). Data from the 1172-parameter FDR and the 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded and used to support the Investigation. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 11,280 flying hours which included 2,337 hours on type. The First Officer had a total of 2,656 flying hours which included 1,176 hours on type. A third pilot who was also included in the crew was occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck and had 2,280 hours total flying experience which included 568 hours on type. It was established that the forecast chart issued by the World Area Forecast Centre (WAFC) London which was available to the crew at pre-flight briefing showed that thunderstorms and Cumulonimbus clouds reaching above FL 470 around Sumatra Island should be expected. After an uneventful flight, the aircraft was at FL 390 over Bangka Island just east of southern Sumatra and about 15 minutes from top of descent when the Captain called the Cabin Manager to the flight deck to receive an arrival brief. Having reported noting the presence of “Cumulus cloud” on the flight path and having just decided to deviate around it by an unrecorded margin and with the Cabin Manager now on the fight deck, the aircraft suddenly encountered a short episode of severe turbulence. FDR data showed that for a period of 22 seconds, the aircraft altitude fluctuated between 250 feet below the cleared level and 450 feet above it at vertical speeds of between -2,500 and +2,000 fpm whilst pitch attitude ranged from -5° and +2°. Vertical acceleration during this period varied between -0.65g and +1.95g. Two seconds prior to the end of this episode, Normal Law changed to Alternate Law and, with the AP no longer engaged, the aircraft reverted to manual flight path control. The Captain, as PF, was then recorded as making pitch and roll inputs to his side stick of between -7.5° and 7.4° and between -19.3° and 14.9° respectively over a period of 6 seconds which ceased after Normal Law was reinstated and eventually, the AP was successfully re-engaged. There were no further turbulence episodes. Although the First Officer put the seat belt signs on as the turbulence began, this did not prevent a range of injuries to un-secured passengers and cabin crew. The satellite image of cloud top temperatures reproduced below shows that the turbulence occurred in the vicinity of a vigorous thunderstorm cell with a sensed cloud top temperature well below -60° C. A detailed analysis of the FDR data carried out by Airbus for the Investigation showed that as the aircraft entered the area of turbulence at a speed of M 0.856, speed had rapidly dropped to M 0.844. It was considered that the brief reversion from Normal Law to Alternate Law had probably been due to a drop in airspeed of more than 30 knots within one second (recorded as from 258 knots to 227 knot) as