a consequence of a change in wind component from a 10 knot headwind to a 39 knot tailwind in the same time interval. It was not possible to determine how close the aircraft was to the observed convective cell when the turbulence episode occurred but it was noted that the Airbus FCTM and the relevant FAA Advisory Circular AC 120-88A both remind pilots that CAT outside of but associated with visible convective cells may occur up to 20nm away from them. It was found that the Etihad ‘Safety & Emergency Procedure Manual’ (SEPM) included a requirement for the Captain of an aircraft which has been involved in an abnormal event to call the Cabin Manager to the flight deck and provide a NITS briefing, which in the investigated event would have served to organise an effective response prior to and after landing. However, no evidence that such a briefing had been conducted was found. It was also noted that the Etihad Operations Manual required that a PAN be declared to ATC in the event that there is a condition concerning the safety of the aircraft or some person on board or within sight, which does not require immediate assistance but which might benefit from priority or other special service. However, the Captain had considered that in this instance the serious injuries sustained by some passengers did not warrant such action and judged that notification to the Company Ground Handling agent at the destination was sufficient. The commonly-found Operations Manual (OM) policy that when the seat belt sign is switched off, cabin crew shall recommend passengers to “keep their seat belts fastened when seated” was included in the Etihad OM but since most of the injured passengers had not been secured during the turbulence episode, it was concluded that after more than 5 hours flying in clear weather with no turbulence since Departure, cabin crew attention to checking this had most likely been “degraded”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that at the time of the upset the aircraft had been flying within the turbulence area of a thunderstorm which the crew had not anticipated and (therefore) no warning had been provided to the cabin crew and passengers. Three Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Etihad Airways reviews the effectiveness of their use of seatbelt policies to ensure that passengers fasten their seatbelt when seated.. that Etihad Airways ensures that their pilots conduct a ‘NITS’ briefing after an abnormal flight event as described in section 8.1.2 of their Safety Emergency & Procedure Manual.. that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) requires Indonesian aircraft operators to review the effectiveness of their use of seatbelt policies to ensure that passengers fasten their seatbelt when seated.. The Final Report was released on 29 December 2017.