About 36% of the participants reported to have “encountered a TCAS RA situation in the past 5 years”.. About 5% of the participants reported experiencing a TCAS RA that was not followed either at all or not as commanded.. About 15% of all the pilots that experienced TCAS RA participated in a TCAS RA not followed event.. About 12% of the participants reported having 3 or more TCAS RAs during the 5-year period.. The statistical analysis that took into account the number of events (i.e. more than one event per person) concluded that the percentage of RAs that are not followed is likely to be around 11%. A total of 18 reasons (out of 20 possible) were stated for not following a TCAS RA. The most reported reason was "Decision not to follow due to visual acquisition and/or avoidance of the conflicting traffic" (45% of all non-follow events).. The second most reported reason was "Short duration RA (RA terminated before a response could be taken)" (15% of all non-follow events, i.e. 3 times less frequent than the first one).. The third most reported reason was "Proximity to the ground" (11% of all non-follow events, i.e. 4 times less frequent than the first one).. The Top 3 reasons account for 70% of all responses (45 + 15 + 10).. ICAO documents state that all RAs should be followed unless the safety of the aircraft is at risk. Three reasons (proximity to terrain, priority of other alerts and performance issues) with a total of 14% fall within this definition.. Three other reasons are considered valid for non-compliance (short duration, false/incorrect RAs and closely spaced runways). These account for 24 % of the answers.. About 38% (14 + 24) of RAs Not Followed might be for legitimate reasons.. The "Decision not to follow due to visual acquisition and/or avoidance of the conflicting traffic" is not considered a valid reason and account for about 70% of the non-legitimate reasons. This is the prevailing answer for all flight levels.. The level of inability to follow RAs due to their short duration is constant across all altitude bands.. About 46% of RAs not followed are below 3000ft. Most of these involve a decision not the follow the RA after visual acquisition of the apparent intruder.. Pilots who, in training, are not pre-warned that a TCAS RA is coming, are disposed to react better in live situations.. No one type of TCAS RA is trained more than 80% each time. The less common, but perhaps more demanding RAs such as Crossing Climb/Descend are only trained around 30% of the time.. About 5% of pilots involved in TCAS RA Not Followed events report no TCAS training within the previous 5 years..