An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant data were obtained from the CVR in respect of the action of the line maintenance team who had attended the aircraft to carry out the required check of the reported landing gear bay doors fault which consisted of a LAE and two Mechanics. One of the Mechanics was experienced on the 787 aircraft and had extensive experience of working with the LAE. The other had been seconded from the Cabin Excellence Team, which was to be absorbed into the line maintenance task to pass on knowledge and experience of cabin and seat maintenance whilst “unofficially” gaining knowledge and experience of the scope of line maintenance. The aircraft was undergoing a corrective maintenance task to allow the deferment of three NLG Solenoid faults in accordance with the Despatch Deviation Guide. This required cycling of the landing gear system to check a suspected fault in the operation of landing gear bay doors which could be done without the gear legs moving provided the locking pins were inserted. The LAE needed to be on the flight deck to select the landing gear up and the time available was limited so he delegated the fitting and checking of the landing gear pins to the two Mechanics, one of whom was experienced and trusted by the LAE who had previously worked with him. He supervised the Mechanics remotely from the flight deck and communicated with the experienced one via a headset. The experienced Mechanic asked his colleague to fit the NLG pin because the steps needed to access the NLG bay were not immediately available and he was tall enough to do it without steps. The experienced Mechanic stated that he had pointed to where the pin should go, monitored the fitting of it and “checked it by listening, looking and pulling the flag”. However, the downlock pin was inadvertently inserted into the downlock link assembly apex pin bore instead of the downlock pin hole (the two adjacent holes are visible on the illustration below) so the nose gear retracted when the system was operated. The NLG downlock pin incorrectly fitted to the apex pin bore (left) and an example of the correct location of the pin for comparison (right). [Reproduced from the Official Report] The underside of the aircraft forward fuselage and the front lower part of both engine cowlings sustained significant damage and the former movement resulted in the immediate loss of AC power to the aircraft as the ground power cables were crushed. Minor damage was also caused to Door 2L and to the aft cargo door. Once the accident had occurred, the airport response was assessed to have been problematic in respect of its categorisation under the Airport’s “Emergency Orders”. The design of the aircraft nose landing gear downlock assembly had already been identified by Boeing as presenting an opportunity for error when inserting the NLG locking pin, with two holes located so close together that the pin could be inadvertently