inserted in the incorrect location. Initially a SB and later an AD had been issued to eliminate the risk of NLG locking pin insertion into the wrong hole but the required action had not yet been taken on G-ZBJB. It was evident that the limited space available within the NLG bay and the location of both the correct pin hole and the adjacent one above their heads would have made it difficult to positively indicate the correct pin location, especially without prior access to a picture like the one in the 787 AMM which at the time was not accessible on the iPads issued to line maintenance personnel. The experienced Mechanic also reported having attempted to check everyone was clear of the aircraft before the LAE operated the system but this visual check was ineffective because of the restricted view from close to the NLG but the possibility the aircraft nose could drop was not considered. The aircraft operator also did not have any procedures to cover potential maintenance-related hazards during loading or passenger boarding. In respect of the pin insertion error which occurred, the possibility of installing the NLG downlock pin in the incorrect position pending the planned modification, an attempt to raise awareness was made using the Technical News “read and sign process” (see the illustration below). However, as all three maintenance personnel had signed to say they had read the item concerned five months before the accident, it was suspected that the amount of information communicated in this way was too great for all of it to be remembered. The Technical News item on correct fitting of the 787 NLG downlock pin. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Safety Action taken as a result of the Accident was noted as having included the following: British Airways has: Implemented the delayed AD and SB on all its 787 aircraft. Improved the process for assessing SBs and ADs by developing appropriate organisational structures to identify and manage health and safety risks more effectively in the Technical Document Response process.. Commenced adoption of an SMS within the maintenance organisation following the CAA rulemaking announcement requiring introduction of an SMS into Part 21 and Part 145 activity with approval targeted the end of 2022.. Provided line maintenance personnel with access to all manufacturers’ technical data, documents and manuals via their already-issued iPads.. Introduced a new software application for communicating technical updates which includes improved filtering and prioritisation and requires that each page of every article is displayed before it can be signed.. Heathrow Airport Limited has: Stated its intention to amend the airport Emergency Order (EO) Action Cards for each stakeholder to include a requirement for each Business Unit to make an individual assessment of the incident categorisation and communicate that to the RFFS Commander.. Stated its intention to amend the airport EO Action Card for the RFFS Commander to include any consideration of a change in categorisation in liaison with other stakeholders.. Stated that all airport EOs will in future include