100 metres, i.e. in the form stipulated in Annex 8 of the Criteria For Issuance of a Special Weather Report;. The recommendation for ATIS broadcast content stipulated in the joint Order No. 62/41 “On approval and implementation of Instruction for ATIS broadcast content in English and Russian languages” dated 20 March 2000 issued by the Federal Air Transport Administration and the Hydrometeorology and Environment Monitoring Service was not entirely fulfilled.. With regard to the A320 aircraft: In course of reading out the FDR data, a number of discrepancies were found in the documentation describing the logic of binary signal recordings; While performing manoeuvres in the landing configuration with the autopilot and autothrust engaged, the LOW ENERGY WARNING may sound, which Airbus considers as an abnormal situation.. In course of reading out the FDR data, a number of discrepancies were found in the documentation describing the logic of binary signal recordings;. While performing manoeuvres in the landing configuration with the autopilot and autothrust engaged, the LOW ENERGY WARNING may sound, which Airbus considers as an abnormal situation.. A total of 23 Safety Recommendations were made: that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should conduct briefings with the flight crews, controllers and technical and engineering personnel to review the circumstances and the causes of the accident.. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should ensure fulfilment of the requirements of ICAO Annex 6 Part 1 Chapter 3 for mandatory analysis of performed flight operations based on the CVR and FDR recordings for aircraft with a certified MTOW exceeding 27000 kg.. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should draw the attention of A320 crews to the necessity of immediate response to activation of EGPWS warnings (even if other warnings are on at the same time) in the case of instrument flight, or flight in difficult weather conditions, or flight in the mountains. Relevant exercises should be introduced into simulator training programmes to practice these actions and the advisability of extending these recommendations to other aircraft types should be considered.. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should review the necessity of enhancing crew simulator training in the section on flying in Flight. Director mode, especially during approach and go-around. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should bring the content of the AIP, as well as the ATC controllers’ job descriptions and operations manuals, into compliance with the standards and practices recommended by ICAO, with regard to clearance for approach and landing.. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries jointly with the industrial and scientific and research organisations should organise and conduct research into the conditions under which a crew may lose spatial orientation and/or upset aircraft attitude may develop and issue practical recommendations to enhance flight safety. In particular, they should evaluate the effect of in-flight acceleration illusions and based on the research, they should develop and introduce a specialised course for recurrent training of crews that should contain both classroom and flying training.. that