thrust, gear up and flap retraction which are automatic actions for any go around – even the automatic one carried out in this case. It was also considered that the Captain had demonstrated "low mental readiness" to switch to manual flight path control in an unfamiliar situation. It was suggested that despite recovering the aircraft to stable flight after disconnecting the AP, "he probably still felt startled and stressed". In the final moments, the possibility that "mental torpor" had led to the inadequate action to decrease the pitch angle and ultimately to his very poor response to the EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warning was suggested. In such a state, a pilot is able to "concentrate on perception and analysis of only (some of the) flight parameters, being incapable of perceiving and evaluating the situation as a whole". In this case, such evidence as was available pointed to "the attention, perception and thoughts of the Captain and partially (that) of the First Officer being concentrated on monitoring of the flight speed". It was accepted that the conditions for the Captain to be influenced by somatogravic illusions, "in particular the illusion of pitching up experienced by the pilot flying, with a lack of monitoring of the flight indicators and longitudinal acceleration of the aircraft, at night, with no visible references" were present. It was considered that this interpretation "is substantiated by the inadequate actions of the Captain that were recorded at the moment when the aircraft deviation from the runway heading was more than 90 degrees" which would have meant that intermittent sight of lights on the ground through breaks in the cloud may have occurred whilst the acceleration of the aircraft continued. Counter to this, though, "is evidence that shows that the Captain monitored the PFD and read it correctly, at least in respect of the speed and the Flight Mode Annunciator indication". The Investigation noted the similarities between the final stages of this event and those of the A320 accident at Bahrain in 2000 in respect of both the "inadequate actions by the Captain, who moved the side stick forward and held it there, despite the EGPWS warning sounding for a long time" and "the crew response to the overspeed warning that was sounding at the same time (flap retraction)". The Conclusion of the Investigation as to Cause was as follows: This was a CFIT accident that happened due to collision with the water while carrying out a climbing manoeuvre after an aborted approach to Sochi airport at night with weather conditions below the established minima for runway 06. While performing the climb with the autopilot disengaged, the Captain, being in a psycho-emotional stress condition, made nose down control inputs due to the loss of pitch and roll awareness. This created an abnormal situation. Subsequently the Captain's inputs in the pitch channel were insufficient to prevent development of the abnormal situation into a catastrophic one. Along with the inadequate control inputs of the Captain, two Contributory Factors to the development of