the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should include in the A320 FCTM a mandatory requirement for trainee Captains to pass the Upgrade to Captain programme.. that the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should keep records on approaches performed in difficult weather conditions by A320 crews, in accordance with the regulatory documents relating to the organisation of civil flight operations under the control of the Republic of Armenia.. that the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should organise FDR and CVR readouts for analysis of A320 flight operations, in order to identify any errors or deficiencies in crews’ piloting technique and use the findings to develop measures for their prevention.. that the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should point out to aircraft crews that irrelevant conversations in the flight deck, especially during the climb and descent phases, are prohibited.. that the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should consider the necessity of enhanced simulator training for A320 crews.. that the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and Armavia should develop a procedure for the storage of A320 operational documentation that would require the retention of originals and copies of such documents by both Sabena Technics and Armavia.. that the Federal Air Navigation Service of the Russian Federation should review the possibility of updating of the Russian AIP and other regulatory documents for the purpose of unifying ATC procedures for issuing go-around instructions to aircraft operated by domestic and foreign airlines and incorporate the relevant amendments into the Rules and Phraseology for In-flight Radio Communications and ATC.. that the Federal Air Navigation Service of the Russian Federation should review the possibility of incorporating Air Traffic Service procedures in aerodrome services which are in accordance with ICAO recommendations (Document 4444, Attachment 11) and the Order No. 103/DV-116 dated 26.10.95 and issued by Department of Air Transport.. that the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring should review the possibility of purchasing and installing of a new Doppler weather radar at the civil aviation meteorological station in Sochi.. that the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring should undertake measures to eliminate the shortcomings in the meteorological support to civil flight operations at Sochi aerodrome brought to light in the course of the investigation.. that the Federal State Unitary Enterprise, the 'Corporation for Air Traffic Management' should restore complete ATIS broadcasting for Sochi aerodrome, including weather data.. that the Federal State Unitary Enterprise, the 'Corporation for Air Traffic Management' should clarify to controllers of the Sochi Air Traffic Support of the interpretation of the 'BECMG' and 'TEMPO' codes used in weather forecasts for the aerodrome and of the interpretation of the two-hour 'TREND' weather forecasts.. that Airbus should eliminate the discrepancies in the documentation describing the logic of the binary signals recorded by the FDR.. that Airbus should add information clarifying specific features of activation of the OPEN CLIMB