an abnormal situation into a catastrophic one were: the lack of necessary monitoring of the aircraft descent parameters (pitch attitude, altitude, vertical speed) by the co-pilot. the absence of proper reaction by the crew to the EGPWS warning.. A number of "Shortcomings" were identified during the Investigation as follows: During descent and approach, the crew constantly had irrelevant conversations that had nothing to do with the crew operations manual, and therefore violated the requirements of Armenian Republic Regulations.. The A320 FCTM, which was approved by the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Armenia and on the basis of which the Captain passed his command upgrade training with the airline, does not contain any requirement for passing an 'Upgrade to Captain' programme and the Captain did not pass such training. It is noted that after the accident, such a training programme was made mandatory in the next revision of the FCTM.. The Flight Operations Department of Armavia does not comply with the provisions of Armenian Republic Regulations and ICAO Annex 6 Part 1 Chapter 3, which require airlines to monitor fight operations standards for aircraft with the certified MTOW exceeding 27,000 kg using FDR and CVR recordings.. In violation of Armenian Republic Regulations, Armavia does not keep records on the approaches and landings in complicated weather conditions performed by their Captains.. The following deficiencies were identified in air traffic management: During the en route part of the flight, the Sochi Approach Controller advised the crew that the Trend weather forecast for landing was '150 by 1500' but did not identify that Trend as “AT TIMES”. This inaccuracy was not directly connected with the cause of the aircraft accident, but it influenced the initial decision of the crew to return to Yerevan. As the aircraft was in descent towards Sochi, the approach controller advised the crew of the latest observed weather at Sochi and by mistake said the cloud ceiling was “considerable 1800”, instead of 180 metres, however this did not influence the Captain’s subsequent actions. Soon afterwards, the crew did not report, and the Holding Controller did not request the crew to report the selected system and mode of approach, which does not meet the requirements of the Sochi Aerodrome Holding Controller’s Operation Manual, Section 4, item 4.2.1. With the aircraft at approximately 5½ nm final, the Final Controller was informed by the Sochi weather observer that the cloud ceiling had reduced to 100 metres which was below the established approach minima (cloud ceiling 170 metres, visibility 2500 metres). Based on this information, the Final controller instructed the crew to discontinue the approach due to “clouds at 100 metres" and make a right-hand climbing turn to 600 metres (2000 feet). The controller’s actions did not comply with the requirements of the Civil Flight Operations Guidance 85 Section 6.5.16 and the Final Controller’s Operation Manual, items 4.3 and 4.3.1. However, according to the Russian AIP, the Controller had the right to forbid the landing but it should be noted that a