An Investigation was carried out by the Interstate Aviation Committee (MAK). The FDR and CVR were recovered from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. ATC recorded radar data was also available. It was a found that the Captain, born in 1966, had begun his flying career as an An-2 First Officer, and then, in 1990 as a Yak-40 First Officer, on which type he gained his command in 1997. In 2004, he had joined Armavia and been trained as an A320 First Officer at the SAS Flight Academy in Stockholm and been promoted to A320 Captain with Armavia a year later. He had 5,458 total flying hours which included 1,436 total hours on the A320 of which 566 had been in command on the type. The First Officer, born in 1977, had begun his flying career in 1999 as a Tu-154 First Officer, transferring to Armenian Airlines in 2002 where he continued on the Tu-154 for one year until the airline ceased operations. In 2004, he joined Armavia and qualified on the ATR-42 as a First Officer, before converting to the A320 on a course at the SAS Flight Academy in Stockholm later the same year and beginning as a First Officer on type. He had 2,185 total flying hours which included 1,022 hours on the A320. It was established that after an initial decision to turn back to Yerevan en route when the destination weather was advised as forecast to be below landing minima, the crew had decided, once they had initiated the turn back, to check the weather at Sochi again. This time they told the controller there that they had VIPs on board, information which they knew was "not true". The Sochi controller had then replied that "The weather is around the limit, but OK so far” and the Captain decided to again proceed towards Sochi. The Investigation analysed crew conversation recorded on the CVR at this time and concluded that "the crew intentionally misinformed the controller, in order to obtain a positive weather forecast". As the aircraft continued towards Sochi, the Investigation concluded from CVR evidence that "the situation in the flight deck was getting complicated - the crew (especially the Captain) appeared to be eager to land in Sochi, and nowhere else". Subsequent conversations were found to "show that the crew did not even wish to bother the Sochi approach controller once more, so as not to get an unfavourable weather forecast from him". An ILS approach to runway 06 was flown with the AP and A/T engaged and the CVR evidence was found to indicate, without notable consequences except being high on the ideal approach profile and initially overshooting the ILS LOC during the turn on, an absence of a full understanding of the automated flight modes on the part of the Captain who was PF. Once on the ILS LOC, the GS was intercepted at about 6nm from touchdown and descent continued on track and stabilised. Then, passing an altitude of