number of AIP items contradict each other and are ambiguous.. During the en route part of the flight, the Sochi Approach Controller advised the crew that the Trend weather forecast for landing was '150 by 1500' but did not identify that Trend as “AT TIMES”. This inaccuracy was not directly connected with the cause of the aircraft accident, but it influenced the initial decision of the crew to return to Yerevan.. As the aircraft was in descent towards Sochi, the approach controller advised the crew of the latest observed weather at Sochi and by mistake said the cloud ceiling was “considerable 1800”, instead of 180 metres, however this did not influence the Captain’s subsequent actions.. Soon afterwards, the crew did not report, and the Holding Controller did not request the crew to report the selected system and mode of approach, which does not meet the requirements of the Sochi Aerodrome Holding Controller’s Operation Manual, Section 4, item 4.2.1.. With the aircraft at approximately 5½ nm final, the Final Controller was informed by the Sochi weather observer that the cloud ceiling had reduced to 100 metres which was below the established approach minima (cloud ceiling 170 metres, visibility 2500 metres). Based on this information, the Final controller instructed the crew to discontinue the approach due to “clouds at 100 metres" and make a right-hand climbing turn to 600 metres (2000 feet). The controller’s actions did not comply with the requirements of the Civil Flight Operations Guidance 85 Section 6.5.16 and the Final Controller’s Operation Manual, items 4.3 and 4.3.1. However, according to the Russian AIP, the Controller had the right to forbid the landing but it should be noted that a number of AIP items contradict each other and are ambiguous.. In respect of Meteorological Support at Sochi Aerodrome, The weather forecast for the aerodrome for the period from 18:00 to 03:00 was not verified with regard to visibility in the “At times” group; In violation of the Guidance for Meteorological Support in Civil Aviation 95, Sections 4.3.1 and 4.4.1 (d) and the Instruction for meteorological support at Sochi aerodrome, the observer did not complete a Special Weather Report when the cloud ceiling dropped to 100 metres, i.e. in the form stipulated in Annex 8 of the Criteria For Issuance of a Special Weather Report; The recommendation for ATIS broadcast content stipulated in the joint Order No. 62/41 “On approval and implementation of Instruction for ATIS broadcast content in English and Russian languages” dated 20 March 2000 issued by the Federal Air Transport Administration and the Hydrometeorology and Environment Monitoring Service was not entirely fulfilled.. The weather forecast for the aerodrome for the period from 18:00 to 03:00 was not verified with regard to visibility in the “At times” group;. In violation of the Guidance for Meteorological Support in Civil Aviation 95, Sections 4.3.1 and 4.4.1 (d) and the Instruction for meteorological support at Sochi aerodrome, the observer did not complete a Special Weather Report when the cloud ceiling dropped to