above.. Evidence of speech intonation on the CVR during the crew's further conversations was considered to "indicate that their stress levels were increasing". For the next half minute, the aircraft maintained a more or less level right hand turn with the flight directors still commanding "fly up" because of the stop altitude remaining at 3,200 feet - although the maximum recorded altitude actually reached by the aircraft was 1,670 feet. This incorrect stop altitude was then reset to 2,100 feet as cleared, but as the aircraft was transferred to the radar frequency, the Captain, for reasons "that could not be determined [...] started moving the side stick forward and thereby pushed the aircraft nose down" but no contrary alerting came from the First Officer. The continued pitch down action led to an increased airspeed which triggered almost continuous overspeed warnings. Although potentially distracted by a 20 second controller response to their check-in on the Radar frequency, it was found that the crew had reacted to these warnings appropriately on two successive occasions by retracting the deployed flaps. However, just as the long controller transmission finished, the GPWS 'PULL UP' Warning began and the First Officer called out "Level Off". He also began to operate his side stick to oppose the increasing right bank being applied by the Captain. The 'DUAL INPUT' Warning did not operate because it had a lower priority than the EGPWS Warning. The Captain had "twice moved the side stick half-way backwards, possibly reacting to the EGPWS, but at the same time the First Officer was inadvertently making nose-down inputs, which might have led the Captain to believe that the aircraft response to the control inputs in the pitch channel was not adequate". The combined inputs were summed and the extent of the pull up reduced. The descent continued and, just under a minute after the AP had been disconnected, the aircraft hit the sea surface with the landing gear still down. It was destroyed and most of the wreckage subsequently sank in water approximately 1,600 feet deep. Only a small amount of floating wreckage was recovered from the sea surface. It was noted that simulator experiments "showed that the aircraft could have been recovered at any stage of the flight until five seconds before impact provided the crew had acted properly". The Investigation found no evidence that the aircraft was not airworthy or that it was incorrectly loaded and sought to focus particularly on the performance of the pilots and the context for it. It was considered that "a number of psychological factors" had contributed to the development of an initially abnormal situation into the catastrophic one. The crew "had shown low mental readiness to undertake any other task apart from landing at Sochi airport" and a "conflict of motives" between the strong desire to land at Sochi and the need to carry out the controller's instruction to discontinue the approach may have led to them fulfilling the instruction given “literally” - without setting the TOGA