mode in various flight conditions to the A320 FCOM.. that Airbus should add a warning to the A320 FCOM about the possible activation of the 'LOW ENERGY WARNING' which occurs when the aircraft performs manoeuvres in the landing configuration with considerable changes in pitch and roll angles.. that Airbus should review the expediency of altering the type and/or priority of EGPWS warnings to ensure more reliable pilot response to its activation.. that the Aviation Administrations of the CIS countries should eliminate the shortcomings revealed during investigation of this accident (not already addressed in other Safety Recommendations).. The undated Final Report in available in an English language translation upon which this summary is based subject to language clarity and use corrections. This Report includes separately and in full a series of comments made by the BEA France after they had received a final draft of the Report since the final published version of the Report was not altered in respect of them. The comments were on various matters of detail and preceded by the caveat that "the BEA agrees overall with the facts and conclusions in the Draft Report" and noting that the comments presented were made "with the aim of improving aviation safety, focus on the flight crew’s work during the flight, on the airline’s conditions for technical operations and the application of oversight by the Authority, as well as on some aspects of air traffic control". Amongst other matters, it was felt that "the report should underline the absence, during that part of the flight that it was possible to reconstitute, of the application of Standard Operating Procedures (Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)), as described in the Operator’s FCOM documentation, as well as on the critical inadequacies in Crew Resource Management (CRM)" and that "this failure to follow Standard Operating Procedures and teamwork led to the pilots losing situational awareness and made it impossible for them to regain control of the airplane in time". It was also considered that "the dysfunctions noted in the crew’s performance are too significant for them to be merely circumstantial" and that "in relation to the national oversight authority, reference to the requirements and procedures for approving foreign training centres that carry out training for those possessing Armenian Pilots’ licenses could usefully be added". It was also noted that "the controller treated the flight as if it had been a domestic Russian flight, for which he could intervene in the Captain’s decision to continue or reject an approach whereas this flight was an international flight governed by different regulations, which specifically allow the Captain to descend to the minima before deciding on a go-around".