around 1,300 feet, the controller advised that the cloud ceiling was now 330 feet agl and that the aircraft should turn right and climb to 2,000 feet. The controller "did not give a direct instruction to the crew to go around". The published go around from a 06 approach at Sochi was noted to have been "a coupled right hand climbing turn onto heading 240º in the take-off configuration, with the roll angle at least 20 degrees and at a speed not exceeding 200 knots, with a climb to 600 metres (2,060 feet) at the maximum possible vertical speed". The aircraft remained in landing configuration and without any increase to TOGA thrust as the climb began, it was turned in accordance with the controller's instruction with the AP and A/T remaining engaged. Further indications that the crew, and particularly the Captain, were not making optimum use of the automated flight path control modes quickly became apparent. This situation was likely to have been exacerbated by the failure to reconfigure - the landing gear and land flap remained deployed - since manoeuvring the aircraft at significant bank angles in landing configuration is not expected. Inputs to the Captain's rudder pedals began to occur - and these continued until the end of the flight. Since such inputs are not required to coordinate a turn and some were too great to normally go unnoticed and occurred with the side sticks in neutral, it was considered that these actions "may be a sign that the crew’s mental state was far from optimal" by this point. In an apparent error, the stop altitude was reset to 3,200 feet before being returned to 2,100 feet as cleared; it was suspected that this happened "unintentionally […] during the process of mode activation". However, it was considered that this action had "fundamentally influenced the flight". A few seconds later, the aural "SPEED" warning which advises the crew that “the aircraft energy is decreasing to the limit, below which the engine thrust must be increased to regain a positive angle on the flight path” was annunciated. At this point, 14 seconds after the go around had begun with the aircraft at 1,150 feet, the AP was disengaged. By this time it was considered that the crew "were unable to evaluate the current situation adequately" and that it was likely that "the aircraft behaviour while manoeuvring and the activation of the Low Energy Warning were unexpected" with the AP probably being disengaged "because of doubts about whether it was functioning correctly". From now on, it was considered that "the crew was probably in a state of psycho-emotional strain" because of a combination of: The need to make a go around which is quite rarely encountered.. Flight at night and the lack-of-sleep state of at least the First Officer.. The variable weather at Sochi throughout the flight and the uncertainty as to whether it would be possible to land there.. The unexpected aircraft behaviour during automatic flight on the segment described