feet (agl) is sufficient. Furthermore, pressure altitude influences the flare height - due to the higher True Airspeed and the corresponding(ly) higher vertical speed, the flare has to be initiated a bit earlier than usual” The ELW of the accident aircraft was 207 tonnes. The Investigation noted that there had been a total of 29 MD11 bounced landings which had resulted in ‘substantial aircraft damage’ during the period 2 August 1992 to 27 July 2010. Many of these, like the investigated event, began with a first touchdown which resulted in a bounce but one from which recovery to a subsequently safe landing was possible. The Investigation noted that in the specific case of the investigated event, “the severity of the subsequent touchdowns was not a consequence of the first touchdown, but primarily a result of the pitch angle during the bounces, which resulted from the actions of both flight crews on the control column”. In respect of pilot training for bounced landing recovery, the Investigation concluded that “The MD-11 simulator did not provide a true and accurate simulation of the bounce conditions found with the aircraft. The artificial actions to initiate a bounce in the simulator reduced the value of the training.” The Investigation identified the following sequence of “Cause Related Findings”: The flight crew did not recognise the increasing sink rate on short final.. The First officer delayed the flare prior to the initial touchdown, thus resulting in a bounce.. The flight crew did not recognise the bounce.. The Captain attempted to take control of the aircraft without alerting the First Officer resulting in both flight crews acting simultaneously on the control column.. During the first bounce, the Captain made an inappropriate, large nose-down column input that resulted in the second bounce and a hard landing in a flat pitch attitude.. The flight crew responded to the bounces by using exaggerated control inputs.. The company bounced-landing procedure was not applied by the flight crew.. A number of secondary aspects of the response to the accident, both some directly relevant to accident scenarios and others merely highlighted by the response were also reviewed. A total of 9 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation, the first two being “Stand Alone Recommendations” issued by the United States NTSB on 12 July 2011 after prior agreement with the Saudi Arabian GACA. The first of these was noted to have been promptly actioned by Boeing as recommended. The FAA should require Boeing to revise its MD-11 Flight Crew Operating Manual to reemphasize high sink rate awareness during landing, the importance of momentarily maintaining landing pitch attitude after touchdown and using proper pitch attitude and power to cushion excess sink rate in the flare, and to go around in the event of a bounced landing [NTSB A-11-68]. Once Boeing has completed the revision of its MD-11 Flight Crew Operating Manual as recommended in (NTSB) Safety Recommendation A-11-68, the FAA should require all MD-11operators to incorporate the Boeing-recommended bounce recognition and recovery