An Investigation was carried out by the Air Safety Division of the Saudi Arabian General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA). The DFDR and 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were retrieved from the wreckage and although both units were fire damaged, successful replay was achieved. It was noted that whilst the aircraft commander, who had been acting PM, was experienced on the MD11, the First Officer acting as PF had only recently completed initial line training and on type after previous experience only as an Airbus A319 First Officer. It was found that the manual approach with autothrottle (A/T) off had been normal until shortly before touchdown when the sink rate and speed increased and the flare was not begun until about 20 feet agl, later than appropriate for the prevailing aircraft weight. The Initial touchdown at Vref +18 was hard at 780 fpm / 2 g and after a further bounce from main and nose gear, a final touchdown occurred 945 metres from the runway threshold at 1020 fpm / 4.49 g, the aft fuselage ruptured and a fuel-fed fire began in the left hand wheel well. The aircraft continued to decelerate and departed the left side of the runway at 2255 metres from the threshold before coming to a stop some 90 metres off it (see the picture below) where the fire took hold and much of the aircraft and its cargo were destroyed. The two pilots successfully evacuated the aircraft; one had received major spinal injuries during the hard runway contacts and the other had only minor cuts to the head. Although an ignition source for the post crash fire could not be determined, available evidence suggested that it had been fed by fuel sprayed from a break in the pressurised 5cm diameter no. 2 engine/APU fuel line and the unpressurised tail tank fuel transfer line. It was noted that the Halon 1301 fire suppression systems fitted to both the main deck and the belly holds had not been activated In respect of the fuselage fracture, it was found that Centre of Gravity limit load factor for the aircraft type is 2.3 g, which leads to an ultimate (vertical) factor based on 14 CFR 25.3030 requirements of 3.5 g, a figure exceeded by a significant margin at the final touchdown. It was noted that the Operations Manual included the following in respect of sink rate at touchdown: “Normal sink rate at touchdown averages to 120 ft/min. An aeroplane is certified with a sink rate of 360 ft/min at the structural(ly) limited TOW and with 600 ft/min at the maximum landing weight. Structural problems will not arise if sink rates at touchdown do not exceed 360 ft/min.” Other guidance material issued to MD11 pilots by the Operator stated that: “flare height: depends on weight because of the mass inertia. At high weights (>200 tonnes) the flare has to be initiated in the vicinity of 40 feet (agl). At light weights (around 130 tonnes) a flare just prior 20