instructions to the contrary, “many passengers evacuated with their carry-on baggage”. In the absence of any persons assisting at the bottom of the deployed slides, fire-fighters moved to assist at the R1, R2 and R4 slides but there were none to assist at the R3 slide. It was reported that “after the evacuation, the passengers were shooting pictures near the aircraft and making telephone calls and did not respond to the guidance or instructions given by the fire-fighters” and many were carrying their baggage, some of it described as “large suitcases”. The failure of the R5 slide to deploy useably (see the illustration below) was attributed to a combination of the effects of the prevailing northerly wind averaging almost 40 knots and the 20 knot airflow created by the efflux from the number 2 engine which was still running at ground idle when the slide was deployed. However, as the tip of the slide had caught fast on the runway surface, the subsequent removal of the engine efflux component of the overall airflow was not enough to enable it to return to a normally-deployed position. A detailed investigation as to the cause of the engine failure was made and its origin was eventually traced to a manufacturing fault at engine build which had escaped detection and then become the source of fatigue crack propagation in the disc which itself had then gone undetected by NDT during scheduled maintenance until the accumulation of flight cycles was sufficient to trigger a catastrophic failure. The fire which began in the engine after it failed during the takeoff was attributed to a combination of effects of impact forces generated by the release of the fragment from the ruptured rim part of the 1st stage High Pressure Turbine disc through the engine case and the engine rundown loads generated when the engine stopped suddenly which caused cracks to developed in the Fuel Oil Heat Exchanger, which enabled fuel and engine oil to leak out and come into contact with the hot area of the engine casing where ignition occurred. The reappearance of the flight deck engine fire warning was attributed to a breach in the inner wall of the left translating cowl which compromised the effectiveness of the fire extinguishers. The Investigation formally documented the Probable Causes of the accident as follows: The fracture of the high pressure turbine (HPT) disc of the No.1 (left-side) engine during the takeoff ground roll, the penetration of the fragment through the engine case and the occurrence of subsequent fires.. The cause of the 1st stage HPT disc fracture was due to an error in the manufacture of the disc which became the source of low-cycle fatigue crack initiation which then propagated during normal operation of the engine in which it was installed.. The inspection process in place at the disc manufacturing location failed to detect the fault.. The cracks that subsequently propagated in service were not detected by NDT methods during scheduled maintenance.. The fire which stared in