An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). Relevant data was recovered from the FDR, the 2 hour CVR and the QAR and useful airport video footage was also available. It was noted that the 49 year-old Captain had accumulated 10,410 total flying hours which included 3205 hours on type and that the 41 year-old First Officer, who had been designated as PF for the takeoff, had accumulated 5788 total flying hours which included 2531 hours on type. It was established that the aircraft had begun its takeoff after entering runway 34R from taxiway C1 and after 30 seconds of normal acceleration, number one engine NI had begun to drop and an engine malfunction warning was annunciated. A rejected takeoff was immediately commenced by the Captain at 119 KCAS in accordance with Company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for operation of the thrust levers during takeoff and two seconds later, as TWR reported an engine fire visible, a fire warning for the same engine followed. The aircraft came to a stop sixteen seconds after the thrust levers had been retarded. The Captain made a PA instructing “crew at stations” and when the First Officer could not immediately locate his copy of the QRH, the Captain commenced the memory actions for the number one engine fire by shutting it down and activated the first extinguisher shot. Although the fire warning went out, it reappeared 2 minutes and 20 seconds after the first shot had been used and the second shot was activated. Soon after this, and almost three minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop, the first two of five fire engines arrived at the aircraft. The fire warning again ceased after the second shot had been used but this time it reappeared after just over a minute and the Captain advised ATC that an emergency evacuation would be made on the right hand side and after a further 1 minute and 37 seconds confirmed that it was in progress. Video evidence showed that the first exits - L1 and R1 - had been opened a full half minute before the number two engine had been shut down and that exits R2, R3, R4 and R5 had also been opened prior to this engine being shut down. However, the first passengers did not leave the aircraft until just after this engine had been shut down. Since the engine fire was clearly visible on the left side, the L1 exit was not used. Normal slide deployment occurred at 4 of the 6 exits opened but at R4 and R5, deployment to a useable position did not occur and only in the case of R4 did it subsequently reposition and become useable. With four exits in use, it was 3 minutes and 47 seconds from the time the L1 door had been opened before the last of the 302 passengers left the aircraft and the remaining crew members followed. The cabin crew reported that despite clear and repeated