up pitching moment, high pitch attitude (up to 23°) and consequently to significant reduction of airspeed (three times - down to 112, 110 and 113 knots). The PIC was leading lengthy discussions with the Controller and did not monitor the flight properly, only interfering with the flight control from time to time. The crew did not follow the Controller’s instruction to terminate the approach and prepare for the second one. At altitude about 1200 m with airspeed of 120 knots (10 kts lower than Reference Speed (Vref)) and left bank of about 30° the PIC, following the Co-pilot’s request, took control. Not having proper situation awareness the PIC abruptly applied left wheel, increasing the left bank up to over 70°. Despite the correct remark from the Co-pilot after which he initially used right wheel (decreasing the left bank to 30°), the PIC then abruptly and disproportionately made several wheel inputs causing rapid left banking, followed by left overturn and deep descent with 65° nose down pitch. It was impossible to recover from such upset at a low altitude." There is an extensive section in the Report reflecting the crew’s qualifications which specifies that the PIC underwent transitional training for Boeing-737 and during the course a co-pilot transition program was used. The training centre mentioned in the Report was neither approved nor accepted by the Russian aviation authorities. The Report states: […] "because of substantial lack of documentation, it seems impossible to make a deep analysis of the amount of training received by the PIC during the transition course, the degree and quality of acquired skills and the instructors’ remarks." According to the Report several discrepancies were discovered in the airline operator documents regarding the training of the PIC and the co-pilot, additionally there were internal operators' requirements that the captain did not comply with. The Report uncovers that: Total solo flight experience of the PIC on Boeing 737 by the time of the accident was less than 500 hours. According to a note in the Report, the instructors at the training centre where the transition training was conducted expressed an opinion that pilots from Russia experience particular difficulties due to the general difference between western and eastern types of aircraft. Of special notice were problems with bank recovery due to different types of roll indication on the attitude indicators. In a section titled Aircraft components of particular interest (page 27), the Report states: "In accordance with the provided data, before the accident flight, the Captain performed 20 flights on aircraft with the integarted cue EADI, the last flight - on September 11, 2008, while the co-pilot performed 10 flights totally, the last one - on August 04, 2008." Ten out of the 12 Boeing 737 aircraft operated by the airline by the time of the accident were fitted with the usual split command bars while two of them - with the integrated cue type attitude indicators (see Figure 1). The picture […] shows EADI readings at the moment when the