This is an extract from the aircraft accident Report (Final report B 737-505 VP-BKO) published by the Interstate Aviation Committee (MAK), Russian Federation: "[…] the crew started descent from the flight level to waypoint Mendeleyevo […]. After passing over Mendeleyevo, in compliance with the Perm Approach Control instruction, the aircraft flew via the outer marker […] of Runway 21 which is the initial approach fix (IAF) for Runway 21 (magnetic heading 212°). After passing over the RWY [runway] with heading 110° M, the crew, following the Controller’s instruction, turned right for back course and started maneuvering for ILS approach to Runway 21. After the base turn, approaching the landing course at 600 m with both autopilot and autothrottle disengaged, the aircraft started climbing up to 1300 m, rolled 360° over the left wing [then entered a deep descend with 65° nose down pitch] and collided with the ground." A very detailed description regarding the chain of events leading to the accident are given in the Analysis section of the Report, beginning on page 96. Further, the Report uncovers the immediate events that led to the loss of control: "The abnormal situation on board started developing when the aircraft was at base leg, with landing gears extended and flaps 30 at 600 m. The aircraft was flying with the autopilot engaged and the autothrottle disengaged. The autothrottle was disengaged (with the relative alert activated) earlier, at establishing 2100 m by the cruise split monitor due to the significant thrust split. The crew did not attempt re-engaging the autothrottle. The Co-pilot was the PF [Pilot Flying] during most of the approach. As he did not have basic skills of flying multiengine aircraft with spaced-apart engines, he synchronically shifted the throttles for manual speed control and thus created a significant yawing moment to the left due to the thrust split. The PIC [pilot-in-command] (as the PM [Pilot Monitoring]) was engaged in the radio communication and did not monitor the engine parameters. The crew did not attempt to match the N1 [RPM of both engines]. The pilots did not apply rudder to compensate the yaw moment, which led to a constant left banking. The autopilot's ability to counteract it by right wheel inputs was decreasing as the airspeed was dropping and the aerodynamic efficiency of the ailerons was decreasing. After the autopilot was saturated followed by 30° left bank, the Co-pilot, while compensating the roll, overrode the autopilot to the CWS [control wheel steering] ROLL and CWS PITCH mode. Then, in the CWS mode, the Co-pilot inadvertently pressed the manual stabilizer pushbutton, which disengaged the autopilot, accompanied with the relative alert. The crew switched off the alert and did not attempt to re-engage the autopilot. As the pilot lacked steady piloting skills, he could not monitor all the flight parameters (altitude, speed, roll and pitch) when flying manually. The flight was unstabilised with significant changes of altitude, speed, pitch and roll, and fluctuations of thrust. An increase in thrust led to a significant nose