PIC took control of the aircraft and deflected the control wheel abruptly to the left. For comparison the EADI installed on Tu-134 aircraft is shown on the right side of the picture. This EADI shows 40° of bank to the right (not to the left as it was during accident flight) and 7° pitch down (to make a more obvious comparison with the actual position of the command bars [installed on the accident aircraft]). After the accident the Russian CAA prohibited to the operator involved in the accident as well as to other Russian airlines, “to execute flights on aircraft of foreign manufacture that have a different type of attitude indication on the EADI than the standard type used during flight crew training before they (crew members) are trained for this type of indication on aircraft or simulator.” Regarding the loss of spatial orientation contributed by the attitude indication, the Report further clarifies: "The PIC was unable to determine the bank direction properly and recover spatial orientation, as he did not have steady upset recovery skills for aircraft with western type of attitude indicators installed on modern Russian and western aircraft. This type of indication is different from the one used on the aircraft operated by both pilots before the Boeing 737. The complicated situation accompanied with increasing emotional stress caused a negative transfer of piloting and flight control skills from the earlier aircraft type (Tu-134)." The assessment of the accident made by an independent expert pilot group stated, that “it is impracticable to use EADI’s with different types of indications on aircraft of one type within one airline.” Another problem is identified by the pilot working group which encompasses the transitioning from multi-crew aircraft to two-member crew aircraft and distribution of crewmembers’ duties. The technical condition of the aircraft is described in section “History of operation in Russia” (page 29) where it is stated: "The aircraft was dispatched for the last flight with two MEL [Minimum Equipment List] items: autothrottle inoperative […] and Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) inoperative. […]The logbook does not contain any record if troubleshooting was done by the maintenance staff. […] The analysis showed that the autothrottle was operative. Its numerous disengagements during the flight were connected with the engine miss-trim which at part power led to a N1 split up to 20% with matching TLA [thrust lever angle], or a throttle stagger up to 15 degrees with matching N1. The left engine thrust was within the limitations at all modes, while the right engine thrust was higher than nominal. The engine trim was equal at idle and almost equal at takeoff mode. This defect first appeared on August 6, 2008 and, despite numerous records made by the flight crews in the flight log, it was not rectified by the maintenance personnel. The investigation team revealed that the relative AMM [aircraft maintenance manual] troubleshooting procedures were not followed, and the flight records were not used. […] During the whole approach the abovementioned mistrim in the