engines was present, which increased the workload on the crew during the approach with a disengaged autothrottle." The section of the Report titled “Pathological, Toxicological, Biochemical and Other Investigations” (page 66) reveales that the forensic medical expertise of the Captains’ body residue exposed “the presence of ethyl alcohol in his body before death”. No evidence of alcohol was found in the bodies of other crew members. The probable and contributing causes to the accident are stated in the Report’s section titled Conclusion (page 135) and are identified as: "The immediate cause of the accident was spatial disorientation of the crew, especially the Captain who was the pilot flying at the final stage of the flight, which led to the left flip-over, a steep descent and the crash of the aircraft. The spatial disorientation was experienced during the night time operation in clouds, with both autopilot and autothrottle disengaged. Contributing to the development of the spatial disorientation and failure to recover from it was a lack of proficiency in aircraft handling, crew resource management and of skills associated with upset recovery using "western"-type attitude indications that are found on foreign and modern Russian-made aircraft. This type of indication differs from the one used on aircraft types previously flown by the crew (Tupolev 134, Antonov 2).. The systemic cause of the accident was insufficient management by the airline of flight and maintenance operations of the Boeing 737 type of aircraft. These deficiencies in the aircraft maintenance also revealed through safety inspections conducted by the Russian Transport Oversight Authority and the Russian CAA after the accident.. Deficiencies in the aircraft maintenance led to a situation when flights were performed for a long time with a throttle stagger* that exceeded the limitations in the AMM and when the maintenance staff did not follow the AMM recommended troubleshooting procedures. The need to manage the throttle stagger during the approach increased crew workload.. The forensic medical examination performed in the State Healthcare Center of Special Status “Perm Regional Forensic Expertise Bureau” confirmed the presence of ethyl alcohol in the Captain’s body before his death. The captain’s recent work schedule during the time period before the accident was conducive to fatigue and did not comply with national regulations.". The Report produced numerous Safety Recommendations. They are addressed to the Russian Aviation Authorities, the airline operator and maintenance organisation as well as to the aircraft manufacturer and to the organisation dealing with the English language training and proficiency. Some of the recommendations are: "Develop a Crew Resource Management training program for flight crews that fly two-member crew aircraft and ensure this program is mandatory for flight personnel who transition from multi-crew aircraft.. Ensure that the aviation psychologists when selecting personnel for transition training should pay attention to the personality traits of the candidates with regard to their emotional reactions and behavior in abnormal situations (high workload, stress, etc.), and if they find negative traits, should give recommendations on their suitability for transition training and/or the necessity of individual