to the drone were the festival security guards [...] situated between the stage and the audience safety barriers [and that] some of them were at a horizontal distance of less than 10 metres from the drone manoeuvring zone”. It was also apparent from the video that “the closest members of the audience were at a horizontal distance of less than 20 metres” from the track flown. The approved flight zones, the festival stage and the location of the collision. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The UA was being operated by a drone video production company at a music festival near Perpignan under an approval which had been granted under the applicable French national regulations by the provincial government on the basis of a statement of intent. This sought permission for an unlimited number of flights and was accompanied by a map which showed the four “flight zones” shown on the illustration above but on an out of date aerial photograph which did not show recently constructed buildings, the location of the festival stage or the areas where the audience of several thousand people would be. Because part of the operation was to take place at night, the approval included a derogation to permit this issued by the regional office of the State Civil Aviation Safety Directorate (DSAC) which added a requirement for third party exclusion zone such that the minimum horizontal distance between the aircraft and persons not linked to its operation would be 30 metres. The regulations themselves required that an approved operation of this type must: involve the UA not being operated more than 100 metres from its remote pilot,. only use UAs with a third party protection system which would be automatically activated in the event of an automatic landing resulting from loss of functionality of the command and control link unless such a landing can be programmed so as to guarantee that the UA will remain clear of third parties,. activation of this third party protection system must cause the UA motors to shut down, its link must be independent of the command and control link, its electrical power system and its remote control must be independent from the aircraft main power supply and command and control system, an audio warning must accompany a falling aircraft, a parachute-based system must have an active ejection or extraction system not solely based on gravity and the correct activation of the protection system must be able to be checked on the ground by the pilot before any flight.. The UA involved was a DJI Inspire 2 quadcopter equipped with a Zenmuse X5S gimbal camera (see the illustration below) which resulted in a total weight 4.3 kg. It was powered by two batteries which the User Manual stated would result, with the camera installed, in a maximum flight endurance of “around 25 minutes”. This Manual did not give any indication as to whether both batteries needed to be serviceable to continue flight but when contacted, the manufacturer confirmed that the