After being notified of the event several days after it had happened, the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency (BEA) opened an Investigation. It was discovered at an early stage that all relevant flight data had been deleted from both the UA itself and from the control and monitoring equipment used by the pilot to fly it. However, the video camera memory was recovered from the UA and it was possible to access the recorded video for almost a minute prior to the accident. The 34-year-old UA pilot held a “drone pilot certificate” which permitted him to carry out flights of the type involved and had been a professional drone pilot since 2015, logging in excess of 400 flight hours. The 44-year-old company manager was also a professional drone pilot with a certificate which permitted him to carry out flights of the type involved. Once at the festival, it was decided to carry out the flight under investigation from an undeclared site. The pilot stated that the batteries had been used during one of the three previous flights and had then been fully recharged. He stated that he had been flying the drone back and forth between the left side of the stage and the stage Itself with the drone climbing on the outbound leg without ever exceeding 30 metres agl before descending on the return leg. He stated that after three or four flight minutes, the cameraman told him that the charge of one of the batteries was dropping and he decided to bring the UA back to land but on the return leg, it began “an uncontrolled descent towards a 15 metre-high vertical structure on the left side of the stage”. He added that his battery power readings showed one “in the red with a charge of 10% to 12% and the other in the green with a charge of 40%". The descent resulted in the UA colliding with the structure “at three-quarters of its height" and that when the cameraman instructed him to shut down the motors he did so “by pushing the two joysticks of his remote controller together”. The Investigation subsequently determined that this was not the correct action (see later) and so the out of control and now-damaged UA continued to be powered and descended out of their sight. The UA video camera was accessed to confirm the stated flight trajectory immediately prior to the loss of control and it was found that when the drone had flown over around one third of the stage, it had begun a 180° turn without changing height but on completion of the turn it began descending quickly and about 12 seconds later had struck the top of a vertical structure on the left side of the stage and then “practically hovering” there for 4 seconds before “swerving to the middle of the stage and the public” after which the video ends. It was noted that “at the beginning of the video, the people who were the closest