two-battery system is provided for redundancy purposes and that it is possible to continue a flight with a single battery with battery power remaining being the sum of that in both batteries even if the charge of one is zero. It was noted that there had been previous problems with the reliability of the batteries used in the DJI Inspire 2 and one incident in the UK in 2018 which was comprehensively investigated by the manufacturer was found to have been caused by faulty batteries which sent an incorrect battery charge level to the UA control computers. A check of the firmware installed in the UA involved in the event under investigation found that it was fitted with the modified version of the firmware which eliminates this signalling fault but it was not possible to determine when this had been installed. A DJI Inspire 2 quadcopter equipped with the camera used, total weight 4.3 kg. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was found by reference the User Manual that in the event of a ‘Critical Low Battery Warning’, the threshold for this being user-specified and claimed to have been 10% in this instance, an automatic emergency landing is initiated. The Company Manager read the battery charge values just after the crash as 40% and 60% which was confirmed by police officers who attended the site and activation of an automatic emergency landing was discounted. The Investigation found that the action reported to have been taken to shut off power to the UAV had actually been that required to start the motors, which would explain why it had been possible for them to continue running as the UAV descended into the audience. It was noted that there had been two ways to shut down the motors in flight and deploy the twin parachute, both of which were relatively complex. It was also noted that once such action has been taken, the system linking the power cut-off and twin parachute, which was “quite expensive in comparison with the cost of the drone” must be replaced. It was noted that had the recorded data for the flight not been deleted, it would normally have been recoverable from the DJI GO 4 APP installed on both the pilot’s tablet and the cameraman’s mobile phone as well as from the internal memory of the UA. Subsequent test flights were made using the batteries used during the flight under investigation - installed first in an identical UA with the participation of DJI and then reinstalled in the same loss-of-control UA. Both test flights were completed without any anomaly being observed with the landings carried out when both battery power indications were 0% on APP with no battery failure alert annunciated. Both flight logs were correctly created and successfully accessed. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally recorded as follows: The Company had received the required authorisation to film a music festival gathering of several thousand people at night with a drone. This authorisation was accompanied by