audience and the drone coming into contact with third parties. No protection of this type is imposed by either French or European current regulations.. Safety Lessons arising from the event and its Investigation were identified as: Protection of third parties Drone flights above urban areas or close to crowds was permissible under the prevailing regulations subject to compliance with a third-party exclusion zone which ensures a minimum distance between the drone and third parties in order to limit the consequences of a loss of control for any reason. The activation of power cut-off and a parachute or the in-flight shut down of the motors cannot be carried out in training since this could result in substantial damage to the drone. Nevertheless, better knowledge and review of the required procedures would increase the chances of safe recovery following a loss of control. Compliance with both the applicable third-party exclusion zone and emergency loss of control procedures constitutes the main method of managing the risk to third parties and must be achieved.. Drone flights above urban areas or close to crowds was permissible under the prevailing regulations subject to compliance with a third-party exclusion zone which ensures a minimum distance between the drone and third parties in order to limit the consequences of a loss of control for any reason.. The activation of power cut-off and a parachute or the in-flight shut down of the motors cannot be carried out in training since this could result in substantial damage to the drone. Nevertheless, better knowledge and review of the required procedures would increase the chances of safe recovery following a loss of control.. Compliance with both the applicable third-party exclusion zone and emergency loss of control procedures constitutes the main method of managing the risk to third parties and must be achieved.. Preservation of evidence. After the event, the operating company manager recovered the drone and returned to his place of residence and deleted the operating data recorded by the drone and the DJI GO 4 APP. In the absence of this data, it was not possible to understand the exact circumstance of the occurrence and to determine if the drone had experienced a failure. The safety lessons which might have been of benefit to drone operators were thus limited.. Protection of propellers. When the drone’s path came to an end in the audience, several festival-goers were injured by the propellers. The installation of protections around these propellers would have limited, indeed prevented these injuries. DJI provides an appropriate modification for the model concerned “but such devices are rarely installed”. To limit the consequences of a collision between a light multicopter drone and a person, the development of systems limiting cuts should be encouraged - for example, a physical protection around the blades could be provided.. The Final Report was published in English translation on 21 April 2021 having been previously published in the definitive French version on 13 April 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.