a requirement to comply with a third-party exclusion zone of a radius of 30 metres. Once at the festival, the drone pilot and the cameraman decided to carry out the occurrence flight from an undeclared site. The drone had flown back and forward between the take-off site and overhead the stage. On the video taken by the drone’s gimbal camera, third parties can be seen at a horizontal distance of less than 10 metres from the aircraft manoeuvring zone. The drone pilot and the cameraman stated that a problem with one of the two batteries had resulted in a loss of control just before the collision with a vertical structure on the stage but none of the examinations carried out on the drone and its batteries were able to reproduce the failure described. The battery charge values read after the flight were not compatible with the activation logic of an automatic emergency landing. As the flight logs were no longer present on the drone, on the drone pilot’s tablet or on the cameraman’s telephone, the Investigation was unable to obtain additional information about a possible battery failure. After the drone had struck the vertical structure, the drone pilot stated that he had tried to shut down the motors in flight. However, he did not use the correct procedure on his remote controller to achieve this and the motors were not stopped. Assuming that the drone was still controllable, this could explain the beginning of the drone’s path after its collision with the vertical structure. Contributory Factors which may have been related to the event were identified as follows: In respect of the drone’s path coming to an end in the audience and the drone coming into contact with third parties: Carrying out a flight over an unspecified zone. The decision to carry out a flight which did not comply with the third-party exclusion zone imposed. The drone pilot carrying out an appropriate procedure to bring the drone’s flight to an end - he used an inappropriate procedure to shut down the motors in flight and did not activate the system associating the power cut-off and twin parachute.. Carrying out a flight over an unspecified zone.. The decision to carry out a flight which did not comply with the third-party exclusion zone imposed.. The drone pilot carrying out an appropriate procedure to bring the drone’s flight to an end - he used an inappropriate procedure to shut down the motors in flight and did not activate the system associating the power cut-off and twin parachute.. In respect of the seriousness of the injuries inflicted on the festival-goers: The absence of protection around the propellers may have contributed to the drone’s path coming to an end in the audience and the drone coming into contact with third parties. No protection of this type is imposed by either French or European current regulations.. The absence of protection around the propellers may have contributed to the drone’s path coming to an end in the