window, - see the second picture below - as well as smoke damage throughout the aircraft and heat damage on overhead structures well aft of the cockpit. The Gate F7 airbridge also sustained fire damaged including broken window glass, high temperature distortion of two entrance canopy control jacks and damage to the bridge door control unit as a result of rushed entry of fire personnel to the aircraft. Examination of the aircraft established that the fire had originated near to the First Officer's oxygen mask supply tubing, which is located beneath the side console below the No. 3 right hand flight deck window. This position was described by the First Officer as being “at the level of the hinge between the top parts of the right window, the fixed and moveable parts, in the plastic at the console itself”. It was concluded that a continuing supply of oxygen from the First Officer’s oxygen system must have contributed to the intensity of the fire and the speed at which it spread. However, it proved impossible to conclusively determine the root cause of ignition and it was also not possible to be sure whether the breach of the oxygen system occurred first thus providing a flammable environment or whether the oxygen system breach occurred as a result of the fire. It was noted that the First Officer had reported to the Investigation that his routine function testing of the oxygen supply to the right hand side emergency oxygen mask completed as part of his pre flight checks had been made approximately 35 minutes prior to the start of the fire. Examination of other aircraft in Egypt Air’s Boeing 777-200 and -300 fleet found that all 777-200 aircraft had 5 volt AC wiring to the First Officer’s oxygen mask light plate which was different to Boeing’s delivery specification in that a required wire clamp was missing, the wiring was not sleeved and a large loop of unsupported wire was found. On the Captain’s side, the wiring was similar except that sleeving was present on all the aircraft inspected. On one of the -200 aircraft, the outer layer of wiring insulation was found to be damaged, although the inner layer was intact and the conductor was not exposed. It was acknowledged as a result of the fire, Boeing had “conducted an extensive test program to determine if the oxygen system hoses were electrically conductive and if they could have ignited if an electrical fault was present that involved these components”. As a result of this work, Boeing had determined that it was appropriate to install sleeving on these wires and released Service Bulletin 777-33-0042 dated 25 October 2011 - subsequently revised on 9 January 2012 and again on 4 April 2012 - which recommended that 777 operators inspect and if necessary repair the oxygen light plate wiring at both pilot positions. It was also noted that Boeing had “revised 777 new production to replace low pressure oxygen hoses with nonconductive low pressure oxygen hoses