An Investigation was carried out by the Egyptian CAA Air Accident Investigation Central Directorate (AAICD). Flight Data Recorder (FDR), Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and QAR downloads were available to assist the Investigation but as the engines were not running, there was no useful data on the FDR and the QAR contained only data relating to the operation of the APU and to electrical power supplied by it. An initial “Investigation Progress Statement” was released on 18 October 2011 which detailed the initially established factual information and some response actions by Boeing in respect of the integrity of aircraft systems which it appeared may have been involved in the fire. It was established that the crew were waiting for the last few passengers to board the aircraft parked at Gate F7 Terminal 3, with all fight deck pre-flight preparations complete, the APU running and the GPU disconnected. The pilots had heard a loud “pop” followed by a hissing sound coming from the right side of his seat with fire and smoke almost began to come from the right side console area below the side flight deck window. The Captain had immediately instructed the First Officer to leave the flight deck and “notify a flight deck fire”, which he did and told the cabin crew to deplane all the passengers and crew from the aircraft, based on the Captain’s order and using the two still-attached airbridges. He then left the aircraft via the door 1L airbridge stairs in an attempt to find anyone with a radio but he could not and so he returned to the service road in front of the aircraft and stopped a car and asked the person in the car to notify the fire department by radio that the aircraft is on fire. The first airport fire tender arrive after three minutes. Meanwhile, the Captain had used the flight deck fire extinguisher bottle located behind his seat in attempt to fight and extinguish the fire but the attempt was unsuccessful and the fire continued. No attempt was made to use the aircraft radios to advise of the fire and evacuation and the first communication by radio to report the fire was by the Captain of the aircraft that was parked at the adjacent gate F8. Evacuation of all occupants was reported by the Captain, who was the last to leave the aircraft via door 2L, to have taken “about 4 to 5 minutes”. Completion of successful fire extinguishing was protracted and it was 90 minutes before the fire was out and subsequent cooling action had been completed. It was reported that “7 persons (Egypt Air employees, passengers and fire fighting personnel) suffered from mild asphyxia caused by smoke inhalation during the attempt to extinguish the fire”. Damage to the aircraft was mainly obvious internally where the flight deck was completely burned out by the intense fire - see the picture below - but also included two holes burned through the aircraft external skin just below the First Officer’s