tests. The tyres then ignited when exposed to flame and these conditions were sufficient to perpetuate the cycle and continue to raise the temperature in the wheel well.. This caused the aircraft hydraulic system to fail and damaged electrical wiring and all other systems in the wheel well. This partial destruction of the aircraft systems in the wheel well links the pieces of apparently unrelated information that the crew had to deal with in this occurrence.. It was noted that the indications of progressively more serious damage to the left wing were initially subtle and had included abnormal response to aileron control input, the illumination of the wing overheat light and the disappearance of a panel which would normally cover the engine exhaust nozzle from the upper wing surface. Eventually, fire within the left engine nacelle had become visible after engine shut down action had not prevented it continuing. It was found that "intense heat" had led to the failure of the front wing spar with the twisting motion of the rear spar suggesting that "its failure was subsequent to the upwards failure of the front spar". Once the wing had failed, asymmetrical lift had caused the aircraft to "rotate left on the longitudinal axis through the left wing wheel well" which had released the left landing gear pivot pin and allowed the landing gear assembly to fall onto the runway followed by the aircraft then striking the runway on its left side before sliding left and leaving the runway at which point "the engine, then the left wing, separated from the rest of the fuselage, which continued its course and came to rest inverted". It was found that there was a history of similar brake system problems on SA226 and SA227 aircraft beginning in 1983 with a large number of incidents and a few accidents involving landing gear failures, tyre failures, flat tyres, wheel fires and loss of control on the ground. These were found to have included "62 incidents and 3 accidents involving circumstances similar to those found in this accident", some of which "had the potential to result in a catastrophe similar to this accident" but in these cases, the flights had culminated in successful emergency landings. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors: The crew did not realise that the pull to the left and the extended take-off run were due to the left brakes dragging, which led to overheating of the brake components.. Dragging of the left brakes was most probably caused by an unidentified pressure locking factor upstream of the brakes on take-off. The dragging caused overheating and leakage, probably at one of the piston seals that retain the brake hydraulic fluid.. When hydraulic fluid leaked onto the hot brake components, the fluid caught fire and initiated an intense fire in the left nacelle, leading to failure of the main hydraulic system.. When the L WING OVHT light went out, the overheating problem appeared corrected; however, the