An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was recovered; the aircraft was not fitted with a Flight Data Recorder (FDR) nor was it required to be. It was noted that the 35 year-old Captain was Propair's Chief Pilot and that 4200 hours of his 6515 hours total flying time had been accumulated on the accident aircraft type. The First Officer, also 35 years old, had just joined the airline and was still undergoing line training having accumulated 93 hours on type out of a total flying time of 2730 hours. It was established that very light winds had prevailed for the take off but the aircraft had pulled to the left with right rudder needed to keep the aircraft straight and the extent of this input did not reduce as speed increased which would normally be expected. It was also estimated that the take-off roll had been about twice as long as normal - around 1250 metres - and the time to rotation had been "about 6 seconds longer than the calculated time of 21 seconds". It was evident that "these cues were not strong enough to elicit a reject response from the crew" and that they "apparently did not suspect that the left brakes had dragged and overheated during the take-off" and so retracted the landing gear without delay after take-off. The overheated brake and wheel assembly was retracted into the enclosed wheel well where the heat was dissipated into the tyre and the surrounding structure and eventually caused a fire. No definite cause for the loss of hydraulic pressure which the crew reported 12 minutes after take off could be determined but it was concluded that the intensity of fire or intense heat in the wheel well would have been enough to "have ruptured hydraulic hoses or damaged seals in the hydraulic components". Almost immediately after the report of hydraulic pressure loss, it became obvious to the crew that "something was wrong with the controls" and this was quickly followed by "the first perceived indication that engine trouble was developing" and the illumination for 30 seconds only of the left wing overheat light. Seventeen minutes after take off, "the left engine appeared to be on fire and it was shut down" by the Captain less than a minute later. An abnormal amount of right aileron pressure was required to keep the aircraft on the desired heading and ATC, having been advised that the left engine had been shut down, suggested a diversion to Mirabel which was accepted. Soon after this, the crew advised ATC that flames were coming out of the "engine nozzle". They made preparations for an emergency landing and reviewed the procedure for manual landing gear extension. Five minutes after reporting that the left engine had been shut down, "the crew informed ATC that the left engine was no longer on fire, but three and a half minutes later, they advised ATC that the fire had started