fire continued to burn.. The crew never realised that all of the problems were associated with a fire in the wheel well, and they did not realise how serious the situation was.. The left wing was weakened by the wing/engine fire and failed, rendering the aircraft uncontrollable.. Risk Findings: Numerous previous instances of brake overheating or fire on SA226 and SA227 aircraft had the potential for equally tragic consequences. Not all crews flying this type of aircraft are aware of its history of numerous brake overheating or fire problems.. The Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) and the emergency procedures checklist provide no information on the possibility of brake overheating, precautions to prevent brake overheating, the symptoms that could indicate brake problems, or actions to take if overheated brakes are suspected.. More stringent fire-blocking requirements would have retarded combustion of the seats, reducing the fire risk to the aircraft occupants.. A mixture of the two types of hydraulic fluid lowered the temperature at which the fluid would ignite, that is, below the flashpoint of pure MIL-H-83282 fluid.. The Aircraft Maintenance Manual indicated that the two hydraulic fluids were compatible but did not mention that mixing them would reduce the fire resistance of the fluid.. Other Findings The master cylinders were not all of the same part number, resulting in complex linkage and master cylinder adjustments, complicated overall brake system functioning, and difficult troubleshooting of the braking system. However, there was no indication that this circumstance caused residual brake pressure.. The latest recommended master cylinders are required to be used only with specific brake assembly part numbers, thereby simplifying adjustments, functioning, and troubleshooting.. Although the emergency checklist for overheating in the wing required extending the landing gear, the crew did not do this because the wing overheat light went out before the crew initiated the checklist.. The effect of the fire in the wheel well made it difficult to move the ailerons, but the exact cause of the difficulty was not determined.. Six Safety Recommendations were issued by the TSB as a result of the Investigation as follows: On 26 October 1998, the following five Recommendations were issued. Three (as indicated) were identical in substance to ones issued on the same date by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The NTSB also issued three other Safety Recommendations arising from this event to the FAA on the same date. that Transport Canada consult with the Federal Aviation Administration regarding a timely amendment of the Aircraft Flight Manual for the Fairchild/Swearingen SA226 and SA227 Metroliner to have the Manual specify the risk of wheel well fires caused by overheated brakes, and include procedures both to mitigate this risk and address emergency situations of actual and potential wheel well fires. [A98-02] (the same as NTSB A98-115). that Transport Canada, in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration and the aircraft manufacturer, explore options for the installation of a brake temperature or overheat detection system on Fairchild/Swearingen SA226 and SA227 aircraft;