again". By this time, "the aircraft was getting harder to control in roll, and the aileron trim was set at the maximum". The Investigation subsequently determined that "aileron control became abnormal because the heat from the fire reduced the stiffness of the left wing rear spar, allowing abnormal bending of the wing" which had changed the wing's lifting ability and affected the amount of aileron deflection required to maintain control. Approximately 26 minutes after take off by which time the aircraft was on short final for Runway 24 at Mirabel, the landing gear lever was selected, but only two gear down indicator lights followed. Then near the runway threshold, the left wing failed upwards, the aircraft "rotated more than 90º to the left around its longitudinal axis and crashed, inverted, on the runway". It immediately caught fire and, after sliding approximately 760 metres, came to rest 75 metres from the left hand edge of the runway. AFS were already on standby near the runway threshold and responded promptly but although the cabin fire which instantly erupted was quickly brought under control, there were no survivors. No definite cause for the dragging brakes was identified but the brake system was examined to establish how hydraulic fluid leakage would have occurred and developed into an ignition source. It was demonstrated that "residual pressure as low as 50 psi in the brake system - too little for the indication to be readily noticed by the crew - would be capable of causing the dragging experienced. The dragging would have led to overheating of the brake components during the take-off run and such overheating, transferred to the fluid in the brake lines, causes the fluid to expand, thereby increasing pressure in the brake system". Such an increase in system pressure then further aggravates the dragging and the overheating to the point where normal operating temperatures are exceeded. It was further noted that "discolouration observed on the brake discs indicated that they reached at least 600ºC for an extended period" with "the uniformity of the discolouration and the dragging marks on both sides of both left discs indicating that there was brake pressure at the wheels, sufficient to cause overheating during taxi and the take-off roll". Thereafter, it was concluded that: Following gear retraction, the heated brakes were in an enclosed space close to hydraulic lines, air and fuel lines, and several other lines and electrical wires. With limited cooling, the temperature of the brake assembly components continued to rise. Dynamometer tests demonstrated that over a distance similar to that of the take off and prior taxi out, with a brake pressure of 50 psi, the carrier, lining and button assembly and the brake disc could generate temperatures exceeding 450ºC.. Since Nitrile brake cylinder piston seals start to degrade above 135ºC, the likelihood increased of a brake fluid leak in one of the brake assemblies. Under these conditions, the fluid, which was slightly contaminated, would have self-ignited at temperatures exceeding 425ºC, as shown in laboratory