The integration of VLJ in ATM operations requires more attention by the air traffic controller (ATCO) and generates additional workload due to the different performance characteristics of VLJ compared to those of commercial aircraft. The integration may affect significantly the airspace capacity, the provision of air traffic services and the air traffic flow management. Separation on standard instrument departure routes (SID) - When VLJs and faster commercial jets depart from the same airfield, a separation problem on the Standard Instrumental Departure (SID) might occur when the faster jets catch up and need to overtake the VLJs.. Proximity to major airports: integration of VLJs with other commercial aircraft in terminal airspace - VLJs and commercial aircraft arriving at the same airfield may leave the en-route sector via the same or different entry points. In all cases they would need to be merged into a stream for the down-wind leg/initial approach and on to final approach by following Standard Instrument Arrival Routes (STAR) ending at the appropriate Initial Approach Fix (IAF) for an Instrument Approach Procedure (IAP). The assumption is made that the difference in speeds between VLJs and the other commercial jets would be problematic for sequencing and separation as the aircraft merge into an arrival sequence.. Separation and sequencing in the climb and descent phase - En-route low sectors basically deal with two situations: traffic joining from a SID and going en-route and traffic leaving the en-route phase and joining a STAR. The performance characteristics of VLJs and commercial jets may vary in terms of vertical speed, so difficulties in the provision of separation and sequencing in the climb and descent phases may occur.. Separation in the en-route phase - From an air traffic control perspective the difference in the en-route cruise speed may influence the integration of VLJ with other traffic with higher cruising speeds. The integration of slower aircraft implies a larger number of speed conflicts (faster aircraft having to pass slower aircraft). This performance limitation could possibly be alleviated through altitude segregation, for example by keeping slower aircraft at lower altitudes than other fast traffic.. Differences in the operational performance of VLJ may generate a need for more coordination between ATS sectors/units with respect to entry and exit conditions of transfer of control. Both phone and system coordination may be affected. The ATCOs may be required to issue more clearances and instructions for vectoring, level change, speed control and direct routing in order to provide sequencing and separation between VLJ and other commercial traffic. More radio communication and more radio calls may be required by the ATCO in order to transmit the clearances and instructions to the aircraft. That could lead to greater operating frequency occupancy time. Additional coordination and the need for more instructions and clearances may cause increased ATCOs workload and reduced airspace capacity in the short term. This may not affect the declared capacity by the ATC unit or sector. It should be noted that most VLJ, due to their performance characteristics, use shorter