and the fact that the crew did not appear to have prepared adequately for the circling approach that the crew had been keen to take up to the allowable tailwind component for runway 02 in clear preference to circling for runway 20. Also, it was found from the FDR data that the break left to begin the circling manoeuvre had been delayed for 16 seconds beyond the prescribed point overhead the 'HA' beacon by over a mile - see position 1 on the ground track depiction in the annotated illustration below - whilst after a short pause at 1,000 feet, already below the 1,230 feet MDA, descent continued. The Investigation considered that the procedural non-compliance of turning late could have been related to the crew preference for 02 but alternatively may have been partly a consequence of having failed to reduce speed down the ILS which had been 180 knots and the ground speed around 210 knots. The late break left was followed by manipulations of the selected altitude knob that left no relevant height in the selected altitude window and which was suspected may have been indicative of unintended action. The consequence was that with V/S mode now engaged, the descent initiated at 500 fpm was not limited and the action to level off was dependent on the crew without any alerting. What then happened was that on this transition towards the downwind leg, descent continued with the AP being disconnected passing 800 feet. The FD, which continued to show a 500 fpm rate of descent as the target, remained on. As a turn to align with the downwind leg was commenced, a GPWS 'SINK RATE' (twice) followed by 'PULL UP' (twice) occurred. The crew responded with a short pitch up but not the prescribed full recovery actions and the lowest height reached over the sea was 350 feet (position 2 on the illustration). The descent was subsequently allowed to resume and shortly after the auto callout of '300', a GPWS 'TOO LOW TERRAIN' Alert prompted a pitch up to 17°. The lowest recorded height over the sea this time was 160 feet (position 3 on the illustration). The Investigation surmised that both these inadvertent descents had been a consequence of the continuing presentation of an FD 'fly down' command on the PFD with the crew, in particular the PF, quite possibly passively 'blending' this (incorrect) command indication with the primary task of maintaining positional by external visual reference in difficult dark night conditions. As the aircraft climbed through 400 feet and finally joined the 3.5nm-long downwind circling leg, the beginning of the base leg turn (position 4 on the illustration) was approaching. The previously-lowered landing gear was stowed and ATC were advised that a report would be made on "long final", the latter action considered by the Investigation to be no more than a 'holding response' in what was clearly becoming a high workload situation. It was noted that by this time, the aircraft has already passed abeam