had immediately raised the alarm in accordance with procedures. In respect of the inoperative guidance lights at the turn onto final approach on the runway 20 circling procedure and the non-notification of this status, it was noted that subsequent to the accident and whilst the Investigation was in progress, ASECNA, the inter-governmental agency responsible for the circling procedure and its charting, had removed references to both obstacle lights due to a lack of spare parts for them and had "added a reference to a VOR radial which must not be exceeded during the last turn". It was therefore considered that "it is no longer necessary to issue recommendations concerning the approach chart and the operation of flashing lights".. It was noted that Part 'C' of the Yemenia Operations Manual stated that Moroni was a category 'C' airport which meant that each crew member had to undergo specific training and briefing before flying there. However, the crew files, which were made available to the Commission of Inquiry, did not contain any mention of this specific qualification.. Concern at the inadequacy of the sea rescue response after the accident was also registered. The rescue boats were general purpose boats which had to be requisitioned and the first one did not leave Moroni - 20 nm by sea from the accident site until about 2½ hours after the accident. It was considered that "the existence of material and human means of rescue at sea dedicated to and based in proximity to the aerodrome would probably have permitted a more efficient search and thus a faster arrival at the scene of the accident". It was noted that the only survivor had not been rescued until 9 hours after the accident after being found clinging to a piece of wreckage. She reported having "heard some people screaming around her but did not see them because of the darkness" and then fell asleep. On waking up in the early morning "she could still see some debris from the plane but could not hear any more screams".. The Cause of the accident was formally documented as follows: "The accident was due to inadequate actions by the crew on the flight controls that caused the aircraft to be stalled and not recovered. These actions occurred during an unstabilised visual manoeuvre (circling approach), in which numerous and varied alerts relating to the proximity of the ground, the configuration of the aircraft and the approach to a stall were triggered. The crew, whose attention was focused on aircraft navigation and the relative position of the landing runway probably did not have sufficient mental resources available in this stressful situation to respond adequately to the various alerts which occurred." Four Contributory Factors were also identified: the weather conditions present at the airport (wind gusting to near 30 knots).. relative to the pilot's hesitation to perform the circling approach, the absence of crew training or any briefing of the crew in accordance with the Yemenia Operations Manual prior to the flight to