An Investigation was carried out by the German BFU. The 500 hour 260 parameter FDR and the 2 hour CVR were "seized and read out" by the Investigation. It was found that both recorders had stopped recording 6 seconds after the first fuselage ground contact following gear retraction. The reason for this was noted to have been the operation of a 5.5g inertia switch which was removed for function testing and found free of any defects. It was found that the 45 year-old male Captain had about 11,927 total flying hours which included 3,649 hours on type. The 27 year-old female First Officer had about 3,295 total flying hours which included 1,483 hours on type. It was noted that the day of the accident was her first flying day following 16 consecutive days leave. Both pilots held Luxemburg licences. It was established that the flight crew had operated from Luxemburg to Hamburg via Saarbrucken and were returning the same way. The first three flights had been uneventful. The fourth sector began with the aircraft taxiing well ahead of schedule and a reduced power take-off was planned from runway 09 in benign weather conditions with the Captain as PF. Normal callouts were made by the First Officer but 2 seconds after the "V1, rotate" call, a sound commensurate with the landing gear lever being moved was recorded on the CVR followed immediately by the First Officer saying "oops sorry". FDR data showed that the gear had retracted as the aircraft was being rotated through approximately 5° nose up and a tail strike had followed almost immediately which led to the tail strike warning light illuminating. After this the fuselage bounced three times. The aircraft then skidded on the fuselage for just over 800 metres. The aircraft’s final stopping position was abeam the runway 27 PAPI installation, approximately 875 metres after the point where the initial tail strike had occurred and approximately 425 metres from the end of the 1,990 metre-long runway. The main landing gear was completely retracted with engine cowling bay doors closed too. The nose landing gear was also retracted but the front nose landing gear doors were open and damaged. The landing gear selector lever in the flight deck was in the "UP" position. The blades on both propellers had been shortened by about 40 cm (left side propeller) and about 1 cm (right side propeller). Commensurate propeller impact marks were found on the runway. The entire length of the left lateral fin below the fuselage was abraded to a depth of about 3 cm and the bottom surface of the fuselage was "scratched, dented and completely abraded" between about 2 metres aft of the nose landing gear bay and the area of the aft baggage compartment. None of the approximately 1,630 kg of fuel on board the aircraft leaked. After recovery of the aircraft to a hangar, tests showed that there was no evidence of any malfunction. It was confirmed that as per design, the landing gear