would retract if selected up when the nose gear was airborne even if both main gears were still on the ground. Relevant QAR data from the airline was examined and no instances of premature gear lever actuation at take-off were found. However, none of a number of the Operator's DHC8-400 type-rated pilots who were interviewed were found to be "aware that the landing gear may retract even if only the nose landing gear is airborne". The simulator used by the Operator for pilot training was function tested and it was found that early selection of gear up with the nose gear airborne but the main gear still on the ground did not cause gear retraction. The history of unintended premature gear up selection was reviewed and it was confirmed that the vast majority of such occurrences had been recorded during landing rather than take-off. In the investigated case, the First Officer was unable to explain her action and the Captain had no warning that she was going to grasp and immediately activate the gear selector. It was noted that human performance specialists usually describe an error of this type by a relaxed and normally competent pilot as a "slip" typically defined as an incorrect or ill-timed action which occurs unintentionally in place of either a correct action/timing which is a routine, frequently trained and regularly repeated action. It was noted that actions which are regularly repeated can "generate reduced concentration [and] are susceptible to this kind of error [and] additional training and checks take no effect because no one is immune to such errors". Minimising the prevalence of such errors sometimes depends on warnings of incorrect action being generated but as much as possible on error tolerant design. The gear selector in the DHC8-400 was found to be "unusual compared to others in transport aviation" in that it has a lock release button which has to be pushed before the lever can be moved. Bombardier stated that this feature "should prevent unintentional actuation on the ground" in cases where at least one weight on wheels sensor is signalling 'air'. However, on most other aircraft types, all landing gear assemblies have to not be in ground contact before the gear will retract in response to gear lever movement and release buttons are only used as override enablers in a situation where normal selector movement is not possible. The fact that the (correctly functioning) inertia switch had stopped both crash recorders running when they would otherwise have been able to provide information which would have been useful to the Investigation, was noted as having been identified in other investigations carried out by the BFU, the UK AAIB, the NTSB and Canadian Transportation Safety Board. The 2003 EUROCAE MOPS specification for these recorders already states that such 'g' switches should not be used and the UK AAIB have made a 2008 Safety Recommendation inviting the FAA and the EASA to review corresponding certification requirements. As a result of this concern, it was noted