When a taxiing route is selected, corresponding segments of taxiway centerline lights on the maneuvering area are switched on automatically. When two or more routes are selected, the system gives priority to the first route in sequence and activates red stop bar lights across conflicting routes, as necessary. A segment of the centerline lights of the conflicting routes that cut across the first route will also be suppressed. The air traffic controller has the option of over-riding the taxiing route priority by manually selecting or deselecting the appropriate stop bar lights. All taxiing guidance lights on taxiways leading to the runways terminate at the runway holding positions where red stop bar lights remain on unless deselected by the controller. Stop bars are normally installed in association with green lead-on lights which form part of the taxiway centerline lighting beyond the stop bar. The lead-on lights are interlinked with the stop bar so that when the stop bar is ‘on’ the green centerline beyond the stop bar is ‘off’ and vice versa. The installation of a taxiway guidance system allows landings and take-offs to take place in low visibility conditions where otherwise extensive delays would occur. Stop bar operations require no special equipment to be installed in aircraft or vehicles but require appropriate training and strict adherence to the procedures: the pilot/driver must stop and hold at a lit stop bar, and proceed only when ATC gives the appropriate verbal instruction and switches off the stop bar. The runway stop bar shows red in the direction of approach to the stop bar from the taxiway and is co-located with the runway holding point markings. In case the stop bar lights have not been switched off after receipt of an instruction to proceed forward, the pilot or vehicle driver must seek clarification from ATC. When following the directional guidance provided by the green taxiway centerline lights and red stop bar lights, pilots are advised to also navigate their taxi route with reference to information and mandatory signs/markings provided at the airport so as to maintain situational awareness of their whereabouts at all times.