after the accident had observed a solid cloud layer in the area with a top at approximately 16 000 feet asl and "a break in the cloud in the east grid". Mountain wave conditions with high winds and associated turbulence were also reported to have prevailed. It was ascertained that the aircraft had been equipped with a TAWS Class B but, since the installed database was not valid beyond 70°S, the forward-looking functionality would have been inoperative with the unit displaying “Terrain Fail”. However, it was noted that the two Garmin GNS 430W navigation receivers installed did have a Forward Looking Terrain Avoidance (FLTA) capability and the error which would have applied to GPS position at the time of the accident was subsequently determined to have been "less than 2.2 metres" with "no significant solar or geophysical weather events that would have affected GPS accuracy". It was noted that the installed terrain database did cover Antarctica - being the first such database to include worldwide terrain data. It was noted that the unit generates FLTA alerts using a comparison of GPS altitude with the data in the terrain database. The diagram below shows the minimum FLTA advisory and warning criteria for the terrain in the area of the accident. It was concluded that the apparent commencement of a climb 45 seconds prior to impact "may correlate with receipt of a 30-second terrain advisory". However, it was calculated, based on the aircraft type operating data manual that, at an altitude of approximately 12500 feet asl and (at the prevailing aircraft weight), the aircraft would (only) have been capable of a 700 fpm rate of climb. It was concluded overall that "the circumstances surrounding the accident were difficult to determine given the limited access to the accident site and lack of data, which could have revealed details of the last moments of the flight". However, it was apparent that the final turn to the left approximately 12 minutes prior to impact had put the aircraft on a track "that would have led directly to Terra Nova, but the aircraft’s altitude was insufficient to clear Mount Elizabeth". The evidence available suggested that the aircraft would have entered IMC at some point so that "the crew’s view of Mount Elizabeth was likely to have been obscured". The initiation of a climb approximately 45 seconds prior to impact co-incident with the probable generation of a terrain alert by the Garmin FLTA system "suggests that the crew might have responded to a terrain warning" to the extent possible given available aircraft performance. The formally stated findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors were as follows: The crew of C-GKBC made a turn prior to reaching the open region of the Ross Shelf. The aircraft might have entered an area covered by cloud that ultimately led to the aircraft contacting the rising terrain of Mount Elizabeth. Other findings were formally documented as: The CVR was not serviceable at the time of the occurrence.. The