An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and a satellite tracking unit were recovered from the wreckage but the CVR was subsequently found to be inoperative. Recorded data of considerable significance to the Investigation was recovered from the satellite tracking unit, a SkyTrac ISAT-100. This unit yielded recorded flight data in 5-second intervals, including position, altitude, ground speed and true track. It was noted that flight operations by Kenn Borek in the Antarctic were conducted in accordance with Canadian Aviation Regulations. It was established that the aircraft commander had been employed by Kenn Borek Air for over 20 years and had accumulated over 22000 flying hours including 7770 hours were on the DHC6. It was his eighth summer season operating in the Antarctic and it was noted that he had previously flown the route of the accident flight approximately 16 times. The First Officer had been with Kenn Borek Air for just over two years and had accumulated almost 800 flying hours including about 450 hours on the DHC6. It was his first summer season operating in the Antarctic. The passenger was an aircraft maintenance engineer employed by the Company. It was found that after take off from South Pole Station, the aircraft had climbed to 11000 feet asl and initially proceeded along a track of 358°T (see map below). Just over an hour after take off, the aircraft had descended to 10000 feet asl. After almost a further hour, the aircraft turned just over 30°T and began a descent to 9100 feet asl. An hour after this, the last position report was received by South Pole Station. Just over 20 minutes after this, a climb was initiated to 12500 feet asl followed by a turn to the left of just over 40° was made. A final GPS position was transmitted 12 minutes later and when the hourly radio position report expected at 0827 was not received, an emergency response was initiated. The final stages of the aircraft track can be deduced from the second diagram below. Extreme weather conditions prevented the search and rescue team from accessing the site for 2 days. When this was possible, the wreckage was found at approximately 13000 feet asl on a steep slope below the 14700 feet asl summit of Mount Elizabeth. Only limited parts of the aircraft were visible and it was noted that there was no evidence that fire had occurred. An expert review of the likely weather conditions in the vicinity of Mount Elizabeth at the time of the accident was commissioned by the Investigation. This indicated that "it was likely that there was a widespread cloud layer over the Beardmore Glacier from 13100 feet asl to 14700 feet asl" and that the cloud base over the Ross Shelf at the foot of the Beardmore Glacier "may have been at approximately 9800 feet asl". It was noted that a SAR aircraft which had been in the vicinity of Mount Elizabeth 4 ½ hours