An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. It was established that the aircraft arrived at Gate 61, the engines were shut down, the APU remained running and passengers began leaving the aircraft using the airbridge which had been attached to door 1L. A belt loader was positioned at the aircraft aft left cargo door (which was close to cabin door 4L) and the driver raised the ramp to sill level before applying the handbrake and stepping down from the driver's seat. At this point, he noticed a fuel leak from the loader engine compartment. He informed a colleague who, after inspecting the situation, called a supervisor. The driver then climbed back into his seat and lowered the ramp so that the loader could be moved away from the aircraft, but the fuel that had accumulated on the ground underneath the loader then ignited and the driver left his seat so as to avoid the flames. Shortly afterwards, a burning smell became apparent in the aircraft cabin and a member of the ground staff began banging on the outside access door of the airbridge to warn the cabin crew of the fire. The senior member of cabin crew then went onto the boarding bridge from where they could see the fire. He immediately informed the Captain, who having verified the situation for himself, made a PA ordering an evacuation using door 1L which was already being used for normal disembarkation but leaving all baggage behind. Since the aft cargo door was already open, "thick and acrid" black smoke from the fire had entered the underfloor hold and spread into the passenger cabin above via the air recirculation fans which had an air intake between the cargo compartment liner and the outer skin of the fuselage. When smoke began entering the cabin, there were still over 100 passengers in the middle section of the cabin and around 90 more in the rear section. The prevailing wind was very light but its direction was such as to drift the smoke directly towards the aircraft. It was suspected that some smoke also entered the cabin after being taken in through the air intake of the APU which was providing cabin air conditoning. Passengers became "agitated" when they saw that their access to the only exit in use was delayed and some "began pushing and shoving" which led to some falling down in the aisles and others stepping over them. Some passengers took their baggage with them despite the instruction given which further hampered the evacuation. Some passengers opened doors 3L and 3R and since the slides at these exits are always armed, were able to leave the aircraft using the automatically deployed evacuation slides. Soon after this, passengers at the rear of the cabin began insisting that the cabin crew open doors 4L and 4R, the slides for which had been routinely disarmed on arrival. The crew blocked access to door 4L due to its proximity to the fire but