of ramp fire extinguishers and basic response in emergency situations. It was found that the petrol-engined belt loader, a TUG Technologies model 660-42, had been supplied new to Servisair in 2005. It did not have, and was not required to have, emergency stop buttons which would have made it possible to shut down the engine and cut all electrical power to the fuel pump. The portable fire extinguisher mounted on the left side platform just in front of the rear wheel was not used during the fire. The loader was severely damaged by the fire which was found to have started in the rear part of the engine when a fuel line failed where an exhaust pipe crosses underneath the gear box located immediately below the fuel filter regulator. The fire was then fuel fed until the fuel was exhausted. No evidence of any incorrect installation of components was found and it was noted that a 500 hour/120 day inspection required under the established maintenance programme recommended by the equipment manufacturer did not include any special verification of the integrity of the fuel system. The most recent of these periodic inspections was found to have taken place 12 operating hours prior to the fire. Prior to this, it was found that the previous required inspection had been delayed beyond the specified interval so that it had take place only 69 hours/35 days earlier. The Investigation noted that the Airport Fire Service had no record of when they received the first call alerting them to the fire, which started at just over four minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop at the gate. The first of six Fire Service vehicles arrived at the scene of the fire 4.5 minutes after it had started having taken just under 2 minutes to drive from their base along a route of just over 1 mile. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors' were as follows: The connector between the fuel line and the inlet of the filter regulator disconnected while the engine was running. Consequently, fuel sprayed onto the hot surface of the exhaust pipe, starting a fire.. The smoke blown by the wind entered the cabin through the air conditioning and ventilation system both via the auxiliary power unit's air intake and the intake of the air recirculation fans in the main aft cargo compartment whose door was open.. The presence of smoke in the cabin led to the evacuation during which some passengers were injured and had to be hospitalised.. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Risk were as follows: If a fuel filter regulator and the lines connected to it are not properly protected, they can become damaged or weakened and eventually malfunction, causing a significant fuel spill.. If ground crew have no practical training on the use of emergency equipment, there is a risk that the response will be inadequate in the first few minutes of an occurrence such