given "the clear and present danger" decided to arm and open door 4R. It was estimated that between 100 and 150 passengers evacuated via the exit slides at doors 3L, 3R and 4R. Some passengers who used the exit slides found themselves on the apron without anybody to help them and "wandered around looking for instructions and direction". The Investigation concluded that "ground crew working around the aircraft at the time of the evacuation had clearly not been trained on how to deal with such an influx of passengers from the evacuation slides" but noted that there was nevertheless some spontaneous response. Whilst the evacuation was in progress, attempts to put out the fire were made by ground crew using a wheeled dry chemical fire extinguisher brought from under the boarding bridge but after exhausting its contents in 70 seconds, the fire was still burning. A second wheeled extinguisher failed to work due to a kink in the application hose which was unseen at the time and the flames spread to the loader's rubber belt. Fire Service vehicles were then seen to be approaching and the area was cleared so as not to interfere with their intervention. Having reached the fire the fire crew applied fire suppressant foam and the fire was fully extinguished in 43 seconds. The Investigation noted that Servisair, the operator of the belt loader involved was an airport-based contractor to the aircraft operator. It was found that the provision of such contractor services is not subject to direct regulation by Transport Canada (TC) and that their oversight is the responsibility of the airport operator, Aéroports de Montréal (ADM) which has an SMS which is approved by TC. Under this arrangement, ADM is required to ensure that all its service providers "conduct their activities in a manner that complies with ADM's quality assurance program". However, it was found that at the time of the incident, although ADM had implemented an SMS which had been approved by TC, no post-implementation assessment of it had been carried out by TC. In any case, it was also found that Servisair, along with a number of other airport service providers "had not yet been integrated into the SMS and consequently were not monitored by ADM's quality assurance program". It was found that Servisair's own staff training programme for its airside workers involved new recruits "normally" receiving one week of classroom training followed by some practical training on the apron. However, it was noted that classroom training provided on the use of fire extinguishers did not include instruction on the types of extinguisher in use at the airport and the practical training "did not include instruction on how to use fire extinguishers nor what to do in emergency situations when passengers are evacuated onto the apron." It was additionally found that two employees of a major airline who were providing turn-around maintenance on the occurrence aircraft and who had participated in the response had been provided with adequate training on the handling