The use of surveillance systems offers a number of benefits to the provision of air traffic services, both in the safety and the efficiency aspects. The most notable of these are: Better situational awareness for the controller: Aicraft can be identified on the situation display, i.e. the position of a symbol can be correlated to a pilot report. This provides an additional level of safety against human error. The picture on the situational display is updated without the need for the controller or the flight crews to do anything. The use of transponders provides additional information (such as identification, level, heading and sometimes intentions e.g. selected level). Also, pilots may use designated codes to indicate an emergency or abnormal situation (e.g. Unlawful Interference, Loss of Communication). Aicraft can be identified on the situation display, i.e. the position of a symbol can be correlated to a pilot report. This provides an additional level of safety against human error.. The picture on the situational display is updated without the need for the controller or the flight crews to do anything.. The use of transponders provides additional information (such as identification, level, heading and sometimes intentions e.g. selected level). Also, pilots may use designated codes to indicate an emergency or abnormal situation (e.g. Unlawful Interference, Loss of Communication). The controller is able to confirm whether the instructions are being complied with.. Aircraft with radio communication failure can be identified and their flight path monitored.. Reduced separation minima. In a surveillance environment a horizontal separation of 3/5/10 miles is used as opposed to e.g. 10 minutes in the case of procedural control.. More options for conflict solving. Surveillance system allow the controllers to solve conflicts by vectoring or clearing direct routes which is often more efficient compared to level changes.. Reduced frequency congestion. In a surveillance environment the need for crew reports is drastically reduced compared to the procedural control scenario.. Availability of support tools (such as MTCD, TCT and Probe) as well as safety nets.. Reduced Controller Workload..