cell-level and battery-level safety features had failed to prevent this single-cell failure so that when it propagated to adjacent cells, a cascading thermal runaway developed with rupture of multiple cells and the consequent release of smoke, fire and flammable electrolyte. It was concluded that the trapped battery wires had "compromised the environmental seal between the battery cover plate and the ELT" thus providing a way for flames and battery decomposition products to escape from the ELT. Once released from the ELT, the flames came into contact with the thermo-acoustic insulation blankets and composite aircraft structure in the immediate vicinity of the ELT. "This elevated the temperature in the fuselage crown to the point where the resin in the composite material began to decompose, providing further fuel for the fire" and "a slow-burning fire became established in the fuselage crown". It was concluded that the fire so-caused had then continued even after the initiating energy from the battery thermal runaway had been exhausted. No evidence was found that a flashover fire had occurred - or was about to occur and neither was there any evidence that the rate of progression of the structural fire was increasing by the time it was interrupted. Thermal modelling was used to assess the likely effects of a similar fire occurring in-flight and indicated that a combination of an increased rate of convective cooling which would have been created by external airflow and the lower outside air temperatures which would have prevailed, would have substantially reduced the progression of a fire of the type that occurred. The inaccessible location of the ELT and its battery and the limited awareness of this were considered during the Investigation. It was found that, at the time of the fire, "published ARFF information for the B787 did not indicate the location of ELT battery" and that Heathrow Airport RFFS "were not aware that there was a lithium-metal battery above the ceiling panels that could be the source of the fire". It was also noted that were an in-flight ELT battery fire to occur, its detection and the identification of its location would be "challenging" for any cabin crew, as would achieving success in the fighting of such a fire. It was noted that the ELT involved had been manufactured under contract to Honeywell by Instrumar and that, at the time of the investigated fire, “there were approximately 3,650 identical batteries in service in RESCU 406AFN ELTs and the similar RESCU 406AF ELTs fitted to numerous aircraft types”. It was found that although there had been no reports of other in-service thermal events involving the same batteries or cells prior to the instance under investigation, five months beforehand, Honeywell had received one of these batteries back from an aircraft manufacturer because it had discharged and had discovered battery wires trapped under the cover plate in a similar way to those on the unit from which fire had originated. As a result, a quality review had been conducted which had led to