level of circuit protection to mitigate against known failure modes including, but not limited to, external short-circuits and unbalanced discharge. (2015-015). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada, require equipment manufacturers intending to use lithium-metal batteries in aircraft equipment to demonstrate that the battery design incorporates an acceptable level of circuit protection to mitigate against known failure modes including, but not limited to, external short-circuits and unbalanced discharge. (2015-016). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada require equipment manufacturers intending to use lithium-metal batteries in aircraft equipment, to quantify the heat produced by the battery over a range of discharge conditions and demonstrate that the battery and equipment design can adequately dissipate the heat produced. (2015-017). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada require the manufacturers of lithium-metal batteries and manufacturers of aircraft equipment powered by lithium-metal batteries, to conduct battery-level and equipment-level ‘failure mode and effects analyses’ to identify failure modes and their effects. (2015-018). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada, review all previously-approved aircraft equipment powered by lithium-metal batteries to determine whether they comply with the intent of the ‘Toxic Gas Venting Precautions’ described in TSO-C142/ TSO‑C142a Appendix 1. (2015-019). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada, review whether the ‘Toxic Gas Venting Precautions’ described in TSO-C142/ TSO-C142a Appendix 1 should be applied to portable aircraft equipment powered by lithium-metal batteries. (2015-020). that Boeing expedite the modelling of the B787 Environmental Control System, to examine the distribution of the ELT battery combustion products through the aircraft cabin, and demonstrate the results of this modelling to the Federal Aviation Administration. (2015-021). The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 19 August 2015. This incorporates the findings contained in Special Bulletins S5/2013 and S4/2014 which were issued to report interim progress during the Investigation.