“a modification of the Instrumar ELT assembly instructions”. Prior to the instance under investigation, “no inspections or modifications were recommended for ELTs already delivered and the findings were not communicated to customers and aircraft manufacturers.” Following the event, however, operators were instructed to either remove the ELT or inspect ELT wiring via an AAIB bulletin, Boeing Multi-operator Message, and FAA & Transport Canada Airworthiness Directives. After the completion of extensive investigative work, it was concluded that: the battery design did not ensure that its rated maximum continuous discharge current could not be exceeded and the absence of cell segregation in the battery allowed the thermal runaway of one cell to propagate rapidly to the remaining cells.. although the ELT battery had a valid TSO-C142 approval, "the guidance and requirements of RTCA DO-227, invoked by TSO-C142, were outdated and did not adequately take account of advances in lithium battery technology since the inception of DO‑227 in 1995".. The system safety assessment conducted by Honeywell in support of the preparation for 787 type certification did not identify failure modes in any ELT battery installed in the aircraft which could contribute to a hazardous condition.. It was the proximity of fuselage insulation blankets to the ELT, and the static ambient temperatures inside and outside the airplane, which led to sufficient heat being retained close to the aircraft skin for the fire to become self-sustaining.. Modelling of structural loads based on the damage sustained on the ground during the investigated fire "determined that the aircraft’s ability to carry flight loads had been compromised". However, based on the thermal and fire modelling of an in-flight ELT fire, “the modelling suggested that these conditions would have prevented flame propagation beyond the localised ELT ignition zone, and slowed the propagation rate to a point where the composite fire might self-extinguish....It is therefore concluded that, in the event of localised ignition of the composite structure in flight, the rate of convective heat loss would reduce the extent and intensity of fire propagation, and may be sufficient to cause the fire to self‑extinguish.” Boeing’s structural loads modelling, based on the predicted damage from the thermal modelling of an in-flight ELT fire, “predicted that the fuselage would remain capable of carrying flight loads but might experience a depressurisation if the damage were extensive”.. Because of the limitations of the NRS system safety assessment, the Type Certification process for the 787 failed to identify the ELT battery as a possible ignition source close to the aircraft skin, the composite flammability tests undertaken as part of this process "did not take this into account as a specific source of ignition".. The Investigation formally identified the following four Causal Factors in respect of the fire: A thermal runaway failure of the lithium manganese dioxide battery in the ELT resulted in the uncontrolled release of stored energy within the battery cells.. The location and orientation of the ELT, and the compromised seal on the battery cover-plate, allowed the resulting hot gas, flames and battery