An independent investigation in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles and procedures was carried out by the UK AAIB. This action was taken on a discretionary basis in accordance with the nationally defined powers of the Chief Inspector of Air Accidents on the basis that although the fire occurred to an aircraft which was unoccupied, unpowered and parked out of service, the fire proved difficult to extinguish and it was suspected that it might be possible for an in-flight fire to occur by similar causation. It was established that the aircraft had landed at Heathrow earlier the same day after an uneventful scheduled passenger flight from Addis Ababa and taxied to a Terminal 3 gate for passenger disembarkation, arriving there at approximately 0540. Later, it was towed to a remote Terminal 5 parking stand adjacent to one of the airport fire stations where the aircraft was subsequently secured after an engineer on the flight deck had visually confirmed that the ground electrical power, although remaining connected, was no longer available to the aircraft. Nearly ten hours after the arrival at Terminal 3 for passenger disembarkation, signs of fire reported by ATC were investigated by fire fighters who initially discharged water and foam onto the aircraft and disconnected the cable leading to a non-running ground power cable. They had then entered the aircraft at door L2 equipped with breathing apparatus and had encountered thick smoke. “As they moved to the rear of the aircraft the smoke became denser so they opened further cabin doors to clear the smoke. At the rear of the passenger cabin they observed indications of fire above the ceiling panels. They attempted to tackle the fire with a handheld Halon extinguisher but this was not effective, so they forcibly moved a ceiling panel and tackled the fire with water from hoses” which was effective and led to the fire being extinguished. Examination of the aircraft disclosed extensive heat damage to the upper part of the rear fuselage of the aircraft in the vicinity of the Honeywell 'RESCU 406AFN' Emergency Locator Transmitter (ELT). The absence of any other source of a system containing stored energy capable of initiating a fire in thus area supported by evidence gained from a forensic examination of the ELT, led to the conclusion that the fire had been initiated by an uncontrolled and rapid discharge of stored energy from the 5-cell lithium-metal battery which powered the ELT. ELT battery wires were found "crossed and trapped under the battery compartment cover-plate". investigators concluded that this had "probably created a short-circuit current path which could allow a rapid, uncontrolled discharge of the battery". It was concluded that this latent wiring fault had been in existence since the battery had last been accessed without detection. Both Boeing and OEM Honeywell subsequently concurred with the conclusion that this latent fault was "the most likely cause of the ELT battery fire, most probably in combination with the early depletion of a single cell". It was noted that both