the RTCA revise and update their Document DO-227, ‘Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Lithium Batteries’ to cover non-rechargeable lithium metal batteries.. A total of fifteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: On publication on 18 July 2013 of Special Bulletin S5/2013: that the Federal Aviation Administration initiate action for making inert the Honeywell International RESCU 406AFN fixed Emergency Locator Transmitter system in Boeing 787 aircraft until appropriate airworthiness actions can be completed. (2013-016). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in association with other regulatory authorities, conduct a safety review of installations of Lithium-powered Emergency Locator Transmitter systems in other aircraft types and, where appropriate, initiate airworthiness action. (2013-017). Responses to both of these Recommendations were subsequently received and assessed by the AAIB as "Adequate - Closed". On publication on 18 June 2014 of Special Bulletin S4/2014: that the Federal Aviation Administration develop enhanced certification requirements for the use of lithium-metal batteries in aviation equipment, to take account of current industry knowledge on the design, operational characteristics and failure modes of lithium-metal batteries. (2014-020). that the Federal Aviation Administration require that electrical performance and design-abuse certification tests for lithium-metal batteries are conducted with the battery installed in the parent equipment, to take account of battery thermal performance. (2014-021). that the Federal Aviation Administration work with industry to determine the best methods to force a lithium metal cell into thermal runaway and develop design-abuse testing that subjects a single cell within a lithium-metal battery to thermal runaway in order to demonstrate the worst possible effects during certification testing. (2014-022). that the Federal Aviation Administration require equipment manufacturers wishing to use lithium-metal batteries to demonstrate (using the design-abuse testing described in Safety Recommendation 2014-022) that the battery and equipment design mitigates all hazardous effects of propagation of a single-cell thermal runaway to other cells and the release of electrolyte, fire or explosive debris. (2014-023). that the Federal Aviation Administration review whether the Technical Standard Order (TSO) process is the most effective means for the certification of lithium-metal batteries installed in aircraft equipment, the actual performance of which can only be verified when demonstrated in the parent equipment and the aircraft installation. (2014-024). As of June 2015, it was recorded that a Final Response from the FAA to all these Recommendations was still awaited. On Publication of the Final Report: that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada, conduct an assessment of the circuit protection offered by the existing Honeywell RESCU 406AF and 406AFN ELT battery, to determine whether the ELT/battery design incorporates an acceptable level of circuit protection to mitigate against external short-circuits and unbalanced discharge. (2015-014). that the Federal Aviation Administration, in conjunction with the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada, conduct a review of installed aircraft equipment on transport category aircraft powered by lithium-metal batteries, which have been approved under TSO-C142 /C142A or by equivalent means, to ensure that the design of such batteries incorporates an acceptable