decomposition products to impinge directly on the aircraft’s composite fuselage structure, providing sufficient thermal energy to initiate a fire in the rear fuselage crown.. The resin in the composite material provided fuel for the fire, allowing a slow-burning fire to become established in the fuselage crown, which continued to propagate from the ELT location even after the energy from the battery thermal runaway was exhausted.. The Navigation Radio System safety assessment conducted in support of the ELT certification did not identify any ELT battery failure modes which could represent a hazard to the aircraft and therefore these failure modes were not mitigated in the ELT design or the B787 ELT installation.. The Investigation also formally concluded that the following five Contributory Factors "most likely" led to the thermal runaway of the ELT battery: The trapped ELT battery wires created a short-circuit condition, providing a current path for an unplanned discharge of the ELT battery.. The ELT battery may have exhibited an unbalanced discharge response, resulting in the early depletion of a single cell which experienced a voltage reversal, leading to a thermal runaway failure.. The Positive Temperature Coefficient protective device in the battery did not provide the level of external short-circuit protection intended in the design.. There was no evidence that the reset behaviour and the implications of the variable switching point of the PTC, had been fully taken into account during the design of the ELT battery.. The absence of cell segregation features in the battery or ELT design meant the single-cell thermal runaway failure was able to propagate rapidly to the remaining cells.. Safety Action taken as a result of the fire and during the Investigation was noted to have included the following: OEM Honeywell issued an Alert Service Bulletin (ASB) for the inspection of ELT battery installations of the type which caught fire or were equivalent to it in design terms for pinched wires, damage to the wires or battery, deformation of the battery cover plate or damage to the battery cover gasket which may prevent it from forming a water-tight seal. They have also, from May 2014, reported having “modified the battery orientation within the ELT on all new production units” and have reviewed options to improve the robustness of short-circuit protection for the subject battery when installed in an ELT.. Boeing issued a series of Multi Operator Messages (MOM)s in respect of all Boeing aircraft types fitted with ELTs of the type involved in the fire or equivalent in design terms to it to carry out one-off inspections to validate correct ELT installation. They have also updated the ARFF information for the B787 showing the location of the ELT as a component containing a lithium battery.. The FAA and EASA issued ADs requiring the removal or inspection of installed ELTs of the type involved in the fire or equivalent in design terms to it.. The FAA and Transport Canada issued ADs mandating the Honeywell ASB requiring ELT inspection.. The FAA has decided to request that