An Investigation was opened by the Civil Aviation Department of the Armenian Government but a subsequent request to the State of the Operator to take over was made and accepted and the Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). The SSFDR and 2 hour SSCVR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded but only the FDR data was useful to the Investigation as the crew did not trip the CVR CB after the event and the relevant data was overwritten. It was noted that the 58 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the sector involved, had accumulated 21,500 total flying hours which included 4,800 hours on type. The 34 year-old First Officer had accumulated 2,200 total flying hours which included 900 hours on type. It was established that the required dry runway landing distance for the aircraft at the ELW of 130 tonnes using 40° flap and autobrake set to low had been 2,260 metres, which was within the temporarily reduced declared landing distance available of 2,400 metres. This reduction in the declared distance from the full length of 3,850 metres had been the subject of NOTAM action advising that it was due to runway repairs. This notification also included the information that the ILS and PAPI for runway 09 would be unavailable for the duration of the work and that the VOR/DME approach would be amended to reposition the start of descent from the FAF at 5,100 feet QNH nearer to the runway in order to ensure that aircraft following the procedure reached the displaced threshold. The 1,450 metres of out of use runway was appropriately marked, the approach lighting had been continued part way along it using elevated temporary lights and the position of the displaced threshold was also lit. Based on the recorded flight data, the sequence of the approach was reconstructed. During the descent towards the destination, Yerevan ACC advised the crew that they could expect radar vectoring towards a VOR/DME approach to runway 09. When the crew then queried the serviceability of the ILS for the same runway, they were advised that it was out of service. Once transferred to Approach Radar, the controller, in accordance with the NOTAM about the displaced threshold, advised the crew of this and that the displacement was of 1,450 metres. Descent to the runway at 2,800 feet QNH was commenced from 5,100 feet QNH at 8 DME, the normal FAF position for this procedure since the Captain was unaware of the revised procedure and was referring to the normal approach chart on his personal iPAD. The descent was thus commenced approximately 1 nm too early with AP1 and both FDs engaged and the A/T in SPEED Mode. Transfer to TWR was made and the flight had been cleared to land when about 6 miles out and at about 3,500 feet QNH (equivalent to 700 feet aal), the controller transmitted that the aircraft was well below