the appropriate vertical profile. The crew replied that they were "approaching visual with the new threshold in sight" and the controller immediately responded to this with an instruction to "stop descent" which was acknowledged and the AP disconnected and the rate of descent arrested. The aircraft was about 3½ nm from where touchdown would subsequently occur and at about 630 feet aal. As the runway was approached and with the aircraft at 50 feet agl, the A/T was disconnected and 11 seconds later, a touchdown was made with the main wheels on the closed section of the runway just before the displaced threshold and they then hit the temporary runway threshold lights. The nose wheels subsequently touched down on the correct side of the displaced threshold after which the aircraft continued slowing to taxi speed before clearing the runway via taxiway 'C'. The Captain subsequently stated that he had "not recognised" the temporary elevated approach lights installed along the closed section of the runway and had concentrated instead on the (also elevated) temporary threshold lights. The difference between the vertical profile to the full length runway, the revised vertical profile to the displaced threshold and the vertical profile actually flown is shown in the diagram below prepared by Airbus in support of the Investigation. It was considered that although this was not contributory to what happened, there were not enough 'Closed' Markings on the out of use runway and had there been more, it might have helped the pilot recognise the closed part of the runway more readily. In this respect, the Recommendation in Annex14 which said that "a closed marking should be displayed on a temporarily closed runway or taxiway or portion thereof, except that such marking may be omitted when the closing is of short duration and adequate warning by air traffic services is provided" was noted. The Investigation concluded that the Main Cause of the event was the failure of the aircraft commander to review information relevant to the flight before departure in order to prepare for circumstances which would be encountered at the destination. Two Contributory Factors were identified as: the failure of the Dispatcher to provide sufficient crew briefing. the failure of the First Officer to alert the Captain to the displaced threshold. Five Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Mahan Air should investigate the irregularities identified in this report.. that Mahan Air should analyse the Flight Rules and AIP for consistency with the ICAO regulations in the Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Aircraft Operations (PANS-OPS – Doc 8168 OPS/611) as to visual manoeuvring during an approach to land to eliminate the identified inconsistencies.. that Mahan Air should consider revising and, if necessary, amending or supplementing its Flight Operations Instructions for other aerodromes and FOMs for any designated airports.. that Mahan Air should consider revising its operations procedure to confirm that a crew briefing takes place as part of the dispatch of all flights.. that General Civil Aviation Authority of Armenia should review