In a planned ditching situation, the cabin, passengers and cabin crew preparation involve the same procedures as with an emergency landing, except for the following: Passengers should be informed about the ditching procedure. Cabin crew should demonstrate the donning of life vests[1], the brace positions, point out the exits, and finally, show the safety instruction cards. Cabin crew should make sure that passengers have correctly donned life vests (including infant’s life vests), and understand how and when to inflate them. Passengers should be reminded to inflate life vests only as they leave the aircraft. Crewmember life vests should be a different colour than the passengers’ life vest (e.g., bright orange). Life vests should have lights (e.g., water activated).. The following are suggested items for the crew to consider when preparing to evacuate the aircraft following a water ditching: Determine the water level outside the aircraft. Determine the water level inside the aircraft and the rate of change. If water level is above the door sill, the exit is unusable In many cases, the slide/life rafts can be detached and moved to a useable exit. Some exits may be anticipated to be unusable due to the expected aircraft attitude in the water. This is often the case for the rear exits, especially in the case of an aircraft with rear mounted engines. Prior to transferring slides/life rafts to useable exits, ensure all passengers are evacuated (into the water, if necessary). Deploy non door mounted flotation devices from the aft over wing exit as applicable to the aircraft type. Cabin Crew should ensure that passenger raft count does not exceed recommended raft capacity. Passengers should board the raft and sit on alternating sides. Family members should be reseated together in the same life raft if possible. Slide/Life rafts are detached by cutting the lifeline or pulling the disengage handle; follow instructions from the raft manual. Attempt to assign crewmember(s) to each raft to establish command. Where possible, group the rafts together. Keep groups together and away from the aircraft, spilt fuel and debris..