had changed status three times within two seconds which was indicative of a transient encounter with irregularities in the runway surface. It was found that after this had happened, the positions of all three IRS positions had begun to drift randomly which caused the autoflight system to reject the input from one of the Air Data and Inertial Reference Units (ADIRUs) as the aircraft climbed through FL265. This and another minor degradation caused by the increasing drift that affected the aircraft’s braking system, were not annunciated to the crew. However, four minutes later as the aircraft was in the vicinity of FL340, the autoflight system rejected all three IRS positions which resulted in the observed disconnection of the AP and A/THR. The recorded data also confirmed that at this time the ADIRUs had continued to provide valid attitude and air data parameters although the IRS system position instability remained. An analysis of the data around this time by Airbus found that the ECAM ‘NAV FM/GPS POS DISAGREE’ had been displayed for approximately 7 seconds followed by a repeat of this five minutes later. This message was noted to have indicated a difference between the Flight Management Guidance Computers (FMGC) and GPS position but the recorded data then “showed an improvement in the FMGC positions”. The position information supplied by each ADIRU then remained consistent until part way through the descent when this consistency again began to be lost and passing a recorded 5,100 feet, the autoflight system again rejected data from more than one ADIRU and the recorded data confirmed a reported disconnection of the AP and A/THR during the initial approach. It was found that after previous similar events, Airbus had installed accelerometers on the Nose Landing Gear (NLG) and the ADIRU mounting rack of several aircraft to measure the vertical forces through the NLG during taxi, takeoff and landing. This resulted in confirmation that the ADIRU rejections and INS drift could be induced by abnormal vibration or shock loading transmitted through the NLG to the ADIRUs during the takeoff roll and rotation. Airbus also concluded that IRS drifts were “likely to have been caused by a combination of specific inputs, namely vertical loads from the runway surface to the NLG, incorrect servicing of the NLG shock absorber and the ADIRUs suffering vertical shocks” when operating outside their verified performance envelope. After the flight under investigation, an inspection and service of the Nose Landing Gear (NLG) which was recommended in an extant Airbus ‘Technical Follow Up’ (TFU) Notice entitled ‘‘In-flight severe IR drift with ADIRU NGC PN 465020-030x-0316/318 inducing possible loss of AP/FD and A/THR" which had been issued in April 2020 to advise how to proceed when investigating an occurrence of severe navigation position drift in flight. This found that the NLG shock absorber was overextended by 0.6 inches and may not necessarily have been correctly serviced, one or both of which were likely to have magnified the consequences of encountering an uneven runway surface. This risk would