A Field Investigation was carried by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). Relevant recorded aircraft flight data was recovered from the operator’s OFDM but that on the CVR had been overwritten as a result of the aircraft continuing in service prior to the AAIB being notified of the event. ATC radar and voice recordings were also available. It was noted that the 55 year-old Captain had a total of 16,651 hours flying experience which included 4,476 hours on type. Similar experience and age information for the First Officer was not recorded. As the flight was on its takeoff roll from runway 06 at Edinburgh with the Captain as PF, a “loud bang” was heard as the nose landing gear passed over what felt like a particular centreline light. Passing approximately 1,500 feet during the climb out, the First Officer saw a ‘GPS PRIMARY LOST’ message on his Multipurpose Control and Display Unit (MCDU) but it disappeared before any action could be taken. The remainder of the climb was normal until passing FL340 when the First Officer reported having seen a ‘CHECK IRS 3/FM POSITION’ MDCU message after which both the A/THR and AP disconnected and both pilots’ FDs disappeared. The ECAM displayed corresponding status messages plus ‘ENG THRUST LOCK’ and ‘CAT 3 DUAL INOP’. The Captain levelled the aircraft at FL350 manually and, as the crew were concerned they could no longer comply with the RVSM requirement for a functional AP capable of holding altitude, a ‘PAN’ was declared to ATC. The crew’s initial attempts to regain the AP and A/THR were not successful but after about five minutes of manual flight, both were able to be re-engaged. Whilst trying to determine how to proceed, they noticed that the IRS system positions shown on the MCDU monitor page were variously blank or abnormal as well as continuously changing when normally, the difference between them would be less than 1 nm. Given this position uncertainty, the crew requested and received radar vectors from ATC but decided that they could safely continue to Heathrow. It was decided that they would not realign the IRS in flight since there were no ECAM messages directing them to do this. They also reported having concluded that the aircraft was in a safe state and that attempting such a realignment could make the situation worse. A detailed approach brief was completed with reference to possible abnormalities and an extended final approach was requested to make it easier to monitor the aircraft. This began normally with the AP engaged until approximately 4,000 feet on a closing heading for the runway 27R LOC when the AP and A/THR again disconnected and both FDs disappeared. The approach was discontinued and after re-briefing for a manually flown raw data approach, this and the subsequent landing were completed without further developments. The QAR data confirmed that, as the aircraft accelerated through 120KCAS on the takeoff roll and without any significant control inputs being made, the nose landing gear WoW signal