have been increased by the absence of any anti-vibration mounting for the ADIRUs or the rack to which they were fixed. The location of the ADIRUs in relation to the NLG Bay. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The above findings led to the conclusion that the investigated occurrence had been the result of a chain of events, each of which was necessary to result in the eventual outcome. These were as follows: The Departure Runway Surface was found to have a small poor quality patch repair which when encountered had introduced sudden vertical shock loads into the aircraft NLG. The Airport Authority believed that this may have triggered the problem and it has since been remade.. Nose Landing Gear leg servicing information provided by one of the operators indicated that an improved servicing task and revised maintenance check introduced by the OEM had been effective in preventing similar Inertial Reference drift issues. However, the continuation of similar events at some A320 family operators indicated that the issue had not yet been completely resolved. The development and introduction of dedicated Liquid and Nitrogen Charging Equipment (LANCE) to improve NLG shock absorber servicing is intended to reduce the potential for error during related maintenance inputs.. All three ADIRUs installed on the aircraft were tested after the event and no faults were found. During the flight, the air data information remained accurate throughout which eliminated the possibility of Air Data Reference (ADR) faults. The pilots reported that aircraft attitude displays also remained accurate which indicated that the IRS gyroscopes were functioning normally. It was therefore concluded that severe positional drift experienced “was probably caused by IRS accelerometer anomalies” following abnormal vertical shock loads transferred from to the airframe and avionics rack through the NLG. Whilst the ADIRUs performed within the applicable qualification envelope, it was considered that the shock loads encountered during takeoff were more extreme than the definition of “standard operational shocks” used under the applicable RTCA DO-160C test procedures. Airbus commented that with the benefit of hindsight, the inclusion of available more demanding environmental qualification criteria which would require resistance of ADIRUs to low frequency shocks during aircraft design may have avoided the severe position drift problems encountered.. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The aircraft experienced severe navigation position drift in flight. The drift was caused by abnormal vertical shock loads being transferred through the overextended NLG shock absorber to the ADIRU. The abnormal shock loads were initiated by an uneven patch repair on the runway. The Northrop Grumman ADIRU is particularly sensitive to sudden vertical shock loading outside its environmental qualification envelope. The Final Report was initially published on 16 June 2022 but re-issued after minor revisions on 7 July 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.