Controller rotation is an essential part of the handover-takeover process. The main types of rotation are "swap position", "one relieving controller" and "two relieving controllers". There are no relieving controllers. The two controllers swap their roles (executive becomes planner and vice-versa). There are two ways to do this: Swap physical position. The controllers swap both positions and roles. In this case no reconfiguration of the system is necessary but the controllers need to adjust the new position to their personal preferences.. Swap logical position (role). The controllers remain in their positions but switch roles. This has the benefit of retaining their personal settings but poses a number of configuration challenges and is not suitable for some positions (e.g. TWR and APP) which have different equipment for different roles.. A relieving controller comes to the sector and replaces one of the controllers in position. The relieved controller leaves for a break. This change offers the advantage of having one "old" controller with complete situational awareness which helps in case some information is skipped during the handover/takeover. An issue here is that the controllers may need to adapt their personal settings each time. There are three main ways to do the process: New-to-Hot-to-Cold. The relieving controller replaces the executive (hot) who, in turn, replaces the planner (cold). This method has the advantage to put the "fresh" controller on the "hot seat". The downside is that the relieved controller may need to stay for some time at the working position in heavy traffic situations.. New-to-Cold-to-Hot. The relieving controller replaces the planner (cold) who, in turn, replaces the executive (hot). The advantage in this situation is that the handover-takeover from planner to executive is considerably shorter (since the planner-to-be-executive is supposed to have full situational awareness) allowing the relieved controller to go on a break even in complex traffic situations. The disadvantage is that there is a higher risk that the new executive is actually not fully aware of the situation.. Swap of position. The relieving controller replaces the executive controller and then both controller swap their roles without moving to another physical position. This has the advantage of less personal setting adjustment but at the cost of more complex configuration switching.. Two relieving controllers come to the sector, replacing both controllers in position. The relieved controllers leave for a break. This is done mostly when a new shift starts working. This situation "forces" a more thorough handover-takeover process because both the relieved controllers leave after the process is complete. However, it is possible that both new controllers have no full situational awareness with the relieved controllers no longer available. Therefore this type of replacement should be avoided whenever possible. In some cases it is possible that "non-standard" replacements take place, e.g. a controller is relieved from their position and goes to different sector to relieve another controller. While these can have a positive impact on the efficient use of the available personnel, they may cause safety concerns (in the example case the controller