An Investigation was carried out by the German BFU. The aircraft DFDR was available but the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was not downloaded (possibly because it was had only a 30 minute recording and had been overwritten). It was noted that the 2508 metres long runway 22 at Dresden was of concrete construction and had a marked and lit surface width of 51 metres with adjacent unmaintained shoulders of similar but un-maintained concrete construction of 14.5 metres on each side. In effect, an original width of 80 metres had been reduced. All taxiways and runways were marked and lit in accordance with ICAO Annex 14 but the lighting intensity could not be varied by ATC. It was noted that the white centerline lights were hardly visible in a perpendicular direction from the edge of the runway to the centerline. Damage to the left hand runway edge omni-directional lights, which were positioned at 60 metre intervals and elevated except at taxiway access points, was confined to three successive lights. These were calculated to have been at the position which the aircraft would have been in just before rotation for take off. All three lights were “knocked off (their supports) into a direction of approximately 220°”. It was established that both flight crew had been familiar with operations at Dresden and that both were experienced on the aircraft type, although with a significant difference between the two pilots in this latter respect with the aircraft commander having been operating the type for ten years prior to the event investigated. It was found that “when taxiing to runway 22 the crew was never under stress or pressure”. The First Officer had been designated PF for the flight but, as the aircraft was not fitted with a steering tiller for the pilot occupying the right hand seat, it had been necessary under a prescribed SOPs for the aircraft commander to taxi the aircraft into position on the runway and commence the take off roll before handing over control once sufficient rudder authority was available to allow directional control in to be maintained. It was noted that the crew had been aware of some bumps from the nose landing gear as the aircraft accelerated down the runway for take off and then, at around V1, two or three more significant bumps, the first of which had felt “especially heavy.” After take off, the aircraft commander had advised TWR ATC that during the take off run, the aircraft “had obviously collided with an object on the runway”. The flight crew stated during the Investigation that the aircraft had been correctly lined up on the runway centre line. However, a comprehensive review of all the available evidence concluded that “….the take off run was performed on the left runway edge lighting”. It was also found that a contributing factor was that “due to the (lack of) contrast between the runway surface and the surface of the adjacent side strip it was difficult for the crew to recognize