After delayed notification of the event received on 10 February 2011, an Investigation was carried out by the Swedish AIB. It was established that a taxi clearance from Gate 66 to “holding point 19R” had been issued to the aircraft after pushback without specifying any particular holding point and that it had included permission to take a taxiway ‘D’, a route contrary to the prescribed system of directional flow (see diagram). When the aircraft reached the selected runway access taxiway, Y3, it proceeded across an unseen but illuminated stop bar which had no corresponding painted surface markings towards the first transverse yellow lines encountered which were co-located with flashing Runway Guard Lights (RGLs). The controller saw visually that the aircraft was on the entry to a runway in use and called, "Air Berlin, hold position". This happened at the same time as another aircraft was taking off from further down runway 19R. When this aircraft was already at a speed of 120 to 130 knots, its pilots saw the taxiing aircraft approximately 500 metres ahead. During a subsequent interview one of the A319 pilots stated that “the aircraft had not passed the holding position since the aircraft stopped before the marking on the ground”. It was noted that “other pilots operating at Arlanda airport have said to the investigators that the stop bar in question can be difficult to see” in daylight. It was subsequently established that the yellow lines at the RGL position were marking the old holding CAT 1 holding point and that the lit stop bar which had previously only been the Cat 2/3 holding point but had since become the combined Cat 1/2/3 holding point should have had co-located holding point markings for daytime use. It was found that “normally the painting of daylight markings is carried out annually, but there were no daylight markings by Y3 at the holding position”. The applicable regulatory requirement at the time was noted as “Holding positions shall be marked at all connections and intersections between taxiways and runways." The Investigation was unable to establish the reason for non-compliance in a way which might assist the avoidance of such a failing in future. The prevailing processes of Quality Assurance and Safety Management at the Airport were found to be of little assistance. The version of the State AIP extant at the time of the occurrence was found to have no chart containing holding point markings or any other accurate illustration of their position in respect of Y3 (see second illustration) Several months afterwards, the necessary holding point marking was provided on Y3 and a corresponding AIP illustration was provided to properly show the holding point position. It was noted that whilst few flight crew make direct use of the AIP, it is the source used by contracted chart providers to produce accurate and useful information for their direct use. Unsurprisingly, the holding position marking visible on Y3 was not consistent with the taxi chart available to the A319 pilots (see