third illustration) since the latter was based on the AIP. In general terms, it was considered that although the Investigation had focused only on a single holding position at the airport, the finding in respect of taxiway Y3 “has shown major shortcomings in work orders and quality follow-up”. It was considered "remarkable that no reviews of the area were made for a long time. There may well be a need for the airport to make a special inspection of all existing visual aids for navigation at the airport”. It was also noted that as far as the failure to properly program the missing painted surface marking was concerned, there was no readily traceable historical record as a means to examine why/how it had been overlooked. It was considered that this finding meant that both the prevailing circumstances and “the lack of quality inspection of paint work” both “constituted shortcomings in compliance with the safety management system”. It was noted that the Airport SMS “is contained in a single document under the operational management system on the airport intranet”. It was considered that “this entails a risk that the connection between the system and daily operations is missed” It was also noted that “the airport’s SMS has major differences from the model for an SMS proposed by ICAO. The question is whether the safety management system is functioning at all levels at the airport and whether everyone who works at the airport feels the involvement and the responsibility that is expected to influence a workplace with an SMS”. In respect of the deficient AIP content, it was noted that “the Investigation has not been able to explain the lack of holding position markings in the AIP. It has been found that neither the older holding position markings nor the more recent markings appeared in the AIP that was valid in the summer of 2011. Changes to the daytime markings at Y3 have probably not been communicated to those who are responsible for updating the AIP for Arlanda”. [see Editor's note below} Three Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that the Swedish Transport Agency (should) in the context of its regulatory work in particular examine the implementation, operation, and compliance with the system for safety management at Swedish airports. (RL 2012: 07 R1). that the Swedish Transport Agency (should) in its ordinary regulatory work, perform a special review of materials relevant for airports in AIP Sverige/Sweden. (RL 2012: 07 R2). that the Swedish Transport Agency (should) ensure that Arlanda airport introduces recurrent quality controls of visual aids for navigation at the airport. (RL 2012: 07 R3). The Final Report of the Investigation Final report RL 2012:07e was issued on 5 March 2012. Editor's Note:: One of the possible reasons for absence of the RWY holding position coordinates in the AIP could be the gap in ICAO requirements for its provision/publication in the AIP. Both Annexes 14 and 15 classify it as a critical element from the point of