0444 EST, again without ATC being aware. The flight crew stated subsequently that during the flight through the TRA, they had conducted all-stations broadcasts on the specified frequency in accordance with the requirements of the NOTAM. At 0515 EST, whilst this aircraft was still in the TRA, it ceased and controlled airspace and normal ATS was reinstated. The Brisbane ACC controller covering the KIY/CBL sectors was unaware of its presence and so the aircraft was operating in controlled airspace without the knowledge of ATC or being in receipt of the necessary clearance and a second LOSA had therefore occurred. The crew of this aircraft reported that at 0520 EST, they had attempted to establish contact with ATC on the frequency they believed they had been given earlier by a Flight Watch International HF operator as the one for Brisbane ACC but received no reply. This frequency was the normal one for their route but was inapplicable with the TRA and TIBA in place. It was in any case read back incorrectly and the incorrect readback was not detected by the HF operator. The Captain stated that they "thought TIBA procedures were still applicable at that time, so they did not consider it unusual to have received no response from ATC". At that stage the aircraft was still over 80 minutes away from reaching the boundary between the Brisbane and Melbourne ACC sectors. When the Brisbane KIY/CBL sector controller handed over to a colleague at 0556 EST, the incoming controller noticed that the flight progress strip for PK-GPO included an ATD from Bali and the aircraft could therefore be operating in sector airspace at that time. The incoming controller processed the corresponding Flight Data Record in accordance with normal procedures and this resulted in the flight's flight plan track, aircraft call sign and flight planned level attached as a label appearing on the controller’s air situation display. This confirmed the likely presence of the aircraft and so at 0600, the controller made a blind broadcast to the flight. However, as the crew were still listening on an incorrect frequency, there was no response. At 0620 EST, a Melbourne ACC controller for the adjoining southern airspace sectors contacted the Brisbane KIY/CBL sector controller and queried if anyone had been monitoring the TRA whilst it was during the activation period as the crew of the previous Garuda A330 ( PK-GPA) had called unannounced at the FIR boundary and received the response that "they were not sure but thought that there had been someone at the console". Twenty minutes later, as PK-GPO left Brisbane ACC airspace at FL390, its crew called Melbourne ACC for clearance without having made the position report which would have been required 15 minutes prior to exiting the TRA they believed they were still in. Unaware of the aircraft location, the controller asked its position and then, in order to assure vertical separation against another aircraft, asked the latter to climb from FL 390 to FL 400. There was no