loss of prescribed separation and the LOSA situation was resolved. The Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Two losses of separation assurance in controlled airspace had occurred: an Airbus A330-300 had exited a Temporary Restricted Area (TRA) and entered controlled airspace without an airways clearance.. following the cessation of the TRA and the resumption of published air traffic services (ATS), an Airbus A330-200 had operated within controlled airspace without the knowledge of ATS or an airways clearance.. Overall, it was concluded that although ANSP Airservices Australia "had many risk controls in place to manage the situation where it was unable to provide the published air traffic services (ATS) and had to activate a TRA, in this case, a TRA had to be activated at short notice in airspace adjacent to an international ATS provider and a range of actions by operational personnel did not conform to expectations." More specifically "Airservices’ risk controls were not robust enough to effectively manage this situation and ensure they would be made aware of all aircraft that were operating within the TRA (and) a number of procedures and processes were not fulfilled on the night of the occurrence." A total of 10 Contributing Factors were identified as follows, three of which were classified as Safety Issues. These are defined by the ATSB as "events or conditions that increase safety risk and (a) can reasonably be regarded as having the potential to adversely affect the safety of future operations, and (b) are a characteristic of an organisation or a system, rather than a characteristic of a specific individual, or are characteristic of an operating environment at a specific point in time." The flight crews and operator of PK-GPA and PK-GPO were not cognisant of the requirement to obtain an access authority to enter the Temporary Restricted Area.. The Contingency Response Manager was not aware of the requirement to manually process the flight data records for PK-GPA and PK-GPO, which removed an opportunity to identify the presence of the aircraft in the Temporary Restricted Area.. The flight crews of PK-GPA and PK-GPO did not contact the Flightwatch International operator 30 minutes prior to entering the Temporary Restricted Area as they had not been requested to do so.. The flight crews of PK-GPA and PK-GPO were not cognisant of the requirement to contact air traffic control 15 minutes prior to exiting the Temporary Restricted Area.. A series of errors by several personnel, including the flight crew of PK-GPO, the Flightwatch International operator and controllers who took over the relevant sectors after the cessation of the Temporary Restricted Area, resulted in the presence of PK-GPO within the affected airspace not being detected.. Airservices Australia did not provide timely or appropriate communication with the operator of PK-GPA and PK-GPO on the Temporary Restricted Area activation, contingency plan requirements or traffic management plan.. Airservices Australia did not provide the international air traffic services provider Ujung Pandang and Flightwatch International with an effective briefing or documentation on the procedures and requirements