It is a fact that sleepiness traditionally has not been considered very seriously. Operationally, alertness matters more than fatigue as it conditions almost every aspect of human capability and performance. And when it comes to scheduling practices, irrespective of organization, personal relations, organizational issues and even politics often confuse the subject. Hence, ICAO recommends setting up fatigue and alertness management systems as dedicated safety management systems to embed this specific preoccupation and tie it with scheduling into an airline’s prevention strategies and lines of defense. The following strategies are recommended to avoid this type of incident: Because of the difficulties inherent in this approach, the crew should have focused more on preparing for a go-around. Explicitly agree on limits beyond which a go-around or other recovery action will be initiated. Explicitly define task-sharing so that it is clear who is to monitor all critical flight parameters.. Explicitly agree on limits beyond which a go-around or other recovery action will be initiated.. Explicitly define task-sharing so that it is clear who is to monitor all critical flight parameters.. Work as a team to perform accurate risk assessments and tactical decision making based on: Weather Approach type Risk of specific threats. Weather. Approach type. Risk of specific threats. Conduct effective briefings that fully review approach procedures, profiles and aircraft configurations, including: Final Approach Fix (FAF) Minimum Descent Altitude (MDA). Final Approach Fix (FAF). Minimum Descent Altitude (MDA). Do not fall prey to press-on-it-is or fixation by yielding to ATC or time pressures to rush the approach.. If necessary, execute a go-around to provide time to build situational awareness and stabilize any stressful situation. Buy time to create common situational awareness among the crew.. Buy time to create common situational awareness among the crew.. Make sure you use callouts effectively when flying an unfamiliar non-precision approach..