Controlling access to the flight deck is part of the process of ensuring that legitimate control of an aircraft can be maintained. Except on very small passenger aircraft the door must be lockable and of reinforced construction so that access is only possible if it is opened normally and such that it is resistant to penetration (e.g. with a bullet) or intrusion (e.g. by being hit by a trolley) when closed. Access through the door to the flight deck should be procedurally controlled both in the air and on the ground and should be limited to personnel for whom entry is essential. On the ground, this means that only designated flight crew and maintenance personnel should normally have access; if cleaners need to enter, then they should have already been subject to an identity validation check at aircraft boarding and be directly supervised by authorised operational or engineering personnel whilst in the flight deck. In the air, procedures vary from airline to airline and from region to region, but the principle that only those with legitimate need must be permitted flight deck access must be paramount. Beyond the pilots at the controls, this will include relief, check and training pilots. Exceptionally, such flight deck occupancy may exceptionally be extended to include other specifically-authorised employees of the operator - pilots, cabin crew and maintenance personnel. Flight Operations Inspectors carrying out observations on behalf of the State Regulatory Body may also be permitted access at the discretion of the aircraft commander subject to valid identification being presented prior to entry approval. In flight, the door should always remain locked unless there is a legitimate reason to open it and it should remain open only long enough for someone to pass through it. There must be SOPs in place for access to / exit from the flight deck between engine start at the beginning of a flight and the completion of engine shutdown procedures at the end of a flight. Flight Crew Cabin Surveillance Systems and electronic or manual locks which can be operated by the flight crew without leaving their seats, and sometimes also from the passenger cabin, are essential and often exist as Regulatory Requirements. Robust procedures must be in place to prevent unauthorised entry to the flight deck, especially when the door is opened to allow a pilot to exit the flight deck for (e.g.) a comfort break and another crewmember to take their place and when the pilot returns to the flight deck. Crews should be aware that disturbance might be generated in the passenger cabin in order to distract the operating crew from their normal SOPs and that, in such circumstances, it should be expected that the flight crew will remain on the flight deck with entry denied. An example of one manufacturer’s guidance on flight deck security is at