An internal investigation was initiated by the aircraft operator on receipt of a safety report raised by the aircraft Captain when it became apparent that a systemic issue with the company load control system was the cause, the UK AAIB were informed and opened a Serious Incident Investigation. It was noted that the 40 year-old Captain involved had a total of 9,271 flying hours experience of which all except 189 hours were on A320 family aircraft. Relevant recorded flight data was available. It was established that the Bristol to Edinburgh return flight under investigation had been originally planned to be operated by a different A320 family variant and when the A321neo was substituted, an alternative flight crew had to be called from standby because the rostered flight crew were not qualified for the substituted variant. In accordance with the operator’s Covid-19 biosecurity procedures, the load and trim sheet for the departure from Bristol was handed to the SCCM rather than directly to the flight crew and they then gave it to the flight crew. When the First Officer then entered the load distribution into their EFB they found that although the C of G was within the AFM allowable flight envelope, the distribution of the 58 boarded passengers over the 235 available seats was not far from its forward limit. The SCCM was subsequently advised of this finding and during the turnround at Edinburgh checked the load and trim sheet against the seated passenger and when handing it to the Captain advised that the passengers were not seated as indicated on it. The Captain therefore requested that a manual count of the number of passengers in each cabin zone should be carried out. When entered into the EFB, this showed that the actual passenger distribution was beyond forward C of G limits and “appeared to be based on row boundaries for seating zones on an A320 as previously planned for the flight rotation rather than those applicable to an A321neo". The Captain therefore instructed the SCCM to move passengers to new seating positions to correct this and the before accepting the load and trim sheet presented annotated it with the revised passenger distribution. The Captain then left the flight deck to speak to the ground handling agent who “agreed that there appeared to be an IT system issue” in that the flight still showed the operating aircraft as an A320 which had led seats being allocated based on that variant. With the issue identified and apparently resolved as far as the operating crew were concerned, the return flight to Bristol and two subsequent sectors were then flown without incident. However, on completion of his flying duty, the Captain then raised an ASR detailing the problem. The operator’s investigation initially found that although the change of aircraft had been correctly listed in the Aircraft Management System (AMS), the incorrect seat allocation at Edinburgh had been caused by the aircraft change not updating the Departure Control System (DCS). It was discovered that