this discrepancy was attributable to software coding errors which had resulted in the integrated AMS/DCS system operating outside of the original design specification. It was noted that the internal system validation process which “runs in the background” compared the AMS and DCS every five minutes and implemented updates if required. However, because of the uncertainty introduced by the Covid-19 situation, it was found that the much higher level of schedule and aircraft changes had meant that “the operator’s schedule and the validation process was taking longer than normal to run (with) changes made outside of the five-minute window not detected automatically by the system”. It was additionally noted that although the operator’s procedures allowed manual updates to the DCS to be made if an aircraft type variant had been changed in the AMS, this change at Bristol had not been made until passengers were already boarding, a circumstance “not envisaged” so that the system had no mechanism to prevent a change of aircraft type variant during boarding. It was also found that the system did not provide a corresponding alert to either staff at the boarding gate or the person responsible for the preparation and delivery of the load and trim sheet. In addition the aircraft registration data in the DCS was not linked to the aircraft type data so they could be changed separately with the consequence that an aircraft change would not lead the seating algorithm to alter the passengers per seating bay figures. It was concluded that as the various elements of the IT system architecture did not communicate directly with each other but operated through a variety of interfaces, the process of load and trim sheet preparation was vulnerable to "errors and inaccuracies” in the event of aircraft changes. The effect of the critical systemic weakness in the operator’s procedures for ensuring passenger loading distribution on flights was accurately included on load and trim sheets presented to Captains’ for acceptance was considered to have increased because of a sustained recent increase in short notice aircraft changes especially but not only if the load is significantly less than the seating capacity of the newly assigned aircraft as in this case. The Concluding Remarks on the Findings of the Investigation included the following: This Serious Incident was caused by a combination of operating factors in a complex system interacting in a manner which had neither been designed nor predicted. If passenger and cargo distribution on an aircraft leads to an undetected out of trim condition, the potential outcome could be unexpected handling qualities or control limitations. The final weight and balance calculation is completed by the operating crew based on the loading data presented to them by ground personnel. If that information is incorrect, unless further evidence is available to indicate an anomaly, this final safety barrier is compromised as was the case at Bristol. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, the designated ground handler would hand the load and trim sheet directly to the flight crew, providing an