between the 787 and the C172 and he stated that “he did not recall receiving any prior alerts warning of a loss of separation”. The Investigation concluded that the controller’s sector workload had not been high but noted that the controller had considered that it had been “high” because of the coordination of traffic rather than its volume. The setup of the STCA was reviewed and it was noted that the ‘predictive’ and ‘violation’, conflict alerts were both presented visually on screen and accompanied by a “beeping sound” with the time to traffic separation of less than 2½ nm or 800 feet set at 85 seconds and 55 seconds respectively for the airspace involved. It was ascertained that for undetermined reasons, only the ‘violation’ alert was annunciated and that although he had “identified the conflict” as a result, there had been no time to react before almost immediately receiving the ‘TCAS DESCENT’ call from the 787. The Cause of the event was formally documented as "the executive controller focusing his attention on resolving a conflict in another part of the airspace under his control, while forgetting to track and resolve a potential conflict that he had previously identified”. The following three Contributory Factors were deemed to have been present: A conflicting flight plan was approved for the Cessna 172 which violated restrictions on the airway and that brought it into conflict with takeoffs and landings at Madrid Barajas.. Poor reception on the dedicated land line to the Getafe air base, which forced the executive controller to take over the tasks that the planning controller had been doing.. The conflict alert provided by the STCA system did not activate early enough for the executive controller to take action before the conflict situation involving the aircraft occurred.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ENAIRE establish a route for aircraft taking off from the Madrid-Cuatro Vientos Airport (LECU) on northerly routes under IFR to facilitate their (systematic) incorporation into an airway and to minimise possible conflicts with other traffic in the Madrid TMA. [REC 34/18]. that ENAIRE revise the conflict alert prediction algorithm (STCA) in an effort to improve its ability to detect future conflict scenarios. This recommendation also includes the suitability of evaluating the viability of improving the capability of the system to use flight plan data. [REC 35/18]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 7 June 2018 and subsequently published in English translation in February 2019.