Once the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) had been informed of the event and commenced their Investigation, relevant flight recorder information had been overwritten but a comprehensive set of relevant recorded ATC data was available. The conflict had occurred in the Madrid TMA where the ANSP was ENAIRE. It was noted that the 787 flight crew consisted of a 61 year-old Captain with a total of 13,214 flying hours which included 741 hours on type, a 56 year-old First Officer with a total of 11,408 flying hours which included 943 hours on type and a 60 year-old relief Relief Pilot with a total of 11,797 flying hours which included 1,142 hours on type. The First Officer was acting as PF at the time of the event and the Relief Pilot was occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck. It was established that, in accordance with radar vectors issued by the sector controller, the Cessna 172 had been level at FL110 and heading north as the 787 passed FL109 on a SID track of 300° - a crossing track - six minutes after takeoff. The 787 had received a TCAS RA ‘DESCEND’ against the 172 which was not TCAS-equipped and promptly actioned it in accordance with the applicable SOP. ATC were informed and were also subsequently informed when the ‘Clear of Conflict’ annunciation was received before resuming their flight as cleared. According to the Instructor Pilot in command of the 172, upon seeing an aircraft at a lower altitude that was heading west, climbing and tracking toward them, they saw this aircraft stop its climb and begin to descend. They, in turn, attempted to climb, although “they only managed to climb 200 feet since they were flying practically at the aircraft’s service ceiling”. He stated that “seconds later the other aircraft passed beneath them” after which they resumed their flight as already cleared. Radar data showed that as a result of the TCAS RA response, the actual minimum separation during the conflict had been 1.2nm horizontally and 400 feet vertically. The Investigation found that the sector executive controller involved had accepted the 172, which had departed from Cuatro Vientos on a ‘Z’ flight plan (which involved a transition to IFR after initially departing VFR) early as he had realised that its northerly track would need to be coordinated with departing Barajas traffic turning northwest such as the 787. He instructed the C 172 to turn onto and maintain a track direct to its destination climbing to and then maintaining FL 110 which meant it was heading north about 13½ nm west of its flight planned track. He had a couple of options for traffic crossing separation in mind but then became distracted by sequencing traffic into Getafe during which he had to temporarily take over coordination when the sector planning controller was unable to communicate with Getafe on the landline. He reported that this led to him forgetting the need to actively coordinate separation