other pilot to do this, it was considered that best practice would have been to request the First Officer to operate the light switches. The rolling take-off was considered to have reduced the opportunity for either pilot to recognise the mistake made. In reviewing the relative lighting intensity, the guidance provided in the ICAO Aerodrome Design Manual (Doc 9157) for the prevailing conditions was compared with that of the settings that had been in use for the investigated take-of which were normal practice for those conditions. The Table below shows that whilst the intensities were not as recommended and the runway lights were both much brighter than recommended, the edge lights were, as recommended, brighter than the centreline lights. The Investigation noted that "adherence to the ICAO standards provides pilots anywhere in the world with consistent cues for ground manoeuvring, so any variance from the standards can contribute to a pilot making an error". It concluded that the variances in lighting seen at Auckland Airport are a safety issue which needs to be addressed. Some "errors and differences" in the CAA Advisory Circular which provides guidance on aerodrome design and operational requirements in New Zealand relative to the corresponding ICAO SARPs were also identified during the Investigation and although it was concluded that they had no bearing on the investigated event, it was considered that since no differences were filed with ICAO, rectification was required. The fact that a number of similar events involving misaligned take-offs at night had been the subject of Serious Incident Investigations was noted, as was the existence of an ATSB Study 'Factors influencing misaligned take-off occurrences at night' published in 2010. Some previous events were directly referred to including a 2012 Airbus A330 event at Abu Dhabi, a 2011 Bombardier CRJ event at Dubai, a 2006 Airbus A319 event at Las Vegas and a 2002 ATR72 event at Dresden. In respect of Cause and Contributory Factors, the formally stated Finding of the Investigation was that "while the pilots were conducting last-minute checks and tasks before the take-off, the Captain lost awareness of precisely where his aeroplane was in relation to the runway centreline". Three Contributory Factors relating to the commencement of the take-off whilst misaligned were also given: the potential illusion created by the illuminated manoeuvre area guidance signs parallel to and along the length of the runway, which, in the absence of a thorough check of aeroplane position, could be mistaken for the runway edge lights. no other means were used to confirm positively the aircraft position such as the First Officer's cross-check or reference to the use of on-board navigation systems. the rolling take-off reduced the time available for either pilot to realise the error.. It was concluded that whilst "the intensities of the taxiway centreline lights and the runway lights at the time of the incident did not meet those recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation", it was not possible to determine whether this safety issue contributed to this particular incident.