The event was investigated by the New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC). Recorded airport video was used to identify which aircraft had damaged the edge lights. By the time the aircraft returned to Auckland, relevant CVR data had been overwritten because it had not been stopped. Relevant QAR data was supplied by the aircraft operator and ATC MLAT data and radio transmission recordings were also available. The 64 year-old Captain had 32,336 hours total flying experience which included 10,575 hours on the A340. The 36 year old First Officer had 3263 hours total flying experience which included 756 on the A340. It was considered that the prevailing weather and movement surface conditions at Auckland had been benign and were not a factor in the sequence of events. It was established that with the Captain as PF, the aircraft had been taxied toward the 45 metre wide runway 23L for an early morning departure. As it approached the runway at the full length 'A1' position, the TWR controller had, after confirming that the crew were ready for take-off, issued a clearance to line up. Shortly afterwards, as the aircraft was crossing the flush-mounted runway edge lights, a take-off clearance was given and the Captain turned on the aircraft landing lights and switched the taxi/take-off lights to the brighter 'take off' position. The Captain subsequently stated that after doing this, he could not recall seeing the lights marking the lead-in line to the runway centreline but he did recall seeing a line of bright lights and "thinking that they marked the runway centreline". He then completed a sharp turn to the right to line up with those lights and continued with a rolling take-off. The First Officer reported that he was 'head down' for most of this time and briefly "glanced up and saw a single line of lights straight ahead then returned to monitor the engine instruments and the airspeed during the take-off". After accelerating along the edge lights, the Captain reported that he had realised the error and had "corrected the aeroplane to the runway centreline and completed the take off". It was found that approximately 1400 metres of the take-off roll had been made aligned with the right edge lights. The First Officer subsequently stated that he "did not notice the runway misalignment but he did feel a small heading correction as the aeroplane accelerated on the runway". During the climb out, the Captain commented to the First Officer that "he thought he may have been lined up on the runway edge lights" but the First Officer said that he had not noticed anything unusual. ATC were not advised that they had initially been aligned with the edge lights and the TWR controller did not notice anything unusual as it was still dark. Damage to the one of the NLG tyres was noticed by the ground engineer who met the aircraft in Auckland and advised the Captain. They then made an inspection of the other lading gear assemblies