Nevertheless it is an issue that should be addressed to enhance aviation safety. It was also accepted that, whilst the content of regulatory guidance material relating to aerodrome design requirements was presented in such a way that it "may have led to the inconsistent application", the "errors and differences" found "did not contribute to this incident". However, the Investigation was "concerned that such "errors and differences" could contribute to accidents in the future". Safety Action taken as a consequence of the event and the investigation into it was noted to have included the following: LAN Airlines revised the before-take-off checks in its FCOM to ensure that it was stated that the aircraft instrumentation could show runway alignment that was to be used routinely and not only during low-visibility conditions.. Whilst the Investigation was in progress, the CAA, which "had been in the process of reviewing Part 139 for several years" issued an amendment to it which included the addition of an appendix dedicated to visual aids. The CAA stated that it intends to "co-ordinate and update the electronic filing of differences from ICAO Annex 14, Volume 1" when further revision of Part 139 and its associated advisory circulars is completed in 2016.. A wide entrance to a runway has been recognised as a contributing factor in some runway take-off misalignments (although not this one). Nevertheless, ANSP Airways has, in conjunction with Auckland International Airport, realigned the taxiway edge marking at the intersection of taxiway A1 and runway 23L and added transverse stripes on the inside corner. The intention of these measures is to reduce the apparent width of the taxiway at the intersection.. Three Safety Recommendations were made during the course of the Investigation as follows, the first two on 1 February 2016 and the third on 22 February 2016: That the Director of Civil Aviation review the use of 'should' in advisory circulars so that any ambiguity regarding compliance requirements is removed. [017/15]. That the Chief Executive of Auckland International Airport Limited, in conjunction with the Chief Executive of Airways (the ANSP), measure and recalibrate luminous intensity settings for the taxiway centreline lights, runway centreline and runway edge lights and reconfigure the associated control tower setting selections so that controllers may select the respective light intensities recommended by ICAO for various levels of ambient lighting. [019/15]. That the Director of Civil Aviation, in conjunction with the Chief Executive of Airways, check that aerodrome runway lighting systems at all certificated aerodromes comply with Part 139. [020/15]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved for publication in December 2015 and subsequently made available with the addition of the three subsequently-issued Safety Recommendations and the responses of their addressees.