and damage was also found to one of the centre landing gear tyres. Both these tyres were then replaced. It was found that recorded track along the right runway edge matched the tyre tracks created by the aircraft and that it "was so accurately aligned with the runway edge lights that many of the elevated lights had passed between the double wheels of the nose undercarriage and the centre main undercarriage without being damaged". Since the MLG legs were 5 metres either side of the aircraft fore-aft centreline, all MLG wheels "remained on either the runway or the strengthened shoulder". However, the outboard right-hand engine was over the grass during the excursion and came within 4 metres of a row of movement area guidance signs. It was confirmed that "the taxiway and runway physical dimensions, markings and lighting installations on the aerodrome met the CAA design standards for an international airport that supported operations in conditions of very low visibility". It was noted that "the runway centreline was marked with flush-mounted white lights" and that they were differentiated from the elevated edge lights by their spacing and intensity with the centreline lights 15 metres apart and the edge lights 60 meters apart. These centreline lights have "narrowly focussed beams aligned with the centre of the runway”. The elevated runway edge lights have "narrow, high-intensity beams angled in towards the runway centre at three degrees from the edge line and omnidirectional beams". It was noted that the effect of these characteristics was that when an aircraft is on the centreline, "runway edge and centreline lights appear as three white lines converging in the far distance, with the edge lights brighter than the centreline lights". TWR Controllers were able to vary the intensity of the runway and taxiway lighting through a range of preset steps and although they were recommended to use particular intensities for specific conditions, they were allowed some discretion and could adjust settings if a pilot so requested. In an attempt to understand how the Captain's attention was diverted from continuing to follow the green lead in lights as the aircraft entered the runway, it was noted that his view would have been interrupted when he looked outside to check that the approach was clear and then up to the overhead panel to select the landing lights on and the taxi lights to the higher take off position. The tight turn to the right onto the edge lights had occurred when his view outside was redirected towards the runway after looking away and it was considered that this "suggests that his mistake occurred after he had lost his previous lead-in cues". It was considered that at this point, "the brighter landing lights reflecting off the concrete runway may have diminished the visibility of the taxiway centreline lights, although the paint marking would have become more visible". Since the operator's Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) allowed the PF to choose whether to select the landing lights on themselves or ask the