Air traffic controllers must, as part of the normal discharge of their operational duties, employ countermeasures to keep threats, errors and undesired states from reducing margins of safety in ATC operations. Examples of countermeasures would include checklists, briefings, and prescribed procedures, as well as personal strategies and tactics. It is an interesting observation from the flight deck environment that flight crews dedicate significant amounts of time and energies to the application of countermeasures to ensure margins of safety during flight operations. Many but not all countermeasures are necessarily air traffic controller actions. Some countermeasures to threats, errors and undesired states that air traffic controllers employ build upon "hard" resources provided by the aviation system. These resources are already in place in the system before air traffic controllers report for duty, and are therefore considered as systemic-based countermeasures. The following would be examples of "hard" resources that air traffic controllers employ as systemic-based countermeasures: Minimum Sector Altitude Warning (MSAW). Short-Term Conflict Alert (STCA). Standard operating procedures (SOPs). Briefings; and. Professional training.. Other countermeasures are more directly related to the human contribution to the safety of ATC operations. These are personal strategies and tactics, individual and team countermeasures, that typically include canvassed skills, knowledge and attitudes developed by human performance training, most notably, by Team Resource Management (TRM) training. There are basically four categories of individual and team countermeasures: Team countermeasures - leadership and the communication environment - essential for the flow of information and team member participation;. Planning countermeasures - planning, preparation, briefings, contingency management - essential for managing anticipated and unexpected threats;. Execution countermeasures - monitor/cross-check, scanning, flight strip management, workload and automation management - essential for error detection and error response; and. Review/modify countermeasures - evaluation of plans, inquiry - essential for managing the changing conditions of a shift.. In its optimal form TEM is the product of the combined use of systemic-based and individual and team countermeasures.