Crossing point. In most cases vectoring is used to solve crossing conflicts. It is usually most efficient to turn the aircraft that would reach the crossing point later and in the direction of the other aircraft, i.e. if the conflicting traffic is to the left, then the turn should also be to the left. The manoeuvre effectively places the aircraft being vectored behind the other one. If for some reason the first aircraft needs to be vectored, this would require a much larger deviation.. Closest Point of Approach (CPA) - this is the moment when the distance between the two aircraft reaches its minimum. It should be noted that in general, the separation between aircraft continues to reduce for some time even after the first aircraft to reach the crossing point has crossed the track of the second one. The difference between the separation when the first aircraft reaches the crossing point and the moment of CPA depends on the conflict geometry. For example, if the tracks cross at right angle and both aircraft fly at the same ground speed then the separation at the CPA will be about 70% of the separation at the crossing point. Therefore, if the conflict is measured at the crossing point (which is easier in case there is no tactical controller tool available), the controller needs to include a safety buffer to compensate for this separation reduction.. The sooner, the better. An instruction given well in advance will have (almost) no impact on flight efficiency while solving the situation safely. For example, even a 5 degree heading change would result in about 6 miles displacement to the left/right after 10 minutes. On the other hand, if the conflict is happening after 3-4 minutes, the deviation may need to be 20 degrees or even more in some situations.. Wind direction and speed. Generally, it is advisable to take advantage of the wind e.g. by turning the second aircraft into the wind to reduce its speed. This may reduce the necessary time an aircraft has to fly on a heading and generally help in resolving the situation faster.. Aircraft speeds. Vectoring the faster aircraft would result in more spacing after the same amount of time.. Limitations, e.g. during weather avoidance vectoring may not be a feasible method for conflict solving.. Track crossing angle. An acute crossing angle means a larger deviation would be necessary to reach the desired separation (compared to a right angle). Generally, the bigger the angle of crossing, the smaller the necessary vector (0 degrees meaning the same direction and 180 - opposite).. Turn direction. If the instruction "turn left/right heading [ABC]" is used and the present heading is unknown then the manoeuvre performed may surprise the controller (e.g. if the heading is 360 then "Turn left heading 005" would result in the aircraft making an orbit instead of a small turn to the left).. Misunderstanding. Sometimes it is possible for the flightcrew to confuse instructions like "Turn left 10 degrees" and "Turn