the black one found still in place on the removed CPC and also carried a yellow tag with the sign: IMPORTANT – Remove these CAPS after installation. The diagram below compares the two. It was determined that when the active No 2 CPC experienced a transmission error climbing through FL 305 during the investigated flight, it reverted to stand-by mode and the No 1 CPC took over. Since this was not functioning normally, the Outflow Valve opened fully as soon as Manual Mode was selected in the initial response to the problem encountered and the valve was not then manually controlled. The Investigation noted that the maintenance engineer who had failed to remove the No 1 CPC shipping plug before fitting the unit on the aeroplane stated that, having carried out CPC procedures and tests several times during troubleshooting of the reported fault before fitting a new unit, he had been "over-familiar with the procedure". It was considered that this meant that installation had not been carried out in full accordance with the applicable procedure and instead, some parts of the task were done from memory, during which a "memory lapse" occurred. It was noted that the black shipping plug fitted would not have stood out from the black surface of the CPC housing and that the colour and shape of the shipping plug were very similar to the thumbscrew hold-down used to secure the unit in position on the aircraft. The OEM involved stated that the drill hole in the side of the shipping plug was meant to hold a tag and since it was reported not to have been there, it was "likely that the tag had fallen off". It was noted that both the CMM and the Aircraft Maintenance Manual made clear reference to the need to remove the shipping plug before fitting the CPC to the aircraft. However, the Investigation took the view that "the shipping plug should be designed in a way that it stands out from its surroundings" which, whilst this could be achieved shape and colour, would be best supplemented by "a tag which is noticeable and long enough to cover the keys of the CPC which the maintenance personnel needs to use for the pressurisation system ground test". It was also considered that the pressurisation system ground test which was conducted after CPC installation as required was "not suited" to detect the error made. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The Immediate Causes were that: Due to an omission during the installation of the cabin pressure controller the shipping plug was not removed from the static port as required by written procedure.. During the flight a pressure difference was measured and the OFV opened which resulted in rapid decompression.. The Systemic Causes were that: The shipping plug was not clearly noticeable and did not carry a tag.. The pressurisation system ground test after installation was not suitable to detect the error.. One Safety Recommendation was issued during the