On 4 April 2012, a Boeing 737-800 (MSN 33546) being operated by an Irish carrier on a scheduled passenger flight from Bergamo to East Midlands and in the climb approaching FL310 in day Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) declared a MAYDAY and made an emergency descent after loss of pressurisation control occurred before making an en route diversion to Frankfurt Hahn without further event. Some minor passenger injuries attributable to the sudden pressure changes were reported. Investigation The Swiss Accident Investigation Board delegated the Investigation to the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU)). Data from the SSFDR and the SSVCR were successfully downloaded, as were Non Volatile Memory data from the Cabin Pressure Controllers. Relevant ATC radar recordings were also available. The flight crew consisted of a Commander with 5800 hours of his 6000 total flying hours on type and a First Officer with 120 hours of his 820 total flying hours on type. About 13 minutes after take-off, the aircraft was in the climb above the Swiss Alps when a sudden change in cabin pressurisation was detected. The cabin pressure rate of change was observed to be indicating the maximum climb indication of 4,000 fpm and cabin altitude had exceeded 10,000 feet. Both pilots donned their oxygen masks and the commander requested completion of the Cabin Altitude Warning/Rapid Depressurization checklist. Manual control was not effective and, one and a half minutes after the first indication of a pressurisation problem, an emergency descent was commenced and a MAYDAY declared to ATC. The crew initiated an emergency descent from FL308, initially to FL130 and eventually to FL100 and informed ATC of a turn to the left. The Investigation found that soon after the emergency descent began, separation was lost against an Airbus A319 also flying north at FL300 with the CPA 4.5 nm horizontally and about 325 ft vertically. On reaching FL100, it was decided to divert to Frankfurt Hahn and this was accomplished uneventfully. The Purser reported that "a few passengers had had brief problems putting their masks on" and it was reported that one of the 134 passengers had suffered a ruptured ear drum and twelve others had been treated for earaches. An external examination of the two Cabin Pressure Controllers (CPCs) after the flight found that the static port sensor of the No 1 CPC was covered with a black shipping plug. It was found that after the completion of flying at East Midlands the previous day, this CPC had been replaced as a precautionary action after no fault could be found to explain problems reported with the cabin pressure control. Earlier on the day of the event under investigation, the aircraft involved had flown from East Midlands to Bergamo at FL 370 with the No 2 CPC in control. It was noted that when both CPCs were removed and replaced with new units after the event flight, the replacement units had been equipped with shipping plugs which were yellow and larger than