Vortices begin at rotation speed (Vr), rather than the start of roll, and separation should therefore be based on the time between rotation of successive aircraft. However, for practical reasons, ATC base their timing for separation on time of roll. A heavier aircraft may have a longer/slower take-off run than the following aircraft, reducing actual separation time.. When considered necessary, be prepared to remind departure ATC of the minimum time you require behind a preceding heavier aircraft and do not accept instructions to begin your take off roll before the prescribed time separation is achievable at the anticipated point of rotation.. The following aircraft is unlikely to be exposed to wake turbulence if: there is sufficient crosswind on the departure runway as the vortices will move down wind at the speed of the cross-wind component. its flight path stays above that followed by the preceding heavier aircraft until their tracks cease to be the same, and, it complies with the recommended spacing between departures.. there is sufficient crosswind on the departure runway as the vortices will move down wind at the speed of the cross-wind component.. its flight path stays above that followed by the preceding heavier aircraft until their tracks cease to be the same, and,. it complies with the recommended spacing between departures.. Including in the pre-flight advice to passengers an invitation to keep their seat belts done up, even when the seat belt sign is off unless moving around the cabin, minimises the risk of passenger injury if there is an unexpected encounter with turbulence en route.. In cruise, maintain situational awareness of other aircraft in the vicinity which appear to be on similar / crossing tracks ahead and at or above your own level, especially if you will climb or descend behind larger aircraft type in level flight, or if you are in level flight with a larger aircraft climbing or descending ahead. Pilots should beware flying through descending contrails from a preceding aircraft as these indicate the presence of vortices.. Consider a track offset of 1nm upwind if following a higher aircraft at similar ground speed when allowed by airspace regulations or via specific ATC approval. Also, a change of FL to cross “HEAVY” or “SUPER” traffic flight path from above can be used when feasible and authorised by ATC.. Check tropopause height during pre-flight briefing as, when flying below the tropopause, wake vortex decay is much slower and the risk of severe encounters is greater.. Be prepared to select seat belt signs to ‘on’ and instruct working cabin crew to secure themselves for a precautionary interval if the above conditions are identified in due time.. In case of a wake encounter, pilots should: Be aware that experience has demonstrated that if the pilot reacts at the first roll motion, when in the core of the vortex, the roll motion could be potentially amplified by this initial pilot action.. Be aware that some in-flight incidents have demonstrated that pilot inputs may exacerbate the unusual attitude