Two of the latest documents issued by EASA detail the final ATCO LPR decisions that now guide the European Union’s NAAs and ANSPs, and place these decisions into a 2020–2024 planning context. Essentially, they explain what is now in place and further steps to be taken to improve the performance of ATCOs who are qualified to conduct their duties in English as needed, and those who are qualified to conducted their duties only in languages other than English — typically based on the demand at specific aerodromes and airspace. The European Plan for Aviation Safety (EPAS 2020-2024), published in November 2019, highlights the status of ATCO and pilot LPRs and the focus of EASA’s latest planning: EASA was able to declare launch of its “post-implementation” phase of ATCO LPR, as noted, because the agency had finalised the Easy Access Rules for Standardised European Rules of the Air (SERA) in December 2018. The most pertinent SERA regulation — SERA.14015, “Language to Be Used in Air-Ground Communication” — was the culmination of a multi-year consultation process with EU NAAs, ANSPs, ATCOs and other stakeholders. The following abbreviated key provisions settled longstanding disagreements about ATCO LPRs or, by their absence, deferral of an open question until a later time: “In that case, those member states shall, by 31 December 2017 at the latest, conduct a study on the possibility to require the use of the English language for communications between the ATS unit and aircraft at those aerodromes for reasons of safety, so as to avoid incursions of aircraft on an occupied runway or other safety risks, while taking into account the applicable provisions of [European] Union and national law on the use of languages; [and,] Beyond these provisions applicable to all NAAs and ANSPs, SERA.14015 recognises that some NAAs and ANSPs may want to modify ATCOs’ use of English language at specific aerodromes with more than 50,000 international IFR movements per year. If suitable justification is provided, EASA can accept deviations “for specific cases, based on an individual assessment of the local arrangements. In any case, deviation from the requirement should be limited to exceptional cases and should be accompanied with a safety assessment.” The independent assessment of the proposed deviation’s safety impact requires consulting any available accident and incident investigation reports (at least at the EU level) in which ATCOs’ use of any language has been identified as an accident’s contributing factor. The NAA also is expected to document “the proportion of pilots frequenting that airport, with English language proficiency endorsement [and] the proportion of pilots frequenting that airport, lacking language proficiency endorsement in the alternative language to be used.” Through SERA’s provisions, EASA also encourages NAAs/ANSPs to consider requiring ATCOs’ use of the English language at aerodromes with less than 50,000 international IFR movements per year “based on local needs, such as seasonally high levels of international air traffic.”