This section briefly summarises steps since the late 1990s that have shaped LPRs for ATCOs at the global level and within the European Union (EU), according to ICAO and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The EU offers an example for regions and NAAs of how to reach consensus on controversial related issues and how to implement long-term solutions. At the global level: The decision to address language proficiency–related threats to safety involving pilots and ATCOs was made in September 1998 as a direct response to an accident that involved 349 fatalities. The initiative also considered previous fatal accidents in which the lack of proficiency in English was a causal factor.. Between 1998 and 2008, the Air Navigation Commission developed new language-related provisions for four ICAO annexes.. States were required in November 2003 to make available proficient English-speaking ATCOs at all air traffic control (ATC) ground stations serving designated airports and routes used by international air services.. In 2007, ICAO urged those contracting states “not in a position to comply with the language proficiency requirements by the applicability date” to post their language proficiency implementation plans including their interim measures to mitigate risk.. Within three years after the 5 March 2008 applicability date, pilots and ATCOs in defined international operations were required to speak and understand English as an international language for radiotelephony communications. Each person’s ability had to be demonstrated according to ICAO’s new LPR holistic descriptors and its six-level language proficiency rating scale (i.e., passing the corresponding tests at Level 4 or above).. As cited by documents in this article and other SKYbrary articles, efforts to increase LPR compliance by states and to publish the latest state differences have continued from this formative period until 2020.. NAAs are responsible for the oversight of language proficiency assessments when issuing ATCO licenses or rendering valid licenses issued in other states.. ICAO also has urged CAAs to collect and analyse language test/assessment results and to analyse their safety occurrence reporting system, and all other other safety data, to detect and resolve cases of language proficiency becoming a causal factor..