had either failed during landing at Newquay on the previous flight or during the subsequent takeoff. Although the former would have made it possible for the pilot performing the pre flight external check to notice that the right aileron was at an unusual angle, since this inspection had been carried out “at night (and) in gusty, showery conditions” it would have been more difficult to detect this abnormality. It was noted that a long history of excessive cable wear at the point where this cable had failed had eventually, in 2015, resulted in the issue of optional SB 84-27-68 which introduced modified aileron and spoiler cables with the aim of reducing cable wear at the “critical point” near the pulley wheel and extending the required inspection interval. However this modified cable had not been fitted to the aircraft under investigation. The operational implications of a failed aileron cable were considered. It was found that whilst an on-ground failure of the upper cable will cause the aileron to deflect downwards, deflection after such a failure in flight would be dependent on the aerodynamic loads consequent on the speed of the aircraft. The FDR data from the flight was found to show that the left aileron had at times reached a “high trailing edge up” position during the flight under investigation, which would have led to an un-commanded roll that would need to be corrected either by the pilot or by the AP. It was noted that failure of an aileron control cable had been assessed as “Minor” during the certification process on the basis that it “would not significantly reduce aircraft safety and would involve crew actions well within their capabilities”. FDR data also showed that the cable failure had occurred when the aircraft had been experiencing repetitive periods in flight during which the right aileron did not respond to control yoke movements both during the flight under investigation and during a succession of those which preceded it. The operator had not established the cause of this issue (which was also found to be affecting 36 other aircraft in their DHC8-400 fleet) before it ceased trading early in 2020. The flight crew’s non use of the applicable QRH Checklist was reviewed. It was noted that their statement that the control yoke had to be displaced by up to 40° to the right to maintain level flight was effectively characterising the problem encountered as an uncommanded roll to the left. It was noted that the applicable Checklist commenced with an instruction to hold the wings level and then (since the spoiler 1/2 captions had not illuminated) to “apply power and increase airspeed” although with no guidance as to how much. The manufacturer advised that the purpose of increasing airspeed was to improve roll authority with the remaining controls. It was noted that the second part of the Checklist covered landing and directed the crew to land at an airport with minimal crosswind. It also suggested the use of flap 15 or 35,