After a delay in notification of the event, a Field Investigation was carried by the UK AAIB. Relevant FDR data was available but relevant data from the 2 hour CVR was overwritten because it had not been electrically isolated after the aircraft arrived at Exeter. It was noted that the 51 year-old Captain had a total of 8,778 hours flying experience including 5,257 hours on type. The First Officer had recently been employed by the operator as a direct entry Captain and was required by their procedures to complete three months as a First Officer before transitioning to command status. The Captain was PF for the departure due to adverse strong winds but intended to hand control to the First Officer at a suitable point once airborne. At 1,000 feet aal, the Captain engaged the AP and passed control to the First Officer who set an appropriate en-route heading. The First Officer stated that having felt that the aircraft had “struggled” to maintain the right turn which this heading required, he had informed the Captain of “an issue with the controls” and pointed out that the control yoke was deflected significantly to the right with the wings level to an extent estimated by the Captain to have been 30° to 40°. The Captain briefly took control noting the control yoke displacement did not change when the AP was disconnected. He considered that when flown manually the aircraft felt in trim and there was no unusual feedback through the controls. The AP was reselected, and control passed back to the First Officer. After stopping the climb at FL200, it was decide to divert to Exeter. As descent began, the First Officer noticed that the amount of control deflection required to keep the wings level was increasing. The crew advised that the QRH was consulted but no relevant checklist was found but it was subsequently noted during the Investigation that it contained a procedure for “Roll Control Malfunction” (see below) which the aircraft manufacturer advised was relevant. A precautionary ‘PAN’ was declared to ATC. The Captain concluded that given that the control yoke was deflected to the right, it would be preferable to fly left turns whilst positioning to land and a corresponding request was made to ATC. As the flight neared Exeter, the cabin was not ready for landing and so a request to hold was made to enter the hold. As airspeed reduced, the outboard spoilers became active and the control yoke deflection was observed to reduce. Once the cabin had been secured, the aircraft was positioned onto a left hand downwind leg for an approach to Runway 08 and the Captain took over as PF. On disconnecting the AP, he recalled a slight pull to the right on the control yoke but felt that the aircraft was completely controllable. The approach and landing were uneventful, and a normal landing after 40 miutes airborne followed. The QRH Roll Control Malfunction Checklist. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Post flight inspection of