the roll control system found that the lower left aileron cable had broken just outboard of the left engine where it passed over a pulley to accommodate a change in the wing dihedral (see the illustration below). The broken aileron cable and its associated pulley. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that roll control was enabled by a combination of ailerons and roll spoilers. The latter consist of an inboard and outboard hydraulically powered spoiler on each wing. The inboard spoilers operate across the full speed range but the outboard spoilers automatically de-activated as the speed rises above 170 knots and reactivated as the speed reduces through 165 knots. The position of all four roll spoilers is displayed to the flight crew. The left control column is connected to the roll spoiler control circuit and the right one to the aileron control circuit. For normal operations the connected control columns mean that either one operates both ailerons and roll spoilers. The aileron and roll spoiler control cables were routed along the wing rear spar and were both closed-loop circuits consisting of upper and lower cables with turnbuckles to set a nominal tension of 97 lb (+/- 2.5 lb) which could be adjusted in accordance with the AMM for variations due to local air temperature. Immediately outboard of each engine, where the failure occurred, it was noted that pulleys alter the cable direction by approximately 3° to accommodate a change in the wing dihedral. FDR data indicated that the aileron cable break had not been present during the earlier approach and landing but had been present during takeoff and thereafter. The aircraft manufacturer stated that the data showed that the position of the left aileron and control of it was dependent on a number of factors including the aircraft speed and the direction of turn. In particular, when the control yoke was moved to the left, the intact cable on the left aileron “would pull the surface upwards”, but when it was moved to the right, “the tension in the intact cable would reduce and the aileron would be moved by aerodynamic loads”. The manufacturer confirmed that the aircraft had sufficient roll authority with the left aileron in the most adverse position and that was the justification for such a failure of an aileron control cable being assessed as “minor” during type certification. The removed failed cable, which was subject to ‘on-condition’ maintenance and had been fitted for six years and flown approximately 13,000 hours, left a residue on a cloth when wiped and had a heavy accumulation of dirt where the aileron and spoiler cables ran along the inboard section of the rear spar. A detailed examination of the failed cable and its associated pulley using optical and scanning electron microscopes found all wire failure within the cable was attributable to progressive in-service wear rather than to any “manufacturing anomalies, corrosion or fatigue”. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it was considered that the cable