but the aircraft manufacturer stated that the aircraft was cleared to land with flaps set to 10, 15 or 35 and it was only the operator’s version of the QRH that suggested avoiding of flap 10. It was further noted that the Checklist also directs the use of the non-normal LDR table in the QRH but since it was not used, the normal VREF and landing distance were used but since the Exeter runway used was longer than the increased LDR, this had no consequences. Finally, extensive use of FDR data on flight control movement during the Investigation highlighted a previously identified problem arising from the use of non-reversible filters to smooth out the detected position of primary flight control command inputs via both the control columns and the rudder pedals which prevented the actual control surface positions being reliably reconstructed. This issue had been resolved by FAA regulatory action in 2010 which applied to this aircraft type but corresponding European action had been absent despite previous AAIB Safety Recommendations made in 1999 having been accepted. It was, however, noted that the applicable ICAO SARPs under Annex 6 Part 1 which cover the construction and operation of FDR systems do not cover the issue. The Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The most probable reason for the aileron cable breaking was that its strength had reduced as a result of wear leading to the failure of individual wires within the cable. The cable failed where it passed over a pulley on the rear wing spar where dirt accumulates which can penetrate into the strands and form an abrasive compound. This can accelerate the normal rate of cable wear. Post-modification cables are available which have a sleeve fitted over the susceptible section to prevent the ingress of dirt. The Investigation established that the inspection procedure in the AMM would not have detected the damage to individual wires that run inside the cable. [Although] the unresponsive right aileron on the aircraft was not causal to this Serious Incident [...] further investigation is required to determine if there is a wider safety issue. Filters applied to some of the flight control parameters recorded on the FDR can affect the reconstruction of the rapid movement of the controls. Such filters are not permitted to be installed on the DHC-8-400 aircraft registered in the USA, but there is no similar requirement on aircraft registered in Europe or the UK. While this did not affect this Investigation, this could affect others safety investigations. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that Transport Canada require De Havilland Canada to determine why the aileron control surfaces on the DHC-8-400 series of aircraft can become unresponsive to control yoke movements and ensure that the findings and any rectification action is promulgated to operators. [2020-024]. that The European Union Aviation Safety Agency require that the flight data recorder system fitted to DHC-8-400 series of aircraft registered in the United Kingdom record unfiltered data