quantity in each tank during each review and compare this review with the previous to detect that correct fuel transfer, particularly from the centre tank to the wing tanks, had occurred. The appropriate context for this observation was, however, considered to be as follows:. The scope of the automation in contemporary Airbus aircraft subtly encourages reliance on the fuel computers and flight warning system to manage and monitor fuel transfer. The information on the CRUISE status page shows the fuel burn by each engine and the total fuel used. This information, coupled with the total fuel on board shown on the upper ECAM display, does not take into account where the fuel is or how much fuel is available to each engine at any one time. Moreover, since no fuel had been lost, comparison of these totals with the fuel loaded and the fuel required to reach destination would not have shown anything amiss. Expressing this issue simply, there was adequate fuel on board but it was not in the right places and the flight crew were not checking its distribution, nor were they required to do so. Although the Post Flight Report (PFR) produced by the CMC was invaluable as an investigative data source, especially when combined with FDR and CVR data, there were some limitations to this data which, had they not existed could have assisted in identifying or at least further verifying the analysis based on the available information. In particular, it only showed the first occurrence of a fault so that an intermittent fault or even two separate occurrences of the same fault message of differing origin cannot be identified.. Although it turned out not to be directly related to the investigated event, it was noted that at the time it occurred, A340-600 flight deck indications of an ‘FCMC1(2) FAULT’ had been quite frequent across the world fleet for at least three years and had been identified as arising from a system software fault which a number of software upgrades had failed to resolve. A check of the Virgin Atlantic A340-600 fleet found that in the three months prior to the investigated event, almost 40% of flights made by the seven aircraft in the fleet had experienced this fault. In the light of this situation, the prevailing procedure at the operator in the event of this indication had been agreed with Airbus as “a SINGLE FCMC FAULT ECAM caution in flight can be cleared by a single reset there is no requirement for flight crew to raise an entry in the technical log”.’ It was noted that the latest relevant software upgrade, “Flight Load 8” was “about to be fitted” to the operator’s A340-600 fleet and that its primary purpose was to rectify the problem with false ‘FCMC FAULT’ messages.. It quickly became clear during the Investigation that most of the information which would help in finding the root cause would be found within the various system control computers which provided far more information than the