After delegation of responsibility for an investigation by the Netherlands as the State of Occurrence to the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB), it was determined that the event had been sufficiently serious to warrant a ‘Major Investigation’ and the issue of a Formal Report upon its conclusion. Both the FDR and CVR were successfully replayed at the AAIB and FDR data was available for the entire flight and the two hour CVR contained recorded date commencing about half an hour before the rundown of the first engine and continuing until after landing. A QAR was also installed on the aircraft and would normally have recorded the same data as the FDR but was found to not to have done so because it was full to capacity prior to the event occurring. It was noted that the augmented flight crew involved consisted of a 43 year-old Captain who had a total of 7,000 hours flying experience of which 3,100 hours were on type, a 37 year-old First Officer who had a total of 7,690 hours flying experience of which 4,130 hours were on type and a 31 year-old Relief First Officer with a total of 4,445 hours flying experience of which 380 hours were on type. It was also noted that this flight crew had been scheduled for a series of flight duties over a nine-day period during which they had operated from the UK to Australia in accordance with the operator’s approved FTL (Flight Time Limitation) scheme. The scheduled flight duty period for the investigated flight was 14 hours 15 minutes and the allowable flight duty period, which varied according to the amount of in-flight rest taken, was in excess of this. It was noted that there was one relevant entry in the Technical Log made prior to the departure from Hong Kong and after the previous sector from Sydney to Hong Kong. This stated that the two Fuel Control Monitoring Computers (FCMCs) had been successfully reset at separate times during the previous sector and had both failed again during pre-flight preparation for the flight to London with resets by the flight crew in accordance with the QRH being successful on each occasion. The Investigation was subsequently told that the crew had “noticed a brief flicker on the ECAM of ‘FCMC FAULT’ whilst taxiing out at Hong Kong but were not sure which FCMC was shown and no action was taken”. It was also stated that soon after takeoff, an ECAM alert ‘FCMC2 FAULT’ had been displayed but since there were no ECAM actions associated with this fault, the Captain “decided to delay any attempt at a computer reset until the aircraft had reached its cruise level”. This was subsequently attempted using the computer reset procedure in the QRH but the reset was unsuccessful and the flight had continued with no further fuel system warnings, cautions or messages thereafter. About 90 minutes after the Captain returned from his rest period and took over as PF, with the flight now