exact fuel status remained in their minds for the rest of the flight”. The diversion to Amsterdam was completed on three engines without further developments and landing there occurred 40 minutes after the No 1 engine failure had occurred. It was noted that fuel on the aircraft type involved is held in eight separate fuel tanks each identified as shown in the illustration below and a collector cell within each of the four inner fuel tanks supplied fuel to the main and standby feed fuel pumps for the corresponding engine. The fuel system is fully automatic in normal operation under the control of two Fuel Control and Monitoring Computers ( FCMCs) which can, if necessary, be overridden by manual selections on the fuel control panel. The normal level for a low fuel warning, which did not occur is 1,000 kg as calculated by the FCMC in use. Fuel Tank Layout of the A340-600. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Following the diversion, the Central Maintenance Computer (CMC) was accessed to obtain a Post Flight Report (PFR) which detailed the flight deck effects and faults detected and recorded by the CMC during the flight. The total quantity of fuel on board at touchdown was found to have been 22,961 kg made up of 2,641 kg, 5,922 kg, 5,370 kg and 2,584 kg in the inner tanks in the order 1-4. The centre fuel tank quantity was 4,325 kg and the trim tank fuel quantity was 2,119 kg but both outer fuel tanks were empty. The aircraft was then comprehensively checked in accordance with advice provided by Airbus and all engines were then started and ground run. With no findings of significance in relation to safe flight, the aircraft was manually refuelled and the aircraft then was positioned to London Heathrow as a non-revenue flight. After this flight, the low-level fuel warnings for the Inner 1 and Inner 4 fuel tanks were confirmed to be working normally and valve operation was confirmed. The two FCMCs, the Fuel Data Concentrators (FDCs), the Flight Warning Computers (FWCs) and the System Data Acquisition Computers (SDAC)s were inspected and removed from the aircraft for further testing. No defects in these computers, their associated wiring, connectors or the security of their installation were found. Both FCMCs passed all of these tests and no faults were found in either of the FDCs. Troubleshooting data from each SDAC was retrieved and no evidence of any unit malfunction relevant to the Investigation was found. Considerably more system investigation work eventually concluded that the Master FCMC had been making automatic fuel transfers until 3 hours 20 minutes after takeoff. Had the slave FCMC detected that the master FCMC had failed, it should have taken over from the master FCMC but it had not. This meant that from this point in the flight, the crew were unaware that automatic fuel transfer had stopped mainly due to the lack of any resultant ECAM warnings thereafter. The first of these warnings would have been displayed