at the point of fuel transfer system failure when the Inner 1 fuel tank quantity dropped below 17,200 kg with fuel remaining in the centre tank. This warning would have then been shown again just over 1½ hours later when the contents of the same tank dropped below 14,000 kg. This second ECAM action would have then directed the flight crew to use the manual fuel transfer to move fuel from the centre to inner fuel tanks. A little over 4 hours after this second ECAM warning should have occurred, the contents of the Inner 1 tanks dropped below 4,000 kg, which should have initiated a forward transfer of trim tank fuel which, when it did not happen, should have led to an ECAM trim tank transfer fault warning which would have prompted manual transfer. An hour after this third system warning should have occurred, the same tank quantity was down to 2,000 kg at which point automatic transfer from the outer to the inner fuel tanks should have begun. When it did not, a corresponding ECAM fault warning should have been annunciated, which would have required operation of the manual outer tank transfer switch. Finally, after a further half hour, the fuel left in this tank was down to 1,000 kg and generated an ECAM ‘INR 1 LO LVL’ warning for which the required ECAM response would have been to open the cross feed valves and to operate all the manual fuel transfer switches on the overhead panel. If this warning had not been triggered, the next one - ‘CELL 1 NOT FULL’ - should have occurred when the Inner 1 collector cell quantity dropped below 750 litres for which the response would have been to open the cross feed valves manually. Since all of these warnings should have been generated by the master FCMC and sent via the FCMC ARINC output buses ‘A’ and ‘B’ to the FWCs, it was concluded that there were only three potential explanations. Either both FWCs were inoperative (which was not the case since when the No 1 engine ran down, at least one of them correctly triggered a warning and the subsequent failures of affected secondary systems). In any case, full testing of both FWCs had not found any faults or identified any defects in the DMCs to which each FWC communicated.. Warnings were not generated by the master FCMC but testing of both FCMCs had shown that both were able to correctly compute the subject failures and communicate these on the relevant ARINC output buses.. The ARINC output buses between the master FCMC and the FWC were inoperative.. This left the most probable explanation for the lack of ECAM warnings as failure of the ARINC output buses A and B from the master FCMC. However, a problem with this explanation was recognised as the system design which treats failure of both ARINC output buses A and B on one FCMC as a failure of that FCMC which would cause the alternative