FCMC to take over as master. It was therefore further concluded that both FCMCs had lost their ability to produce warning signals. It was noted that a failure of the master FCMC’s output buses would explain the absence of fuel transfer and the collector cell low quantity warnings since these can only be generated by the master FCMC. A detailed assessment of the Master/Slave FCMC relationship by the Investigation then led to the conclusion that it was possible for a Master FCMC to remain as Master despite losing all of its discrete and ARINC-communicated outputs despite the availability of a Slave FCMC which was fully capable using its own ARINC output busses to trigger the Flight Warning Computers’ (FWCs) to display ‘FCMC1+2 FAULT’ and any other fuel warning messages. In the context of the crew’s use of the hard copy FCOM/QRH as well as ECAM procedures as they sought to resolve the fuel transfer problem they had identified, it was considered that the use of the former in this way to identify and solve system problems in flight “was never intended by the aircraft manufacturer”. The following “human factor consequences” of fuel system complexity were documented by the Investigation:. Fuel transfer within the aircraft is both automated and complex as fuel is used to manage the aircraft’s centre of gravity in flight. Because of the automation and complexity of fuel management, pilots are unlikely to acquire a confident expectation of what is a ‘normal’ fuel distribution during flight. The presentation of fuel quantities is in digital format and it needs particular attention to summate and cross-check fuel distributions. For example, to determine the total fuel quantity in one wing, perhaps to evaluate any lateral fuel imbalance, the contents of three tanks have to be added. These factors make it less likely that pilots will notice an ‘abnormal’ distribution without assistance from automatic fault detection. Once the pilots appreciated that the fuel transfer system had malfunctioned without any warning, they partially lost confidence in the ECAM upper and lower displays. However, had they been displayed, transfer arrows on the fuel system synoptic page and/or fuel transfer memos on the upper ECAM display could have restored confidence in their ability to transfer fuel manually. Unfortunately, these symbols were suppressed and so the pilots were uncertain about the efficacy of manual transfer. In respect of the flight crew’s ability to observe the contents of all fuel tanks at any time during the flight, it was noted that since the FWC did not produce any fuel-related warnings it would not have automatically led to the display of the fuel system page. Therefore, the flight crew would have had to have selected the fuel status page to review the system operation during the incident. The FDR data shows that they did so six times but during these ‘reviews’ the flight crew did not detect a failure of the automatic transfer. The only method of detecting the transfer failure would have been to record the fuel