nevertheless invaluable data downloaded from the FDR. It was therefore fortunate that the A340-600 was one of the most advanced public transport aircraft in service at the time and, as such, incorporated a large amount of advanced avionics equipment and specifically the fault memory in system control computers. However, whilst these were all useful in understanding what had happened, it was recognised that since they were designed to facilitate in-service troubleshooting rather than accident investigation, they had their limitations for this incidental purpose. It was considered that all accident investigators should be aware of the potential availability of such data in most of the more modern aircraft types and the value of extracting it at the earliest opportunity, noting that “because some computers only produce a hexadecimal readout, the original information may not look useful at first sight but when decoded by the manufacturer, it becomes very useful”. It was also noted that because these control computers exchange data, “it is possible that a computer outwith the suspected system may have clues as to what has happened within the faulty system”, as was particularly evident during this investigation since “the DMCs and FWCs contained information regarding the ARINC data bus status of the FCMCs”. The Airbus-specific usefulness of the Post Flight Report (PFR) was also noted as potentially being of more value than the aircraft Technical Log with “most operators of Airbus aircraft having a system which records each PFR following every flight”. This could, for example, be true of a known repetitive fault which flight crews either choose not to or are instructed not to enter in the Technical Log. In the current Investigation, a review of previous PFRs provided information on the extent to which ECAM ‘FCMC FAULT’ messages had been prevalent would otherwise have been impossible to establish. The Investigation determined that the Cause of fuel starvation in fuel tanks Inner 1 and Inner 4 and the subsequent rundown of engine number 1 and engine number 4 was as follows: Automatic transfer of fuel within the aircraft stopped functioning due to a failure of the discrete outputs of the master Fuel Control and Monitoring Computer (FCMC).. Due to FCMC ARINC data bus failures, the flight warning system did not provide the flight crew with any timely warnings associated with the automated fuel control system malfunctions.. The alternate low fuel level warning was not presented to the flight crew because the Flight Warning Computer (FWC) disregarded the Fuel Data Concentrator (FDC) data because its logic determined that at least one FCMC was still functioning.. The health status of the slave FCMC may have been at a lower level than that of the master FCMC, thus preventing the master FCMC from relinquishing control of the fuel system when its own discrete and ARINC outputs failed.. A total of six Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Airbus should review the FCMC master/ slave determination logic of the affected Airbus A340 aircraft so that an FCMC with a detected discrete