in Dutch airspace and level at FL 380, the No 1 engine failed and the ECAM ‘ENG 1 FAIL’ procedure, which included a prompt to consider relighting an undamaged engine, was actioned but without a relight attempt. After reviewing the aircraft relevant system and status pages, the crew noticed that the fuel contents for the Inner 1 tank, which feeds No 1 engine was reading zero and initially became concerned about the possibility of a fuel leak. The Captain asked the First Officer to ask the (currently resting) Relief First Officer (RFO) to inspect the left wing and engines from the cabin. He then called the SCCM to the flight deck for a briefing and whilst this was in progress, the First Officer drew his attention to the fact that the indicated thrust for the No 4 engine was reducing. The Captain “immediately opened all the fuel cross feed valves and, he thought, also opened the outer tank transfer valve, whereupon the No 4 engine recovered”. Having then seen that the Inner 4 tank contents indication was zero, he reported recognising that there was a fuel management problem. The RFO then reported that he had been unable to see anything abnormal with the No 1 engine and remained on the flight deck. After discussing the options with both First Officers, the Captain decided that “if they were able to relight No 1 engine, they would continue to Heathrow but if not, he would declare a MAYDAY and divert the flight”. Whilst this ultimately unsuccessful attempt to relight was in progress, the Captain noted that “fuel was not coming out of the centre tank and that there was only 2,700 kg in each wing” and had therefore asked the First Officer to transfer fuel manually from the trim and centre tanks into the wing tanks. Eighteen minutes after the No 1 engine had failed, a MAYDAY was declared to ATC and a diversion to Amsterdam requested and acknowledged. The First Officer used the ‘TRIM TANK FUEL UNUSABLE’ QRH procedure to attempt the fuel transfer but could see no evidence that any fuel was being transferred. Believing that fuel transfer was not occurring, he looked for another procedure and tried the FCOM ‘Fuel Trim Tank Transfer Fault’ procedure and found that “although the contents of the centre tank were increasing and fuel appeared to be transferring into it, fuel did not seem to be transferring out of it”. They then tried the ‘FCOM Fuel Centre/Inner Transfer Fault’ procedure in which it was stated that if the centre tank fuel contents are below 35 tonnes, centre tank fuel is unusable. At this time the flight crew “believed that both the centre, trim and outer wing tank fuel contents were unusable” which would have meant that they had only 10 tonnes of useable fuel on board. In fact, fuel transfer was occurring “but because the crew did not see all the indications that they expected on the system display, doubt and confusion concerning the