ensure that they are suitably robust and complete, and to ensure the viability of statements of responsibility provided in such service level agreements. [2021-28]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should periodically review the availability of in-house expertise, to ensure that the Department retains the necessary technical capabilities to intelligently oversee and review all activities associated with SAR aviation operations. [2021-029]. that the Irish Aviation Authority should review its arrangements, guidance and procedures for overseeing civilian operators providing SAR services within the State, to ensure that they are sufficiently robust and transparent so that all parties involved have a full understanding of the scope and limits of their responsibilities and that agency interface arrangements are designed for optimal clarity and shared understanding. [2021-30]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that the Department has sufficient specialist aviation expertise to enable it to discharge effective oversight of the full range of Irish Aviation Authority activities. [2021-31]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should institute a detailed review of the Irish Aviation Authority’s regulatory and oversight mechanisms to ensure that they are sufficiently robust and comprehensive and that interfaces and delineation of responsibilities are clearly defined and understood by the Irish Aviation Authority and the entities it regulates. [2021-032]. that the European Commission should carry out a review of how SAR is managed in EU member states with a view to identifying best practice/minimum safety standards and, as appropriate, promulgating guidance for SAR operations using civil registered aircraft, which at the moment are excluded from Regulation (EU) No 2018/1139 so that an appropriate and uniform level of basic safety will apply in civil SAR operations throughout Europe. [2021-033]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should engage with the European Union Aviation Safety Agency and the European Commission to ensure that an appropriate SAR regulatory framework, and associated guidance material are in place whether by opt-in to Regulation (EU) No 2018/1139, or otherwise. [2021-034]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should review the SAR/Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS) Decision Tree and all arrangements regarding the tasking of SAR helicopters to ensure that there is maximum clarity in the tasking process and that HEMS missions are not conducted under provisions which should only apply to SAR missions. [2021-035]. that the Irish Aviation Authority should ensure that its review procedures for operators that carry out multiple mission types, particularly where different regulatory regimes are in place, consider and address all aspects of mission differentiation, to ensure that operators are applying full, appropriate regulatory rigour to all flights. [2021-036]. that CHC Ireland should review and update its offshore survival training procedures to ensure that all helicopter crews carry out their mandatory training wearing the safety clothing and types of equipment that would be worn during day-to-day operations, and to ensure that the correct functioning and compatibility of all safety clothing/equipment is verified during this training. [2021-037]. that CHC Ireland should review and update its procedures relating to the introduction into service of non-mandatory equipment generally,