guide, routes did not include a vertical profile or, usually, minimum altitudes for route legs and routes were not available for use in the full flight simulator.. The Route Guide was prefaced with the statement that it was ‘a work in progress and should be used with the necessary caution until all routes/waypoints are proven’. There was no defined process for route proving and in the absence of formal, standardised training, design procedure or procedure for how a crew should use a route guide, it was unclear what beliefs/expectations individual pilots may have had regarding routes and how they could be used. Problems with a number of routes had been identified through crew safety reporting but these were closed without any check that routes with problems had actually been corrected.. There were wider failings in the CHC Ireland SMS with procedures not following those documented and/or obviously necessary, risk assessments being carried out by inadequately trained personnel, and failure to properly record important safety information.. The reliance by CHC Ireland on a secondary duty model to discharge safety critical tasks meant that matters could arise and be left in abeyance while personnel were on leave, off-shift or otherwise engaged in their primary SAR duties.. Despite the fact that its published reports and Aeronautical Notice said that the IAA SAR operations were classified as a ’State’ activity and were to be regulated by the National Aviation Authority, the IAA subsequently expressed uncertainty about its mandate to regulate SAR; however, it neither withdrew nor restricted the Operator’s National SAR Approval.. CHC Ireland, the Irish Coast Guard and the Irish Government Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport all believed that the Irish Aviation Authority was regulating SAR operations. Audit reports of the Operator’s bases for the Irish Coast Guard by a consultant did not appear to have been critically reviewed and the organisation did not have an SMS. Also, the Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport lacked the technical expertise to effectively oversee the Irish Aviation Authority.. Although it was acknowledged by the Irish Aviation Authority that CHC Ireland was performing “medium to high risk” operations, the level of operational safety oversight achieved did not reflect this.. Overall, the Investigation came to the conclusion that the collective findings made demonstrated that the accident was, in effect, what could be fairly described as ‘an organisational accident’. The particular challenges of contracting and tasking complex operations such as Search and Rescue require that associated risks are fully understood, that effective oversight of contracted services can be maintained and that helicopters only launch when absolutely necessary. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally recorded as “the Helicopter was manoeuvring at 200 feet asl, 9 nm from the intended landing point, at night, in poor weather, while the crew was unaware that a 282 feet high obstacle was on the flight path to the initial route waypoint of one of the Operator’s pre-programmed FMS routes”. Twelve Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The initial route