are the subject of a risk assessment or safety case, that any mitigations required are in place prior to implementing the changes, and that SOPs are updated in a timely fashion to reflect any such changes. [2021-17]. that CHC Ireland should review its policies, manuals, training and guidance in relation to the operational use of radar in the SAR role and ensure that manuals and training accurately reflect the limitations of the systems used. [2021-018]. that CHC Ireland should ensure that rear crew members receive adequate operational training and periodic, formal training and rating(s) to operate the ‘Toughbook’, with particular emphasis on approaches and construction of routes to target areas, the limitations of the databases and software in use; and that the OM Part F and other documentation for both systems should be reviewed and updated. [2021-019]. that CHC Ireland should review its document management and updating methodologies and the robustness of its practices to ensure that current documents are readily apparent, that older revisions are appropriately archived and that staff members are provided with a uniform method for confirming the latest revision state of any document. [2021-020]. * that CHC Ireland should introduce, and regularly review, a Helicopter OFDM programme to support its SMS and personnel in identifying and addressing operating issues and trends to optimise safety margins within its operation. [2021-21]. that the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation should make the necessary updates/modifications to the S-92A helicopter, when configured for SAR operations, to ensure that the active lateral navigation mode information, including AFCS SAR modes, are recorded on the Flight Data Recorder during all flight regimes and mission profiles. [2021-22]. that the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation should make the necessary updates/modifications to the S-92A Helicopter Rotorcraft Flight Manual Supplement No. 4 Part 2, to include a description of the operational usage of the AFCS SAR ‘SRCH’ mode. [2021-23]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that the Irish Coast Guard’s internal processes are sensitive to warnings from its process auditors, and that mechanisms are in place to ensure that appropriate and necessary actions are expeditiously implemented in response to any such warnings. [2021-24]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should review the provision of aviation expertise to the Irish Coast Guard to ensure that it is effective and structured to support appropriate governance arrangements and that Irish Coast Guard operating procedures are risk assessed and maintained current. [2021-25]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that appropriate departmental governance arrangements are in place to oversee the functioning of the Irish Coast Guard and to ensure that issues identified are addressed so that the systems in place will be sufficiently comprehensive and robust. [2021-26]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that the Irish Coast Guard fully implements a Safety Management System which encompasses all aspects of its air operations and which includes all stake holders in those operations. [2021-27]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should review extant service level agreements involving Irish Coast Guard air operations to