waypoint, towards which the Helicopter was navigating, was almost coincident with the terrain at Black Rock.. The activities of the Operator for the adoption, design and review of its routes in the FMS Route Guide were capable of improvement in the interests of air safety.. The extensive activity undertaken by the Operator in respect of the testing of routes in the FMS Route Guide was not formalised, standardised, controlled or periodic.. The training provided to flight crews on the use of the routes in the (paper) FMS Route Guide, in particular their interface with the electronic flight management systems on multifunction displays in the cockpit, was not formal, standardised and was insufficient to address inherent problems with the FMS Route Guide and the risk of automation bias.. The FMS Route Guide did not generally specify minimum altitudes for route legs.. The flight crew probably believed, as they flew to join it, that the APBSS route (from waypoint BLKMO to waypoint BLKSD as described in legs 1 to 4 of the narrative and on the map in FMS Route Guide) provided by design adequate terrain separation from obstacles.. Neither pilot had recently operated into Blacksod.. EGPWS databases did not indicate the presence of Black Rock, and neither did some ‘Toughbook’ and ‘Euronav’ imagery.. It was not possible for the flight crew to accurately assess horizontal visibility at night under cloud at 200 feet above sea level and 9 nm from shore over the Atlantic Ocean.. The flight crew members’ likely hours of wakefulness at the time of the accident were correlated with increased error rates and judgement lapses.. There were serious and important weaknesses with aspects of the Operator’s SMS including in relation to safety reporting, safety meetings, its Safety and Quality Information Database (SQID) and the management of its FMS Route Guide such that certain risks that could have been mitigated were not.. There was confusion at the State level regarding responsibility for oversight of SAR operations in Ireland.. A Preliminary Report published on 13 April 2017 whilst the Investigation was continuing included two Interim Safety Recommendations as follows: that CHC Ireland should review/re-evaluate all route guides in use by its SAR helicopters in Ireland, with a view to enhancing the information provided on obstacle heights and positions, terrain clearance, vertical profile, the positions of waypoints in relation to obstacles and EGPWS database terrain and obstacle limitations. [2017-005]. that RFD Beaufort Ltd should review the viability of the installation provisions and instructions for locator beacons on Mk 44 lifejackets and if necessary amend or update these provisions and instructions taking into consideration the beacon manufacturer’s recommendations for effective operation. [2017-006]. A First Interim Statement on the progress of the Investigation published on 16 March 2018 included three more Interim Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation should make the necessary updates/modifications to the S-92A helicopter to ensure that the latitude and longitude information recorded on the Flight Data Recorder reflects the most accurate position information available during all