Level’ routes would, if followed using the FMS, provide adequate lateral terrain separation.. Even though both pilots separately reviewed the APBSS route, neither noticed the presence of Black Rock as an on track obstacle. The combination of relatively low flight deck lighting with the use of coloured documents, the size of font used in some of them, the tabulation of a large amount of numerically dense information intended to be used in conjunction with charts as well as the combined portrait/landscape presentation of some routes, including APBSS was sub optimal.. The reason for retaining in unaltered form a longstanding procedure which used a 282 feet obstacle as the starting point for what the Operator described as a ‘Low Level’ route, with no vertical profile, could not be determined because the origins of the route design itself were unknown to the CHC Ireland.. A number of other factors militated against the pilots detecting their unexpected proximity to Black Rock in time to carry out an effective avoidance manoeuvre: it was not in the EGPWS database; the BLKMO magenta waypoint symbol and track line on the nav display probably obscured radar returns from Black Rock which might otherwise have been detected when set to the 10 nm range; The 1:250,000 Aeronautical Chart Euronav imagery did not extend as far as Black Rock, and the 1:50,000 Ordnance Survey Ireland imagery in the Toughbook showed open water at the position where Black Rock was located; CHC Ireland did not have formal processes or procedures to approve mapping data/imagery for use in its helicopters.. it was not in the EGPWS database;. the BLKMO magenta waypoint symbol and track line on the nav display probably obscured radar returns from Black Rock which might otherwise have been detected when set to the 10 nm range;. The 1:250,000 Aeronautical Chart Euronav imagery did not extend as far as Black Rock, and the 1:50,000 Ordnance Survey Ireland imagery in the Toughbook showed open water at the position where Black Rock was located;. CHC Ireland did not have formal processes or procedures to approve mapping data/imagery for use in its helicopters.. The operating environment on the west coast would have been more challenging than east coast crews were familiar with particularly regarding the availability of visual cues in the littoral environment. This meant that it would not have been possible for the Flight Crew to accurately assess forward horizontal visibility. Since Black Rock was only detected on the helicopter’s infra red camera when it was approximately 600 metres away, it is likely horizontal visibility using the naked eye was less than that and the pilots' night vision may have been compromised by the helicopter’s external lighting.. CHC Ireland stated that the routes provided “were merely there as a framework on which to build a plan for entry/exit to a number of known sites”. There was no formal training in their use, no formal procedure for the design of routes, no formal procedure for how a crew should use a route