and safety equipment in particular, to ensure that the procedures are sufficiently robust to identify and resolve integration issues before equipment is introduced into operational service. [2021-038]. that CHC Ireland should engage with all relevant parties to conduct an in depth study and review of the cockpit environment of its S-92A helicopter to ensure that safe operations can be achieved under all ambient lighting conditions and that all aspects of information presentation (colour schemes, typography, size, font, surface reflectivity, etc.) used in the presentation of Route Guides, Landing Site Directories and other information provided for use by flight crew, are optimised for use in the cockpit environment. [2021-039]. that the European Union Safety Agency should carry out a safety promotion exercise, in parallel with the development of certification specifications for human factors in the design of rotorcraft cockpits, to provide operators of in-service helicopters with a best practice guide to mitigate the risks associated with human factors and pilot workload issues. [2021-040]. that CHC Ireland should provide explicit guidance in its Operations Manual on the protocols and briefing requirements for transfer of PF and PM roles during a mission. [2021-041]. hat CHC Ireland should ensure that it has in place a FRMS based on scientific principles, which takes advantage of modern techniques such as bio-mathematical analysis of roster patterns, is known to all its crew members and encourages the reporting of fatigue related issues. [2021-042]. that the Irish Aviation Authority should review the Operator’s 24-hour SAR shift pattern to ensure that it adequately accounts for concerns arising from published research on human performance and that the Operator’s FRMS and SAR variation to Aeronautical Notice O.58 provide appropriate levels of safety and protection for crews. [2021-043]. that CHC Ireland should review its training syllabi and operations manuals to increase crew awareness of automation and cognitive bias, and as far as possible to provide strategies for recognising and combating these threats. [2021-044]. The 464 page Final Report of the Investigation was published on 5 November 2021.