could affect decision-making/risk assessment regarding the initiation and continuation of SAR missions;. the potential for in-flight communications with helicopter crews to adversely affect crew effectiveness;. practical scenario-based exercises. [2021-08]. that CHC Ireland should, with input from its parent company, ensure that its OM Part A assignment and alignment of Nominated Persons’ responsibilities is appropriately defined; that limitations regarding assignments are appropriately set out and adhered to; and that appropriate processes, procedures and training enable staff to discharge assigned responsibilities in a transparent and auditable manner. [2021-09]. that CHC Ireland should, with input from its parent company, review its organisational structure, secondary duty model, staffing levels and personnel training, for its operations and support functions, to ensure that there are sufficient resources available to discharge all necessary responsibilities, safety management oversight, and the drafting, approval and management of documentation. [2021-010]. that CHC Ireland should consider implementing a LOSA programme within its SAR operation which can routinely review operational standards for flight and technical crew, and provide reports on these reviews to the Accountable Manager for actioning by the relevant function. [2021-011]. that CHC Ireland should formalise its monitoring of all SAR flights to ensure that use of any exemptions allowed under the National SAR Approval is monitored, that minimum horizontal visibility is always recorded and that missions and decision-making are routinely reviewed with crews to maximise safety margins and standardise launch criteria. [2021-12]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should implement a procedure for Irish Coastguard to engage, at an appropriate level, with its SAR helicopter operator in relation to mission launch concerns in a manner that minimises any impact on duty crews and avoids creating a perception of competition or commercial pressure. [2021-13]. that CHC Ireland should ensure that appropriate time is provided within the roster to facilitate staff attendance at safety-related meetings and that the minutes of all safety related meetings are stored in a manner that facilitates their incorporation into the knowledge base of safety information within the company. [2021-14]. that CHC Ireland should review its OM Part F procedures in order to: remove consideration of casualty condition from flight crew dispatch/continuation criteria for SAR missions; require crews of support SAR helicopters to specifically consider when/whether it is appropriate to dispatch under SAR criteria; provide specific guidance to crews about the assessment of visibility under conditions of darkness and or poor weather. [2021-15]. remove consideration of casualty condition from flight crew dispatch/continuation criteria for SAR missions;. require crews of support SAR helicopters to specifically consider when/whether it is appropriate to dispatch under SAR criteria;. provide specific guidance to crews about the assessment of visibility under conditions of darkness and or poor weather. [2021-15]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should, in conjunction with the relevant agencies, review processes regarding the requesting/tasking of ‘Top Cover’ assets, fixed wing or helicopter, and should ensure that terminology is well defined and consistently used. [2021-16]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that proposed changes to Irish Coast Guard operating procedures