A comprehensive Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. The ULB signal from the submerged MPFR, which had equivalent data retention capability to an FDR and a 2 hour CVR led to its location the day after the accident and it was subsequently found by an ROV still attached to its original mountings in the forward left hand avionics rack. It was recovered by divers ten days after the accident and its data were successfully downloaded. The 45 year-old Captain in command had a total of 5,292 hours flying experience which included 825 hours on type with approximately 725 of those hours obtained in command on type. The 51 year-old Co-Pilot was also employed as an S92 Captain at the Dublin base and had a total of 3,435 hours flying experience which included 795 hours on type with approximately 695 of those hours obtained in command on type. As a result of an injury to a crew member on board a Fishing Vessel approximately 140 nm west of Ireland, the Duty SAR crew based at Sligo had been tasked with airlifting the injured crewman to hospital. The Dublin Airport-based accident helicopter was then tasked with providing support (‘top cover’) for the airlift mission. The assigned Co-Pilot was already in the rest room at the Dublin Base and the Captain in command arrived about half an hour later after telephoning from her car. Meanwhile, the engineering support team had towed the helicopter from the hangar to prepare it for refuelling and the two assigned other crew members had arrived. All four crew members gathered in the operations room and one of the Dublin-based engineers recalled the Captain in command commenting that the weather at a suggested interim stop, Blacksod, was probably not going to be good enough and that they would instead route to Sligo. The Sligo SAR base was advised that the Dublin helicopter “would be coming into Sligo for a rotors-running refuel because the weather at Blacksod was unsuitable”. The helicopter took off from runway 16, established on track to the north and levelled off at 3,000 feet QNH. Nine minutes after takeoff, one of the rear crew contacted the helicopter conducting the recovery and was advised that they would shortly be landing at Blacksod and would make contact again once on the ground there. They described the conditions as they neared the landing as including some low cloud at about 500 feet whilst inbound on what was subsequently found to have been a different low level route to the one the Dublin-based helicopter intended to use. The flight continued at 3,000 feet and after determining that there would be a time/fuel advantage in uplifting fuel at Blacksod rather than Sligo, it was decided they would route to Blacksod and a slight change of track to the left followed. On ATC instructions, the flight then transferred to Shannon Information and advised that it was en route to Blacksod IFR and would be climbing to 4000 feet QNH. Once