flight regimes and mission profiles. [2018-001]. that CHC Ireland, with external input, should conduct a review of its SMS and ensure that the design of its processes and procedural adherence are sufficiently robust to maximise the safety dividend; this review should consider extant risk assessments and a thematic examination of the corpus of all safety information available to the Operator, both internally and externally. [2018-002]. that the Irish Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport as the issuing authority for the Irish National Maritime Search and Rescue Framework should carry out a thorough review of SAR aviation operations in Ireland to ensure that there are appropriate processes, resources and personnel in place to provide effective, continuous, comprehensive and independent oversight of all aspects of these operations. [2018-003]. A total of 42 Safety Recommendations based on the Findings of the Investigation were then made at its conclusion as follows: that CHC Ireland should review its guidance, operating and training procedures in relation to the use of EGPWS in its operations, ensuring crews are aware of the limitations of the system and that the EGPWS manufacturer’s guidance on the use of Low Altitude mode is followed. [2021-03]. that CHC Ireland should ensure that it has in place processes to ensure that mapping imagery used in its ‘Euronav’ and ‘Toughbook’ are suitable, current and sufficiently comprehensive for its intended uses, and that appropriate guidance for the use of such systems is provided in the Operations Manual. [2021-04]. that the Irish Aviation Authority should require operators who have exemptions from Rules of the Air, to provide a full safety case, including details of the acceptable navigation data sources to be used, as part of the exemption application and review processes. [2021-05]. that the Irish Aviation Authority should require an operator that has exemptions from Standard Rules of the Air to state the minimum height at which each leg of its company routes can be flown. [2021-06]. that CHC Ireland should develop and promulgate procedures/processes for all aspects of Route Guide management including route design, review, approval, updating, usage, briefing, operational limitations (to include at a minimum, visibility & altitude limits and Airborne Radar Approach compatibility), crew training and periodic familiarisation requirements. [2021-07]. that the Irish Minister for Transport should ensure that the training syllabus for personnel involved in the decisions to launch SAR helicopter missions includes the following: information regarding the protocols used by other agencies with whom they work, so that it is clear where responsibilities lie and how to make best use of each agency’s expertise; recognition of and strategies to address cognitive bias which could affect decision-making/risk assessment regarding the initiation and continuation of SAR missions; the potential for in-flight communications with helicopter crews to adversely affect crew effectiveness; practical scenario-based exercises. [2021-08]. information regarding the protocols used by other agencies with whom they work, so that it is clear where responsibilities lie and how to make best use of each agency’s expertise;. recognition of and strategies to address cognitive bias which