the Helicopter was level at 4,000 ft, the Captain in command advised that she was going to select the ‘APBSS’ (Blacksod South) route for an arrival at Blacksod (BLKSD) on the FMS and descend out to sea before turning around to follow the prescribed inbound route from waypoint BKLMO via waypoints BKSDA, BKSDB and BKSDC to Blacksod. The illustration of this route taken from the Route Guide (see below) showed relevant obstacles in numbered red circles with obstacle one being the 282 feet high Blackrock which was co-located with the waypoint BLKMO. The FMS Route Guide Blacksod South Route (legs 1-4 inbound, legs 5-7 outbound). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Half an hour after passing over Knock Airport, the waypoint BKSDA on the inbound FMS route was overflown tracking west northwest and descent from 4000 feet was commenced with ATC informed accordingly. As 2,400 feet was passed, an automatic SAR helicopter mode which results in descent from 2,400 feet agl to 200 feet agl unless interrupted was selected on the AFCS. As the descent continued, a slight right turn was made to allow descent down to 200 feet prior to making a left turn back to waypoint BLKMO”. As this left turn was commenced with the automatics still engaged by selecting ‘Direct To’ BLKMO, the Winchman announced that the helicopter was “clear around to the left” and this was followed approximately 30 seconds later by the Co-Pilot announcing that they were clear ahead on the EGPWS and radar. As the turn was continuing at 200 feet, the ‘Before Landing’ Checklist was commenced and as it was completed, the Captain-in-command was recorded commenting that she was visual with the sea surface. Soon after, an Auto Callout “Altitude, Altitude” was annunciated and in response, she was recorded saying it was “just a small little island that's BLKMO itself” but after another 20 seconds or so, the Winchman announced that he was “looking at an island just eh directly ahead of us now guys…you wanna come right [commander’s name]”. She asked for confirmation of the required turn, was told 20° right and instructed the Co-Pilot to select HDG mode which he did as the Winchman called “come right now, come right, COME RIGHT”. Shortly after this, FDR data showed the helicopter pitching up rapidly and rolling to the right following which it collided with the western end of Black Rock, departed from controlled flight and fell into the sea. The main wreckage came to rest on the seabed to the east of Black Rock, at a depth of 40 metres. The ground track as the turn towards Black Rock began three minutes prior to the collision. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Various observations were made based on the factual information gathered and on its wider systemic context which included, in concise summary, the following: The flight crew did not verbalise the obstacles listed for the chosen APBSS route and it seems that they believed that its design as one of CHC Irelands’ ‘Low