Such a flight must only be undertaken in accordance with the procedures and limitations in the AFM or Operations Manual. It will usually also require the express approval of the Flight Operations Department of the Aircraft Operator as well as appropriate entries in the Aircraft Technical Log which allow the aircraft to be released to service, usually in accordance with the Minimum Equipment List (MEL). Depending upon aircraft type, pre-flight preparation may include maintenance action to remove some gear doors or making specific switch selections in the avionics compartment. In some cases, there may be a requirement to fit the undercarriage ground lock pins or similar devices to ensure the undercarriage remains down & locked. Limitations on speed (VLE)may affect other airspace users and result in exclusion from certain airspace and higher flight levels. Check with the air navigation service provider (ANSP) and ensure that a new or amended Flight Plan (FPL) is filed which clearly indicates any performance restrictions. Whether a flight with gear down is planned or occurs as results from a decision to continue a flight following a failure to lock landing gear up after take off, the following need to be considered: Structural Considerations: Flight with the gear down is likely to involve limitations on both indicated airspeed and cruising altitude.. Crew Considerations. Extended flight with the gear locked down is very noisy, impacting on both the environment within the cabin and on pilot fatigue levels. Increased vibration is also a factor and will increase crew fatigue.. ATC Issues: ATC will need to be advised of any reduced cruise speed and maximum altitude unless these if these will mean that the figures filed in the FPL are no longer applicable.. Take –Off and Climb Performance: Planned gear down operation may cause the rate of climb on departure after passing screen height (after which the gear would normally be retracted) to be seriously degraded. The degree of performance loss could be such that meeting the remainder of the net take-off flight path terrain clearance requirements and/or vertical profile of any standard instrument departure could be impossible at take-off mass close to maximum. Planned gear down operation may require a significant reduction in the calculated performance limited take off mass (PLTOM) allowed.. Landing Climb Performance: Prior to an approach with the gear remaining extended in the event of a go-around/missed approach, the effect on the landing climb performance needs to be considered. Usually the landing climb maximum mass will be much reduced to ensure that the minimum climb gradient requirements will to be achieved. On a long sector this will not usually cause much difficulty as the reduced PLTOM along with the fuel burn en-route would means that the landing climb performance will be adequate. On short sectors where the fuel burn is less the limit to the maximum landing climb mass may be more restricting that the limitation to PLTOM. Flight Time: Consider the impact of reduced speed on flight times and expected arrival time at the