adverse event”. The Investigation also recognised the possibility that the Captain’s response in rejecting the takeoff from above V1 may have been affected by the “startling effect” of the aircraft swinging off the centreline immediately after passing V1. In respect of the failure to consider the QRH pointer to the possible advisability of remote parking when taxiing in after the RTO, the Investigation took the view that “preoccupation with what had just happened and concerns for the SFOs wellbeing” may have represented a concurrent distraction. Editor’s Note: The takeoff was commenced following the receipt of a ‘spot wind’, which was just within the applicable crosswind limit.. The mean wind velocity in the current TAF was equivalent to a 29 knot crosswind component and the maximum gust given there was equivalent to a 41 knot crosswind component. The METAR observation timed two minutes prior to takeoff (and which the crew would not have been aware of) replicated exactly the same crosswind components for mean speed and gust as those in the TAF. These components were materially in excess of those implied by the spot wind on which the decision to commence takeoff relied.. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The Captain had a high workload managing the departure and, to give himself time, decided that the co-pilot should fly the take off. In very gusty wind conditions, the aircraft encountered a windshear event near V1 which caused a 13 knot reduction in airspeed. Additionally, the strength of the crosswind during takeoff caused the aircraft to veer right. Concerned that the aircraft might leave the runway, and considering the situation to be unsafe, the commander initiated an RTO five seconds after V1. The crew had not called V1 although the automatic callout had sounded. The SOP is to continue a takeoff when V1 has been reached because, as the manufacturer commented, successful outcomes are more likely when a takeoff is continued rather than rejected. The Final Report was published on 10 December 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.