knots. The “rotate” call is then made at VRMAX unless windshear is encountered at or beyond the normal VR and before reaching it in which case, rotation should commence immediately and “without hesitation”. Since the fuel loaded was in excess of the planned requirement, it was decided to start up and taxi to the departure end of the runway to await an opportunity for takeoff within crosswind limits. Having converted their 25 knot crosswind limit to a wind speed which would apply if the relatively constant wind direction of 210° was maintained as 29 knots, this wind velocity was passed to the TWR Controller. As the aircraft approached the A1 holding point for Runway 27, the flight were passed a wind of 220° at 32 knots (a crosswind component of 23 knots) and cleared for takeoff so the line up was continued into a rolling takeoff. The Captain reported noticing and calling out a transitory loss of airspeed of 10/15 knots as the aircraft passed 120 knots but observed that acceleration quickly resumed. He stated that as the speed approached V1 (134 KIAS), “the aircraft deviated dramatically from the centreline to the right” - he estimated the deviation was 20/30° - and saw a downward trend on his airspeed indication. He stated that he had “felt that the SFOs attempts to control the heading were ineffective” and perceiving that the indicated airspeed was reducing and the aircraft was still below V1, he had taken control, called “Stop” and commenced a Rejected Take Off (RTO). The aircraft came to a stop on the runway centreline between taxiways ‘M’ and ‘H’ (see the illustration below) with approximately 600 metres of the 2,893 metre-long 45 metre-wide runway remaining. The takeoff runway with the two intersections between which the aircraft stopped highlighted. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Once the aircraft had stopped, the Captain made a PA announcement to acknowledge what had happened and then spoke with TWR to advise that they intended to vacate the runway and suggesting a runway inspection in case any runway edge lights had been struck during the deviation. Once clear, the crew requested clearance to return to their stand and were so cleared. The Captain reported that he had been “concerned about the SFO who appeared to be preoccupied about what had happened during the takeoff” and also that he had suspected that “at least one brake was ‘binding’” since maintaining a normal taxi speed required more thrust that usual. With aircraft back on stand, the passengers were disembarked and once a towbar had been attached, the parking brake was released. The QRH recommendation for remote parking to be considered after an RTO was not considered. Company maintenance personnel were then called to carry out an inspection of the landing gear. The damage attributable to the rejected takeoff was found to be limited to one main landing gear wheel and its brake unit which required replacement (as well as all the other wheels and tyres in accordance with