An Investigation was carried by the UK AAIB. The CVR and FDR were not available but the aircraft operator made relevant QAR data available. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain had joined the Operator 11 months previously, had a total of 12,300 flying hours which included 893 hours on type and had flown six departures from East Midlands. The Co-pilot was a Senior First Officer who had a total of 3,200 flying hours, all but 700 hours of which were on type, and had been promoted to Senior First Officer ten months previously. This promotion required in excess of 2000 hours and six months service with the operator as well as passing a suitability assessment by the flight training department. Unlike First or Second Officers, Senior First Officers were permitted to act as PF up to the same OM takeoff and landing limits as Captains which the operator stated was to allow them to gain relevant operational experience in challenging conditions ahead of promotion to command. On the day of the event the prevailing forecast weather conditions at the departure airport included a strong surface wind (200° at 32 knots with gusts to 45 knots) which was close to the applicable crosswind limit (25 knots) for takeoff at the expected mean speed and well outside it in gusts. The crew stated that they had arrived early for their duty and had “discussed the weather situation at some length”. They were aware that the runway surface condition was being reported as wet and that light rain was continuing to fall. The Captain initially decided that he would do the takeoff because of the adverse weather conditions but, after being reminded by his Senior First Officer (SFO) that he was permitted by the operator to use the same weather limits and after discussing various anticipated weather-related customer service matters which he anticipated would require his attention in the lead up to departure, he changed his mind and decided he would act as PM for the takeoff and the briefing was completed accordingly. Once the crew reached the aircraft, the Captain carried out the pre flight external check whilst the SFO carried out the necessary pre flight internal checks and set up for the departure. During an onboard departure briefing, it was reported that it was agreed that rated thrust would be used on the full runway length and that actions in the event of a rejected takeoff or windshear at various stages of the takeoff and the implications of windshear for performance calculations were all reviewed. The calculated speeds for the departure included a V1 of 134 KIAS and a VR of 149 KIAS, a VRMAX of 158 KIAS and a V2 of 156 KIAS. It was noted by the Investigation that VRMAX was an additional calculation required for windshear takeoff performance being the lowest of the maximum VR for the maximum allowable weight in the prevailing runway and weather conditions and the VR for the actual weight plus 20