company maintenance requirements). Recorded flight data confirmed a transient speed loss of 23 knots at 131 KCAS and rapid recovery. It also showed that almost immediately after the automatically generated V1 callout, the second reported transient speed loss of 13 knots had occurred over 1½ seconds and had been accompanied by the reported deviation to the right of approximately 8°. There was a significant corrective left rudder input and between 5 and 6 seconds after V1, an autobrake-generated maximum brake pressure application was recorded, indicating that a rejected takeoff had been initiated. The approximate speed when the reject was initiated was 149 KCAS, some 15 knots above V1. It was noted that there were four situations listed in the QRH in which a high speed rejected takeoff should be considered - fire/fire warning, engine failure, if the aircraft is unsafe or unable to fly or in the event that a predictive windshear warning is annunciated. The latter are only enabled during takeoff until passing 100 knots and none were received. It was found that reactive windshear warnings are not active until the aircraft is airborne. The QRH also provides guidance if actual windshear is encountered at high speed, noting that even if it occurs prior to V1, “there may not be sufficient runway remaining to stop if an RTO is initiated at V1” and notes “if windshear is encountered near the normal rotation speed and airspeed suddenly decreases, there may not be sufficient runway left to accelerate back to normal takeoff speed”. It goes on to say that if there is insufficient runway left to stop, and that assuming maximum thrust is set, a normal rotation should be initiated at least 600 metres before the end of the runway “even if airspeed is low” with the possibility that higher than normal attitudes may be needed to lift off in the distance remaining. On being asked to comment on the above guidance, Boeing observed that it was based on industry consensus and event data and that “successful outcomes of windshear and other emergency events during takeoff have been more likely if takeoff is continued than if takeoff is rejected late or without sufficient stopping distance” whilst also noting that “guidance cannot be given for every possible set of takeoff and windshear conditions (and that) the Captain must assess each situation to determine the safest course of action”. The aircraft operator noted from their own investigation that the V1 call which is required to be made by the PM was not made. They observed that since this call is the cue for Captains to remove their hand from the thrust levers, it was possible that without it, their hand may have remained on the thrust levers, an action “which lends itself to a rejection”. The Investigation concurred and noted that this SOP to remove the physical connection to the thrust levers at V1 “is intended to remove the possibility that pilots will instinctively or impulsively close the levers in response to an