An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) using comprehensive data successfully downloaded from the removed FDR and 2 hour CVR of the aircraft involved. It was noted that the Captain, who was acting as PM for the flight involved, had a total of approximately 20,000 hours flying experience which included 19,000 hours on type. He had been working for the operator for over 20 years, had gained his SA-227 type rating in 2000 and was supervising the first day of the First Officer’s Line Training. The First Officer, who had joined the operator the month prior to the accident and had since gained his SA-227 type rating, had approximately 270 hours flying experience which included 15 hours on type. The accident flight was the sixth of the day for the both pilots. Since there was no cabin attendant on board, the First Officer provided a safety briefing to the passengers prior to engine start. The crew then started both engines in turn and followed this with the ‘After Start’ and ‘Before Taxi’ checks. Since the aircraft was not fitted with a steering tiller at the right hand position, the Captain had to taxi the aircraft before handing control to the First Officer on reaching the departure runway. The ‘Before Taxi’ Checks included the ‘Start Locks’ task, which required three preliminary subtasks to be confirmed complete by each pilot. ‘Their’ prop area must be checked clear ahead and behind, ‘their’ wing must be checked free of contaminants and ‘their’ fuel cap must be checked in place. Having done this, with the First Officer going first, each pilot is required to verbalise “Clear, Clean Wing, Cap On” and only when this has been done are the Power Levers pulled over the Flight Idle gate toward reverse to release the start locks and complete the checklist ‘Start Locks’ task. On this departure, when the First Officer initiated the required preliminary ‘Start Locks‘ checks, the Captain instructed him standby. The First Officer then verbalised the correct subtask responses but there was no response from the Captain. A few seconds later, the Captain began assessing runway conditions and spoke to the Sioux Lookout radio operator about flight plan and departure details before calling for the ‘Before Takeoff’ checklist, which was then completed. He then began to taxi the aircraft to Runway 12 for the departure with directional control achieved using only the nose wheel steering with no differential thrust required to assist in turns. After the ‘Line Up’ checks had been completed and the aircraft was on the runway and ready for takeoff, the Captain transferred control of the aircraft to the First Officer. Takeoff power was set but whilst the aircraft was accelerating, directional control was lost and the aircraft veered off the right hand side of the runway after about 150 metres and struck a frozen snow bank before coming to a stop about 18 metres beyond the edge of the runway in snow which was about 0.5