metres deep. The crew shut down the engines and all occupants then left the aircraft through the main cabin door and were met by the airport emergency response team. Impact with the frozen snow bank led to the blades of both propellers shattering and the resulting high energy release of the nickel-cobalt erosion strips and splintered wood core debris. Some of this penetrated the fuselage where it was reinforced to prevent damage by ice shed from the propellers in normal operations and then continued into the passenger cabin causing a consequent serious injury to the hand of one of the passengers. The snow bank impact also led to both engine mounts being fractured and bent and both nacelles being substantially distorted and both inboard upper wing and forward fuselage skins being “slightly wrinkled” and the fuselage also sustained smaller punctures to the belly skin. After one of the crew had exited the aircraft to check for the presence of any potential hazards, the passengers were advised to remain on board until the emergency services arrived and the First Officer provided interim first aid to the seriously injured passenger using the on board kit. An ambulance and fire truck arrived at the site between 20 and 25 minutes after the accident and the seriously injured passenger was taken to a local hospital. Fuselage damage by propeller debris and the in-cabin consequences. [Reproduced from the Official Report] No evidence of any relevant airworthiness fault relating to the propeller control system was found and the Investigation of cause therefore focused on the operational factors that contributed to the aircraft departing the runway. The fact that the reinforcement panels and fuselage skins on either side of the fuselage were penetrated by propeller blade debris was a separate issue of considerable concern that was also separately investigated. The available evidence confirmed that the ‘Start Locks’ item of the ‘Before Taxi’ Checklist was unintentionally not completed and thereafter, the Captain failed to release the start locks prior to beginning to taxi the aircraft. It was considered that the chances of this omission occurring were increased by the lack of a specific action to release them in the ‘Before Taxi’ Checks. The Checklist item referring to this necessary pre flight action merely required a response confirming that both pilots had completed three sub tasks unrelated to the release of the start locks themselves. Taxiing with the start locks still engaged but without a need to use differential power in turns meant that it was possible for the slight or rapid transient movements of the engine power levers required to taxi the aircraft to result in the release of the left propeller start locks whilst the right propeller start locks remained engaged. The situation would still have been recoverable if the SOP was followed which required that when the power is advanced for takeoff and the torque indication has increased through 20%, the Captain must verify the torque indication for both engines and call “positive torque”. The recorded