procedures was not made, and the engine torque differential was not noticed by the crew. As a result, power lever advancement continued although the right engine torque remained near zero.. The engaged start locks on the right propeller prevented right engine forward power being set, which resulted in a significant power differential. This differential power during the takeoff roll resulted in a loss of directional control of the aircraft and, ultimately, a lateral runway excursion.. Following the runway excursion, the propellers, which were operating at a high rpm, shattered and splintered when they struck a frozen snow bank.. High-energy release of the nickel-cobalt erosion strips and splintered wood core debris from the propeller blades penetrated the reinforcement panel, fuselage skin and cabin wall, and resulted in serious injuries to a passenger sitting next to the penetrated cabin wall.. A formally-stated Finding as to Risk was also made as follows: If procedures for challenge-and-response checklists do not include guidance on task interruptions, pauses, or non-standard responses, there is a risk that checklist tasks will be incomplete or omitted, which may result in the aircraft operating in an unsafe or undesirable configuration.. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator Perimeter Airlines as a result of the investigated event prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: The SA-227 Standard Operating Procedures Manual has been amended to highlight the importance of confirming that the start locks are disengaged.. In the SA-227 ‘Before Taxi’ Checklist, ‘removal of start locks’ is now a stand-alone checklist item and the last checklist item to complete before taxi commences.. A scheduled semi-annual simulator training at the 6 month mark has been introduced for all CARs subpart 703 and 704 pilots who have less than two years’ experience in the seat they are occupying. This training includes effective directional control techniques during the takeoff roll and a review of company policies, procedures and techniques related to engine propeller lock engagement and disengagement on the SA-226 and SA-227 aircraft operated by the company.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 24 March 2021 and it was officially released on 14 April 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.