CVR data for the accident takeoff showed that this call was not made and both pilots remained unaware of the status of the start locks. FDR data showed that once takeoff power was applied, the rpm of both propellers increased but the corresponding engine torque only increased on the left engine, whilst the right engine torque remained close to zero. The resulting almost immediate asymmetry compromised directional control and as the increase to takeoff power was completed, the aircraft veered to the right and off the side of the runway approximately 150 metres from the beginning of the runway. Having struck the frozen snow bank, it eventually stopped about 18 metres from the runway edge in snow about half a metre deep. The Investigation sought to examine the context for the accident and concluded that it was primarily founded in the failure of the crew, and in the circumstances essentially the Captain, to follow established normal procedures for no apparent reason. The Investigation also came to the conclusion that the presentation of the start locks check in the ‘Before Taxi’ Checklist was conducive to its inadvertent omission in that there was no requirement for a crosschecked confirmation that the start locks had been removed. The presence and potential consequences of an extremely steep authority gradient on the flight deck were also noted as was the risk of checklist items not being fully completed if the execution of a checklist is interrupted. The fact that propeller debris was able to penetrate the passenger cabin and cause a serious injury to be sustained by one of the passengers was of obvious concern. It was noted that although the purpose of the reinforced panels on the sides of the fuselage was to prevent damage to the fuselage by ice shed from the propellers during normal operations, they were not intended or required to prevent penetration of the passenger cabin by propeller debris. The eight formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: While the crew was carrying out the ‘Before Taxi’ checklist, the ‘Start Locks’ task was initiated but it was interrupted and not completed.. After the Captain told the First Officer to stand by, the crew’s focus shifted to other tasks. It is likely that this slip of attention resulted in the power levers not being pulled over the flight idle gate to release the start locks.. The ‘Before Taxi’ checklist did not contain a task to ensure that the start locks were removed and, as a result, the crew began taxiing unaware that the propellers were still on the locks.. After the engine was started or while the occurrence aircraft commenced taxiing for departure, it is likely that slight or rapid transient movements of the engine power levers, which were needed to taxi the aircraft, resulted in the release of the left propeller start locks while the right propeller start locks remained engaged.. As the power was advanced through 20%, the “positive torque” call required by standard operating