Formation flights are only allowed if prearrangement exists among the pilots-in-command of the participating aircraft. If the flight is to be performed in controlled airspace, this is to be done in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the appropriate ATS authority. According to ICAO SARPs, the distance between the flight leader and any of the other aircraft should not exceed 0.5 NM horizontally and 100 ft vertically. Some countries extend these. For instance, in the USA, a formation is considered to be standard if the horizontal spacing between the leader and any of the wingmen is within 1 NM. Another example is the EUROAT document which states that in standard military formation, each element must be 1 NM or less apart from the leader. Standard formations are treated as a single aircraft with regard to navigation and position reporting. If the distance between the leader and one of the other aircraft exceeds the prescribed values, the formation is considered non-standard. There are no ICAO procedures defined for this case but some local provisions exist. Note that these are only applicable over the respective territory. Examples of such procedures are: Such flights are subject to ATC approval.. All aircraft are to turn their transponders on and are assigned a discrete SSR code (this may be the same as the leader's).. Aircraft within the formation are not to be separated by ATC.. Separation from other flights is provided in relation to the formation element that is closest to the aircraft that is to be separated. Therefore, the formation is not treated as a single aircraft as is the case with standard formations.. There are some specifics when completing a flight plan for a formation flight. The callsign of the formation leader is to be used in Item 7 (aircraft identification).. The number of aircraft is to be specified in Item 9 (number and type of aircraft and WTC).. If the formation comprises different aircraft types, ZZZZ is used in Item 9 and the types are specified in Item 18 (other information) with the designator TYP/, e.g. TYP/1K35R 3F16 2MG29.. In Item 10 (equipment and capabilities), the symbol W (RVSM approved) is not to be used regardless of the RVSM status of the individual aircraft.. If the formation is expected to operate in the RVSM layer, the text STS/NONRVSM is to be included in Item 18..