An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Board. It established that the aircraft, with the First Officer as PF and in full control, had begun to taxi in a right hand turn before an ‘all-clear’ signal had been given by the supervising dispatcher to indicate that the ground crew and their vehicle were clear. It was noted that, at the time the taxi was commenced, the disconnected tow vehicle was not yet far enough away from the aircraft for it to be readily visible from the flight deck. The diagram below taken from the official report shows the tow vehicle as it was positioned in yellow and the approximate area ahead of the aircraft which would have been invisible to the occupants of the flight deck in their normal positions in red – the forward end of this red triangle was identified as being about 25 metres ahead of the nose landing gear. It was established during the subsequent crew interviews that, at the time of the collision, the flight crew had been aware of a “light thud and a juddering” during the sharp right hand turn which had been made as taxi commenced but had attributed this to the nose gear skidding on the ground during such a tight turn. The Investigation noted that the three flight crew involved, the two pilots and a flight engineer (F/E), were based in Germany and England and had arrived at Arlanda as passengers shortly before the accident flight having been awake for 18-20 hours (although not on duty for all of this time). It was therefore considered that fatigue may have played a part in the failure of the crew to obtain an all-clear signal before beginning to taxi. It was noted that the flight crew after start checklist did not contain any reference to the receipt of an ‘all-clear’ signal but that a note in the corresponding Expanded Checklist contained in the aircraft Operations Manual stated that “under no circumstances should parking brakes be released until (the ground crew visual all clear signal) has been given” and “the PNF has confirmed clear on his side of the aircraft”. Separately from the potential contribution of fatigue, it was noted by the Investigators that taxi had commenced sooner than it was likely that the tow vehicle could have been removed and that the failure of all three flight crew to recognise that the full supporting actions for completion of the after start checklist had not been taken indicated poor Crew Resource Management . It was established by the Investigation that the procedures to which the tow vehicle crew were working did not contain any reference to the distance which the tow vehicle should be initially moved from the aircraft after tow bar disconnection and that it would have been useful for the field of view from the aircraft to have been considered in this respect. The fact that a fuel leak from the aircraft caused by the accident had not