as soon as the low speed warning was annunciated by increasing thrust and had continued the approach without the ALPHA FLOOR protection engaging. It was considered that both events highlighted a number of common elements: The approach was conducted in OPEN DESCENT mode. The flight was conducted with the AP off, the A/T on and the FD on. The guidance provided on the approach procedure chart in respect of the NAV-FPA or NAV-V/S modes was not applied. The PM, occupying the left seat for a left turn, was not monitoring the speed. The PF did not follow FD commands. The aeroplane had been prematurely configured during the downwind leg. The Investigation concluded that the Causes of the investigated upset were as follows: The proposal of an RNAV VISUAL approach by Tel Aviv ATC to all airlines indiscriminately, departing from the initial concept, the absence of training in RNAV VISUAL approaches at Air France at the time of the event and the short preparation for the approach made by the crew did not allow the Captain to anticipate the PF’s difficulties in performing this unusual approach.. In addition poor understanding of A/THR operation and of the importance of following the FD in OPEN DESCENT mode, which led the crew to believe that A/THR would ensure that speed was maintained. Failure to identify the risks associated with the selection of FULL configuration at the end of the downwind leg in OPEN DESCENT mode and inadequate monitoring of the flight parameters led to deviating below the manoeuvring airspeed before the last turn.. During the last turn, while the aeroplane had an insufficient energy level, given its configuration, a prolonged pitch up order led to the triggering of the low energy SPEED, SPEED, SPEED warning and then of the ALPHA FLOOR protection.. Safety Action by Air France since the investigated event in respect of the lack of pilot training on the Tel-Aviv RNAV VISUAL approach has involved the issue in October 2012 of an information leaflet to A320 pilots and the creation of a video of the approach available to pilots. Simulator training on the approach began in March 2013. Air France also advised prior to publication of the report of the Investigation some 20 months after its occurrence that “the establishment of a specific procedure for RNAV VISUAL approaches in the airline’s documentation is currently under consideration and should be published shortly”. There was no reported action in respect of “the lack of knowledge of A/T operation and the importance of following the FD in OPEN DESCENT mode” identified during the Investigation. Three Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that EASA, in partnership with national civil aviation authorities, ensures that training and recurrent training programmes include instruction on the risks associated with the use of OPEN DESCENT mode on approach. [FRAN-2013-86]. that ICAO define a framework for RNAV VISUAL approaches in its Standards and Recommended Practices. [FRAN-2013-87]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Israel ensure that, pending