Then, flight envelope protection was triggered and the ALPHA FLOOR and TOGA LOCK mode followed – although according to the findings of the Investigation, the PF “did not identify the locking of the TOGA LOCK” and the PM “did not identify the (activation of the) ALPHA FLOOR mode”. Configuration 3 was selected and an altitude of 3,000 feet set - despite the fact that the missed approach stop altitude from the chart is actually 2200 feet. As the speed increased, the PF retarded the thrust levers to ‘CLIMB’ but this had no effect because the crew had still not noticed that TOGA LOCK mode was engaged. As the aircraft approached 2,000 ft, the crew selected that altitude, re-engaged the AP, retracted the landing gear, selected configuration 1 and, with the speed at 208 KCAS, selected a speed of 188 KIAS. As a result of inertia and with full thrust still selected, the speed continued to increase and since the VFE in configuration 1 was 215 KIAS, the overspeed warning was activated. In response, the PF selected the thrust levers to idle, which disengaged both the A/T and, as a consequence, TOGA LOCK mode, which allowed aircraft energy to decrease, but not before a maximum speed of 223 KCAS and a maximum altitude of 2500 feet had been reached. Shortly afterwards, the crew re-engaged the A/T and recovered full control of the aircraft and the transition to and completion of a second approach proceeded without further event. It was noted that the RNAV VISUAL approach procedure which the crew had accepted involved the provision of only lateral guidance from the FMS since Air France had chosen not to input a continuous descent path for the approach. It was also noted that “the concept of an RNAV VISUAL approach does not appear in the EU-OPS regulation, this type of approach not being used yet in Europe”. At the time of the incident, it was noted that the use of this procedure “was not clarified in the Air France Technical Use manual” and Tel Aviv was the only Air France short/medium haul destination. In respect of the CRM displayed on the flight deck of the incident aircraft, it was noted that: the PM had not anticipated the difficulties which the PF experienced and “had not offered to detail the key points of this unusual approach during the (approach briefing).. from the beginning of the downwind leg of the procedure, the PF “had a feeling of discomfort in the conduct of the flight” and “she did not share her doubts with the PM and did not call out her actions”. During the turn onto finals, the crew stated that “they focused their attention on the flight path and were no longer monitoring the flight parameters”.. It was also found that five days after the investigated event, a similar event had occurred on the same approach at Tel Aviv to another Air France A320 with a different crew. However, this time the crew had responded