bleed system”. The other engineer involved then "realised that the inhibitor had been placed in the wash rig tanks and not the oil tanks of the engines and immediately notified the Technical Shift Supervisor and advised him what had happened and requested him to remove the engine wash rig from service". Once the cause of the event had been identified, the Engine Manufacturer was consulted for guidance and "a water wash with an added cleaning agent was performed on both engines, followed by a wash with pure water [and] a decontamination of the aircraft’s air conditioning system was carried out". In addition, "an inspection for oil wetting of the forward sump pressurisation tube on both engines was performed, as was an inspection of the engine bleed ducts [with] no adverse findings". Also, "the air conditioning recirculation filters and the avionic equipment cooling air filter were replaced" and following release to service "repetitive visual inspections of the engines and the master chip detectors were scheduled to be performed every 50 to 75 flight hours, for a total of three inspections" again all with no adverse findings reported. The Investigation noted that in accordance with mandatory requirements, the Operator's maintenance personnel had received Company Procedure/Continuation and Human Factors training within the past two years. The Human Factors element of this training "referred to the Dirty Dozen factors" which have been identified as affecting human performance including "communication", "lack of knowledge" and "lack of awareness", as well as "the safety nets to combat them". However, it was found that there was no engine wash training program in place at the time of the investigated event and neither Engineer had received any other training directly relevant to engine wash procedures. It was noted that the corrosion inhibitor involved in the contamination was insoluble in water and that "the engine washing procedure may have resulted in the corrosion inhibitor leaving a residual coating on the engine compressors". The fact that the corrosion inhibitor was used at all was found, according to an article in a CFM technical information document "CFM Fleet Highlites" published five months prior to the event, to be unnecessary. This article stated that the post wash engine run as defined in the AMM had been found to be effective in reducing water concentration in engine oil to pre-wash levels, so that use of "an oil corrosion inhibiting additive is not necessary”. The article advised that a corresponding AMM amendment would be forthcoming. This action has now been taken. The delay in positioning the air bridge to the aircraft given the need to get its occupants clear of the contaminated environment was also examined. It was stated by the Airport Authority that the parking gate to be used by the returning aircraft had been allocated "approximately five minutes before the aircraft landed" with Operator personnel responsible for positioning it and the Operator aware of the return by ATC notification 11 minutes prior to the gate arrival. The Investigation "considered that sufficient time was