The event was investigated by the Irish AAIU. It was noted that the 40 year-old male aircraft commander, who had been PF for the flight, had 10,523 total flying hours which included 6,691 hours on type. The 27 year-old female First Officer had 2,067 total flying hours which included 1,771 hours on type. Both pilots held licences issued by the Irish Aviation Authority. Immediately after take-off, the flight crew detected a "strange smell" in the flight deck which was followed by a corresponding call from the senior cabin crew and then by the further information that a "smoke-like effect" had been experienced in the aft cabin after take-off although it had subsequently cleared. ATC permission to enter a temporary holding pattern whilst a further cabin assessment was made was obtained. A cabin report was then received advising that, although the smell had dissipated, it was still present and as it then also seemed to be getting worse again in the flight deck, it was decided to return to Dublin as a matter of relative urgency. Both pilots donned their oxygen masks as a precaution, a PAN was declared to ATC due to fumes in the flight deck and ATC advised the Operator as well as the AFS. The aircraft landed after 22 minutes airborne and after an expeditious taxi in facilitated by ATC reached the gate 4½ minutes later. No Operator personnel were available to position the air bridge and since the aircraft was not fitted with integral air stairs, opening of dis-armed doors was not permitted under Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Concerned at the non-appearance of operator personnel and in the light of cabin crew concern to "get the (cabin) doors open straight away, to get some fresh air", the flight crew contacted their Company to stress the need to attend which eventually occurred. By the time the forward door was opened, the Operator subsequently reported that the smell/fumes in the cabin were such that "many passengers had (their) mouths covered with items of clothing and handkerchiefs”. No passengers or crew required medical attention on disembarkation and medical examination of all crew members including blood and lung function tests "resulted in no adverse findings". Thereafter "there were no subsequent reports of associated illness from any of the Crew Members involved or from any of the passengers". The Investigation found that overnight prior to the early morning departure of the occurrence flight, both of the aircraft's CFM 56-5B4/3 engines had been routinely pressure washed using a procedure which only required idle power engine ground running after the wash process. At low power, engine bleed air for the air conditioning system is extracted from the fifth stage of each high speed compressor rather than from the ninth stage used for this purpose at the higher power settings used for take-off and climb. It was noted that the Operator scheduled this non-mandatory task every 1,500 flight hours. The pressure wash task is specified in the AFM and was carried out by two