licensed engineers, both of whom had previously carried it out - although not specifically trained for it - one more recently than the other. The AMM was found to state that when the pressure wash task was performed for EGT margin recovery, which was the purpose in this case, "it was recommended to perform the engine gas path water wash with pure water only". The AMM also noted that the purpose of this post-wash ground run was "to ensure that the bleed system is free from contaminant” which, the subtask notes, has the potential to cause “smoke/smell in the cabin”. In this case, the two engineers involved had noted from the AMM that as part of the preparations for a pressure wash, "the engine oils should normally receive a specified quantity of a corrosion preventative additive" but that if none of the approved products were available "the engine must resume revenue service operation within 24 hours following the post engine wash (ground run)". Whilst they were aware that the aircraft was planned to depart within a few hours of the time of completion of the engine washes, the engineers involved said that as corrosion inhibitor was available, they had decided to use it "to cover any unforeseen event that could prevent the aircraft from flying within the 24 hour period". It was also decided that the engineer who had the least experience of carrying out the task would man the rig required to accomplish it (see the illustration below). He stated that he had never used a corrosion inhibitor before but had "read in the AMM that the corrosion inhibitor was to be added to the oil tanks of each engine". He had “re-familiarised" himself with the engine wash rig by reading the instruction placards on the rig and the attached instruction booklet. Then, "with the cans of corrosion inhibitor sitting on top of the wash rig and the word 'tank' in his mind, he checked with his colleague as to where the inhibitor was to be added - one in each tank?" (meaning, at this stage, the wash rig tanks) and received the response "yeah, one in each tank" (meaning the engine oil tanks). He then poured one can of inhibitor into each of the two water-filled tanks of the wash rig. At this time, his colleague was not present "as he was carrying out other preparatory tasks on the aircraft/engines" and as a result was unaware that the corrosion inhibitor had not been added to the engine oil tanks. After both washes had been completed, the permissible low power engine ground run was carried out. The engineer who had made the error became aware of media reports about an air turnback and when he discovered that the aircraft involved was the one the engine washes had been performed on, he contacted his colleague and advised him that he thought that it may have been caused by the “water/inhibitor mix that hadn’t burnt off or got trapped in the