including but not limited to comparing automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast flight position data from air tour flights with weather camera imagery for the route and periodically reviewing onboard video recordings, to detect and correct operating practices that may lead to unacceptable weather-related risky behaviour. [A-22-17]. that the Federal Aviation Administration issue and periodically update a special airworthiness information bulletin that lists newly manufactured helicopters that are equipped with features likely to reduce accidents resulting from inadvertent encounters with instrument meteorological conditions, describes retrofit options for helicopters that do not have such equipment, and encourages the voluntary integration of these safety features. [A-22-18]. that the Vertical Aviation Safety Team include in your proposed helicopter safety rating system, helicopter safety features for preventing accidents resulting from inadvertent encounters with IMC. [A-22-19]. that the Tour Operators’ Program of Safety inform its members and make information available to the broader air tour community about the circumstances of this accident, provide information about available helicopter safety technologies for reducing the risk of accidents related to inadvertent encounters with instrument meteorological conditions, and encourage air tour operators to voluntarily incorporate such features into their helicopter fleets. [A-22-20]. Ten Other Safety Recommendations already issued as a result of other Investigations were re-iterated in the light of the findings of this one as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require all existing turbine-powered, non-experimental and non-restricted category aircraft that are not equipped with a FDR or CVR operating under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 91, 121, or 135 to be retrofitted with a crash-resistant flight recorder system. The crash-resistant flight recorder system should record cockpit audio and images with a view of the cockpit environment to include as much of the outside view as possible, and parametric data per aircraft and system installation, all as specified in Technical Standard Order C197, “Information Collection and Monitoring Systems.” [A-13-13]. that the Federal Aviation Administration initiate an aviation weather camera program in Hawaii that includes the installation and maintenance of aviation weather cameras at critical locations in Hawaii. Establish public access to these aviation weather cameras’ real-time imagery. [A-13-25]. that the Federal Aviation Administration equip flight service station specialists responsible for Hawaii and the continental United States with the technical capabilities and training to provide verbal pre-flight and en-route briefings using aviation weather camera imagery. [A-13-27]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 operators to install flight data recording devices capable of supporting a flight data monitoring program. [A-16-34]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, after the action in Safety Recommendation A-16-34 is completed, require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 operators to establish a structured flight data monitoring program that reviews all available data sources to identify deviations from established norms and procedures and other potential safety issues. [A-16-35]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 operators to establish safety management system programs. [A-16-36]. that the Federal Aviation Administration identify high-traffic air tour areas and