An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The accident helicopter was not equipped (and was not required to be) with a CVR, an FDR or an image recorder. The NTSB was informed by the operator that the accident helicopter had previously been equipped with a video camera/recording system, but that it had been removed “in preparation for the installation of an upgraded system”. The installed Garmin GNS 430 device which held navigation and terrain data which included an obstacle database was located but when the related NVM was examined, it was found that the relevant databases were several years out of date (database currency not being a requirement for VFR operations). Video recordings from a number of camera-equipped helicopters operating the same standard route were available. The 69 year-old pilot involved had first been employed by the operator in 2007 but by the time of the accident he had become an instructor and was also the Chief Pilot and Company Check Airman. His (successful) application for the second class medical certificate current at the time of the accident reported a total of 14,000 hours flying experience of which 475 hours had been flown in the previous six months. The most recent entry in his personal log book was dated 2012, however the operator’s Assistant Chief Pilot “estimated that the accident pilot flew about 40 hours per month”. His most recent line check, which required demonstration of the ability to manoeuvre the helicopter solely by reference to instruments and to return to VMC following an inadvertent IMC encounter, was completed just over five months prior to the accident in the same helicopter. It was noted that FAA records showed that a random drug test administered by the operator as part of its required drug and alcohol testing programme in May 2010 had detected evidence of cannabis use by the accident pilot. Thid led to his Private Pilot Licence (PPL) and Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) certification being temporarily revoked before being regained in July 2011 after he had successfully completed a substance abuse program and related requirements. For the duration of the period without a current licence, his employment as a pilot at the operator was terminated although it was continued for other ground duties. The accident pilot was one of two pilots covering the operator’s sightseeing flights from Lihue airport on the day of the accident. All his eight planned flights were, subject to maintaining VFR, intended to follow a standard route involving a clockwise loop around/over Kauai (see the illustration below) and take around 50 minutes. The accident flight was his eighth and final one for the day. The standard sightseeing route around Kauai out of Lihue. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Limited information was available about the flight, although the ATC radar recording showed that a return which corresponded to the likely ground track of the accident flight which tracked “south then west and northwest” before the returns ceased eight minutes later at the expected limit of the