concerned at the delay in full FAA implementation of the already-agreed Hawaiian weather camera system given the support it will provide to pilots’ weather avoidance decision making. It was also considered obvious that an effective OFDM system would be of particular value in sustaining operating standards in single pilot commercial air transport operations in such a challenging VFR-constrained environment. The Probable Cause of the accident was formally determined by the Board as “the pilot’s decision to continue flight under visual flight rules into instrument meteorological conditions, which resulted in the collision into terrain”. Two Contributory Factors to the accident were also identified as: Safari Aviation’s lack of safety management processes to identify hazards and mitigate the risks associated with factors that influence pilots to continue VFR flight into IMC.. The Federal Aviation Administration’s delayed implementation of an Hawaiian aviation weather camera program, its lack of leadership in the development of a cue-based weather training program for Hawaii air tour pilots and its ineffective monitoring and oversight of Hawaii air tour operators’ weather-related operating practices.. A total of ten Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration install the necessary infrastructure in Hawaii to enable continuous radio communication between the pilots of low-flying tour flights and ground support personnel, such as flight service station specialists and company flight support personnel, along the most heavily trafficked air tour routes. [A-22-11]. that the Federal Aviation Administration implement automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast (ADS-B) infrastructure improvements in Hawaii, such as additional ADS-B ground stations, that provide adequate coverage to enable real-time flight tracking and traffic advisory services for ADS-B Out- and In-equipped, low-flying air tour aircraft throughout their entire tour routes. [A-22-12]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, as an interim measure until completion of the action to satisfy Safety Recommendation A-21-15, require Hawaii air tour operators to install ADSB-OUT on their aircraft to enable real-time flight position tracking. [A-22-13]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require air tour operators to have flight support personnel who are trained to exercise operational control authority, participate in pre-flight risk analysis, provide pilots with weather briefings, monitor the progress of the flights, and participate in two-way communications with pilots to alert them of any weather hazards. [A-22-14]. that the Federal Aviation Administration develop guidance for small operators for scaling a safety management system that includes methods and techniques for implementation and specific examples applicable to several operational sectors, including air tours. [A-22-15]. that the Federal Aviation Administration issue a safety alert for operators to encourage air tour operators to establish safety assurance processes to routinely review recorded onboard videos and automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast flight tracking data, ideally as part of a safety management system with an integrated flight data monitoring program, for the purpose of identifying and addressing risky trends in weather-related operating practices, such as encounters or near encounters with instrument meteorological conditions-related hazards. [A-22-16]. that the Federal Aviation Administration improve the surveillance of air tour operations in Hawaii through the use of technologies and innovative approaches,