require, through a special federal aviation regulation or other means, that Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 91 and 135 air tour operators that operate within those areas be equipped with an ADS-B Out and In-supported traffic advisory system that (1) includes both visual and aural alerts, (2) is driven by an algorithm designed to minimise nuisance alerts, and (3) is operational during all flight operations. [A-21-15]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require the use of appropriate simulation devices during initial and recurrent pilot training for Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 helicopter operations to provide scenario-based training that addresses the decision-making, skills, and procedures needed to recognise and respond to changing weather conditions in flight, identify and apply mitigation strategies for avoiding adverse weather, practice the transition to the use of flight instruments to reduce the risk of spatial disorientation, and maintain awareness of a variety of influences that can adversely affect pilot decision-making. [A-21-05]. that the Federal Aviation Administration convene a multidisciplinary panel of aircraft performance, human factors, and aircraft operations specialists to evaluate spatial disorientation simulation technologies to determine which applications are most effective for training pilots to recognize the onset of spatial disorientation and successfully mitigate it, and make public a report on the committee’s findings. [A-21-06]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, in cooperation with Hawaiian commercial air tour operators, aviation psychologists and meteorologists, among others, develop a cue-based training program for commercial air tour pilots in Hawaii that specifically addresses hazardous aspects of local weather phenomena and in-flight decision-making. [A-07-18] now classified by the NTSB as “Open - Unacceptable Response”. that the Federal Aviation Administration, once a cue-based training program that specifically addresses hazardous aspects of local weather phenomena and weather-related, decision-making issues is developed (as requested in Safety Recommendation A-07-18), require all commercial air tour operators in Hawaii to provide this training to newly hired pilots. [A-07-19] now classified by the NTSB as “Open - Unacceptable Response”. The Final Report of the Board was dated 10 May 2022 and subsequently published on 27 May 2022.