of the standard tour route and about a quarter of a nautical mile to the southwest of where the trail witness had been standing when he heard the helicopter noise stop. An inspection of the site showed that the helicopter had struck the steeply sloping north face of a 3000 foot high ridge in level flight just below its crest with damage consistent with a low-energy impact. Detailed assessment of the on-site evidence suggested that either the helicopter was turning within the valley of which the ridge formed one side or was descending it into from an unknown initial altitude when impact occurred. It was considered that it would be plausible to explain either scenario as the result of controlled manoeuvring with inadequate visual reference or an in-flight loss of control at a low height above terrain. It was not possible to establish exactly what had happened let alone determine the detail of exactly “why” because of the lack of information about the helicopter’s flight track or any other parameters. In particular, this made it impossible to determine whether the accident pilot had maintained controlled flight after encountering IMC or had lost control before terrain impact occurred. Several sightseeing tour pilots following the same route that day indicated that the Kauai Island weather had been favourable for their flights for most of the day, but that low cloud and rain “began moving onshore from the northwest and affecting that side of the Island about the time that the accident flight departed”. Two pilots for another helicopter operator advised having diverted their flights away from the Waimea Canyon in order to avoid adverse weather there about 15/20 minutes before the accident appeared to have occurred. These pilots and others familiar with the weather patterns on Kauai advised that weather conditions “can change rapidly in certain areas of the island and that pilots often cannot anticipate what the weather will be like until arriving at that location” so that tactical decision making on flight routing is often required if VFR flight cannot be continued without a deviation from the standard route. In respect of the accident pilot’s relative risk aversion, the Investigation talked to his supervisor, his subordinates, his peers and FAA Inspectors and all considered he had been very knowledgeable about the Kauai weather, had evidenced good judgment when making weather-related decisions and had often advised other pilots to avoid taking weather-related risks. It was noted that on one occasion, he had “even asked an (FAA) Inspector to commend another pilot for having decided to land a helicopter off-site to avoid continuing a tour in deteriorating visibility”. The Investigation found that FAA oversight of operational safety in the (substantial) multi-operator Hawaiian helicopter sightseeing industry was inadequate. It was particularly concerned at an apparent “lack of leadership and expert guidance in developing cue-based weather training” which their research had found “was effective for improving pilots’ skills for accurately assessing and avoiding hazardous in-flight weather conditions” when in VFR flight. It was also