radar coverage for low-flying aircraft in that area. Nine minutes later, the flight would have been expected to have reached the north end of the Waimea Canyon (near Waipoʻo Falls) after which the normal route would have been to initially continue southwest through the canyon before exiting over its west rim between the Lua Reservoir and the Upper Microwave tower (see the illustration below) and, after flying between the two, then taking up a north northwest track to reach the Nāpali Coast. The accident location and presumed intended track. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The pilot of another operator’s sightseeing flight estimated he was about five minutes behind the accident helicopter when he heard its pilot routinely announce his required position report at the Upper Microwave Tower over the radio. He stated that at that time, whilst he could see adverse weather at the north end of the Waimea Canyon, he had presumed that as the accident flight had continued, there must have been a way through. Initially, he decided to continue as planned to see whether he could also go that way and informed his passengers that the Canyon would be the next site. However, his helicopter was camera-equipped and video showed that his tour arrived at the north end of Waimea Canyon about 1657 and encountered visible moisture in the canyon. He reported having exited the canyon near the Upper Microwave Tower but after continuing on the usual route for about two minutes and encountering “reduced visibility and rain had decided to reverse track rather than continue towards the Nāpali Coast”. A witness (see their position on the illustration above) who was hiking along a trail slightly to the east of the usual route which was at approximately 3,100 feet amsl “in dense fog” reported that heavy rain had been falling for about 45 minutes when he had first heard a helicopter nearby for about 30 to 50 seconds before then hearing “a strange squealing noise” after which he could no longer hear any further noise from it. He stated “that fog was so dense he could see only about 20 feet in front of him”. Soon after the time the accident flight should have arrived back at Lihue, the accident aircraft operator’s Director of Operations (who also owned the company) was advised by company ground staff that the flight was overdue and that “company flight locating procedures began”. The other company pilot who had been flying that day had completed his flights but after he was told that the other flight was overdue, had subsequently returned to his helicopter and flown north where he reported having found “adverse weather” ahead and had concluded that the other helicopter would have landed somewhere to “wait it out”. He had then climbed to try and gain radio contact but was not successful. The following morning, a rescue helicopter team spotted the wreckage in wooded, mountainous terrain at an elevation of about 3,000 feet amsl about half a nautical mile east