clear of runway 08 and its extended centreline so as to join downwind for a landing on runway 08. The Captain of the DHC8 reported looking out of his left window as the aircraft made its initial climb overhead the threshold of runway 26 and seeing the BN2 "turning through east at about the same level". The annotated diagram below shows the relative ground tracks of the two aircraft. The Investigation noted that operations at Horn Island are constrained by high terrain to the south east of the aerodrome. As a consequence, take-offs from runway 14 and landings on runway 32 are not permitted and local operators of smaller aircraft generally depart from runway 08 and land on runway 14 whilst larger aircraft such as the DHC8 use the slightly longer runway 08 for both take-off and landing. It also noted that the right of way rules under Australian Civil Aviation Regulation (CAR) 162 state that "an aircraft that is about to take-off shall not attempt to do so until there is no apparent risk of collision with other aircraft". The Captain of the DHC8 stated to the Investigation that they had started their take-off before visually sighting the BN2 after having "relied too heavily on their TCAS" after failing to "place sufficient importance on the ‘see’ element within the ‘see-and-avoid’ philosophy of operations at non-controlled aerodromes". The Captain remarked that their use of the TCAS display for traffic awareness prior to beginning take-off had been with it set to a 12 nm range whereas a 6 nm range would have been more appropriate and the Investigation concurred. The timing of the misheard BN2 Pilot transmission to hold short of his landing runway in relation to the point at which the DHC8 passed V1 could not be determined. As a matter of fact not directly related to the investigated event, it was noted that whereas the horizontal and vertical dimensions for standard CTAF boundaries are published in the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP), the dimensions for non-standard CTAF boundaries are currently only published in the Enroute Supplement 'LOW' Chart. Findings from the Investigation were formally documented as follows: The DHC8 Captain was motivated to expedite their departure from the main runway which, in conjunction with the broadcast from the BN2 that they would have time to take-off before the BN2 landed, contributed to them starting their take-off before they sighted the BN2.. The flight crew probably misheard the broadcast from the pilot of the BN2 to hold short of runway 14 and (therefore) did not reject their take-off.. Both the BN2 and the DHC8 made the required CTAF broadcasts and were aware of the approximate position of each other prior to the near-collision event.. Concurrent operations to different runways at Horn Island is a normal local practice which is employed to facilitate traffic movements.. The Final Report was published on 9 February 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.