An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that both the aircraft involved were operating under IFR but that the airspace involved was Class 'G' with a CTAF (common traffic advisory frequency) designated for the airspace within 40 nm of Horn Island from the surface to 8,500 feet. Kubin was (well) within the CTAF boundary. It was established that the BN2 had broadcast its departure from Kubin for the 16nm flight to Horn Island on the CTAF. At this time its Pilot noted that another company aircraft had just departed from nearby Badu Island and was also heading for Horn Island. En route, he heard the Pilot of this other inbound aircraft advising that he would join the runway 08 circuit at Horn Island behind an aircraft making training circuits to that runway. Because both the BN2 and the DHC8 were operating under IFR, the Area Controller then passed information to the BN2 about the impending departure from Horn Island of the DHC8 even though neither aircraft was within controlled airspace. The BN2 pilot planned for a straight approach to runway 14 - a landing-only runway due to adverse terrain beyond the far end - and continued making all the required CTAF arrival radio calls including position calls at 10 nm, 5 nm and 3 nm prior to joining final approach. Meanwhile, the DHC8 First Officer broadcast his aircraft's entry and backtracking of runway 14 and intention to take off from runway 14 and held short of runway 08 to allow the aircraft doing circuits to complete a touch and go. Whilst backtracking, the DHC8 crew heard a CTAF call from the aircraft inbound from Badu Island that it would be joining the runway 08 circuit No 2 to the training aircraft in that pattern. They then noticed another aircraft (the BN2) on their TCAS display and in response to a query to it were told by its Pilot that he was "approaching a 3 nm final for runway 14 and that they would have time to depart from runway 08 if they were quick". At about this time, the DHC8 was reaching the beginning of runway 08 and the aircraft was lined up for departure whilst the short pre take-off checklist was completed. The CTAF frequency was briefly occupied by communication between two distant aircraft and by the time BN2 pilot heard the DHC8 broadcast "rolling for departure from runway 08", he was "at about 400 feet on final approach for runway 14". He subsequently stated that at about 300 feet, he had broadcast "hold short" to the DHC8 but the DHC8 Captain reported he had heard this transmission as "land and hold short of runway 08" and so had continued the take-off’. As the BN2 approached 100-150 feet on final approach, the DHC8 had still not crossed the runway intersection and so its Pilot broke off the approach and commenced a climbing left hand turn away from the runway and keeping