The cognitive processes engaged during monitoring are complex and involve the selective application of mental resources to encode the sensory inputs whilst performing a goal directed task. The senses relating to flight path monitoring are mainly visual and auditory, but tactile inputs from the flight controls (e.g. stick shaker, aeroplane buffet, etc.) can influence the monitoring task particularly in the event of a stall. Similarly, the smell and taste senses can alert the flight crew to fumes in the cockpit and therefore also perform a monitoring stimulus. Intent also forms an important part of monitoring and provides a baseline against which to monitor. Intent relates to system behaviour (what it is going to do), aircraft handling (predicted flight path/aircraft manoeuvrability) and Pilot Flying’s intent (the plan). Timely, accurate monitoring activities will result in outputs that, following crew judgement and decision making, can take the form of: Regarding physical ergonomics, pilots must be able to see and hear all information relevant to their monitoring tasks. Their seat positions must be adjusted to the design eye position to enable each pilot to view the internal displays and controls whilst maintaining an adequate view of the external scene. The optimal seat position is usually set by reference to two small balls on the central windscreen pillar. The balls appear aligned only when the pilot’s eye is at the design position. Vision is a very complex subject and involves the ability of the eye to adapt to different lighting levels (called adaptation), focus on the information (normally referred to as accommodation) and to perceive information, such as texts and graphics, as legible at the required viewing distance (called visual acuity). Adaption, accommodation and acuity all vary with, and are affected by, age. Pilots need to be aware if they are experiencing any difficulty with focus, adaption or legibility of the displayed information as this will certainly compromise the monitoring task. Medical professionals will be able to advise on correction or treatment if necessary. Hearing can be impaired by accumulation of wax in the outer ear (which is easily remedied), a head cold which blocks the Eustachian tube and prevents equalization of pressure or by infections in the middle ear. Hearing can be expected to deteriorate with age particularly with the higher frequencies. In addition, high ambient noise environment or distractions/interruptions in the cockpit can impact the clarity of aural messages. Under all circumstances, if there is any ambiguity related to information received aurally then ask for it to be repeated.