At 1,000 ft AGL the stability criteria specified in the operating manuals were clearly not met. An objective check of these parameters would have called the crew’s attention to the difficulty involved in successfully completing the approach.. At 500 ft AGL where the operator requires the crew to ensure that the aircraft is in condition to execute a safe landing by checking that key stabilised approach criteria are met.. It was considered that “the delay in the decision (to go around), conditioned by the desire to land before the storm moved in over the airport, meant that the crew worked the aircraft into a situation from which it was difficult to exit”. However, it was also considered that a decision to go around and avoid the storm would have been the best option “since any southerly deviation course would have been feasible, with ATC being responsible for ensuring aircraft separation during the manoeuvre”. The Investigation attempted an analysis of the Human Factors issues involved in the approach but this was hindered by the absence of the (overwritten) CVR detail. It was concluded that the investigation had identified significant shortcomings affecting operational safety at Air Nostrum. It was also noted, in respect of the failure to preserve the CVR record of the accident approach that: “Although EU OPS 1.160 sets out the obligations of air operators as regards the preservation, production and use of flight recorder recordings in the event of an accident or incident, this investigation has revealed that…..practically no Spanish operator has procedures in its manuals intended to preserve flight recorders after an accident or incident, resulting in the loss of vital information during several investigations”. The Investigation found that the Cause of the accident was: “The execution of a de-stabilised approach brought about by the Captain’s decision to try to descend at rates in excess of 2,500 ft/min and with the air brakes deployed from 600 ft AGL to the ground.” The following Contributory Factors were also been identified: the presence of an adverse weather situation that was different from expected. the lack of communication between the two pilots, which caused the crew to lose situational awareness and to ignore the EGPWS warnings.. Three Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air Nostrum should modify its operational documentation as follows:. - Include in the PRM (“Pilot Reference Manual”) the need to have checklists and briefings completed as one of the criteria required (for) an approach (to) be regarded as stabilised. - Clarify that the VITAL ITEMS call out confirms a situation but does not replace the execution of normal checklists. - Replace the term “recommended” from the actions contained in its manuals in regard to the ground proximity alerts issued by the EGPWS, thus removing the option of not carrying out actions that should be executed immediately and unfailingly. - Modify the “Before Landing” checklist so that it reflects the most commonly accepted checklist writing criteria. - Include the need to perform