with the runway. The airbrake deployment activated an EICAS caution (because such deployment is notified as unsafe below 800 feet - and is prohibited below 300 feet) but this was ignored by the crew. Almost immediately, Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Hard Warnings of ‘SINK RATE, PULL UP’ commenced and ‘PULL UP’ continued for 12 cycles until it was automatically de-activated at 30 feet agl. There was no reaction from either pilot to these warnings. The runway threshold was overflown at a height of 365 feet, at which point the First Officer called the high sink rate. At 370 metres beyond it, the Captain started the flare by raising the nose 6° and reducing the rate of descent to 1575 fpm; the First Officer added thrust on the Captain’s instruction to reduce the sink rate. Runway contact by the right main gear and nose gear reaching almost 3.7g was recorded and a bounce followed. The right main gear then touched the runway again with almost 2.5g being recorded but this time the other legs followed, the ground spoilers auto deployed and the aircraft stayed on the ground. The aircraft was slowed to taxi speed well before reaching the end of the 3352 metre-long runway and then taxied to its parking stand in accordance with ATC instructions. The two following aircraft went around on account of the adverse weather now closing in on both the airport and the 25R approach. Both had advised ATC in advance that if they did so, it would be with a left turn rather than ahead in accordance with the standard missed approach procedure in order to remain clear of the weather. Once the aircraft was parked, the flight crew were advised of a minor neck injury sustained by the cabin crew because of the hard landing and recorded the latter in the aircraft Technical Log. The subsequent inspection in accordance with Aircraft Maintenance Manual requirements found significant damage to the aircraft structure at the points where the landing gear assemblies were attached and the aircraft was withdrawn from service pending repairs. It was found that the 37 year old Captain had obtained the majority of his 7331 flying hours on the accident aircraft type and that the 32 year old First Officer had obtained around a third of his 3030 flying hours on the accident aircraft type. The weather conditions which had prevailed during final approach were reviewed and it was found that, as the storm had moved towards the airport from the north, the wind had veered from a mean of 170° to a mean 360° and increased in strength. A SIGMET had been in force to alert to the general disposition of adverse weather. The Investigation considered the failure to make a go around and concluded that, had the crew adhered to published procedures, they could have detected the need to go around on three occasions: When they lost visual references while executing a visual approach below the Minimum Sector Altitude (MSA)..