An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish CIAIAC. The event was not reported until six days after it had occurred and, as a consequence, the relevant Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was overwritten. DFDR data was successfully downloaded and read and formed the basis of a reconstruction of the approach as flown. It was established that as the flight reached the Barcelona area, a significant area of convective storm activity was to the north of the airport and moving slowly south with the likelihood that the final approach to landing runway 25R would be affected before the storm area reached the airport itself. ATC were aware from pilot reports of the progressive southward movement of the adverse weather and had already routed the aircraft to the south of the airport in preference to the usual arrival route from the north for this reason. Recognising the desirability of keeping the aircraft clear of where they believed the worst of the weather was, radar vectors were initially provided towards a 4nm Instrument Landing System (ILS) intercept. However, ATC then suggested that if the crew were able to accept a visual approach then it would be approved. This offer was accepted and the aircraft was turned left towards a shorter intercept with the extended centreline which resulted in the aircraft being slightly above the ideal vertical profile. Speed was reduced with use of the airbrakes and the aircraft was fully configured for landing before reaching 5nm from the threshold. The AP was then disconnected but soon afterwards, at an altitude of 1390 feet, about 3.5nm from the threshold and still some distance from the extended runway centreline (see the diagram below), low cloud was encountered. It was decided to remain clear of cloud by climbing to 1700 feet whilst continuing to turn towards final approach. Having lost sight of the runway, the crew reverted to the display of the ILS LOC for guidance but ATC were not advised of these developments. Having turned 20° to the left to reach a heading of 299°, descent was resumed and, at 2.8nm range, visual contact with the runway was regained. However, by now the aircraft was over 600 feet above a normal vertical approach profile (see the second diagram below) and the crew were aware that the aircraft was unstabilised. They stated to the Investigation that at this point “they considered the possibility of going around to the left or right but ruled out both options due to the presence of other aircraft and obstacles respectively”. Descent was continued at an average of 1000 fpm until the aircraft was almost over the runway threshold with no prospect of achieving a touchdown on the runway if that rate of descent was continued. At an altitude of 600 feet, the commander, having seen the hesitation of the First Officer given the unstable condition, took control and immediately deployed the airbrakes to increase the rate of descent to almost 3000 fpm and turned 40° left to line up