Reduced quality of hear-back (the controller transfers the aircraft and moves to the next task not really hearing the pilot's read-back).. Workload too low –this may cause distraction and negligence, which, in turn, may lead to: Aircraft being transferred too early (so that the controller has a feeling of their job finally done). Aircraft being transferred too late (e.g. the controller was engaged in other activities and did not pay enough attention to the single aircraft on the frequency). Neglecting or not identifying the need to perform a coordination. A false sense of safety (the attitude “I have no issues with my traffic therefore everyone around me does not have either”).. Aircraft being transferred too early (so that the controller has a feeling of their job finally done).. Aircraft being transferred too late (e.g. the controller was engaged in other activities and did not pay enough attention to the single aircraft on the frequency).. Neglecting or not identifying the need to perform a coordination.. A false sense of safety (the attitude “I have no issues with my traffic therefore everyone around me does not have either”).. Obscured track label – a combination of different colours, overlapping labels and high workload may easily cause a track not to be seen correctly by the controller, leading to e.g.: Not being able to identify a conflict due to partly obscured information (speed, level). Not being able to identify the need for a coordination (e.g. that an aircraft would not be able to reach its assigned level before the boundary). Misinterpretation of history dots and the speed vector, especially in a busy situation, and transferring an aircraft back to the previous sector or failing to transfer an aircraft leaving the airspace.. Not being able to identify a conflict due to partly obscured information (speed, level).. Not being able to identify the need for a coordination (e.g. that an aircraft would not be able to reach its assigned level before the boundary).. Misinterpretation of history dots and the speed vector, especially in a busy situation, and transferring an aircraft back to the previous sector or failing to transfer an aircraft leaving the airspace.. Incorrect/insufficient plan – the lack of an adequate plan may result in erratic last-minute action which may interfere with the neighbouring sector's idea on how to solve the situation, e.g.: A last-minute descend against an opposite traffic. A sharp turn, creating a conflict with another aircraft. A clearance for a direct route that e.g. infringes a special use area or third party airspace.. A last-minute descend against an opposite traffic.. A sharp turn, creating a conflict with another aircraft.. A clearance for a direct route that e.g. infringes a special use area or third party airspace..