Although deceleration characteristics vary among aircraft types and their gross weights, the following typical values can be used: Deceleration in level flight: With approach flaps extended: 10 knots to 15 knots per nm; or, During extension of the landing gear and landing flaps: 20 knots to 30 knots per nm and,. With approach flaps extended: 10 knots to 15 knots per nm; or,. During extension of the landing gear and landing flaps: 20 knots to 30 knots per nm and,. Deceleration on a three-degree glide path (for a typical 140-knot final approach groundspeed, a rule of thumb is to maintain a descent gradient of 300 feet per nm/700 feet per minute [fpm])[1]: With approach flaps and landing gear down, during extension of landing flaps: 10 knots to 20 knots per nm; Decelerating on a three-degree glide path in a clean configuration is not possible usually; and, When capturing the glideslope with slats extended and no flaps, typically a 1,000-foot descent and three nm are flown while establishing the landing configuration and stabilizing the final approach speed.. With approach flaps and landing gear down, during extension of landing flaps: 10 knots to 20 knots per nm;. Decelerating on a three-degree glide path in a clean configuration is not possible usually; and,. When capturing the glideslope with slats extended and no flaps, typically a 1,000-foot descent and three nm are flown while establishing the landing configuration and stabilizing the final approach speed.. In some aircraft, speed brakes may allow a faster deceleration (but often the use of speed brakes is not recommended or not permitted below 1,000 feet above airport elevation or with landing flaps extended). However, the deceleration effect of all drag devices (spoilers, flaps and landing gear) becomes less effective as speed reduces. Typically, slats should be extended not later than three nm from the final approach fix (FAF). In all cases, aircraft should be configured for the approach being flown in accordance with the aircraft’s Flight Manual/Flight Training Manual/Operations Manual. The diagram below shows aircraft deceleration capability and the maximum airspeed at the OM based on a conservative deceleration rate of 10 knots per nm on a three-degree glide path. For example, in IMC (minimum stabilisation height, 1,000 feet above airport elevation) and with a typical 130-knot final approach speed, the maximum deceleration achievable between the OM (six nm) and the stabilisation point (1,000 feet above airport elevation and three nm) is: 10 knots per nm x (6 nm – 3 nm) = 30 knots. To be stabilized at 130 knots at 1,000 feet above airport elevation, the maximum airspeed that can be accepted and can be maintained down to the OM is, therefore: 130 knots + 30 knots = 160 knots. Whenever a flight crew is requested to maintain a high airspeed down to the outer marker (OM), a quick computation such as the one shown above can help assess the ATC request. Again, an understanding of the prevailing wind is important; a crosswind on the runway may