from (the A319) and that it was advisable that training for terminal area controllers should highlight the need to assign proper courses for intercepting localisers on approach and to plan potential conflict situations ahead of time so that vertical separation is maintained at all times”. This internal Investigation “also stressed the importance of using the English language (on a frequency) when it is (being) spoken by any aircraft crew”. The Investigation noted that the CIAIAC had raised the language issue as a result of an earlier investigation into an Incident at Madrid. It was noted that Spanish Air Traffic Regulations include the remarks that: Air-ground telephony communications shall be carried out in the ground station’s normal language or in English.. English shall be used at the request of any aircraft station at all ground stations serving designated airports and routes used by international air services.”. The Investigation was of the opinion that: “This event is an example of improper use of language since the correct practice in those cases that involve several aircraft whose crews speak different languages is to use English so that everyone is aware of the situation. This does not appear to be a case of improper mastery of English, but rather of a bad practice that could result in safety deficiencies”. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the incident was “a miscalculation on the part of ATC when attempting to adjust flight paths. The resolution of the conflict was not adequate. Once it was decided to have (the A330) turn, this aircraft shouldn’t have been allowed to turn left without taking into account the altitudes of the aircraft or their possible converging flight paths. It would have been better handled by making (the A330) turn right. It was also considered that deficient ATC communications contributed to the Incident”. Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that, during the Unit Competence Scheme theory instruction phase for controllers, AENA stress the importance of using English phraseology in those situations that involve crews who speak different languages. [REC 79/12]. that, during the Unit Competence Scheme theory instruction phase for controllers, AENA stress the importance of vectoring and spacing techniques and of speed control. [REC 80/12]. The Final Report (in Spanish) was approved for publication on 28 November 2012 and subsequently made available in English translation: Final Report (in English).