at Surabaya four minutes apart. The roster of the Batik Air A320 Captain and their First Officer prior to the investigated event was reviewed. Two days earlier, they had operated a 4½ hour flight from Jakarta Soekarno-Hatta to Manokwari which involved a night flight and then a 24 hour period free of duty before reporting at 0605 local time for a two sector duty from Manokwari to Surabaya via Makassar. It was noted that the Batik Air OM Part ‘A’ contained an entry on the potential hazards of fatigue such as it was speculated may have been a factor in the clearance setting error which led to this investigated conflict. It was discovered during the Investigation that both A320 pilots had seen the 737 below them on their TCAS traffic display but they “did not pay attention to its altitude - the PM Captain was aware that the aircraft was under radar surveillance control and believed that all aircraft would be controlled and separated by the controller”. This attitude served to reduce the PMs interest in monitoring other traffic communications hence the altitude clearance for the 737 was not monitored. Radio communication with the A320 was minimal and with the AP engaged and the hold set up, it was considered that minimal activity on the flight deck “might have made the PF First Officer feel sleepy” and led to the PM Captain being reminded of his “family medical issue” which would have “reduced both pilots’ awareness.” Two Contributory Factors were identified in respect of the occurrence as: The vertical separation reduced to below the requirement due to the target altitude of the Batik Air A320 being set to 10,000 feet, which caused the aircraft to pass through its assigned altitude.. Unrecovered fatigue and family issues reduced pilot awareness during less busy flight deck activity and resulted in reduced ability to monitor other traffic and misunderstanding of assigned altitude.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Batik Air establish a fatigue risk management system which may refer to ICAO Annex 6 and ICAO Document 9966. [04.O-2018-01.1]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) review the regulation covering fatigue risk management. [04.O-2018-01.2]]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved in October 2018 and subsequently released.