In-flight icing poses serious threat to the safety of a flight. Water droplets accumulate on the airframe as ice under specific conditions. The ice deposits alter the wing profile and disrupt the flow of air. This drastically changes flight parameters such as lift, drag, controllability, etc. As drag increases, lift rapidly decreases - a natural pilot action to compensate for this would be to apply power and increase angle of attack to maintain level, however this leads to even faster ice accumulation as larger airframe surface is exposed. Ice formations on wing and control surfaces can lead to increased stall speed, sudden uncontrolled pitch or roll with difficult recovery and, potentially, eventual loss of control. Moderate or severe icing conditions could overwhelm the anti-ice system commonly fitted on modern aircraft. Safe continuation of the flight could become impossible. Some hazards associated with in-flight icing include: Adverse Aerodynamic Effects. Blockage of pitot tubes and static vents. Communications problems.. For further information, see the separate article on the Aerodynamic Effects of In-Flight Icing. Type and speed of ice formation is, in part, a function of the variables of the cloud liquid water content, the mean effective diameter of the cloud droplets and the ambient air temperature. The shape of the aerofoil and the speed of the aircraft also directly affect the rate of ice accretion. The following table shows the risk classification, depending on the cloud type and temperature: In-flight icing risk: Cumulus clouds: Stratiform clouds: Rain and drizzle: High. 0° to -20°C. 0° to -15°C. 0°C and below. Medium. -20° to -40°C. -15° to -30°C. Low. < than -40°C. < than -30°C. Figure 1: In-flight icing risk in various atmospheric conditions. Source: Aircraft Icing Handbook, CAA, NZ (www.caa.govt.nz) According to studies conducted on icing-related incidents and accidents, “the worst continuous icing conditions are found near the freezing level in heavy stratified clouds, or in rain, with icing possible up to 8,000 ft higher. Icing is rare above this higher altitude as the droplets in the clouds are already frozen. In cumuliform clouds with strong updrafts, however large water droplets may be carried to high altitudes and structural icing is possible up to very high altitudes. Further, in cumuliform cloud the freezing level may be distorted upwards in updrafts and downwards in downdrafts, often by many thousands of feet. This leads to the potential for severe icing to occur at almost any level.” (Aircraft Icing Handbook pp2, see Further Reading) The following icing classification is derived from the same source and is based solely on the speed of ice formation: Trace: Ice becomes perceptible. Rate of accumulation of ice is slightly greater than the rate of loss due to sublimation.. Light: The rate of accumulation may create a problem for flight in this environment for one hour. Unless encountered for one hour or more, de-icing/anti-icing equipment and/or heading or altitude change not required.. Moderate: The rate of accumulation is such that even short encounters become potentially hazardous. De-icing/anti-icing required to remove/prevent accumulation