disks. The shaft failure was found to have been caused by fatigue cracking initiated by corrosion pitting which was assessed as probably the result of prolonged marine low-altitude operations by the aircraft. It was found that this fatigue cracking could increase undetected during service between scheduled inspections. ...further results On 14 September 2021 the crew of a Saab S340B being used for type conversion training purposes were unable to cross start the left engine after it had been temporarily shut down to demonstrate single engine handling performance because the right starter-generator failed. A MAYDAY was declared and after prompt electrical load shedding, sufficient battery power remained to complete a successful diversion. The starter-generator failure was suspected to be attributable to its use whilst in service with a previous operator to support multiple starts at intervals which were insufficient to allow the unit to cool. On 1 November 2021, a deHavilland DHC6-300 crew en-route to Fort Simpson realised that they had insufficient fuel on board to reach their intended destination and therefore decided to attempt a diversion to the nearest available airport at Fort Providence. As fuel available dwindled, one engine was shut down but after an inadvertent fuel tank selection, the initially intended diversion was no longer possible and a forced landing in a bog was successfully accomplished. The Training Captain involved had developed a habit of performing checklists silently and from memory after gaining all his professional pilot experience at the same operator. On 3 January 2019, a Boeing 737-500 en-route to Port Harcourt experienced signs of intermittent distress to an engine which subsequently failed during final approach there. After a mismanaged initial response before and after a go around, the failed engine was eventually shut down. After a delay of about 20 minutes, an attempted second approach was discontinued when it could not be stabilised. A third approach was then successfully completed. The engine was damaged beyond economic repair and the Investigation found that the operator had been aware of the intermittent malfunction of both engines over several months but ignored it. On 19 November 2020, the police operator of a DJI Matrice M210 UA lost control of it over Poole when it drifted beyond Visual Line Of Sight (VLOS) and communication ceased. It was subsequently damaged when colliding with a house in autoland mode. The Investigation found that a partial power failure had followed battery disconnection with its consequences not adequately communicated to the pilot. It faulted both the applicable UA User Manual content and the absence of sufficient UA status and detected wind information to the pilot. A failure to properly define VLOS was identified but not considered directly causal. On 3 November 2020, a Boeing 767-300 departing Madrid had an explosive main gear tyre deflation just after passing V1 and tyre debris ingested by the adjacent engine led to its failure. After completing the take off on one engine and burning off excess fuel, the aircraft landed back four hours later without further event. The