go-around procedure with the crew. As the aircraft reached 1.7 nm from the runway threshold, its speed was still the same as the target VAPP with the groundspeed now 174 knots and the TWR controller gave a wind check of 250° at 15 -21 knots. Twelve seconds later, passing 400 feet agl, the AP and A/T were disengaged and the aircraft subsequently crossed the runway threshold at 62 feet agl, 8 metres to the right of the centreline before touching down firmly (1.75g) about 100 metres beyond the TDZ at VAPP+4 knots and with a crab angle of 4.5° (position 1 on the illustration below). 1. Touchdown. 2. Speed brakes deployed. 3. No 1 thrust lever moved above idle. 4. Speed brakes retracted. 5. No. 2, 3 and 4 thrust levers into reverse. 6. Air/ground status momentarily to AIR. 7. Air/ground status returns to GND. 8. No. 2, 3 and 4 thrust reversers deployed. 9. No. 1 thrust lever is reduced & speed brakes redeployed. 10. Maximum lateral deviation to the right. 11. Deceleration rate markedly increases. 12. Aircraft departs the paved surface. 13. Aircraft comes to a stop (estimated). The progress of the landed aircraft along and off the end of the runway. [Adapted from the Official Report] Thereafter, the sequence of actions recorded on the FDR was as depicted. The Captain stated that the post-touchdown deviation from the runway centreline to the right had surprised him and proved a temporary distraction from the need for effective deceleration. The recorded forward movement of the No 1 thrust lever went unnoticed as did the resultant brief retraction of the speedbrakes. The latter lasted 6 seconds during which 520 metres - 25 % of the 1925 metres of runway remaining ahead at touchdown – was used up. The Captain recognised that adequate deceleration was not occurring and initiated manual braking. Six seconds later, the aircraft ground speed was still 100 knots with less than 250 metres of runway ahead. The rate of deceleration increased marked and as the aircraft passed the end of the runway, the ground speed was down to 77 knots. Whilst within the RESA and still travelling at a groundspeed of 60 knots, the aircraft struck and destroyed the ILS localizer antenna which caused the emergency escape devices inside the flight deck to be “projected from their storage compartment” and cause injury to the IRO. The aircraft finally stopped with its nose 270 metres beyond the end of the runway and 21 metres to the right of the extended centreline on a heading of 166°M just 47 metres from a public road which ran just outside the airport perimeter. The No. 2 engine had separated from the wing and was jammed under the left horizontal stabilizer and tail section which caused a fire in the tail section of the aircraft after impact. The airport RFFS then arrived, extinguished the fire and discharged foam in order to prevent spilt fuel from igniting. The RFFS then evacuated the occupants through