the main deck entry door (1L) using a ladder. The overrun occurred as a collective consequence of a number of factors which included, in summary and in no particular order, the following: the aircraft operator’s process for calculating landing performance (which was based on the use of unfactored distances).. a minor but ultimately significant error in the calculation of the target approach speed.. a decision to use flap 25 rather than flap 30 for landing.. the crew’s late recognition that the increased wind speed had introduced a tailwind component to the approach which was not then used to adjust the target approach speed and was followed by an excessive speed immediately prior to touchdown and the occurrence of that touchdown slightly beyond the TDZ.. a lack of potentially useful callouts from the PM during both the final approach and the landing roll.. the inadvertent mishandling of the thrust levers during the landing roll and the consequences thereof.. the unintended crabbed touchdown which initially distracted the PF from the need for prompt and effective deceleration.. a significant delay in the application of maximum braking effort which only occurred 23 seconds after touchdown.. It was found that although the landing runway surface had been wet, there was no evidence that viscous aquaplaning had occurred and this possibility was not therefore included in the identified factors which had contributed to the accident. However, both the potential consequences for crew alertness due to the timing of the landing being within the window of circadian low and more generally the effect of fatigue due to the significant flight departure delay were both identified as a potential context. The Investigation noted that the available RESA of 90 metres in conjunction with a 60 metre runway strip was in accordance with the prevailing ICAO Annex 14 standard for a Code 3 or 4 runway but not in accordance with the recommendation that it should as far as practicable, extend from the end of the runway strip for 240 metres to make a total distance of 300 metres. It was also noted that a 150 metre RESA for runways such as 14 at Halifax only became a Canadian requirement in 2016. However, like Annex 14, this requirement did not include any requirements about the transition from the end of the RESA to terrain thereafter. In the case of the Halifax runway 14 RESA, this transition involved a sudden 2.8 metre drop just 16 metres after the end of the RESA which it was noted “does not meet ICAO’s recommendations for a 5% longitudinal slope for a RESA that extends for 300 metres past the end of the runway”. The Halifax 14 RESA, the sudden drop beyond it and the stopping position of the aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that as a result of its investigation into the 2005 landing overrun at Toronto, the TSB had issued a Safety Recommendation, still not implemented at the conclusion of the current Investigation, that all Code 4 runways