should have a 300 metre RESA or a means of stopping aircraft that provides an equivalent level of safety. Seventeen Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally recorded as follows: The ineffective presentation style and sequence of the NOTAMs available to the crew and flight dispatch led them to interpret that runway 23 was not available for landing.. The crew was unaware that the aircraft did not meet the pre-departure landing weight requirements using flaps 25 for Runway 14.. Due to the timing of the flight during the night time circadian low and because the crew had had insufficient restorative sleep in the previous 24 hours, they were experiencing sleep-related fatigue that degraded their performance and cognitive functioning during the approach and landing.. Using unfactored (actual) landing distance charts may have given the crew the impression that landing on runway 14 would have had a considerable runway safety margin, influencing their decision to continue the landing in the presence of a tailwind.. When planning the approach, the crew calculated a faster approach speed of reference speed + 10 knots instead of the recommended reference speed + 5 knots, because they misinterpreted that a wind additive was required for the existing conditions.. New information regarding a change of active runway was not communicated by air traffic control directly to the crew, although it was contained within the ATIS broadcast; as a result, the crew continued to believe that the approach and landing to runway 14 was the only option available.. The crew selected the typical flap setting of flaps 25 for the approach rather than flaps 30, because they believed they had a sufficient safety margin. This setting increased the landing distance required by 150 metres.. The crew were operating in a cognitive context of fatigue and biases that encouraged anchoring to and confirming information that aligned with continuing the initial plan, increasing the likelihood that they would continue the approach.. The crew recognised the presence of a tailwind on approach 1 minute and 21 seconds from the threshold; likely due to this limited amount of time, the crew did not recalculate the performance data to confirm that the runway safety margin was still acceptable.. An elevated level of stress and workload on short final approach likely exacerbated the performance-impairing effects of fatigue to limit the crew’s ability to determine the effect of the tailwind, influencing their decision to continue the approach.. The higher aircraft approach speed, the presence of a tailwind component and the slight deviation above the glideslope increased the landing distance required to a distance greater than the runway length available.. After the firm touchdown, for undetermined reasons, the engine No. 1 thrust lever was moved forward of the idle position, causing the speed brakes to retract and the autobrake system to disengage, increasing the distance required to bring the aircraft to a stop.. The right crab angle (4.5°) on initial touchdown, combined with the crosswind component and asymmetric reverser selection, caused the aircraft to deviate