runway 05 localisers were unserviceable. The crew “inferred that runway 23 was not available to them for landing” and an approach briefing was carried out for runway 14 which included the landing distance required for a flap 25 landing, an approach speed based on the ELW in the FMS and the intention to use autobrake 4. Around 150 nm out, descent from FL 370 was commenced. When subsequently asked which approach they were requesting at Halifax, the crew confirmed a runway 14 ILS approach and was cleared direct to the IF at TETAR located on the extended runway 14 centreline 10.3 nm from touchdown. It was noted that just ahead of the accident flight, a Boeing 757 and a business jet had landed on runway 14 and another Boeing 757 had landed on runway 23 although the crew were unaware of this as they were not on the same frequency at the time and so continued in their belief that this runway was not available for landing. Eleven minutes before the accident aircraft landed, and as it was descending through 13,000 feet and working the ACC frequency, it was noted that the Halifax TWR controller had advised the ACC controller that the arrival runway was being changed from 14 to 23 because of a change in wind direction and that an RNAV approach to it was available. This information was not passed to the accident flight which, four minutes later, was cleared for the previously requested runway 14 ILS approach. At about the same time, the ATIS was updated to include the change in arrival runway and the approach available to it and after this, the accident flight was transferred to Halifax TWR. On initial contact there, the controller advised that the surface wind was 260° at 15 knots and asked if the crew had the latest ATIS which they confirmed - although they subsequently stated that they had been unaware that runway 23 was available. When the flight was 8.6 nm from touchdown, TWR advised that the wind direction was unchanged but the wind speed was now 16 knots gusting to 21 knots which the Investigation concluded amounted to “a steady 7-knot tailwind component”. The controller asked the crew to confirm whether runway 14 was still acceptable and received confirmation that it was upon which the controller responded by issuing a landing clearance and repeating the wind velocity. It was noted that the TWR controller’s query as to the continued acceptability of runway 14 had prompted a brief conversation on the flight deck about the perceived lack of runway options but given the understanding that runway 14 was the only landing runway available, the 14 approach was continued and just after the 4nm range FAF (final approach fix) had been passed at the target VAPP of 164 KCAS (but also with a groundspeed of 185 knots), the crew discussed the presence of a tailwind although the VAPP was not changed and at 800 feet agl, the Captain reviewed the