An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) assisted by relevant data downloaded from both the DFDR and the 2 hour CVR. Recorded ATC data were also available. It was noted that all crew members held USA-issued ATPLs (Airline Transport Pilot's Licences). The Captain had joined the operator as a direct entry Captain nine months prior to the accident and had been released for line flying two months prior to it. He had a total of 21,134 hours flying experience of which only 166 hours were on type although he had “more than 1000 hours experience in command of other large aircraft worldwide”. It was noted that FAA minimum experience for pilots to act as commander of a Part 121 flight were to have at least 1000 hours experience as second in command on type or have a corresponding exemption. However, the Investigation deemed that failure to meet these requirements was not a factor in this accident. The First Officer had joined the operator a little over two years prior to the accident, had also been released to line flying two months prior to it and had a total of 7,404 hours flying experience of which 1,239 hours were on type. The International Relief Officer (IRO) had joined the operator just over three years prior to the accident, had completed his most recent proficiency check a year earlier and had a total of 5,005 hours flying experience of which 1,675 hours were on type. The flight was the first leg of a multi-leg flight with final destination Changsha/Huanghua, China and was a positioning leg to load cargo before continuing to an en-route technical stop and crew change at Anchorage and the final destination. Departure from Chicago had been delayed by mutual agreement for 13½ hours because of poor weather at Halifax. Pre flight preparation included receipt of flight paperwork by email to their hotel and a telephone briefing from flight dispatch about the route, the weather, and applicable NOTAMs. The positioning pilot was included in the pre-departure planning discussion on account of his relevant experience with the Company and the fact that he had operated into Halifax a week earlier. After reviewing the weather and NOTAMs for Halifax, the crew decided on a landing on runway 14 which was only 2,347 metres long compared to the 3,200 metre long runway 23. Following a further one hour delay to the rescheduled departure time, the aircraft took off for the two hour flight to Halifax with the Captain as PF and the IRO occupying one of the flight deck supernumerary crew seats. An hour into the flight, the Halifax ATIS weather was copied via the ACARS and noted as including a surface wind of 230° at 10 knots and the equivalent of 6nm in light rain and mist with the lowest cloud at 500 feet. It also included notification that the landing runway was 14, the runway 23 threshold was displaced and that the runway 23 and the