RTCA Special Committee 237, in collaboration with U.K. CAA and EUROCAE Working Group 110 counterparts, agrees that offshore safety could be enhanced with flight envelope protection. This idea is similar in concept to TAWS “classic modes” (also called Class A TAWS). As of mid-2019, classic modes for offshore operations were proposed for a new CAP 1519, a specification titled “Offshore Helicopter Terrain Awareness Warning System Alert Envelopes.” RTCA SC-237 says, “RTCA Current Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) — RTCA DO-309 — do not include the classic modes that are included in TAWS. Furthermore, the European Commission has mandated installation of a Class A HTAWS for new aircraft for offshore operations … however, there is no ‘acceptable standard’ or formal definition for Class A HTAWS provided to meet this requirement.” The MOPS are necessary for creating a technical standard to support the European air operating rule mandate. The committee said, “HTAWS provided with the classic modes defined in UK CAA CAP 1519 can provide a significant (four major accidents in UK operations alone could have been avoided) and very cost-effective (on the order of $20k per aircraft) improvement in the safety of offshore helicopter operation, and would address a number of UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch safety recommendations. The MOPS will promote and facilitate the introduction of appropriate HTAWS.” As of February 2020, RTCA SC-237 and EUROCAE WG-110 are preparing new or upgraded: RTCA DO-309, Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) Airborne Equipment; TSO/ETSO-C194, Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS); UK CAA CAP 1519, Offshore Helicopter Terrain Awareness Warning System Alert Envelopes; and UK CAA CAP 1538, Class A Terrain Awareness Warning System (TAWS) for Offshore Helicopter Operations. For this article, SKYbrary editors reviewed brief descriptions of specific HTAWS products. One or more of the manufacturers emphasise the following examples of today’s most advanced benefits or features: Integrated three-dimensional (3D) visualization, displays, sensors and database components;. High-resolution terrain imagery;. Sourcing of multiple specialised databases for airports, obstacles and terrain;. Improved proprietary high-accuracy data;. Helicopter-specific alerting algorithms;. Forward-looking terrain and obstacle–avoidance capability;. Visual and aural advisories (including voice alerts about relative conflict threat level) designed for helicopter pilots and their mission profiles;. Integration of HTAWS data with 3D synthetic vision system, traffic-alerting and collision avoidance system, weather radar and a separate obstacle warning system;. Height-above-terrain voice callouts at pilot-selected height ranges;. Pilot-selectable modes for of minimising/suppressing nuisance alerts (enabling low-level operations and off-airport landings while keeping protection from terrain and obstacles); and,. Significantly more helicopter-relevant obstacle data compared with fixed-wing TAWS,.