When a space weather event occurs, a wide range of effects can result. The main impacts on aviation are listed below. Degradation of radio/satellite communication: During solar events, some disturbance may happen on HF and satellite communications, which would have side effects on CPDLC, ADS-C, AOC…. However, line of sight VHF communication may not be impacted.. Onboard system failure due to radiation: During a radiation storm, when striking a sensitive node, radiation may induce shortcuts, change of state, or burnout in onboard electronic devices. This phenomenon is called the “single event effect”. Its impact may vary a lot from unnoticeable to a complete failure of the system. This kind of failure may become more frequent in the future because modern electronic equipment is more vulnerable to radiation due to the smaller size of their devices.. Radiation doses: During radiation storms, unusually high levels of ionizing radiation may lead to an excessive radiation dose for air travellers and crew. The dose received by passengers and crew is higher at higher altitudes and latitudes. Cosmic ray doses on flight crew is an ongoing project, with civil aircrew flying above 50000' requiring cosmic ray detection equipment to be worn.. GNSS based aviation operation: High-energy particles ejected by the sun may cause strong disturbances in the upper layers of the atmosphere, mainly in the layer called the Ionosphere. This layer is composed of charged particles and is particularly sensitive to the particles ejected by the sun. The GNSS radio signals emitted by satellites have to travel through this particular layer and, under severe disturbance, are strongly affected. As a result, unexpected position and timing errors[1] can occur at the level of the user receiver. In extreme cases, the GNSS[2] receiver can lose reception of the satellite altogether and the position can no longer be computed. As a side effect, GNSS-based surveillance applications may be unavailable. SBAS or GBAS augmented services, used for approach and landing, are more demanding in terms of accuracy and integrity than the En Route/TMA GNSS-based navigation. As a consequence, the safety monitors of those systems are also more sensitive to space weather events and the unavailability of these services would be more frequent. More operators of commercial air transport are introducing RNAV GNSS type approaches. With the retirement of several ground based navigation aids there is a greater chance of conducting a GNSS approach with no ground based navigation aids as backup and therefore an accurate assessment of the risk from a space weather event should be completed before flight and very accurate monitoring of the system on an approach is required with a contingency procedure decided in the event of a loss of GPS data to continue the approach.. Magnetic based equipments and compasses: Due to a change in the earth’s magnetic field caused by the magnetic fields of the charged particles from the sun, any magnetic based equipments are not accurate for the duration of the solar event.. Aircraft electrical systems: Although not well understood at time of