on receipt of the reply that it was not, the aircraft restarted its descent and deviated to the right. At this point, it was concluded that the Captain had been following the GPS map and no longer had the runway in sight and that he had “lost situational awareness” whereas the First Officer had not lost sight of it. When the aircraft was descending through 8,650 feet (already 250 feet below the runway threshold elevation), the CVR record showed that the First Officer had warned the Captain that they were too low but this call was not followed by any immediate corrective action and the descent continued for a further 150 feet after which the First Officer again warned the Captain “in panic” and this time elicited a similar “in panic” response from the Captain asking where the runway was. The First Officer gave directions towards the runway and a climb in landing configuration was begun although without the immediate application of maximum thrust. Two short stall warning annunciations occurred and then a continuous stall warning began and lasted for 13 seconds until impact. The prescribed response to this was not forthcoming and by this point may anyway not necessarily have facilitated a successful recovery. It was estimated that the aircraft had fully stalled when it was just 40 metres short of the runway threshold. The last words on the CVR were “do not pull too much”. The data from the final moments indicated that excessive drag led to the aircraft stalling. Its left wing then hit a small tree branch some 55 metres short of the runway threshold and the whole aircraft then hit sloping terrain just 30 metres short of the runway and 30 feet below it. The impact and the subsequent slide 70 feet down the slope collectively destroyed the aircraft but there was no post crash fire. No evidence was found of airworthiness or loading issues which might have been relevant to the loss of situational awareness or the ability to recover from the resulting premature and off-track descent. It was evident that the flight crew had failed to comply with their VFR flight plan or the VFR only restriction on Lukla operations and that the aircraft had “repeatedly entered into cloud”. It was also noted that with a fuel endurance of 2 hours on departure from Kathmandu, the flight could have returned there from Lukla or reached either of the alternates specified in the Flight Plan - Ramechhap and Phaplu. It was noted that a CCTV camera was installed at Lukla TWR for the specific purpose of providing a visual record of the cloud cover and visibility along the runway 06 final approach to those not at Lukla and that its images were not visible to those in the TWR, only to remote users with authorised access. However, the sequence of recorded images from this camera was available to the Investigation and they confirmed local reports of a sudden deterioration in visibility as low cloud