An Accident Investigation Commission to examine and report on the circumstances of the accident was established in accordance with the Civil Aviation (Accident Investigation) Regulation (2016) of Nepal on the day after the accident occurred. The aircraft was fitted with a 25 hour FDR and a 2 hour CVR and both were recovered from the wreckage and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 48 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, had accumulated 9,687 total flying hours which included 1,897 hours on type and had flown 97 hours in the month preceding the accident. The 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,311 flying hours which included 1,028 hours on type. It was established that the accident flight was the fifth in a pre-planned sequence of five cargo flights from Kathmandu to the STOL VFR-only airport at Lukla operated by the same aircraft and crew that morning, each sector taking around 35 minutes and operated under VFR. Shortly after the accident flight had departed from Kathmandu, the crew were advised that Lukla “was having heavy rain and the airport was closed”. However, since by this time Kathmandu was becoming congested with traffic holding both in the air and on the ground, it was decided to continue towards Lukla and a few minutes later, they were advised that the rain had stopped and the airport had reopened. An Airbus AS350 helicopter which had just left Lukla for Kathmandu had reported to Lukla TWR (which provides FIS only) that the weather conditions beyond the Lukla valley were good but those in the valley might make it difficult for a fixed wing aircraft to enter and this aircraft subsequently communicated directly with the accident aircraft. Lukla TWR subsequently communicated all available weather information when the inbound aircraft crew established contact 26 minutes after takeoff from Kathmandu, at which time VFR conditions prevailed. Then, two minutes later, the weather began to deteriorate quickly but, contrary to airport procedures, the runway was not closed and pilots including those in the accident aircraft “ventured to continue even though the weather was marginal” whilst TWR continued to provide weather updates. Six minutes after checking in with TWR, the crew reported to TWR that they were entering the valley (at an altitude subsequently found to have been 9,200 feet rather than the normal 10,500 feet). They advised that they would decide whether to continue to a landing when nearer. One minute after that, and with just over a minute to go to impact, the aircraft was 200 feet above runway elevation when CVR data showed that both pilots had simultaneously sighted the runway from the west. Descent was continued to approximately 100 feet above the threshold elevation and this altitude was maintained for about 20 seconds during which time the TWR FISO advised that the surface wind was westerly at 4 knots and runway was clear. The Captain responded apparently “still in doubt” and asked if it was raining, and