was determined as “aircraft stall as a result of excessive drag created by sudden increase in angle of attack of the aircraft supplemented by low speed (below Vref) in an attempt to initiate immediate climb on a landing configuration (full flap and landing gear down) warranted by the critical situation of the final phase of flight”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: Critical terrain and rapidly deteriorating weather conditions.. The Pilot's loss of situational awareness.. The improper response of the Pilot to the stall warning which included failure to advance the power levers to maximum without delay.. Violation of SOP s by both Air Traffic Services and the Pilot.. A total of 20 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal and Airline Operators should launch a Voluntary Reporting System as a part of the regular Aviation Safety Campaign emphasising the existence of a non-punitive environment so that unsafe behaviour by all aviation personnel including pilots, ATS personnel and maintenance staff is promptly identified.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal and Airline Operators should, in the light of increased stress and fatigue as a result of present air traffic congestion in Kathmandu Tribhuvan International Airport and its direct impact on pilot proficiency, take this into consideration when assigning flights to flight crews and initiate remedial action as necessary.. that Goma Air should review and strengthen the Company Flight Crew Training Policy and Programme so as to emphasise airport-specific training which incorporates unforeseen situations and includes effective crew response to a stall warning during simulator training.. that Goma Air should review their aircraft Operations Manual and SOPs and incorporate a stabilised point and a committed point into the approach procedure of the Category C airport so that clear-cut guidance is available to the flight crews as to whether they should continue an approach or divert.. that Goma Air should develop a mechanism to monitor and ensure compliance of flight crews with the requirements for VFR flight, SOPs and other relevant safety directives.. that Goma Air should review the block time for each flight sector to ensure that enough ground time is provided between each flight.. that Goma Air should enhance flight dispatcher capability so that they can fulfil their responsibilities as per the provisions of Company SOPs.. that Goma Air should review and further strengthen the effective implementation of the SMS process in particular by embracing the crew reporting system.. that Goma Air should, in view of available number of aircraft in its fleet, ensure that the number of available crew meets the flight requirement and that all crew are trained to identify hazards, changes in system and the operational environment and the consequential risk to safety.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should ensure that, irrespective of the air traffic volume, assigned numbers of ATS personnel are available for each shift of an ATS Unit (AFIS Tower).. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should,