depending upon the volume of air traffic, declare the minimum experience requirement for ATS personnel manning each shift at a particular airport.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should, in conjunction with the management of the local hospital or health post close to a busy airport like Lukla, initiate the upgrade of their essential emergency medical facilities such as readiness of oxygen and ventilators.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should strengthen the Rescue and Fire Fighting Service at Lukla Airport with adequate manpower and equipment.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should encourage on-the-spot inspection focusing on critical safety areas including violation of SOP, proper CRM, CFIT, and ensure effective enforcement mechanism.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should initiate immediate action to set up and maintain essential meteorological equipment at Lukla Tower which includes the display of the real-time surface wind information at the runway threshold.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should, owing to the critical nature of the approach at Lukla, immediately initiate action for the possible extension of the runway threshold further to the south.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should, recognising the critical situation that might arise as a result of sudden and rapid lifting of fog or cloud during final approach at Lukla, install an appropriate runway visual aid or lighting system.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should continuously coordinate and monitor the effective implementation of safety recommendations issued by investigation commissions with CAAN.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should ensure that sufficient resources of finance, personnel and technical experts are available for the investigation of an aircraft accident to be performed in an effective and timely manner.. that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation should establish an independent and permanent body for the purposes of aircraft accident and incident investigation. The proposed Body should also be given the responsibility of monitoring the implementation of Safety Recommendations issued by Accident Investigation Commissions in the past and also act as the research body for the enhancement of safety in the aviation sector.. The Final Report was finalised on 11 April 2018 and subsequently published but did not include the Appendix referred to at various points in the text of the Report.