began to move across the runway 06 final approach from the south east. It was considered that this deterioration may well have led to increased workload with necessarily increased attention being given to flight deck instruments triggering loss of situational awareness at a critical time. In respect of the STOL runway at Lukla and its restricted VFR only use, it was noted that all landings must be made uphill in the 06 direction and all takeoffs in the downhill 24 direction because of steeply rising terrain to the southwest of the 24 threshold. This also means that a go around cannot be flown once committed to a final approach to runway 06. The Lukla TWR has a console equipped with QNH and air temperature readouts but as neither is calibrated, they are not used. The console does have an indication derived from the surface wind sock at the runway midpoint but not from the one at the 06 threshold. It was noted that the Nepal CAA had developed a “generic SOP” for fixed wing aircraft operations which included guidance to FISOs on determination of both the required visibility and minimum cloudbase and that this also “authorises a duty ATS Officer to declare the airport closed” if any of the following occur: the visibility is less than 5,000 metres or. the cloud ceiling is less than 5,000 feet or. the tail wind component exceeds 10 knots or. there is light rain.. However this had not happened at the time of the accident. It was noted that runway 06 also had a Visual Augmented Guidance System (VAGS) and an A-PAPI installed as landing aids but neither was in use because of “calibration issues”. It was concluded that: there was no adequate system of monitoring the pilot adherence to prescribed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) or the performance of individual pilots and noted that there was no OFDM system in place. the reporting culture was poor. the absence of hazard identification and risk management on a regular basis had resulted in a systemic lack of effective safety management by the Operator. management pilots were doubling as line pilots and that limited numbers of pilots validated for STOL operations had hindered the expansion of the Operator. recurrent pilot training for LET 410 crews was found to have been obtained using a procedure trainer rather than a full flight simulator although since the accident, arrangement had been made to correct this and the simulator to be used will be configured with visuals for Nepalese airports used by typе. the 30 minute block time assigned to the Kathmandu-Lukla sector was inadequate.. It was found that response to the crash was hampered by a lack of cutting instruments. The small Fire Tender available at the airport did not carry basic access equipment and available trained manpower was inadequate. In respect of the aircraft ELT, it was noted that it had activated but as the antenna had been damaged, it was not transmitting. The Probable Cause of the accident