two specific issues relating to potential risk in circumstances such as those surrounding the investigated event were identified as the possibility of conflict during concurrent go-arounds and the effect of prevailing weather conditions. Neither of these issues had been evaluated as part of the ATM safety assessment process for three-runway / mixed mode operations.. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as “the selection of the localiser for the wrong runway by the Air India Captain”. Six Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The runway 09 localiser was kept on even though runway 09 was being used for departures only.. The fact that the crew of the Air India aircraft did not re-check the localiser frequency set in spite of being reminded a number of times about runway 11 having been allocated to them.. The Approach Controller’s transfer of the Air India aircraft to the TWR Controller without visually ensuring on their situation data display that the aircraft was established on the localiser for runway 11.. Inadequate Hazard Identification and Risk assessment for mixed mode runway operations.. Non-availability of an appropriate and well documented ATC Standard Operating Procedure in general and for three runway operation in particular.. The fact that the Current Conflict Warning (CCW) annunciated by the ATC Automation System did not draw the attention of the controller to the impending situation and a lag in the corrective action response by the controller.. The only Safety Action taken by Delhi ATS as a result of this event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as the issue of a circular to require that the ILS for runway 09 will be switched off during the easterly mode of three runway operation. It was noted that this may not be sufficient if the aircraft by mistake chooses the wrong runway and for this or any other reason deviates inadvertently towards the wrong localiser. It was also noted that “an error can also be made by a controller by giving a wrong turn onto final approach during three runway operations” and that this outstanding hazard and its associated risks needs to be assessed by Delhi ATS. Thirteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows, the first of them being one which had also been made in previous accident investigation reports: that the DGCA must review the issuance of licences to Air Traffic Controllers.. that the DGCA should review Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) Section 5 (Air Safety) Series ‘C’ Part I issued on 20 October 2015 in respect of the composition of Airprox Investigation Boards to avoid any conflict of interest.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should clearly document the functions of the Standard, Quality Management and Safety (SQMS) section of their ATM Directorate and separate its enforcement and investigation functions.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should repeat their safety assessment of both the easterly and westerly modes of three runway operation keeping in mind future air traffic growth.. that the