being reviewed/vetted since this assessment was made.. The independence of the investigation of all ATC incidents other than Serious Incidents by the Airprox Investigation Board (AIB) was found to be fatally compromised by conflicts of interest and contrary to the principles of a Safety Management System. The responsibilities of one of the three AIB members included responsibility for setting the standards, ensuring compliance with them at ATS units and the investigation of ATS incidents and assessment of controller proficiency. This failure to separate enforcement functions from investigation functions is contrary to the strong recommendation contained in regulatory requirement for SMS.. No evidence was found that the role and responsibilities of the Standard, Quality Management and Safety (SQMS) section within the ATM Directorate of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) have ever been defined or documented. This section is responsible for setting the ATM standards, ensuring compliance with them, carrying out controller proficiency checks, investigating ATC incidents, proposing corrective training for controllers suspended after incidents and for approving their return to duty which is “contrary to the letter and spirit of SMS”. The section is also responsible for the safety review of ATS units in addition to the safety audits or safety reviews carried out by Aviation Safety Directorate, but no evidence could be found on how Safety Assessment documents were reviewed for changes in ATM procedures. Even the safety assessment of three-runway operation was not subject to any review either on its own or during overall safety review of ATS units.. The delivery of the principles of Safety Management during AAI ATM operations required by the Civil Aviation Regulations was found to be poor. Holding Watch Supervisors responsible for shifts of up to 60 controllers was considered impractical and the general application of the principles of Key Performance Areas (KPAs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to all controllers was considered inappropriate. In the latter respect, it was considered that “KPAs / KPIs for Air Traffic Controllers should be changed from outcome orientation to process orientation”.. An examination of the controller proficiency validation system by the Investigation led to the conclusion that it was not fit for purpose and that in respect of the proficiency assessment recording form in use, “the measuring and assigning of negative marks for some of the elements like knowledge etc. was beyond comprehension and requires revision”. It was also found that controller training for infrequent situations like the one here was unsatisfactory and potentially ineffective because the simulator used for controller training had a completely different HMI to that at the working positions controllers occupy.. The hazard represented by “both TWR controllers co-ordinating with the Approach controller at the same time” as occurred during this event has not been considered and needs to be examined.. The many differences between AAI ATM practices and those recommended in the ICAO Manual on Simultaneous Operations on Parallel or Near-Parallel Instrument Runways (SOIR) Doc 9643 have not been published but should be.. Although not directly relevant to the investigated event,