front of and below the 737. Because of the conflict, the 737 was instructed to go around and take up a heading of 070° before being transferred to the Approach frequency. Shortly afterwards, the A320 broke off its approach and began a go around before also being transferred to Approach. As this was happening, the TWR North controller held his next departure clear of runway 09. Both aircraft were repositioned and subsequently landed without further event. The Investigation noted that when radar surveillance is available, the applicable separation minima are 1000 feet vertically or 3nm laterally. Although landing traffic is transferred from Approach Arrival to the appropriate TWR frequency, the jurisdiction over all traffic remains with Approach until touchdown and the TWR controllers are not trained in radar separation. If a conflict arises as in this case, the only option available to a TWR controller is to transfer the aircraft involved back to Approach or co-ordinate corrective action with Approach - there is “no overriding facility available to the Approach Controller” to guide the aircraft in case of any conflict once it has been transferred to a TWR controller. It was noted that whilst an in-trail minimum radar separation of 3 nm is applied to aircraft established on the ILS for adjacent runways, “there is no mechanism to ensure that it is not breached once an aircraft has been transferred to a TWR Controller”. FDR data showed that the incorrect ILS LLZ frequency had been that corresponding to the runway 09 ILS prior to the fight crew being allocated an approach runway at Delhi and had not been changed at any time thereafter prior to the conflict occurring. This was considered to indicate that no action had been taken to insert the correct runway into the FMS and that there had been either no cross check or an ineffective one in accordance with the Descent Preparation Checklist by the other pilot. The error had then remained undetected by either pilot throughout the conflicted approach. In fact, during interview, it was stated by the crew that, contrary to the foregoing Checklist, it was the PM who had made the FMS input and the PF who had cross checked this. FDR data also confirmed that the AP had been engaged throughout the descent and approach until the go around had been commenced so that the FD commands generated by the FMS would be automatically followed. When the closing radar heading of 075° for the runway 11 ILS LLZ was given, the aircraft established on the selected 09 ILS LLZ as the crew continued to repeatedly confirm to ATC that they were following the runway 11 LLZ even when fully established. The Investigation observed that the Approach Controller’s failure to respond to the Current Conflict Warning (CCW) displayed on his radar screen had removed the only remaining opportunity to recognise the flight crew’s error in establishing on the approach to runway 09 and act to avoid the subsequent conflict developing. It proved impossible