Airports Authority of India (AAI) and All Aircraft Operators must ensure that all ‘Safety Risk Assessments’ carried out are realistic in nature and identify ‘Hazards’ with appropriate mitigation procedures in place.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must explore the possibility of using one runway for arrival & one runway for departure during the easterly mode of operation considering the nature of risk involved due to the substantial overlapping of the radar vectoring areas for the three runways.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should ensure that safety is not jeopardised whilst preparing the mode of operations for expeditious conduct of Air Traffic.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should develop Standard Operating Procedures for ATS at Delhi IGI Airport by clearly documenting the roles and responsibilities of the various units. A standard format for SOPs should be developed.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must provide periodic refresher training on human factor issues to avoid incidents such as this one occurring in the future.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should ensure that Delhi IGI Airport Tower Controllers are trained in the basics of RADAR and given the authority to advise aircraft to discontinue their approach by giving specific headings to avoid conflict in the case of deviations from the final approach track (for which clearance has been given).. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should provide Delhi IGI Airport Approach Controllers with the facility to transmit on Tower frequency and override previously given instructions/clearances.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Air India must both work on improving their reporting culture (mandatory/voluntary) so that it operates in a non-punitive manner.. That the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should review the Air Traffic Management Circular (ATMC) covering the proficiency Air Traffic Controllers and the Key Performance Areas & Key Performance Indicators for Air Traffic Controllers at Delhi IGI Airport to ensure that they are process rather than outcome oriented.. The Final Report was completed on 12 February 2018 and subsequently published.