to establish why the CCW activation was ignored but it was recognised that this could, in theory at least, have been due to controller incompetence, to the frequent generation of false warnings or to frequent generation of valid but ‘nuisance’ warnings whenever two aircraft were separated by less than 3 nm but were correctly established on the ILS LLZ of their allocated arrival runway. Since the controller involved in this event had been validated as proficient in 2012 by “meeting the requirements” of the assessment performed, it was assumed that the controller was competent to handle the Approach Control, suggesting that the CCW as actually used was an ineffective safety enhancement tool. It was considered that the chances of false warning by the system were “quite remote” and that this would only happen occasionally. A breach of the required minimum separation of 3 nm between two aircraft approaching near-parallel runways could therefore be the only possible reason for generation of CCW alerts which it was established were indeed being routinely ignored by most controllers because they were not likely to lead to a Serious Incident. It was observed that such behaviour represented a ‘routine violation’ and that when such violations happen over a long period of time, controllers tend to overlook all of them even when, as in this case, the reason is that an aircraft has deviated from a repeatedly acknowledged clearance. It was observed during the review of the Air India SMS in relation to the investigated event that the flight crew involved had failed to report it despite a requirement to do so and that this had resulted in the CVR not being downloaded before “crucial evidence” had been lost. This was considered to indicate that “the organisation needs to work on improving ‘Reporting Culture’ which must be non-punitive in nature". The Investigation carried out a very detailed review of the ATC organisational circumstances in which the event had occurred and made a series of observations critical of various aspects of it including the following: Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for three runway operation at Delhi IGI airport have been issued as ATC Circular No. 1/2015. This circular covers all variations in the mode of operations including easterly and westerly operations, but does not clearly indicate actions to be taken by the various ATC units in each mode of operations. ATC Units’ roles and responsibilities in these conditions have also not been documented in Standard Operating Procedures. There are no instructions / guidance on the various situations that may arise during three runway operations / mixed mode operations. A safety assessment of three-runway operations carried out by Delhi IGI airport ATS in 2012 rated the overall the magnitude of concern as MINOR and only three hazards were identified. Given that three runway operations and even mixed mode operations are a very complex mode of operations followed by very few airports in such complex airspace structure as exists at Delhi, there is no evidence of the mode of operation