An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). After an intensive sea search, the FDR and 2-hour CVR were both recovered - respectively on 12 and 13 January 2015 - and their data were subsequently successfully downloaded. Recorded ATC data were also available. Some of the wreckage was eventually recovered. It was established that the aircraft had reached FL320 uneventfully fourteen minutes after take off with the First Officer as PF. Twelve minutes later, the first of four identical Cautions concerning the status of both rudder limiters had occurred. The first three were found to have been actioned by the Captain in accordance with the corresponding ECAM drill and each time, normal system status was restored. Fourteen minutes after the first Caution, the fourth one occurred. This time, the pilot response was not in accordance with the ECAM drill, which required the sequential resetting of the two Flight Augmentation Computers (FAC) using their overhead panel switches, but instead involved the tripping and resetting of the 26V AC CB for each FAC in turn. The effect of this unapproved in-flight action, which it was found that the Captain had seen being carried out on the ground by an engineer responding to a report of the same fault three days earlier, was that neither FAC returned to normal functionality and successive Cautions for first a single FAC Fault and then a dual one were annunciated. This resulted in a reversion of the Flight Control System from Normal Law to Alternate Law, the most immediately obvious effect of which was that the AP and A/T were automatically disconnected, which it was considered would have been unexpected by both pilots. One of the other effects of Alternate Law was a rudder deflection to the left of 2º, which led to an uncommanded roll to the left at a rate of 6º/second, about twice as fast as the normal rate of roll. There was no pilot response to this developing wing drop for 9 seconds, by which time the bank angle had reached 54º. It was considered that the attention of the PF may have temporarily been diverted from the PFD although noted that the rate of roll had been well above the generally accepted threshold for vestibular sensitivity. When PF side stick movement did begin, it was very abrupt and consisted of a substantial rearward movement followed by a maximum deflection to the right. The effects of this were a reduction in the left bank from 54º to 9º in 2 seconds and an increase in the pitch attitude to 9º up in 3 seconds. The latter was noted to have been far in excess of the less-than-2º pitch attitude which had been required to maintain level flight with the AP engaged. The Captain was recorded as exclaiming "Oh my God" as this abrupt response was occurring. Immediately the wings had almost returned to level, maximum deflection left was input to the