repeated failures and consequent system Caution annunciations had been cracking solder in both channels which would have led to loss of electrical continuity and thus RTLU failure. The Investigation formally identified five Contributory Factors in respect of the accident as follows: The cracking of a solder joint of both channel A and B resulted in loss of electrical continuity and led to RTLU failure.. The existing maintenance data analysis led to unresolved repetitive faults occurring with shorter intervals. The same fault occurred 4 times during the flight.. The flight crew action to the first 3 faults was in accordance with the ECAM messages. Following the fourth fault, the FDR recorded different signatures that were similar to the FAC CBs being reset resulting in electrical interruption to the FACs.. The electrical interruption to the FAC caused the autopilot to disengage and the flight control logic to change from Normal Law to Alternate Law (with) the rudder deflecting 2° to the left resulting (in) the aircraft rolling to 54° angle of bank.. Subsequent flight crew action leading to inability to control the aircraft (manually) in Alternate Law resulted in the aircraft departing from the normal flight envelope and entering a prolonged stall condition that was beyond the capability of the flight crew to recover.. A total of 9 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Indonesia Air Asia should re-emphasise the importance of Standard Call-Outs in all phases of flight.. that Indonesia Air Asia should re-emphasise the procedure for taking over control in various critical in-flight situations.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should ensure that the implementation of air operators' flight crew training is in accordance with the approved operations manual.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should ensure that air operators (regulated) under Indonesian Civil Aviation Safety Regulations (CASR) 121 conduct simulator upset recovery training in a timely manner.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should ensure that air operator maintenance systems have the ability to detect and address all repetitive faults appropriately.. that Airbus should consider developing a means for flight crews to effectively manage multiple and repetitive Master Caution alarms to reduce distraction.. that Airbus should consider and review the FCTM concerning the Standard Call-Outs in all phases of flight.. that the FAA and the EASA should note that the KNKT supports Safety Recommendation (FRAN-2015-024) made by the French BEA as the result of a different investigation which says that that "in coordination with manufacturers EASA should ensure that future programmes defined in the context of Operational Suitability Data include initial and recurrent training relating to taking over control of aeroplanes equipped with non-coupled control sticks".. that the FAA and the EASA should expedite the implementation of mandatory upset recovery training to (achieve it) earlier than 2019.. The Final Report of the Investigation was initially published on 1 December 2015 and then re-issued with minor changes incorporated.