the aircraft to ATC once the pilot response to the succession of Cautions had ceased to follow the ECAM actions and begun to have unexpected consequences and a previously requested clearance to climb given by ATC was not acknowledged. The prevailing weather conditions in the area at the time were examined and other than the strong likelihood that the aircraft had remained mainly if not entirely within convective cloud as control was lost, it was concluded that "FDR data indicated that the flight was not affected by the weather condition and investigation concludes that the weather was not factor to the accident". It was found that the 53 year-old Captain, an Indonesian national, had 20,537 hours flying experience including 4687 hours on the accident aircraft type and had been an Air Force pilot for 10 years until 1993. He had joined the Operator on the Boeing 737 fleet and later trained and qualified on the A320 through a conversion which had included simulator details covering stall recovery in Alternate Law and high altitude handling/stall recovery. The 46 year-old First Officer, a French national, had 2247 hours flying experience including 1367 hours on type having joined Indonesia Air Asia two years previously immediately after completing his professional licence training at flying school following a lengthy business management career outside the aviation sector. It was found that neither pilot had received, nor been required to receive by the Indonesian DGCA, upset recovery training on the A320, although the Captain had received such training on the Boeing 737 when he had joined Indonesia Air Asia. The Investigation noted that "the (A320) FCTM stated that the effectiveness of fly-by-wire architecture and the existence of control laws eliminate the need for upset recovery manoeuvres to be trained on protected Airbus". The convincing evidence from the CVR that CRM on the flight deck had been ineffective was noted, as was the potential effect of both 'startle reflex' and 'spatial disorientation' on the pilots' performance following the sudden and unexpected requirement to fly the aircraft manually. On the question of the repetitive Rudder Limiter Cautions which had begun the sequence of events which led to the accident, it was noted that "there was no approved means for flight crews to handle multiple or repeated Master Caution alarms in order to reduce distraction". The failure of the continuing airworthiness process to address what was found to have been a significant history of such Cautions occurring in flight was also noted, as was inability of regulatory oversight procedures to detect this. The line maintenance response to each after- flight report of the occurrence was found to have been mainly confined to resetting the component involved - the Rudder Travel Limiter Unit (RTLU) - by either cycling the FAC push button(s) or tripping and re-setting the associated CBs with no concurrent development of organisational awareness of the ongoing nature of the problem. When the RTLU recovered from the accident aircraft was examined, it was found that the cause of the