right side-stick and the left bank increased rapidly to 53º, almost where it had just been. One second after this, with right side stick rearward pressure still being applied and the aircraft climbing through FL329 just 9 seconds after the AP had disconnected as a result of the Captain's FAC reset action, the Angle of Attack (AoA) - which was not displayed to the pilots - reached 8º, the threshold for a Stall Warning and the sound of this was momentarily recorded. The Captain then repeated the word "level" four times but this was only followed by a slight movement of the right side-stick towards neutral and the rearward movement was resumed almost immediately. Twice during the next ten seconds, he made a 2 second input on his side stick without any call that he wished to take control. He then called "pull down" - repeated several times - just before the Stall Warning was reactivated and again just after it started. Apart from a single second shortly after the reactivation, the Warning was then continuous - as was buffet - until the final recorded data shortly before impact as the right side-stick pitch up command remained substantial and continuous until impact just over three minutes later. Six seconds after the Stall Warning had become continuous, the First Officer is heard exclaiming in French "what is happening" as the Captain begins a continuous input to his side-stick, still without announcing that he wished to take control or pressing and holding his side-stick take over button (for the required 40 seconds) which would have been necessary to gain this if the other pilot did not cease their inputs. On two subsequent occasions, the Captain's take over button was pressed for 2 and then 5 seconds, but because this had no effect, the side-stick inputs of both pilots were, in accordance with system design, summed for the remainder of the flight. Cruise Power remained set as the aircraft pitch attitude reached 45º nose up, speed reduced to as low as 55 knots and AoA increased to 48º. At a climb rate of up to 11000 fpm, a maximum of FL385 was reached just under a minute from the AP disconnect. At the top of this climb, with left bank reaching a maximum of 104º, the Captain exclaimed "My God" and the aircraft began to descend, stalled, at up to 20,000 fpm. Fifteen seconds into the descent, the thrust levers were retarded and passing approximately FL290 half a minute later, the wings had returned to approximately level and the pitch angle to approximately zero. However, the AoA remained "almost constant at approximately 40º up". The thrust levers were returned to their cruise power position and the Captain called "pull, pull" and then "pull down". Forty seconds later at about 17000 feet, thrust was increased and the Captain called "pull up". Impact occurred just under 1½ minutes later - four minutes after the AP had disconnected. No emergency or other call was made from