specialist ground de/anti icing group has not continued. It was found that required procedures for de icing the aircraft type were provided in the corresponding AOM and AMM. However, as a matter of widespread common practice, these aircraft type requirements were not accessed by the contractor. However, the spray operator was aware that de-icing fluid must not be allowed to enter APU air intakes and had sought to avoid this. However, it was concluded that the reason for the autonomous increase in APU rpm had been the ignition of the flammable-when-compressed ingested fluid. It was found that other aircraft types with a similarly-positioned APU air intake either required that the APU be shut down during de icing or required that it should be clearly marked as a reminder to de-icing personnel of fluid ingestion risks. The occurrence of previous uncontained APU failures during de-icing of US-operated Fokker F28 in 2001 and a US-operated Fokker F100 in 2002 were noted, in particular the fact that in the 2002 F100 case, a piece of the ejected debris entered the same cabin crew under-seat locker as in this latest case, albeit the source was the turbine disc rather than the compressor. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Aircraft Manufacturer should clearly mark the area around the APU air intake on the aircraft type Fokker F28 Mk0100 (Fokker 100). [01/2018]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should continue and expand the current activities regarding aircraft de-icing. In addition, due to the importance of aircraft de-icing for flight safety, EASA should consider placing aircraft de-icing under regulatory authority similar to aircraft maintenance. [02/2018]. that the European Commission should, for the improvement of flight safety, establish a legal framework which places ground services and de-icing of aircraft under (the) regulatory approval and supervision of the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). [13/2018]. The Final Report was completed on 31 January 2018.