An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation. Data from the FDR and the CVR were made available to the Investigation but were not used to determine the cause of events. It was noted that both members of the flight crew had obtained the majority of their flying experience on type - 4,387 hours out of 5,580 hours in the case of the 33 year-old Captain and 2,570 hours out of 2,970 hours in the case of the 37 year-old First Officer. It was established that the de-icing task had used the Type 1 fluid branded as Safewing MP 1 1938 ECO (80). It had commenced with the wings and the left hand side of the empennage after which the de-icing vehicle was re-positioned to the right hand side between the engine and the empennage. The right horizontal stabiliser was de-iced first and the spray operative’s basket was then moved to allow the right side of the vertical stabiliser to be treated. After beginning to spray the vertical stabiliser just above the APU air intake, the APU rpm was observed to suddenly begin to increase and a loud bang accompanied by a blast wave which was sufficient to rock both the de-icing vehicle and the aircraft followed. As the spray operator ceased spaying and took cover in the basket, a second louder bang and blast wave occurred and the APU automatically shut down. When these bangs occurred, the driver of the de-icing vehicle stated that he had seen the APU maintenance access door spring open and an explosive flame about two metres long appear. The flight crew heard the bangs and simultaneously observed indications that the APU had automatically shut down. A piece of the APU compressor disc ejected during the explosion was subsequently found to have breached the aircraft rear pressure bulkhead and entered the aft cabin below the seat position assigned to one of the two aft-stationed cabin crew (see the illustration below) entering the locker holding crew personal emergency equipment for that seat position. It briefly caused “smoke” in the area and passengers were moved to the front of the cabin which was free of smoke before being later disembarked to buses which returned them to the terminal building. Other small pieces of the APU were found beneath the tail of the aircraft and the APU housing was torn open so that it was possible to see that the turbine wheel was severely damaged and the compressor wheel shattered. It was noted that in the total absence of any EASA Regulations or guidance in this area, the personnel the de-icing contactor involved had been trained generically in accordance with the AEA ‘Recommendation for De-/Anti-Icing’ 29th Edition July 2014 and the AEA ‘Training Recommendations’ 11th Edition August 2014 which were current at the time and prepared by the AEA’s industry-recognised specialist group. Note: By the time this Investigation had been completed, the AEA had ceased to exist and the work of its