Handling. Landing an aircraft is a difficult process requiring considerable manual dexterity. The pilot or, int he case of multi-crew aircraft, the flight crew must achieve the following goals: On passing the runway threshold: 50 ft above runway threshold; Aircraft configured for landing as pre-calculated(landing gear down, correct flaps and slats, etc.); Correct and steady forward speed (within given AFM or SOP limits); Correct descent rate within given AFM or SOP limits); Appropriate power setting; Wings level or bank within given AFM or SOP limits); The distance needed from the 50ft point until touchdown is considered as "air distance".. 50 ft above runway threshold;. Aircraft configured for landing as pre-calculated(landing gear down, correct flaps and slats, etc.);. Correct and steady forward speed (within given AFM or SOP limits);. Correct descent rate within given AFM or SOP limits);. Appropriate power setting;. Wings level or bank within given AFM or SOP limits);. The distance needed from the 50ft point until touchdown is considered as "air distance".. On touch-down: Brakes applied; Power reduced; Additional devices deployed (thrust reversers, lift dump, ground spoilers etc.); Directional control maintained. The distance from main gear touchdown until the deceleration means used in the landing performance calculation are fully deployed is considered as “transition distance” and the distance until the aircraft comes to a final stop is considered as “full braking distance”.. Brakes applied;. Power reduced;. Additional devices deployed (thrust reversers, lift dump, ground spoilers etc.);. Directional control maintained.. The distance from main gear touchdown until the deceleration means used in the landing performance calculation are fully deployed is considered as “transition distance” and the distance until the aircraft comes to a final stop is considered as “full braking distance”.. Unserviceability of any of the devices which affect the aircraft braking (brakes, anti-skid, reverse thrust, lift-dump, etc.) can have a serious effect on landing performance. Note: Dry and wet (including damp surfaces) landing performance calculations usually assume that reverse thrust is not available while slippery wet or contaminated performance calculations may, depending on aircraft certification, assume full reverse thrust available. Considerations for an engine failure during landing flare leading to a reduced deceleration capability might also be applicable in the certification process.) Major unserviceability (e.g. engine malfunction) complicates handling considerably; however, any unserviceability, even if not serious on its own, may add to control difficulties. The complexity of the landing task (even with Autoland) is such that even in ideal conditions, a perfect landing is virtually impossible, while any deviation from the ideal adds to the actual landing distance needed. Runway Surface Conditions. The maximum landing mass and the LDR greatly depends on the runway braking conditions. If these have been inaccurately reported or if the runway is wet, slippery wet or contaminated when its condition was reported as being dry, the landing distance achieved will be significantly increased. The presence of runway contamination such as standing or running water, snow, slush or ice on the runway has a particularly serious effect on landing performance and if it