Holdover time (HOT) begins when the final application of deicing/anti-icing fluid commences and expires when the deicing/anti-icing fluid loses its protection effectiveness. It is determined by the extent to which it is expected that applied fluid will remain active on the aircraft surfaces; active fluid must be able to provide protection from the accretion of frozen or semi-frozen contaminants in the prevailing conditions. Holdover Time begins at the start of the anti icing operation. If a two-step operation is used, then it begins at the start of the final (anti-icing) step. By definition therefore, holdover time will have effectively run out when frozen deposits start to form or accumulate on treated aircraft surfaces. Due to their properties, Type I fluids form a thin liquid wetting film, which provides only an extremely limited holdover time, especially in conditions of freezing precipitation. With this type of fluid, no additional holdover time can be obtained by increasing the concentration of the fluid in the fluid/water mix. For ‘thickened fluids’ of Type 2, 3 and 4, their pseudo-plastic thickening agent enables the fluid to form a thicker liquid wetting film on aircraft surfaces which can then provide a significantly longer holdover time, especially in conditions of continuing freezing precipitation. With this type of fluid, additional holdover time will be provided by increasing the concentration of the fluid in the fluid/water mix, with maximum holdover time available from undiluted fluid. Tables of Holdover Times for different fluids and prevailing conditions are published regularly and provide indication as to the time frame of protection that could reasonably be expected in each situation. These Tables contain elapsed time ranges which represent indicative maximum holdover times. The lower limit of the given time span indicates the estimated time of protection during moderate precipitation of the type stated; the upper limit indicates the estimated time of protection during light precipitation of the type stated. The prevailing conditions are defined in HOT Tables as: Active Frost - means when frost is forming and may occur when an aircraft surface temperature is at or below 0°C and also at or below the prevailing Dew Point,. Freezing Fog - fog prevails with an ambient temperature of 0°C or below so that rime ice is deposited on exposed surfaces.. Snow/Snow Grains - snow grains are defined as flat in form and with a diameter of less than 1mm and as not bouncing or shattering upon impact with hard ground.. Freezing Drizzle - uniform precipitation composed exclusively of closely spaced droplets with diameter less than 0.5mm which freezes upon impact with surfaces with a temperature at or below 0°C.. Light Freezing Rain - either as freezing drizzle but with widely separated droplets or composed of larger droplets falling at an intensity of no more than 2.5mm liquid water equivalent per hour.. Rain on Cold Soaked Wing - ‘cold soaked’ is the condition where a wing containing cold fuel acquires as a result a skin temperature at or below 0°C and is therefore vulnerable to