An Investigation was carried out by the New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC). An annotated terrain chart taken from the official report is shown below to aid an understanding of the conflict which occurred. It was established that the ATR 72 had cancelled IFR and descended below controlled airspace in order to remain in VMC and was tracking via the Kawarau Gorge at low-level. Before entering the gorge, the ATR 72 had been advised by ATC of a possible requirement to hold at the Bungy Bridge VRP on the edge of the CTR but having committed to fly through the gorge in deteriorating weather, the ATR 72 was then unable to hold at the reporting point when instructed to do so and advised their alternative intention. They subsequently stated that they had continued through the gorge visually in the belief that they did not need to obtain an entry clearance into the CTR. The Boeing 737 had made an approach on the prescribed track inbound to the VOR of 260° in accordance with an IFR clearance and become visual with the runway about 4nm prior to reaching the VOR. It had advised circling to the right in order to position from the south west onto finals for the landing Runway 23. It was concluded that since ATC had initially been unsure of the location and intended flight path of the manoeuvring Boeing 737, by the time both aircraft were coming into proximity in the CTR at the same time, they had been left with little option but to advise the ATR 72 to position on finals ahead of the Boeing 737. The effect of this action was that the Boeing 737 was then committed to continuing towards the airport in reducing visibility because the ATR 72 had obstructed its primary missed approach option to the south of the airport. The ATR72 landed first followed about one minute later by the Boeing 737 with IFV estimated by the Commander of the Boeing 737 to have been about 3000 metres. It was established that at no stage had either aircraft seen the other whilst within the CTR. It was determined as a result of the Investigation that: Safety procedures for flying VFR through Kawarau Gorge were inadequate. There appeared to be a generally poor industry understanding of the requirements for flight SVFR.. Position reporting by aircraft becoming visual on the Christchurch instrument approach involved were inadequate.. There were unresolved issues related to flight under VFR by medium and large air transport aircraft.. There was poor industry understanding of the management of general aviation areas within the Queenstown CTR. It was concluded that the incident stemmed from 6 proximate causes: The ATR 72 not obtaining an entry clearance from Queenstown Tower before being committed to entering the CTR. The crew of the ATR 72 assuming that they had automatic clearance to enter the CTR unless specifically told by Queenstown Tower that they did not. The aerodrome controller’s loss of situational awareness concerning