the progress of the two aircraft involved in the incident. The aerodrome controller’s late request for the ATR 72 to hold clear of the CTR. the flight crew of the ATR 72 assuming, on the basis of incomplete information, that the Boeing 737 would be clear having either completed the instrument approach or, as they thought more probable, commenced a missed approach. the foreseeable rapid approach of a snow-shower resulting in a significant reduction in visibility in the vicinity of Queenstown Aerodrome.. Other latent factors considered likely to have precipitated the incident were: Mount Cook Airlines’ policy of encouraging pilots to cancel IFR flight and join an aerodrome under VFR whenever possible. the lack of standardised procedures for the co-ordination of aircraft transiting Kawarau Gorge. the lack of specified weather and aircraft minima for VFR flight through Kawarau Gorge by Mount Cook Airline aircraft. a lack of understanding by the pilots of the ATR 72 of the objectives and requirements of operations under special VFR.. Eleven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation that: Mount Cook Airlines instruct company pilots of the requirement to obtain an entry clearance from the relevant controlling authority before entering controlled airspace (088/99). Mount Cook Airlines review company procedures for flights through Kawarau Gorge, including the need for specified minimum flight altitudes and visibility requirements, which permit safe manoeuvring within the geographical constraints of the gorge (087/99). Air New Zealand instruct their pilots of the requirement to make a radio call as soon as possible after becoming visual on an instrument approach and, if practicable, on circling approaches to include the aircraft’s position and intended track to be flown (090/99). Airways Corporation (ANSP) should review procedures to ensure that if clearance to enter controlled airspace is not available then appropriate phraseology that correctly conveys that meaning is used, and that instructions requiring a specific action in uncontrolled airspace are not given by ATC (091/99). Airways Corporation (ANSP) should review procedures to ensure air traffic service staff undergo proficiency assessments within the prescribed time frame (092/99). The Director of Civil Aviation should submit for approval a rule change for flight under visual flight rules in uncontrolled airspace by medium and large air transport aircraft, making reference to aircraft size and manoeuvrability, to ensure adequate safety margins are retained (093/99). The Director of Civil Aviation should approach the local air traffic service provider and local User Group to discuss the justification and acceptability of developing standardised procedures for the coordination of aircraft flying through Kawarau Gorge (094/99). The Director of Civil Aviation should submit for approval a rule change to special visual flight rules, in particular the application of the 1500 feet cloud ceiling, to remove any ambiguities that may exist (095/99). The Director of Civil Aviation should educate pilots about the objectives and application of operations under special visual flight rules (096/99). The Director of Civil Aviation should educate pilots on the operation of the use of general aviation areas, in particular those