He noted that after a landing at a controlled aerodrome such as Brasilia, the first radio contact is normally initiated by TWR rather than an aircraft which has just landed. He stated that based on his experience, the message he received was a "ground controlled" matter and so he had continued with his plan to have the aircraft leave the runway on taxiway ‘G’) and call the GND frequency. He had then turned his attention to the 737 awaiting takeoff and, having “made a brief visual scan without seeing the just-landed aircraft, he concluded that it had cleared the runway, since it had already been very close to taxiway ‘G’”. He remarked when he had issued takeoff clearance to the 737, the identification of aircraft on the runway was, as usual at night, hampered by the number of lights on the aerodrome and that this difficulty was aggravated in the case of aircraft which, like the Embraer involved, were camouflaged and without strobe lights. The GND Controller commented that based on routine practice, a military transport aircraft such as an Embraer 110 would clear runway 11L on taxiway ‘G’ and then take taxiway H’ to reach the military apron. As he had expected this to happen, he had turned his attention to the control of other aircraft. Only when contacted by the Embraer crew requesting to clear onto taxiway ‘F’, did he realise that it was not on the military apron as he had expected and he had then approved the request. As the Embraer continued towards taxiway ‘F’, its occupants reported they “suddenly perceived a very intense light coming from outside, accompanied by an extremely loud noise and a strong vibration”. As they looked out, some of the occupants reported having seen the 737 that had just passed over their aircraft whilst it was still on the main runway. The 737 crew noted that they had been waiting for the Embraer to land before receiving their takeoff clearance and that use of 11L for their takeoff was normal for aircraft leaving the northern part of the terminal. They noted that after the Embraer had landed, TWR had instructed them to line up and wait at the runway threshold. Then, “approximately 1 minute and 15 second later” the same controller had cleared them for takeoff. Just before they reached VR, their landing lights had illuminated the Embraer ahead still on the runway and the Captain had immediately advanced the thrust levers to TO/GA and begun to rotate and had just managed to overfly the other aircraft. Once airborne, they reported the near miss to TWR. Based on the factual evidence, the Investigation defined seven relevant ‘Latent Conditions’ which had existed at the time of the conflict as follows: The Brasilia Control Tower had several "blind spots" which impeded the view of the controllers, one of which was the length of parallel taxiway ‘H’ between taxiways ‘G’ and ‘N’ where an area of trees made it impossible to see smaller aircraft..