A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Aeronautical Accident Investigation and Prevention Centre (CENIPA - Centro de Investigação e Prevenção de Acidentes Aeronáuticos). It was noted that the Boeing 737-800 Captain had a total of 19,700 hours flying experience of which 7,734 hours were on type and its First Officer had a total of 9,100 hours flying experience of which 7,655 hours were on type. The Captain of the Embraer 110, who was acting as PF for the sector had a total of 479 hours flying experience of which 347 hours were on type and its First Officer had a total of 367 hours flying experience of which 228 hours were on type. The TWR Controller in position at the time of the conflict had six years’ experience and was also a qualified On-the-Job-Training Instructor (OJTI) although he was not acting in that capacity at the time of the investigated event. The GND Controller in position at the time of the conflict had four years’ experience in that role. It was established that the Embraer flight had proceeded normally and prior to beginning descent, the Captain had given his approach and landing briefing which included the information that after the touchdown on runway 11L, he intended to clear the runway via the (RET) taxiway ‘F’. After touchdown following an uneventful flight, he was able to slow the aircraft sufficiently quickly to be able to clear the runway at an earlier exit which was intended primarily as an RET for aircraft landing on the runway in the opposite (29R) direction and had begun to steer the aircraft to the right to prepare to use it. He stated that having looked quickly to the right and seen a sign which he believed identified this exit as taxiway ‘C’ (see the illustration below), he had asked his First Officer to request this exit from TWR but the response to her call to that effect was an instruction to “clear onto Taxiway ‘G’ and call GND”. The Captain stated that he had therefore decided to continue as per this instruction and the First Officer changed to the GND frequency and made her initial call there whilst the aircraft was still on the runway reporting that they would clear the runway via ‘G’. The GND Controller acknowledged this and cleared the flight to continue to the military apron. However, the Embraer crew then saw that the next exit was signed as ‘F’ and not ‘G’ and the First Officer therefore called GND to request permission to clear at ‘F’ instead of ‘G’. Runway 11L annotated with the exits mentioned and the position of the military apron. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The TWR Controller had been in position for approximately 1¼ hours when the investigated event occurred and stated that he had not been expecting a call from the aircraft after landing and when he received one, he considered that the transmission was made rather quickly which had made it difficult to understand.