The area of trees (arvoredo) which prevented controllers from seeing smaller aircraft on the shaded area of taxiway ‘H’. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The apron lighting on the aircraft parking gates along the north (and south) pier of the passenger terminal obscured the view from the Control Tower at night of the part of the runway adjacent to the trees in the illustration above.. The Embraer had a camouflaged paint scheme which made it difficult to see at night.. The Embraer had no strobes, only red anti-collision lights which were not readily visible except at close range.. The runway profile did not allow an aircraft aligned on the threshold of runway 11L to view a small aircraft on the runway ahead if that aircraft was in a position close to taxiway ‘F’.. The phraseology used by the Brasilia TWR controllers did not link the frequency change to GND for landing aircraft to being clear of the runway.. The first two taxiway intersections after the threshold of runway 11L had very similar letter designations which could be confused visually, depending on the viewing conditions, namely ‘C’ and ‘G’.. The absence of a Surface Movement Radar which could provide aircraft position information to controllers was also noted as was the absence from the aerodrome chart of any ‘hot spot’ designation of controller visual blind spots to alert pilots to the existence of this problem. It also proved impossible to identify any regulations that clearly specified when pilots should change frequency from TWR to GND after landing. It was considered that the evidence available indicated that neither Embraer pilot had been sufficiently familiar with the exit options for their landing runway. A lack of real-time monitoring of the aerodrome chart by the First Officer “may have contributed to an incorrect perception of the aircraft position on the ground after landing” and thereby to her lack of independently informed assistance to the Captain in respect of runway exit identification. Actual Contributory Factors were, in summary, identified as follows: Attention - The TWR Controller’s working environment led him to expect that aircraft would follow instructions given even if this could not be directly monitored and the GND Controller did not seek to establish the position of the Embraer when it first made contact on his frequency.. Communication - the TWR Controller’s failure to respond by requesting repetition when he did not understand the first call from the Embraer after landing and instead issuing a clearance which he assumed would be expected given the Embraer’s actual position. Also the GND Controller’s non-assimilation of the verbal (future) time used by the Embraer First Officer.. Controller Physical Working Conditions - impediments to the TWR Controller’s performance at night relating to visual controlling.. Inadequate TWR/GND controller coordination - in relation to the actual position of the Embraer after landing.. The absence of ATS Control Ability - ATS procedures which could have identified the possibility that an aircraft was on the runway before the 737 takeoff clearance was issued