were not exhausted.. Airport Infrastructure - the unmitigated interference of airport infrastructure with the TWR Controller’s ability to perform their duties.. Clearance Limit Exceedance by the Embraer crew - the aircraft (involuntarily) failed to follow its acknowledged runway exit clearance.. Perception contrary to reality - the similarity between the letters ‘C’ and ‘G’ as exit identifiers aggravated by the night operations contributed to the Embraer Captain’s misidentification; the TWR controller's perception of reality was compromised by his assumption that the crew would comply with their clearance and his expectation that the runway would therefore be clear.. Potential Contributory Factors were also identified, in summary, as follows: The TWR controller’s non-use of an available procedure - to only change frequency to GND when clear of the runway - even though this was not a required procedure.. The TWR controller’s insufficiently definitive use of phraseology - when instructing the Embraer crew to change to the GND frequency after landing given the existence of an exemplar wording in guidance on controller phraseology.. The inadequate exchange of controller information - between TWR and GND about the Embraer aircraft after its touchdown.. The Embraer First Officer’s apparent unfamiliarity - with night operations at the airport.. The Authority Gradient on the Embraer flight deck - the First Officer’s disinclination to question the Captain’s instructions possibly because of her low experience relative to his.. The absence of a regulatory requirement defining the position where an aircraft should change frequency from TWR to GND after landing.. Safety Action taken by the Military Authorities as a result of the investigated event was noted as the issue of instruction that all Operational Manuals must include text stating that after landing, crews may only change frequency from TWR to GND after clearing the active runway. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) acts, together with airport operator INFRAMERICA, in order to make sure that the airport operator adopts measures in relation to the lighting structure of the aprons (North Pier and South Pier), in order to avoid the light coming from the respective spotlights interfering negatively in the line of sight of the TWR controllers. [IG-065/CENIPA/2018 - 01]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) works together with airport operator INFRAMERICA and the Air Space Control Department (DECEA) so that cameras for the exclusive use of ATC are installed in the Brasilia International Aerodrome in order to guarantee the visualisation and control of all blind spots at that aerodrome. [IG-065/CENIPA/2018 - 02]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) works together with airport operator INFRAMERICA and the Air Space Control Department (DECEA), in order to evaluate the relevance of modifying one or both of the letters of the "C" (Charlie) and "G" (Golf) taxiways of the Brasilia International Aerodrome, so as to avoid confusion or misunderstanding on the part of the crews operating at that aerodrome. [IG-065/CENIPA/2018 - 03]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation