at the bottom of the cylinder which, when placed together had a combined length that was approximately half a complete spring. Examination of the piston rod found further debris trapped between the piston seal and its adjacent washer which had been generated as a result of significant deterioration in the seal. A similar examination of the other (right side) master cylinder found that its filler plug was also missing and that bronze bushing where the piston rod passes through the cylinder cover plate, which is supposed to be an interference fit had been secured with a tooth-lock washer and was otherwise loose in the cover plate. A similar amount and type of debris to that in the left cylinder was also found in this one, as was debris trapped between the piston seal and its adjacent washer which had originated from deterioration of the seal but to a lesser degree. Although basic functional testing of both cylinders demonstrated that they could generate and hold pressure, it was considered that the effect of some of the anomalies found during the examinations described above on braking performance could have been significant. Other findings were considered to have been unlikely to have affected braking performance but were “indicative of a shortfall during maintenance”. These included the fact that in the case of both cylinders, the method used to attach the spring guides to the piston rods was contrary to that expected by the component manufacturer, with the evidence pointing to internal components from another manufacturer’s (permitted) master cylinder product having been incorrectly installed in the cylinders fitted to the accident aircraft. The one fault which was considered to be a possible immediate cause of brake pedal ‘bottoming out’ as occurred in the event under investigation was the significant deterioration in the condition of the piston seal washer on the left side cylinder. This would have been the worst case scenario arising from the fluid leakage which would have been occurring and was indicative of total brake failure. Overall, it was considered that the contamination found in both cylinders and the degraded condition of the piston seal washers were “not typical of a master cylinder that has only accrued 41 hours since overhaul”. It was noted that to obtain the necessary approval to operate into Virgin Gorda, Air Sunshine had to ensure that the aircraft could stop in 70% of the 795 metre LDA but the only figures offered to the Investigation were those in the Pilots Operating Handbook (POH) which were for a level and hard-surfaced runway using maximum effective braking. These figures were also based on the aircraft prior to its modification to add the wing vortex generators and without reference to a further STC-approved modification, the ‘Aircraft Payload Extender/Short Takeoff and Landing’ (APE STOL) modification which provided landing field length reductions of up to 25%’. They were therefore not valid for the aircraft or the runway surface and, in respect of the latter, it was noted that “typical surface conditions on