a gravel runway may have an adverse effect on stopping distance as the loose unbounded material of the runway may degrade braking performance compared to a hard surface”. It was also found that even using the figures in the AFM Supplement for the APE STOL System, the aircraft did not satisfy the regulatory requirement applicable to all operations into Virgin Gorda that aircraft landing there must be able to stop in 70% of the LDA “even before the distance was factored for the gravel runway performance”. The fact the aircraft had routinely been able to stop in the distance available was due to the safety margin intended for contingency purposes being used on normal landings. It was found that no guidance was provided to Air Sunshine pilots on how to calculate an LDR, how to factor for a gravel surface, or even that a LDR was to be calculated at all. It was also found that retraction of the flaps at speed during the landing roll was contrary to AFM guidance where such retraction is only applicable to light weights when the accident aircraft touched down only 77 kg below the MLW and although retraction “would have compromised the landing performance as set out in the performance tables”, it was “a common company procedure”. It was noted the same aircraft had been involved in a previous accident at Virgin Gorda in March 2008 with the “official narrative” of the event stating that when the pilot attempted to stop the aircraft after landing, “the left brake failed during the second application (and) in an effort to avoid running off the end of the runway and into the ocean the pilot applied left rudder and made a turn in the direction of the apron”. The result of this action was that “the aircraft crossed the apron and struck the terminal building with the right wing, the tail of a parked Aztec with the left wing and came to rest after hitting the security gate at the end of the terminal building” and sustained substantial damage. The formally-documented Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The aircraft landed at Virgin Gorda in conditions (of weight, altitude, temperature and surface condition) where the landing distance required was very close to the landing distance available and without the required safety margin. Hence, when the performance of the brakes was not as expected, probably due to debris in the braking system, the aircraft could not be stopped on the runway. Analysis of the maintenance state of the aircraft involved in this accident indicated that the maintenance capability, processes and planning of its operator were not consistent with the standards expected in conducting international passenger charter services. This appeared also to be the case for the operational procedures and data management. Two Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration review the maintenance capability, processes and planning of Air Sunshine to ensure that they are sufficiently robust for conducting international passenger charter services. [2018-002].