A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB under arrangements authorised by the government of this British Overseas Territory. The aircraft was not fitted with flight recorders nor was it required to be. The 29 year-old Captain had 5,458 total flying hours of which 809 hours were on type and he had completed over 800 landings at Virgin Gorda, which is a PPR ‘special conditions’ airport, during the 12 months prior to the accident. It was established that after touchdown and after first retracting the flaps, the pilot stated that when he had applied the brakes, they had responded although he had felt that “the right brake did not seem to respond as positively as he expected”. He further stated that he had re-applied the brakes but the left brake pedal had then “flopped to the floor”. Judging that he had insufficient room to reject the landing, he had continued to pump the brakes without gaining a response and had then shut down the engines before the aircraft left the runway, struck frangible signage and passed through a low retaining wall which caused the nose landing gear to collapse and the right main landing gear to break off. After encountering rising ground and colliding with a group of substantial rocks, the aircraft slewed through about 45° before coming to rest on a grass-covered bank within the airport perimeter close to the northern edge of the tarmac-surfaced ramp in front of the terminal building. The pilot then vacated the aircraft through his side window and opened the main door to allow the passengers to exit the aircraft. It was noted that “distinct tyre marks from all three wheels were visible across the apron and grass (which) indicated heavy sideward loading as the pilot tried to turn to avoid over-running into the sea”. There was no evidence that the brakes had been locked such as pronounced skid marks or any sign that loose stones had been dragged across the surface. It was found that the aircraft had been in service for 41 hours and 95 flight cycles since its release from an approximately three year-long period in maintenance during which overhaul of both brake system master cylinders had been carried out that was reported to have involved cleaning them and installing new seals and springs. Records of this work were not available and the applicable FAA requirements under FAR 91.417 were found to require only that maintenance records must be retained for one year. A detailed examination of the left side master cylinder (which served the left seat pilot position) found that its filler plug was missing, that the cover plate could be rotated using finger pressure and that the rubber ring seal between it and the cylinder housing was missing. Debris inside the cylinder was found to consist of “general environmental dirt and aluminium flakes” (see the illustration below) and when the piston rod and its return spring were removed, two pieces of a broken return spring were found