pressure. In strong crosswind conditions, use of differential brakes may be required during the initial acceleration unless the nosewheel is steerable through the rudder pedals, when differential braking should not be required. When takeoff power is applied, propeller torque or P-factor, will yaw the airplane to either left of right, depending on propeller direction of rotation. The yaw may either counteract or aggravate the weathercocking tendency caused by the crosswind from the right. In all cases, be ready to quickly apply whatever rudder pressure/deflection is required to keep the airplane rolling straight down the runway. Multi-engine, non-steerable nosewheel (Grumman S-2 Tracker, Boeing B-29 Superfortress etc):. Aileron technique as above, differential power or differential brakes for directional control during the initial takeoff roll until rudder is effective. Differential engine power is available to assist with directional control but this is potentially hazardous for the inexperienced. Multi-engine, nosewheel steerable via hand tiller (Hawker 700/800, C130 Hercules etc):. Aileron handling as above. However, the rudder does not become effective until reaching an Indicated Airspeed, as defined by the manufacturer, ; this is usually in the region of 80 knots. Until that speed is reached, the one pilot must maintain the centreline utilising the nosewheel steering tiller whilst the other pilot "flies the wing" using the aileron technique described above. Where only one tiller is fitted, the left seat pilot will be required to maintain directional control in the early stages of take-off, whether Pilot Flying (PF) or Pilot Monitoring (PM). The PF will apply appropriate rudder deflection from the beginning of the takeoff roll. Forward elevator pressure should be maintained until the rudder is fully effective to maximize nosewheel capability. When the rudder effectivity speed is attained, the LS pilot releases the nosewheel tiller and the PF assumes full control of the aircraft. Multi-engine, nosewheel steerable via hand tiller and rudder pedals (Airbus A320, Boeing 777 etc):. At low speed, the aircraft can be directionally controlled via the nosewheel controlled through the rudder pedals. As the aircraft accelerates and the rudder becomes effective, the nosewheel steering capability is automatically reduced. With this level of sophistication, the manufacturer's guidance for aircraft handling during takeoff is likely to become very prescriptive. In all cases, manufacturer/Company guidance should be followed. The following are some of the more common techniques for tailwheel aircraft: Single engine (CESSNA 185 Skywagon, DE HAVILLAND CANADA DHC-3, etc):. FULL aileron should be held into the wind as the takeoff roll is started. This control position should be maintained while the airplane is accelerating until the ailerons become effective at which time aileron deflection should be decreased to maintain wings level. The runway centerline should be maintained with the rudder which, in most cases, is effective as soon as power is applied. Normally, this will require applying downwind rudder pressure. In strong crosswind conditions, use of differential brakes may be required during the initial acceleration. Raise the tail off of the ground as soon as the elevator is effective. When takeoff power is