whilst the process of vortex dissipation is not fully understood, “studies so far indicate that both the mixing action of the eddy viscosity and the interaction between the vortices themselves have an effect” and that other factors that may have influence in vortex longevity include wind velocity and the extent to which atmospheric mechanical turbulence prevails. In the investigated event, it was found that there had been high atmospheric stability which would have probably contributed to increased time required for vortex dispersal. The Cause of the upset was determined as: “The turbulence initiated by the wake of an Airbus A340-300 that was on the same airway, 10.13 NM ahead of the Vueling Airbus A320-200, and on the same course, flying towards point “Kuman” at FL330 and a ground speed of 464 knots. The extent of the turbulence was such that it could not be counteracted by the autopilot. The actions carried out subsequently by the crew, simultaneous sidestick inputs, retarding the throttles, disconnecting the autothrust and, especially, stepping on the left pedal, were not in accordance with the aircraft’s flight procedures and could contribute to exacerbating the effects of the external turbulence.” It was noted that: “When an abnormal or emergency situation occurs during a flight, the crew must take immediate actions to neutralize it by following the proper procedures. In order to execute these actions quickly and accurately, the crew must carry them out “automatically”. This is achieved through instruction and training. The investigation into this incident revealed that the crew did not properly adhere to the procedures required by the situation.” Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: That the aircraft operator, Vueling, review and enhance its Airbus A-320 crew training programs so as to improve the crews’ knowledge and application of aircraft procedures, in particular of these applied to dual sidestick inputs, flying in severe turbulence and rudder use. [REC 03/11]. That the operator of the aircraft, Vueling, review and enhance its training programs in Crew Resources Management CRM. [REC 04/11]. The Final Report was approved on 21 February 2011 and an English language version was subsequently made available.