An Investigation was carried out by the CIAAIC. It was noted that the prescribed aircraft inspections following an excessive turbulence encounter had found no damage but that when downloaded flight data sent to the manufacturer by the Operator revealed, nine days later, that limit loads on the airframe may have been exceeded during the event, the aircraft was grounded for more detailed review. Airbus found that in the case of lateral loads, the vertical stabiliser and rudder had been subjected to loads of 125% of the limit load value compared to the maximum theoretical resistance of the tail prior to failure is 150% of the limit load. It was found that the wing tips and the aft section of the fuselage had been subjected to loads below the limit load. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had not been isolated after the event and the incident recording had therefore been overwritten but the DFDR data was successfully downloaded and replayed. It showed that the aircraft had been at a speed of 0.78M with the AP and autothrottle (A/T) engaged when the turbulence encounter occurred and a sudden 40° right bank followed. In response to increase in bank angle, the AP had attempted to counteract it with deflection of the ailerons to their maximum value of 8° at 250 knots as the vertical load factor concurrently increased to 1.23g. Both pilots had responded by moving their sidesticks, which had led to the disconnection of the AP. The aircraft commander, who had been PM had reacted to the decreased vertical load factor by commanding a pitch up whilst almost simultaneously, the First Officer had input an opposite pitch down command to his sidestick. For a period of 21 seconds, both pilots continued to make simultaneous inputs to their sidesticks; initially this had included the pushing of their respective sidesticks to the maximum available in both lateral directions. An input to the left rudder pedal was also recorded and the A/T had been disconnected. The culmination of the crew response was that over a short period of time, sharp lateral oscillation between maximum bank angles of 33° left and 49° right and sharp pitch variation between +8.7° and -0.4° had occurred. The effect of this had been longitudinal load factors between +1.69g and -0.45g and lateral load factors between 0.47g left and 0.32g right. It was noted that as the simultaneous inputs in pitch had been largely in opposing directions, the resulting movement had been smooth and thus had little actual effect on the pitch of the aircraft. After this, and as a result of the various pitch-down commands, the aircraft had made the descent to FL310 before control was regained and the AP and A/T re-engaged. Having concluded that the initiation of the upset could be attributed to a wake vortex encounter, the Investigation noted that the strength of such vortices depends on a number of factors including aircraft weight, speed, configuration, wing span and wing angle of attack. It also noted that