landing gear and both engines. The illustration below shows where parts became detached during excursion. The distribution of wreckage during the excursion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation observed that the Captain had fairly recently transitioned from a turboprop command to a jet command and, after the mandatory 180 hours of self-study ground training, had received the required simulator training and passed the required checks. He had then been required to undergo 100 hours of supervised line flying and pass a final line check. It was clear from the recorded flight data that despite the claim by the crew that the engines had been stabilised at 40% N1 before TOGA thrust was selected, this was not the case. Rather, the Captain had “not carried out certain actions which were either precursors to unsafe acts or were unsafe acts in themselves”. It was concluded that although the transition training from turboprop to jet type rating had met the requirements, “it appears that certain vital training aspects and checks were not covered, for example allowing the engines to stabilise before pressing TOGA and the limited effectiveness of rudder in a jet aircraft at low speeds”. It was also considered that the First Officer’s failure to intervene to prevent the circumstances that created the accident indicated a lack of CRM training. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally determined as follows: The Captain pressed the TOGA switches when the thrust on no.1 engine was 40% and no.2 engine was 28% which was contrary to the applicable SOP. This caused the No.1 engine thrust to increase at a faster rate than no.2 engine thrust resulting in aircraft yawing towards right. In the absence of timely and necessary corrective action including rejecting the takeoff, the aircraft veered off the runway and continued to move in a semicircular arc on the undulating ground before stopping, resulting in substantial damages to the aircraft. A total of 7 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Jet Airways reiterate the importance of all flight crew briefings, especially emergency briefings and ensure that their First Officers are more assertive with regards to adherence to standard operating procedures.. that Jet Airways should require a ‘stabilised’ callout by the PM following the initial 40% takeoff thrust application before TOGA is set. This callout should require that both engines’ thrust settings are practically identical.. that Jet Airways training department incorporate defined failures for unstabilised thrust, uneven spool up of engines during low speed and the corrective actions which must then be taken.. that Jet Airways emphasise the importance of following the correct actions for briefing and carrying out an emergency evacuation and briefing for this during all simulator training sessions.. that the DGCA, in co-ordination with the Indian Defence Authorities, should ensure that there is a standard “Aerodrome Emergency Plan" for all Defence Aerodromes where scheduled civil flights operate as per the latest Safety Management System framework. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) which is