An Investigation in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles was carried out by a Committee of Inquiry established for the task by the Indian DGCA. The SSFDR and SSCVR were both removed from the aircraft and their data downloaded. It was found that the 36 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight, had a total of 5,741 hours flying experience of which 491 hours had been on type with 368 of those hours being whilst in command. He had previously been type rated on the ATR72-500. The 33 year-old First Officer had a total of 723 hours flying experience of which all but 251 hours were on type. No evidence of any relevant pre-excursion defects was found and in benign weather conditions (surface wind variable at 6 knots), the aircraft had entered the runway at an intermediate point with permission to backtrack and line up for takeoff from the beginning of runway 26. Having made the required 180° turn without the use of differential thrust and completed it with a recorded groundspeed of 5 knots, the Captain had then stopped the aircraft for about a minute whilst awaiting takeoff clearance. Once this was received, instead of waiting until both engines had stabilised as required at 40% N1 before pressing the TOGA button, the Captain had done so with the left engine at 46% N1 and the right engine at 28% N1 and with left brake pressure applied. Thrust had then increased asymmetrically towards TOGA (which was 95.7% N1) with a drift to the right of the runway centreline quickly developing. Then, instead of immediately rejecting the takeoff, the speed was allowed to increase whilst an attempt to counter the drift right was made by applying full left rudder. As it became clear that the aircraft was about to depart the north side runway edge, the left N1 had reached 98% whilst the right N1 was steadily catching up but was still only at 89%. The right engine thrust lever (only) was then retarded to 40% and, with full left rudder still being applied, the aircraft departed the side of the runway as the groundspeed continued to increase. About 5 seconds later, as the maximum recorded groundspeed of 47 knots was reached, the applied left brake pressure was suddenly increased briefly to maximum before being reduced by about half. The right engine N1 was then reduced to idle as the left engine N1 reached 102% and the ground speed began to reduce. The SSDFR data then stopped as both fuel levers were moved to cutoff as the aircraft continued to turn right through 046° at 32 knots ground speed. It was clear that the ground track of the aircraft had been due to thrust asymmetry both initially and during the extended runway excursion. It was noted that at no time during the reject were the speed brakes extended. Structural damage to the aircraft as a result of the excursion was extensive. It included damage to the lower fuselage,