was the nearest at the time, had a non precision instrument approach procedure and was one of the two nominated alternates. During a turning descent considered likely to have been made in cloud and contrary to the recommendation of the Co-pilot not to descend, the aircraft violently impacted the sloping side of a ridge within a mountain valley at 7190 feet amsl and, after several secondary impacts had disintegrated. There were signs that fire, suspected to have been fuel fed, had affected some parts of the wreckage. The track followed by the aircraft is shown on the map below taken from the Official Report. The weather conditions at the time were reported by the security guard of a telecommunication tower close to accident site (who had no formal training in weather observation) to have been as follows: Light rain and hail storm in the morning. Snowing since around 10:00 AM. Thunder, dark cloud, all around covered up and visibility was low.. The Investigation concluded that on the evidence available: Although the flight was continued from Pokhara in spite of the likelihood of adverse weather conditions en route, the crew were under no pressure in this respect from the airline management or from any of the passengers or from any other source.. The aircraft commander's penetration of visible moisture without having proper anti-icing capability had been in violation of SOPs as well as contrary to the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM).. Although the aircraft commander had initially seemed to be confident and appeared to have demonstrated the quality of leadership, later in the accident flight, "his presence of mind about his position and dilemma in actions did not display good leadership".. The aircraft commander had been "focused on completing the mission in spite of adverse weather".. The aircraft descended below 8500 feet without the pilots having sufficient awareness of the terrain.. The nature of accident was ‘Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT)’.. The Investigation determined that the Most Probable Cause of the accident was the "losing (of) situational awareness on the part of PIC while flying into instrument meteorological weather condition to the extent of collision with terrain." It was additionally determined that there had been two Contributing Factors: (A) deterioration (in the) weather associated with (the) western disturbance (which was) unstable in nature and contained embedded Cb.. Inappropriate and insufficient crew coordination while changing course of action.. A total of 12 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: During the Investigation the following Recommendation was made: that Operators shall immediately develop and implement an appropriate surveillance mechanism to ensure the effective monitoring of the flying behaviours of the pilots and their adherence to SOP including the violation of the VFR rules.. Upon completion of the Investigation, the following 11 additional Recommendations were made: that the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation (MoCTCA) should establish an independent and effective aircraft accident investigation mechanism with the provision of adequate resources under the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil