Aviation (MoCTCA) for the effective investigations and also for the continuous monitoring of the implementation and compliance-status of remedial safety measures.. that the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology, in coordination with CAA Nepal, should develop a mechanism to obtain the weather data not only of the airport stations but also from other parts of the country for the information and analysis of en-route weather.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should further strengthen its surveillance and monitoring function, focusing on critical safety areas including the violation of SOP, proper application of Crew Resource Management, CFIT prevention and ensuring effective enforcement by collecting information on flight operation activities on a daily basis.. that CAAN should ensure that all fleets operated by AOC holders are equipped with the appropriate Terrain Awareness Warning System (TAWS) in accordance with the provisions of Annex 6.. that CAAN in coordination with Department of Hydrology and Meteorology should develop a mechanism to obtain the real time weather data not only of the airport stations but also from other parts of the country for the information and analysis of en-route weather.. that CAAN should encourage airlines to install onboard aircraft equipment that will help for real time tracking of the aircraft in flight.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation should review and strengthen the training requirements on Crew Resource Management (ground and in flight), with special attention to the importance of close coordination and cooperation between PIC and Co-pilot and also emphasising the situations requiring interventions from Co-pilot.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation should, in view of the significant fleet expansion in progress, systematically identify the hazards, changes in system, operational environment and consequential safety risk especially in the process of recruitment and training of the operational and engineering personnel.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation should enhance the flight dispatcher's capability to enable them to fulfil their responsibility as per the provisions of company SOP.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation should develop special program and policy for the prevention of CFIT accidents.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation should review and further strengthen the effective implementation of Safety Management System process especially in the areas of improved reporting system, hazard identification and risk mitigation.. The Final Report was submitted by the AAIC to the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation on 25 August 2014 and subsequently published n English but without the accompanying Appendices.