An Investigation was carried out by an Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission (AAIC) established by the Nepal Government Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation on the day after the accident. The wreckage of the aircraft was located on a sloping hillside near Dihidanda, Masinalek in the Arghakhanchi District. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was successfully downloaded from the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) but the aircraft was not fitted with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR). The GPS Unit carried and used for navigational assistance during the flight was found not to have the capability to store track data. The aircraft was not fitted with either weather radar or Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS). No evidence of any pre-impact loss of airworthiness was found, nor was there any indication that aircraft performance had been impaired by the effects of flight in the icing conditions which it was considered would have existed during periods of flight in cloud undertaken despite operating on a VFR Flight Plan. The 49 year old aircraft commander, who had been PF for the accident flight, was found to have joined the Operator only 2 years previously although he had accumulated over 8000 flying hours including substantial P1 time and had substantial experience of domestic operations. Although the 28 year old Co-pilot had been with the Operator for 5 years, he had only accumulated a total of 365 flying hours. However, it was found that both pilots were used to operating together. The Investigation deduced from the CVR recording that: "Communication between Captain and Copilot was found not optimal and not in accordance with the rule and practice. (The) Copilot does not acknowledge the Captain’s information, or instruction on several occasions. The Copilot seemed to be unconcerned and Captain not authoritative, especially when the latter needed feedback and advice from (the) non flying copilot as they were facing problem with weather, and concerned about icing." It was established that the aircraft had been operating on a VFR Flight Plan and that the aircraft was being flown "entirely based on (the) GPS Navigation (Unit) that was (installed) in the aircraft". It was noted that the crew had been unable to obtain a forecast of en route weather prior to their departure from Pokhara with a fuel endurance of 2.5 hours for what would normally have been a 1 hour flight. However, the engineer who checked the aircraft at Pokhara reported that the aircraft commander had appeared optimistic that adverse weather in the area of the route to Jumla was "moving away to the east". The Investigation found that upon leaving Pokhara CTZ, the aircraft commander had "realised that the (intended) direct track was not possible due (to) weather and decided to proceed (initially to the) south". Evidence that considerable alterations to both track and altitude had followed was found and it noted that "finally, being unable to penetrate the weather ahead (the aircraft commander) decided to divert to Bhairahawa". This airport - elevation 344 feet -