for departures. The P-180 pilot would have been on the GND frequency when it would have been apparent from transmissions that aircraft were using runway 14 for departure.. When the P-180 was given its taxi instructions, the DHC8 was on the de-icing pad and its crew were not monitoring the GND frequency so they were not aware that the P-180 was taxiing to Runway 07 without a restriction to hold short of Runway 14.. Staffing guidelines for the Ottawa Control Tower suggested that a minimum of 4 controllers should be on duty during ab evening shift like the one during which the event occurred but only two were on duty, one working the GND position including clearance delivery and the other working the TWR position. It was found that staff shortages at the Ottawa TWR were "common".. Use of the EXCDS functionality for departing aircraft, in particular by GND controllers, was found to vary and its updating was not subject to prescriptive procedure but left to "the discretion of individual controllers". The fact that the P-180 was taxiing as cleared was not evident from the TWR Controller's EXCDS display.. In the exchange of responsibility for runway 14, the GND Controller did not mention that the P-180 was en route to the 07 hold and had been cleared to cross runway 14; there was "no indication that the GND controller recollected or recognised that (the P-180) was about to cross Runway 14". At the time he had "responsibility for 8 aircraft and 3 sets of vehicles", of which the only aircraft taxiing was the P-180.. The Unit Operations Manual contained a list of five criteria, the presence of any one of which was expected, when staffing permitted, to result in the opening of the Clearance Deliver Position. At the time of the occurrence, four of the five listed criteria applied.. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The Ground controller issued instructions to C-GFOX to taxi unrestricted from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Apron to Runway 07, despite the frequent use of Runway 14 for departing aircraft.. The Ottawa Tower Extended Computer Display System (EXCDS) Manual requires that the ground controller forward the flight data entry (FDE) of an aircraft taxiing for departure to the 'Taxied' panel so that an FDE will be generated in the applicable 'Departure' panel of the (Tower) controller’s display screen. However, the Ottawa Tower Unit Operations Manual and unit directives do not indicate when to initiate this transfer, leaving the decision to the discretion of individual controllers.. Following the issuance of taxi instructions to C-GFOX, the Ground controller did not initially forward the C-GFOX flight data entry from the Cleared panel to the Taxied panel and, therefore, the (Tower) controller’s Extended Computer Display System display screen did not indicate that C-GFOX was taxiing for Runway 07.. The Ground controller did not verify the position of C-GFOX relative to Runway 14 prior to transferring the responsibility for Runway 14 to the