The occurrence was investigated by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). It was determined that although the temperature was sub-zero and light snow had been falling, the prevailing weather conditions were not relevant. The necessary factual data were obtained from ATC recordings. It was established that the GND controller had cleared the P-180 to taxi from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) Apron behind the terminal to hold short of runway 07 on a route via taxiways G, B and C with a crossing of runway 14/32 explicitly included (see the annotated taxi chart below). This clearance was accompanied by an instruction to contact TWR once at the runway 07 holding point. One minute after this, the same controller had, in accordance with normal practice for departing aircraft leaving the remote de-icing pad when, as in this case, runway 07 was the active runway, offered the DHC8 a departure from runway 14 in order to minimise taxi time. The DHC8 crew had accepted the offer and had been cleared by the GND controller to taxi from the de-icing pad via taxiways A and L to runway 14 and instructed to change to TWR once holding short of the runway on L. One minute after this, coordination between the GND and TWR controllers was completed for the "exchange of responsibility for runway 14" in order to allow its use by the departing DHC8 and the TWR controller took over that responsibility. He "completed a scan of the airport manoeuvring area and the Extended Computer Display System (EXCDS)" and saw that an aircraft (the P-180) was approaching Taxiway C which crossed runway 14 but "as there was no indication on the EXCDS display screen that an aircraft was taxiing for a runway" he assumed that it was en route to the de-icing pad. He then cleared the DHC8 for take-off on runway 14. By the time the aircraft had entered the runway, commenced its take-off and was accelerating through about 60 knots, the P-180 was midway across Runway 14 and the two aircraft were approximately 1,340 metres apart (see the illustration below). The GND controller "noticed the runway incursion and estimated that (the P-180) would be clear of the runway by the time (the DHC8) reached (it)” and so no call was made for the DHC8 to reject its take-off. The DHC8 flight crew did not see the P-180, a small and relatively inconspicuous aircraft, cross the runway in front of them but they were "able to see past the intersection of runway 14 and taxiway C and had noted an aircraft landing on runway 07 just before they were cleared for take-off". Following the occurrence the GND controller was routinely suspended and the TWR controller was left alone to provide all ATC service for 40 minutes until a second controller arrived to assist. It was noted that: ATIS stated that Runway 07 was being used for arrivals and departures. The ATIS did not mention that Runway 14 was also being used