A typical MTCD system might include the following steps: The system detects potential conflicts within a configurable parameter (e.g. 20 minutes) look-ahead time period, based on current trajectory information and the planning controller is notified;. The planning controller monitoring/scanning process results in detection of the data provided by the system;. The planning controller assimilates the information while assessing the potential conflict and then decides whether to monitor or to act on the information and its content. A ‘what-if’ tool providing the controller with the ability to create alternative trajectories could be used in the decision making process required for conflict resolution. This should result in the planning controller providing a resolution by: Ignoring the conflict (i.e. due to foreseen circumstances the conflict will time expire or not occur) or; Resolving it by modifying an entry or exit condition. The coordination takes account of LoA conditions or indeed makes proposals outside LoA conditions if circumstances provide this alternative or; Deciding that the conflict is purely tactical and manageable by the tactical controller and therefore transfers it to him/her (Note: this inter-team co-ordination may be explicit or implicit).. Ignoring the conflict (i.e. due to foreseen circumstances the conflict will time expire or not occur) or;. Resolving it by modifying an entry or exit condition. The coordination takes account of LoA conditions or indeed makes proposals outside LoA conditions if circumstances provide this alternative or;. Deciding that the conflict is purely tactical and manageable by the tactical controller and therefore transfers it to him/her (Note: this inter-team co-ordination may be explicit or implicit).. The result of the transfer of the conflict to the tactical controller indicates that the planning controller considered it likely that some tactical action should be taken by the tactical controller to resolve/monitor a detected conflict.