runway threshold at 70 feet agl with a “normal landing” following. The First Officer stated to the Investigation that he had never flown the aircraft type without the A/THR engaged and that, in the absence of any calls from the Captain or reference to the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA), he had remained unaware that the A/THR was disconnected after being given control back on final approach. The Investigation found that in addition, “no SOPs were followed regarding takeover of control, bank angle, vertical speeds, speed management and G/S deviation during initial and final approach”. It was also concluded that, having taken over control from the First Officer, the Captain had not needed to disconnect the AP to manage the flight or the A/THR to manage the speed. The Causes of the upset were formally recorded as: Poor CRM on the part of both Pilots.. Non-compliance with SOPs during all phases of the initial and final approach including in particular an absence of both pilots’ verbal confirmation of their actions.. The Captain’s handover of control to the First Officer below 1000 feet with Idle Thrust set and the aircraft thereby being unstable.. The First Officer’s lack of training in control of the speed with the A/THR disconnected.. A Main Contributory Factor was also identified as “loss of situational awareness” by both pilots with an Additional Contributory Factor identified as “no or poor CRM”. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Orange2fly must review its pilot training programme in respect of emphasis during initial, recurrent, ground school and flight training on the following items before pilots are released for line flying and thereafter closely monitor the following aspects of pilot performance through OFDM and Flight and Simulator Checks: CRM Human Factors Crew communication according to SOPs Crew Cooperation Leadership and Management skills The importance of FMA callouts in accordance with the applicable SOP Factors which contribute to loss of Situation Awareness Decision Making Case study on low level approach to a stall Go Around decision making and actions in accordance with SOPs [2021-06]. CRM. Human Factors. Crew communication according to SOPs. Crew Cooperation. Leadership and Management skills. The importance of FMA callouts in accordance with the applicable SOP. Factors which contribute to loss of Situation Awareness. Decision Making. Case study on low level approach to a stall. Go Around decision making and actions in accordance with SOPs [2021-06]. that Orange2fly carry out a review of their SMS [2021-07]. that Orange2fly ensure that simulator training includes the above items plus: Vectoring to an ILS approach in both VMC and IMC and for manual approaches with A/THR disengaged Emphasis on FMA callouts in accordance with the SOP Go-around decision and execution in accordance with the SOP [2021-08]. Vectoring to an ILS approach in both VMC and IMC and for manual approaches with A/THR disengaged. Emphasis on FMA callouts in accordance with the SOP. Go-around decision and execution in accordance with the SOP [2021-08]. that the Orange2fly Flight