On receiving a report of the event by the Greek operator of the aircraft nine days after it had occurred which contained no indication of its seriousness, the Hellenic Air Accident Investigation and Aviation Safety Board (AAIASB) initially took no action. However, when the Board received and reviewed a copy of the operator’s internal investigation two months later, the event was categorised as a Serious Incident and the State of Occurrence was notified accordingly and information provided. When the State of Occurrence subsequently decided not to undertake an investigation due to “lack of adequate information”, the AAIASB opened its own Investigation and notified the appropriate parties accordingly. Relevant FDR data were available but relevant CVR data had been overwritten. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 13,522 hours flying experience of which 73 hours had been flown since joining the operator one month prior to the event under investigation when already qualified on type. The First Officer had a total of 1,489 hours flying experience of which 328 hours had been flown since joining the operator, which he had joined 4½ months earlier also already qualified on type. It was established that the First Officer had been PF for the flight but when he had failed to follow radar vectors from downwind to the ILS provided by ATC, the Captain had taken control at 2260 feet QNH and after disconnecting the AP and selecting idle thrust (which automatically disconnected the A/THR), he configured the aircraft for landing whilst positioning it onto final approach. On the ILS final approach at 930 feet QNH/agl with the speed at 145 KCAS (VAPP+10) and the aircraft descending at 1,080 fpm, he handed control back to the First Officer. The thrust levers were still in the Flight Idle detent although the First Officer was unaware that the A/THR was not active and took no action to manually increase thrust. By 600 feet QNH/agl, the aircraft was half scale deflection below the ILS GS with this deviation increasing and the airspeed progressively reducing. As the aircraft passed 500 feet, with the airspeed now VAPP-7, a dual sidestick input was recorded, with the Captain’s unannounced nose down input being opposed by a nose up input by the First Officer. This dual input continued as the aircraft descended to 350 feet when it ceased. With the airspeed steady at almost around VAPP-20, the decent continued at 1,200 fpm and the ILS GS indication reached full scale fly up. At 140 feet agl, the angle of attack reached the threshold for activation of the ‘ALPHA FLOOR’ protection system and with TOGA thrust automatically set, the aircraft pitch attitude began to increase, reaching 16°. A forward input on the Captain’s sidestick was recorded at 162 feet with the airspeed now at VAPP-8 and the aircraft then levelled off at 207 feet agl and the ALPHA FLOOR deactivated. The Captain took over control again with a half scale ILS GS fly up showing and the aircraft crossed the