This is an extract from the official accident Report AAR/89/03 by National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB): As the airplane leveled at 24,000 feet, both pilots heard a loud “clap” or “whooshing” sound followed by a wind noise behind them. The first officer […] stated that debris, including pieces of grey insulation, was floating in the cockpit. The captain observed that the cockpit entry door was missing and that “there was blue sky where the first class ceiling had been.” [Figure 1] The captain immediately took over the controls of the airplane. He described the airplane attitude as rolling slightly left and right and that the flight controls felt “loose”. Because of the decompression, both pilots […] donned their oxygen masks. The captain began an emergency descent. […] Because of ambient noise, the pilots initially used hand signals to communicate. The first officer stated that she observed rate of descent of 4,100 feet per minute at some point during the emergency descent. The captain stated that he actuated the passenger oxygen switch. The passenger oxygen manual tee handle was not actuated. When the decompression occurred, all the passengers were seated and seat belt sign was illuminated. The No. 1 flight attendant reportedly was standing at seat row 5. According to passenger observations, the flight attendant was immediately swept out of the cabin through a hole in the left side of the fuselage. The No. 2 flight attendant, standing by row 15/16, was thrown to the floor and sustained minor bruises. She was subsequently able to crawl up and down the isle to render assistance and calm the passengers. The No.3 flight attendant, standing at row 2, was struck in the head by debris and thrown to the floor. She suffered serious injuries […]. The first officer said she turned the transponder to emergency code 7700 and attempted to notify Honolulu Air Route Traffic Control Center (ARTCC) that the flight was diverting to Maui. Because of the cockpit noise level, she could not hear any radio transmissions, and she was not sure if the Honolulu ARTCC heard the communication. The controller observed the emergency transponder indication and tried to make contact with the aircraft several times without success. After the aircraft descended through 14,000 feet, the first officer contacted Maui Tower, declared an emergency situation, and stated the need for emergency equipment. During the descent, the No. 1 engine failed and the captain attempted to restart it, without success. The captain was able to make a normal touchdown and landing rollout. He used the No. 2 engine thrust reverser and main landing gear brakes to stop the aircraft. The aircraft was evacuated on the runway. To access the video showing the accident B737 on the runway, click here. (The video is courtesy of FAA Lessons Learned from Transport Airplane Accidents) After the accident, a passenger stated that as she was boarding the airplane […] she observed a longitudinal fuselage crack. The crack was in the upper row of rivets along the S10L