[See Figure 2] lap joint, about halfway between the cabin door and the edge of the jet bridge hood. She made no mention of the observation to the airplane ground personnel or flightcrew. According to the official accident Report, two inspectors working on separate shifts conducted inspection as required by Boeing service bulletin (SB) and related airworthiness directives (AD) after work that has been done on the aircraft fuselage skin prior the accident. An inadequate maintenance program was found to be the reason for the fuselage section separation during flight. The maintenance program failed to detect the presence of significant disbanding, corrosion, and fatigue damage. The process that was used to bond the overlapping fuselage skins together was poorly performed, and led to early disbonding. The disbonding in turn resulted in what is known as a "knife-edge effect". This effect created a poor fatigue detail in the skin and many adjacent fastener holes started to crack. This form of cracking is known as multiple site damage, which leads to widespread fatigue damage (WFD) in its advanced stage. By definition, WFD is a condition in which the airplane is no longer able to carry the required residual strength loads. The Report further states: The Safety Board […] believes that Aloha Airlines had sufficient information regarding lap joint problems to have implemented a maintenance program to detect and repair joint damage. The information available to Aloha Airlines on lap joint problems included the following: The B737s in the Aloha Airlines’ fleet were high-cycle airplanes accumulating cycles at a faster rate than any other operator;. Aloha Airlines operated in a harsh corrosion environment;. Aloha Airlines previously had discovered a 7.5 inch crack along lap joint S-10L on another B-737 airplane;. Boeing had issued, and records indicate that Aloha Airlines was aware of, a SB covering lap joint inspection and repair in 1972, revised in 1974 and upgraded to an ASB in 1987; and. The FAA had issued an AD in 1987 requiring inspections of the lap joints along S-4 and referencing the Boeing ASB, which called for inspection of other lap joint location, including along S-10.. In the Operational Consideration section of the Report it is stated that the flightcrew actions were consistent with simulator training situations which minimise the exposure to physiological effects. The Report focuses on following three operation areas: Assessment of in-flight structure damage: The IAS [Indicated airspeed] used in the decent [280 to 290 kts], although it minimized the time at altitude, increased the manoeuvring loads and subjected the passengers to flailing and windburn from the effect of exposure. The open fuselage break was also subjected to high dynamic pressure from the wind force. […] The Operators Manual, Emergency Descend procedure (and emergency checklist) states that if structural integrity is in doubt, “limit airspeed as much as possible to avoid high maneuvering loads.” […]. The IAS [Indicated airspeed] used in the decent [280 to 290 kts], although it minimized the time at altitude, increased the manoeuvring loads and subjected