the passengers to flailing and windburn from the effect of exposure. The open fuselage break was also subjected to high dynamic pressure from the wind force. […] The Operators Manual, Emergency Descend procedure (and emergency checklist) states that if structural integrity is in doubt, “limit airspeed as much as possible to avoid high maneuvering loads.” […] Air Ground Emergency Communications: In the course of the accident, ATC changed frequency for primary radio contact with the airplane during the emergency. […] after some difficulty, the crew established contact with Maui Tower; Maui Tower was initially not apprised of the full nature of emergency or the structural damage. After notification of the emergency, ATC [Maui Tower] directed a frequency change to Maui Approach control. […] The Safety Board wishes to reiterate that ATC must make every effort to minimise the workload of a crew during an emergency. Further, an error during the handoff could result in lost communications and a possible loss of positive traffic control of the emergency aircraft.. In the course of the accident, ATC changed frequency for primary radio contact with the airplane during the emergency. […] after some difficulty, the crew established contact with Maui Tower; Maui Tower was initially not apprised of the full nature of emergency or the structural damage. After notification of the emergency, ATC [Maui Tower] directed a frequency change to Maui Approach control. […] The Safety Board wishes to reiterate that ATC must make every effort to minimise the workload of a crew during an emergency. Further, an error during the handoff could result in lost communications and a possible loss of positive traffic control of the emergency aircraft. Emergency Ambulance Response: […] Had the ambulance service been notified earlier by the control tower and been waiting at the airport when the airplane landed, the seriously injured passengers could have been treated and transported to the hospital 13 minutes sooner. It is incumbent on these persons making a judgment for notification of emergency services to be aware of the circumstances and possibilities of each scenario.. […] Had the ambulance service been notified earlier by the control tower and been waiting at the airport when the airplane landed, the seriously injured passengers could have been treated and transported to the hospital 13 minutes sooner. It is incumbent on these persons making a judgment for notification of emergency services to be aware of the circumstances and possibilities of each scenario. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined the following Probable Cause: […] the probable cause of this accident was the failure of the Aloha Airlines maintenance program to detect the presence of significant disbonding and fatigue damage which ultimately led to the failure of the lap joint at S-10L and the separation of the fuselage upper lobe. The following contributing factors to the accident are identified in the Report: failure of Aloha Airlines management to properly supervise the Aloha Airlines maintenance program and to assess the airline's inspection and quality control deficiencies.. failure of the