led to the failure of the Local Controller 2 (LC2) to maintain awareness of the traffic situation, culminating in the inappropriate clearances and the subsequent collision of the USAir and Skywest aircraft. A Contributory Factor was identified as "failure of the FAA to provide effective quality assurance of the ATC system". Safety Action taken by the FAA shortly after the investigated accident was noted as having been a general instruction to all terminal ATC facilities as follows: Do not authorize aircraft to taxi into position and held at an intersection between sunset and sunrise. Additionally, do not authorize an aircraft to taxi into position and hold at any time when the intersection is not visible from the tower. These procedures shall be implemented at. 7:00 a.m. local on February 16, 1991. At the conclusion of the Investigation, eighteen Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should modify Air Traffic Control procedures at the Los Angeles International Airport to: segregate arrivals and departures to specific runways; provide redundancies as intended in the National Operational Position Standards in the control tower. [A-91-104]. segregate arrivals and departures to specific runways;. provide redundancies as intended in the National Operational Position Standards in the control tower. [A-91-104]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should undertake a thorough risk-based evaluation of air traffic control procedures at the Los Angeles International Airport, evaluate whether changes are required, and implement necessary changes. The evaluation should consider at least the following issues: Runway intersection take-offs; Position-and-hold clearances; Displaced runway thresholds; Hazards associated with runway crossing traffic; Local Assist Controller; Airport Surface Detection Equipment use and maintenance. [A-91-105]. Runway intersection take-offs;. Position-and-hold clearances;. Displaced runway thresholds;. Hazards associated with runway crossing traffic;. Local Assist Controller;. Airport Surface Detection Equipment use and maintenance. [A-91-105]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should include in the Office of Safety Quality Assurance the authority and resources to: independently evaluate air traffic control facility compliance with FAA directives and; audit facility evaluations performed by the Office of Air Traffic System Effectiveness to determine that noted deficiencies are corrected. [A-91-106]. independently evaluate air traffic control facility compliance with FAA directives and;. audit facility evaluations performed by the Office of Air Traffic System Effectiveness to determine that noted deficiencies are corrected. [A-91-106]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should retain the National Operational Position Standards as a separate, independent order and: direct the FAA's Human Factors and Air Traffic Service staffs to perform a combined review of the order to determine the adequacy of redundancies and incorporate any resultant recommendations into the National Order; expedite the development of Chapters 5 through 10 of the National Order. [A-91-107]. direct the FAA's Human Factors and Air Traffic Service staffs to perform a combined review of the order to determine the adequacy of redundancies and incorporate any resultant recommendations into the National Order;. expedite the development of Chapters 5 through 10 of the National Order. [A-91-107]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should provide Air Traffic Control Supervisors with formal