sighting of the Metroliner by the 737 pilots was also considered. It was noted that the clearance to the Metroliner to line up had been given on the same frequency as the 737 landing clearance when the 737 was already on that frequency but had gone unnoticed. The surviving First Officer stated that no obstruction had been visually evident on the runway prior to touchdown but that as he had lowered the nose of the aircraft onto the runway, he had seen an aircraft "on the runway immediately in front of and below him" and remembered seeing that the landing lights of his aircraft had been reflected off the propellers of it. He stated that there had been insufficient time for any evasive action and "that the collision occurred simultaneous to his airplane's nose wheel contacting the runway" and was accompanied by an explosion and the nose of his aircraft dropping and fire breaking out. It was found that the failure of the 737 pilots to sight the (upper) anti-collision beacon of the Metroliner was likely to have been due to obstruction of their line of sight to it below 100 feet agl by the Metroliner's rudder cap which obstructs the beacon when the aircraft is viewed from the rear. It was found that the applicable FAA Regulations permitted some obstruction of anti-collision beacons by the structure of an aircraft and that the obstruction on the Metroliner involved "was within the allowable criteria". It was also noted that, although it was not possible to determine whether the installation of an anti-collision light in compliance with generally applicable certification standards which had been enhanced since the type certification of the Metroliner would have had any effect on the collision outcome, it was "reasonable to conclude" that any increase in its external lighting would have enhanced the possibility of its earlier detection by the 737 flight crew. Experiments in similar conditions to those at the time of the accident showed that the white tail navigation light on the aircraft would have been ineffective for the detection of such a relatively small aircraft from a distance because it would have been "virtually indistinguishable" from the (white) runway centreline lighting. It was also noted during the same experiments that the likelihood of detection of an aircraft on the runway ahead by the crew aircraft approaching to land can be increased if the first aircraft is displaced laterally from the runway centreline lighting by approximately a metre. It was found that the Metroliner's strobe lights had not been on at the time of the collision because Company SOP required that they should only be switched on by the Captain after take-off clearance had been received and the last four items of the Before Take-off Checklist have been accomplished and that Checklist called as complete. It was considered that the use of strobe lighting by aircraft occupying an active runway would also "ease the controllers' memory load by assisting them in locating, identifying, and segregating aircraft"