training to improve their understanding of the intent, objectives and administration of the Technical Appraisal Program. [A-91-108]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that interim evaluations of controller performance, such as those of the Technical Appraisal Program, be retained for 2 years and utilized in conjunction with other performance appraisals to track the performance and training needs of air traffic controllers. [A-91-I09]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should conduct a one-time examination of the airport lighting at all U.S. tower-controlled airports to eliminate or reduce restrictions to visibility from the control tower to the runways and other traffic movement areas. [A-91-110]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should redefine the airplane certification coverage compliance standards for anti-collision light installations to ensure that the anti-collision light(s) of an aircraft in position on a runway are clearly visible to the pilot of another aircraft preparing to land or take off on that runway. [A-91-111]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate and implement, as appropriate, suitable means for enhancing the conspicuity of aircraft on airport surfaces during night or periods of reduced visibility. Include in this effort, measures such as the displacement of an aircraft away from the runway centerline, where applicable, and the use of conspicuity enhancements, such as high-intensity strobe lighting and logo lighting by aircraft on active runways and encourage operators of airplanes certificated prior to September 1, 1977 to upgrade their airplanes to the present higher intensity standards for anti-collision light installations. [A-91-112]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should direct the general aviation community and the airlines to take steps to ensure that pilot training programs, including cockpit resource management training and flight operations procedures, place sufficient emphasis on the need for pilots to maintain vigilance in monitoring air traffic control radio communication frequencies for potential traffic conflicts with their aircraft, especially when on active runways and/or when conducting a final approach to a landing. [A-91-113]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should incorporate into the Airman's Information Manual language that will alert pilots to the need for vigilance in monitoring air traffic frequencies for traffic conflict situations which may affect the safety of their flight. [A-91-114]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop for inclusion in the Airman's Information Manual and the Air Traffic Control Handbook (7110.65F) specific phraseology to be used by pilots when requesting an intersection departure and specific phraseology to be used by controllers when issuing a position-and-hold clearance for an intersection departure. [A-91-115]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should prohibit the use, after a specified date, of cabin materials in all transport category airplanes that do not comply with the improved fire safety standards contained in 14 CFR 25.853. [A-91-116]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should direct the Emergency Evacuation Subcommittee of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee to examine flight attendant emergency procedures regarding the "2nd choice" exit assignments to ensure that such assignments provide for use of the nearest appropriate exit point. [A-91-117]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should issue an Air Carrier