on such a runway. However, an FAA lighting specialist testified to the Investigation Public Hearing that "the federal standards for aircraft external lighting are primarily intended to serve in-flight conspicuity needs and that no effort has been made by the FAA to address the issue of conspicuity of aircraft on airport surfaces". Aspects of the evacuation of the 737 were considered. Four of the six exits were used, the Rl forward service door, both overwing exits and the R2 service door. Almost all those who escaped used either the right overwing exit or the R2 exit. The L1 exit was damaged by the secondary impact with the unoccupied building which finally brought the aircraft to a stop and the L2 exit was unusable due to fire outside which began after the collision and whilst the aircraft was still moving. All of the surviving passengers interviewed stated that the cabin had "filled with thick black smoke within seconds of the impact with the building" and passengers who made their way to the rear of the cabin to the R2 exit "reported using the emergency floor path lighting" to get there. It was found that "the propagation of the fire in the cabin was accelerated by the release of oxygen from the flight crew oxygen system that was damaged in the initial collision sequence on the runway" and that this had "significantly reduced the time available for a successful emergency evacuation" of all on board. Many of those who did not manage to escape in the time available were found near the overwing exits and had been "overcome when the cabin fire intensified". It was concluded that "the emergency response of the Los Angeles Department of Airports for this accident was timely and effective" but noted that prior to the accident, the FAA had been slow to respond effectively to known issues which were liable to limit the rate of evacuation through Type 3 (overwing) exits, some of which had been in evidence during the 737 evacuation. The subject of fire retardant cabin furnishings was considered in respect of the 737 in terms of the speed at which toxic smoke/fumes had spread and prevented some occupants from exiting the aircraft before being overcome. It was noted that the because the aircraft had been manufactured prior to the introduction of enhanced requirements applicable to newer aircraft, it had only been required to be upgraded to the new standard when a "general retrofit" of the cabin was carried out, with no specific end date for such action specified. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "the failure of the Los Angeles Air Traffic Facility Management to implement procedures that provided redundancy comparable to the requirements contained in the National Operational Position Standards and the failure of the FAA Air Traffic Service to provide adequate policy direction and oversight to its air traffic control facility managers". These failures created an environment in the Los Angeles Air Traffic Control Tower that ultimately