An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR from the 737 were recovered and successfully replayed but the CVR tape was in poor condition due to wear in service and some of the recorded data were of poor quality. The Metroliner was not required to be fitted with a CVR or an FDR and although a new Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirement for it to be fitted with a CVR was due to become effective from 11 October 1991, it had, although already purchased, not yet been fitted because the FAA had declined to allow an exemption to the associated MMEL requirement prior to the mandatory carriage date that the aircraft must not take off if it became unserviceable. It was noted that the flight crew in control at the time of the accident had taken over the aircraft at the Columbus stop. The 48 year-old 737 Captain, who was killed in the accident, had accumulated approximately 16,300 hours total flight time which included 4,300 hours on the 737. He had been upgraded to Captain on the 737 5½ years earlier having been employed as a pilot by USAir and one of its forerunner airlines for the past 22 years. The 32 year-old 737 First Officer, who survived the accident after being rescued by AFRS personnel, had been a USAir pilot for a little over 2 years and had approximately 4,316 hours total flying time which included 982 hours on the 737. He was PF for the accident landing. It was found that the Captain had been a long term user of a prescription drug prohibited for flight crew to treat a "gastrointestinal problem" without reporting the condition or drug use to his AME. However, no conclusion directly relevant to the cause of the accident was attributed to this. The Runway Controller involved had qualified as a Los Angeles TWR Full Performance-Level (FPL) Controller just over 7 weeks prior to the accident after her previous 7 years service at smaller FAA airports. The Investigation was able to establish that both aircraft had received, acknowledged and complied with conflicting clearances issued by the same runway controller just over one minute apart. The 737 had been cleared to land after the Metroliner had previously been cleared to line up and wait at an intersection after she had "forgotten about" the earlier clearance and then misidentified the aircraft involved as another Metroliner also taxiing for departure. The Investigation found that in accordance with the requirements of the 'Technical Appraisal Program', the controller's performance in position had been assessed by her supervisor after initial experience following qualification and they had "identified deficiencies that were indicative of weaknesses in her performance". These were documented and included two "Critical Training Indicators" (CTIs) - "a loss of awareness of aircraft separation" and "the misidentification of an aircraft by use of an incorrect call sign". The Investigation noted that the two previously-identified CTIs "were again evident in the controller's performance on the night of