The appropriate response to a TAWS or GPWS ‘PULL UP’ warning for a particular aircraft type will be found in the AFM or Pilot Operating Handbook. This will be a Memory Drill and will be replicated in the Operations Manual in the case of an aircraft employed in public transport. It is worth noting that the standard calls/callouts and the sequence of actions may differ in the following, seemingly similar situations: Missed Approach;. Response to a Windshear alert;. Response to a GPWS/TAWS alert. However, the principles of any such response will be found in all such drills. The promulgated escape manoeuvre will aim to ensure the establishment of the maximum angle of climb. It must be initiated immediately with the following sequence of actions: Disconnect the Autopilot and Auto-throttle if engaged (may not be required for some aircraft for the Go-around case);. Advance the Thrust or Power levers to the Take Off position;. Rotate the aircraft to a pitch up angle which reaches the margin of stick shaker activation. This is likely to be around 20 degrees pitch up for most aircraft;. If the Landing Gear is selected down, do not raise it immediately (see Notes below);. If speed brakes are deployed, retract them;. If trailing edge Flaps are deployed, do not retract them immediately (see Notes below).. Notes: Selecting the landing gear up initially results in a loss of climb gradient capability due to the drag created by the opening of the landing gear doors; the retraction of the landing gear should therefore be delayed until after a safe flight path has been achieved, the GPWS/TAWS warning has ceased, the speed is above the minimum selectable speed or stick-shaker speed and a positive vertical speed has been achieved. The retraction of one step of flap should also be delayed as above. The maximum climb angle achieved must be maintained until the flight crew are sure that the aircraft is above the applicable Minimum Sector Altitude or until it is visually apparent, without any doubt, that the aircraft is clear of terrain and obstacles. The risk that pressure altimeters might have been mis-set or that the aircraft may not be in the position previously expected should be born in mind when determining that these conditions have been met. Some Fly by Wire aircraft types may have systems for automatic acquisition of a maximum angle of climb, such that the generic sequence above may not apply. Reference should always be made to the memory drill contained in the AFM for the aircraft type. More generally, some Operations Manuals may permit an exception to the standard response if it is possible to instantly recognise that certain criteria are met at the point at which a ‘PULL UP’ Warning occurs. These are usually if: The aircraft is definitely above MSA at the time the warning occurs. The aircraft is on final approach below 1000 ft aal, with the landing runway in sight, the landing checklist has already been completed, the aircraft is stabilised