technical guidance material and procedures, safety-critical information, tools and equipment, and transportation means, as applicable, for their technical personnel. FAA also enables technical personnel to perform their safety oversight functions effectively, per written procedures and in a standardised manner.. Licence, certificate, authorisation or approval — The FAA fulfills its national civil aviation licensing, certification, authorisation and/or approval obligations. Specifically, its documented processes and procedures help ensure that personnel and organisations that perform an aviation activity comply with FAA requirements. FAA processes and procedures deny an unqualified or noncompliant person’s or organisation’s ability to exercise privileges of a licence, certificate, authorisation and/or approval to engage in their intended aviation activities.. Surveillance by civil aviation authority — The FAA takes responsibility for deploying surveillance processes in support of safety-oversight functions. These include: defining and planning inspections, audits, and monitoring activities on a continuous basis; and, proactively assuring that the aviation licence, certificate, authorisation and/or approval holders continue to follow ICAO SARPs. The FAA also conducts surveillance of the quality of work by designees who perform safety-oversight functions on its behalf.. Timely action to resolve safety issues — To resolve newly identified aviation safety issues, the FAA applies internal processes and corrective actions — up to and including regulatory-enforcement measures, as noted. The agency’s response includes prioritization to ensure that issue resolution is timely. The FAA’s system also monitors and records progress toward resolution — including the actions taken by the aviation service providers involved.. Safety Regulation Approaches -- United States The United States State Safety Program (SSP) 2021 (Revision 1) report explains the entire current context of safety regulation in the U.S. The following excerpts are a few examples: “A national aviation safety legislative framework and specific regulations define how the USA conducts its oversight and management of aviation safety. … Legislation and regulations are safety risk controls periodically reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and appropriate. … The USA has established mechanisms for effective monitoring of these critical elements.”. “FAA Order 2150.3C, FAA Compliance and Enforcement Program, describes how the FAA expects regulated entities to identify and correct underlying issues, including issues that may present safety risk. The obligation of the aviation and aerospace communities to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements includes a duty to develop and use processes and procedures that will prevent deviation from such requirements.”. The FAA’s Compliance and Enforcement Program exerts jurisdiction over all activities regulated or enforced by the agency. Enforcement options comprise: compliance action, which may include on-the-spot corrective action or counseling; educational and remedial training efforts; administrative action in the form of either a warning notice or letter of correction; certificate suspensions for a fixed period of time; civil penalties; indefinite certificate suspensions pending compliance or demonstration of qualifications; certificate revocations; injunctions; and referrals for criminal prosecution..