traceability between the prescriptive regulation and the contextual factors may be lost with time, which may lead to misleading compliance demonstration. Objective based regulation has the advantage that it allows for flexible solutions. However, it can sometimes be difficult to determine how to meet an objective requirement and overcome inconsistency in implementation. National Regulatory Arrangements -- United States At the highest level of the federal government, the U.S. Congress enacts aviation law, which is written to be comprehensive, effective and consistent with the size and complexity of the civil aviation activity in the United States. This law also reflects the safety-oversight standards of ICAO. Aviation law sets the foundation that enables the nation to regulate civil aviation and to enforce regulations through primary federal authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or federal agencies established for a related purpose, such as the independent National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Congress also is responsible for funding sufficient and qualified personnel not only at the FAA and NTSB, but at other relevant federal aviation authorities or agencies. The United States' primary aviation legislation is in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 14, Aeronautics and Space, Chapter 1: Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation. Its subchapters and parts essentially cover definitions and general requirements; safety management systems (SMS); procedural rules; aircraft; airmen; airspace; air traffic and general operating rules; air carriers and operators for hire — certification and operations; schools and other certificated agencies; airports; navigational facilities; and administrative regulations. The Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs) are in CFR Title 14, Chapter I, Subchapter F, Air Traffic and General Operating Rules, Part 91, General Operating and Flight Rules. This CFR is consistent with the eight critical elements of ICAO’s USOAP CMA, described above under “International Regulatory Arrangements.” As an example, the common thread for one critical element is that FAA personnel performing safety-oversight functions possess legal authority to gain access to the aircraft, operations, facilities, personnel and associated records, as applicable, of aviation service providers. The FAA establishes and enforces operating regulations to address, at a minimum, requirements of the aviation law for standard operating procedures, products, services, equipment and infrastructures. The FAA also provides technical guidance to the aviation industry on how to successfully implement FARs by following FAA Advisory Circulars (ACs) and consulting FAA. The FAA publicly reports how its safety functions and objectives fulfill its safety management responsibilities. Its method for determining staffing requirements according to the size and complexity of aviation activity also is disclosed publicly. Among FAA's roles are the following: Qualified technical personnel -- The FAA defines minimum qualification levels and requirements for technical personnel performing aviation safety oversight functions. The overall objective includes initial and recurrent training to maintain their competence. The FAA maintains training records of these technical personnel with interactive networks of databases and policies that meet ICAO standards.. Safety-critical information — The FAA provides technical guidance, tools and safety-critical information to their technical personnel. Other resources provided include appropriate facilities, comprehensive and up-to-date