gear (although not in the position prescribed by the aircraft manufacturer’s external inspection specification) and from the outboard side of each engine. In both positions, he reported having “looked downwards at the fan cowls but he did not bend down or squat to check” because he had been “taught during his training not to bend down or squat to check due to risk of possible injury from sharp edges (e.g. vent pipes on the fan cowl) when standing up”. He did not detect any latch protrusions from either position and stated that he had “also checked that the fan cowl surfaces were flush with that of the engine nacelle” and that there was no gap. As the aircraft subsequently took off, the Senion Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) “was alerted by a passenger and informed that the left engine fan cowl had fallen”, an observation which was subsequently found to have been recorded by a “runway camera”. After a visual confirmation, the flight crew were immediately informed noting that “the interior of the engine was visible”. They confirmed that all engine indications were normal, although noted that a fault message from the No 2 Landing Gear Control Interface Unit (LGCIU) had appeared during takeoff. The climb was stopped at 8,000 feet and the aircraft took up a hold so that the Captain could go into the cabin to assess the situation. He observed that the left engine fan cowls were missing but that there was no visible damage to the surrounding wing area and also that the right engine fan cowls were intact. He decided to return to Singapore but when the landing gear was selected, the left main gear did not lock down and the approach was discontinued and the aircraft was returned to the hold. An attempt to obtain a gear fully locked down indication using the manual gravity extension procedure was also unsuccessful and a MAYDAY was therefore declared to ATC whilst remaining in the hold to burn off sufficient fuel to achieve a landing weight not above the permitted MLW. After a subsequent low flypast to allow ground engineers to view the landing gear, the crew were advised that “the left main landing gear appeared to be down” and the subsequent approach culminated in an uneventful normal landing. Inspection found that both the inner and outer fan cowls were missing from the left engine. Debris from the latter was found on the runway and the former was recovered substantially intact from the sea by a passing ship. Handling of the cowls and debris from them prior to investigators gaining access meant that the position of the latches when they detached could no longer be determined. However, all four latches (consisting of the hooks at the bottom edge of the inboard fan cowl and their corresponding keepers at the bottom edge of the outboard fan cowl) were recovered and apart from normal in-use wear, no damage was seen on any of the recovered latches. It was noted that