to fasten the latch which is situated at the bottom of the top-hinged fan cowls, the hook is placed into the keeper and the latch handle is closed flush with the surface - see the illustration below - and in the event that the latch is not closed, the latch handle will clearly protrude from the surface. It was found that in the late afternoon prior to the investigated departure, TigerAir had conducted an airside orientation tour for a group of interns during which they had visited the aircraft and some photographs of it had been taken which showed that at least three of the four fan cowl latches on the left engine were unfastened - one of these photographs is shown below. It was noted that because of similar previous incidents on this aircraft type, Airbus had issued a Service Bulletin to make a hole in the fan cowl hold-open device (HOD) which could receive a pin attached to a red warning flag to ensure that unfastened fan cowls would be more noticeable. This modification (see below) had been incorporated on the incident aircraft. It was found that AMM procedures prescribed the both flight deck warning notices and insertion of the red flagged pin into the HOD whenever the fan cowls were unlatched and that any opening and closing of fan cowls must be recorded in the Aircraft Technical Log. However, there was no mention in the AMM of the need to crouch down to check the latches, although the TigerAir contracted maintenance provider had, in 2009, issued a ‘Quality Notice’ to inform its personnel of the need to bend down or crouch to confirm fan cowl latches were fastened and in May 2015 had issued another ‘Quality Notice’ on the need to record fan cowl opening and closing in the Aircraft Technical Log and the need to positively confirm that fan cowl latches were fastened. It was noted that such notices were seen by the LAEs who signed off routine tasks completed by Technicians but not by the (unlicensed) Technicians. It was found that the LAE supervising the IDG oil level check had not made the required Technical Log entries and that the Technician was unaware of any of the task-relevant content in the AMM. It was found that the FCOM detailing the flight crew external inspection made mention of the need to crouch down in order to check correct cowl latch closure although in May 2015, Airbus had highlighted the relevant fan cowl procedures in an ‘Operators Information Transmission’ (OIT). The Investigation noted that whilst the fan cowl closing procedure on modified aircraft such as the one involved, required the depressing of the HOD before the fan cowls could be fully closed and the four securing latches fastened, there was little difference in flushness between the fan and nose cowls whether latches were unfastened or fastened - see the illustrations below. It was also found that unfastened latches “can barely be seen from a distance to the