An Investigation was commenced by the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) and taken over and eventually completed and published by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB) which was formed whilst the Investigation was in progress. It was found that the reason for the left main gear-not-locked-down indication was that some of the fan cowl debris had lodged in the corresponding gear door and damaged the gear proximity sensor which then produced a false indication of unlocked gear. As such the rest of the Investigation was focussed on loss of both fan cowl doors from the left engine and the potential external consequences of the delay in recovering the resultant runway debris from the outboard cowl door which had detached from the aircraft during takeoff. It was found that the loss of the fan cowl doors had caused buckling of the left engine forward pylon as illustrated below. It was established that the day before, the aircraft had arrived at Singapore in service and been parked on Bay 702 after which it was scheduled for routine Line Maintenance which was completed in the hours of darkness in a “sufficiently illuminated area” and included a Technician checking IDG oil level of both engines, a task which required opening the right side fan cowls of each engine in order to visually sight the oil level. The LAE responsible for signing off this Technician’s work reported having “performed a walk-round check” which he stated had included checking that “there were no gaps between the surfaces of the fan cowl and the engine nacelle” which, from his experience, would indicate an unfastened fan cowl. He added that although “he would normally also squat down and extend his hand to reach under the fan cowl to feel if the latches were secured”, he had not done so on this occasion. However, he did state that he had ended his inspection at the front of the aircraft near to the nose landing gear and, from a squatting position there had visually inspected both engines “without noticing any protruding unfastened latches”. After remaining out of service on Bay 702 after completion of this Check, the aircraft was towed to the departure gate to prepare for passenger boarding and arrived there 45 minutes before the scheduled departure time, whereupon the waiting flight crew boarded. Fifteen minutes later, the LAE in charge of the departure check arrived and proceeded to perform an external check prior to releasing the aircraft for departure. This LAE stated that he had not squatted in order to sight the condition of the fan cowl latches but said that he had observed the engines from the vicinity of the nose landing gear and had “not noticed any protrusions at the bottom of the fan cowl which he said would indicate unfastened latches”. As required by Company Procedures, a flight crew external inspection was also carried out by the First Officer who stated that he had visually inspected both engines whilst near the main landing