for repair (including materials and labor) or fair market value in the event of total loss, whichever is less.. For large multiengine aircraft (more than 12,500 pounds [5,700 kg] maximum certificated takeoff weight): In-flight failure of electrical systems which requires the sustained use of an emergency bus powered by a back-up source such as a battery, auxiliary power unit, or air-driven generator to retain flight control or essential instruments; In-flight failure of hydraulic systems that results in sustained reliance on the sole remaining hydraulic or mechanical system for movement of flight control surfaces; Sustained loss of the power or thrust produced by two or more engines; and An evacuation of an aircraft in which an emergency egress system is utilized.. In-flight failure of electrical systems which requires the sustained use of an emergency bus powered by a back-up source such as a battery, auxiliary power unit, or air-driven generator to retain flight control or essential instruments;. In-flight failure of hydraulic systems that results in sustained reliance on the sole remaining hydraulic or mechanical system for movement of flight control surfaces;. Sustained loss of the power or thrust produced by two or more engines; and. An evacuation of an aircraft in which an emergency egress system is utilized.. Release of all or a portion of a propeller blade from an aircraft, excluding release caused solely by ground contact;. A complete loss of information, excluding flickering, from more than 50 percent of an aircraft’s cockpit displays known as: electronic flight instrument system (EFIS) displays; engine indication and crew alerting system (EICAS) displays; electronic centralized aircraft monitor (ECAM) displays; or other displays of this type, which generally include a primary flight display (PFD), primary navigation display (PND), and other integrated displays;. electronic flight instrument system (EFIS) displays;. engine indication and crew alerting system (EICAS) displays;. electronic centralized aircraft monitor (ECAM) displays; or. other displays of this type, which generally include a primary flight display (PFD), primary navigation display (PND), and other integrated displays;. Airborne collision and avoidance system (ACAS) resolution advisories issued when an aircraft is being operated on an instrument flight rules flight plan and compliance with the advisory is necessary to avert a substantial risk of collision between two or more aircraft;. Damage to helicopter tail or main rotor blades, including ground damage, that requires major repair or replacement of the blade(s);. Any event in which an operator, when operating an airplane as an air carrier at a public-use airport on land: lands or departs on a taxiway, incorrect runway, or other area not designed as a runway; or experiences a runway incursion that requires the operator or the crew of another aircraft or vehicle to take immediate corrective action to avoid a collision.. lands or departs on a taxiway, incorrect runway, or other area not designed as a runway; or. experiences a runway incursion that requires the operator or the crew of another aircraft or vehicle to take immediate corrective action to avoid a collision.. An aircraft is overdue and