the 737 would be number 2 to the aircraft which had just left the CLE hold to make the same approach. On hearing this, the Girona TWR Controller asked "if EC-JOB (the 172 which he was expecting) would be next" but "got no reply". To ensure separation from the traffic already cleared for the approach, the TGR sector controller instructed the inbound 737 to take up the hold at OKETA near to the approach end of the DME arc being flown. It subsequently received a clearance to join and complete the approach from OKETA and is transferred to TWR. Meanwhile, with the 737 having just confirmed to Girona TWR that it was still on the final part of the arc west of OKETA, the sector D1E controller transferred the Cessna 172 to TWR without informing sector TGR. The Girona TWR Controller had no co-ordination from any ACC sector but was told that the 172 was descending to 4,200 feet "as cleared". At this time the radar recording showed that it had 3 nm to run to the runway 02 IAF 'TISGO' from the south, the same position which the 737 was also approaching from the east. Thirty seconds after beginning the check in with TWR, separation was lost between the 737 and the 172 close to TISGO. The ACC radar recording showed that the closest point of approach was 0.4nm laterally and 200 feet vertically with the 737 level at 3,740 feet. A 16 second (unspecified) TCAS RA was generated on board the 737 but with both aircraft in visual contact with each other, the 172 resolved the situation by beginning a 360° turn to the left and subsequently followed the 737 down the approach. It was found that the conflicting clearances to commence a 02 VOR/DME approach had been given by the sector controllers concerned less than a minute apart. It was noted that just as the two aircraft were at their closest, the low level radar which had failed 24 minutes earlier had restarted, showing the Girona TWR controller that the two aircraft he was working were almost exactly co-located. The Investigation found that the outage of the low level radar and associated communications had been initiated by the opening of a thermo-magnetic circuit breaker at Girona Airport and when the associated reserve batteries were depleted, a total loss of power had occurred. It was noted that "although an (visual only) alarm was triggered when the breaker opened, the airport’s technicians were offsite when it happened" and thus unable to restore the network before the batteries ran out. The Main Cause of the event was identified as "the loss of situation awareness of the controllers in Barcelona ACC Sectors D1E and TGR". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Sectors were opened at a time when there was a high workload for the controllers in sector T1E.. There were several aircraft doing aerial work, and when the TMA configuration change occurred, these aircraft conflicted with operations at Barcelona, which