An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). The QAR from the 737 was downloaded by the Operator and relevant data provided to the Investigation. Available recorded ATC data were also obtained. The prevailing weather conditions included clear skies and good visibility and it was considered that the weather had no bearing on any aspect of the conflict. It was found that the 737 Captain was a 52 year-old Serbian national who had 11,500 hours total flying experience, almost all of it (11,250 hours) on type. The 737 First Officer was a 52 year-old Polish national who had 3,864 hours total flying experience which included 1,622 hours on type. Their communications with ATC were conducted in English. The 172 pilots were both Spanish Nationals and their communications with ATC were conducted in Spanish. The 44 year-old pilot-in-command of the 172, who was conducting an Instrument Rating Flight Test on the PF candidate, had "about 5,000 total flying hours" which included 3,500 hours on type. The other pilot had "about 94 total flight hours". Four of the five Controllers involved in the event were working sectors at Barcelona ACC which were part of the Barcelona TMA. In position at Sector D1E were a 44 year-old Executive Controller who had 18 years of unit experience and a 44 year-old Planning Controller who had 13 years unit experience. In position at Sector TGR were a 53 year-old Executive Controller who had 19 years of unit experience and a 44 year-old Planning Controller who had 17 years unit experience. The 41 year-old Girona TWR Controller had 9 years of unit experience. It was established that almost 25 minutes prior to the occurrence of the investigated loss of separation, a fault had led to an unexpected loss of ACC radar returns from all aircraft below 3,200 feet and a complete loss of radar at Girona TWR. Since the Barcelona ACC handled IFR approaches to Girona before transferring them to Girona TWR for landing, this complicated the traffic situation for Girona arrivals. Six minutes later, and shortly after one aircraft had been cleared by Barcelona to make a runway 02 approach to Girona from the hold at the CLE VOR to the south of the airport, the Barcelona TMA configuration was changed from that used to accommodate westerly runway use at Barcelona to that used to accommodate easterly runway use there. Due to the resulting variation in sector traffic loading, this involved dividing one sector into two, which occurred 3-4 minutes later. One of the two new sectors (D1E) was taken over by the two controllers who had been running the original larger sector and the other, TGR, was taken over by two new controllers. The 737 inbound from the east to Girona was transferred to sector TGR and instructed to continue descent whilst the TGR controller co-ordinated its 16DME arc join for the runway 02 VOR/DME approach with Girona TWR. The TGR sector controller stated that