An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the helicopter had been was in the cruise at an altitude of 3000 feet with First Officer as PF and the AP engaged. When 34nm east of Aberdeen, an indication of low oil pressure was annunciated for the main gearbox (MGB). The crew activated the emergency lubrication system in accordance with the required procedure but shortly afterwards, a further warning was also display indicating that this system was inoperative. The associated procedure in this situation is to land immediately so the aircraft commander briefed the passengers, took control and carried out a successful ditching. The total flight time was 27 minutes. The helicopter remained upright, supported by its Helicopter Emergency Floatation System (EFS) and after the engines had been shut down and the rotors stopped, all occupants evacuated the helicopter into one of the life rafts using the right hand cabin door. Six were subsequently rescued from the raft by a SAR helicopter and the other eight were transferred to a lifeboat. Three Special Bulletins were published during the initial stages of the Investigation and it was progressively established that although there had been a catastrophic mechanical failure causing the MGB to fail, the emergency lubrication system had, despite the contrary indication available to the crew, had been functioning normally throughout. It was noted that “this was the first time the MGB emergency lubrication system on the EC225 LP had been activated operationally” and stated that it had been found that a bleed air pressure sensor could generate a false indication of failure for the emergency lubrication system even if it functioning was within the required tolerance. In a Safety Bulletin issued on 17 October, a Safety Recommendation was accordingly issued as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency requires Eurocopter to review the design of the main gearbox emergency lubrication system on the EC225 LP Super Puma to ensure that the system will provide the crew with an accurate indication of its status when activated. [2012-034]. When, shortly after this finding had been announced and the corresponding Safety Recommendation made in Special Bulletin S5/2012, another EC225 LP helicopter had ditched in similar circumstances, involving only the second case of an MGB emergency lubrication system on an EC225 LP being activated operationally, this also became the subject of a UK AAIB Investigation. It was soon found that the system issues appeared to be closely related but also that the airworthiness response to the first event had been insufficient to prevent the second. Consequently, it was announced on 29 November 2012 that the two Investigations had been combined because of the essential similar airworthiness issues raised. The three earlier Special Bulletins have since been followed by two more dealing with the progress of the combined Investigation, which is continuing. On 18 March 2013, the issue of a Special Bulletin concerned problems which had been encountered after each ditching with effective deployment of the Crash Position Indicator (CPI). Action