have been handled “smoothly and well by all of the air traffic control service units involved”. The Investigation also noted that: Nothing indicates that the fire was fed with fuel. There was consequently a limit to the time the fire would last before it would put itself out.. The high temperature in the fire brought about functional failure in the fire detection system. The fire alarm indicated that there was fire in the engine right until the system was physically disconnected.. There are no certification requirements for fire detection systems to notify when a fire has gone out.. The Full AIBN Report was published on 27 November 2007 and may be seen at SKYbrary bookshelf: Report on Serious Aviation Incident SL 2007/33 It contained four Safety Recommendations: Recommendation 2007/32T According to the manufacturer, Kidde Aerospace, the fire detection system was damaged by the high temperatures during the engine fire. As a result of this, the fire alarm did not cease although the engine fire had gone out. The AIBN is of the opinion that an incorrect warning of this type is highly detrimental and can put unendurable pressure on the crew. Current requirements for fire detection systems do not explicitly state that the warning should cease once the fire has gone out. The AIBN recommends the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority to become involved internationally with a view to improving the certification requirements for fire detection systems in aircraft, so that crews are given an indication that a fire has gone out. Recommendation 2007/33T According to the manufacturer, Kidde Aerospace, the fire detection system was damaged by the high temperatures during the engine fire. As a result of this, the fire alarm did not cease although the engine fire had gone out. The AIBN is of the opinion that an incorrect warning of this type is highly detrimental and can put unendurable pressure on the crew. SHT recommends that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority in consultation with the FAA should consider making it mandatory for Kidde Aerospace to provide information about the wrong indications that can occur on the current equipment. This information ought to be provided to all aircraft manufacturers which have installed or will be installing this type of alarm equipment for incorporation into the Aircraft Flight Manuals. Recommendation 2007/34T The method initially used by the fire and rescue service at Sandefjord Airport Torp while putting out the fire had little effect since the extinguishing medium did not penetrate to the hot areas between the engine and the engine covers. The AIBN recommends that the fire and rescue service at Sandefjord Airport Torp, in collaboration with technical personnel from Widerøe, should develop specific procedures for extinguishing fires on the DHC-8-400. Recommendation 2007/35T Engine Condition Trend Monitoring (ECTM) is included as part of the company’s maintenance programme for the DHC-8-400. ECTM was not conducted on the PW 150A engines from 15 November 2003 until the incident. The situation was not a contributory factor to the engine fire, but indicates a