An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). It found that the sudden shut down of the left engine was made automatically by the FADEC and was then followed by execution of the prescribed flight crew emergency drill. The shut down was found to have occurred as the result of a fatigue fracture in one of the low pressure compressor first stage rotor blades. Vibration due to this blade fracture led to major internal damage in the engine and caused an oil leak in the fuel heater. This oil flowed backward and was ignited by the hot exhaust gases at the rear of the engine. The fire caused major damage to the engine and caused the fire alarm annunciation to continue after the fire had gone out and the engine had cooled completely. The rotor blade fracture was found to have occurred at the mid chord in a low hour blade of new design and as a result, a new version of the first stage compressor with both a modified profile and a change of material was developed and made available for new aircraft production and for retrofit during the course of the Investigation. Evidence that the fire had been limited to the main engine compartment within the nacelle and had not spread to any other fire zones was found and it was concluded that the fire had been fuelled by up to 15 litres of oil with “that the most likely ignition source (being) the surge flame from the engine exhaust nozzle associated with the blade-off event / sudden engine stoppage”. The Investigation concluded that the maintenance system at Wideroe was deficient, noting that the Engine Condition Trend Monitoring system had been non operational for six months prior to the event despite it being declared in Company documentation as a key element of the preventive maintenance strategy. However, this was not considered of direct relevance to the event. It was considered that the response to the emergency situation by the type-experienced flight crew had not been optimal, with evidence of poor Crew Resource Management, poor manual handling and poor flight management. It was noted that an orbit was necessary to loose height on visual final approach at a time when engine fire was still annunciated. It was concluded that there were weaknesses in the response of the Airport RFFS at Sandfjord Airport following the return of the aircraft. Whilst the investigation concluded that the fire had been out some minutes before the landing, the attempt by the RFFS to cool the engine down by foam application was ineffective until an engineer arrived to open the engine panels to provide better access. Whilst noting that “the fact that the covers were not opened initially had no consequences on the scale of the damage.” The Investigation concluded that “the fire and rescue service (at Sandefjord) ought to get a better understanding of essential technical designs on aircraft that use the airport regularly” The event was considered to