Most genera are subdivided into species based on the shape of the clouds or their Internal structure. A cloud is therefore identified by a Latin name made up of the genus followed by a specific name alluding to a characteristic shape or structure. A cloud may bear the name of only one species. Fibratus: Detached clouds or a thin cloud veil, consisting of nearly straight or more or less irregularly curved filaments that do not terminate in hooks or tufts. This term applies mainly to Cirrus and Cirrostratus. Uncinus: Cirrus without grey parts, often shaped like a comma, terminating at the top in a hook, or in a tuft, the upper part of which is not in the form of a rounded protuberance.. Spissatus: Cirrus in patches, sufficiently dense to appear greyish when viewed towards the sun; it may also veil the Sun, obscure its outline or even hide it. Cirrus spissatus often originates from the upper part of a Cumulonimbus.. Castellanus: Clouds that present, in at least some portion of their upper part, cumuliform protuberances in the form of turrets or towers (crenellated), some of which are taller than they are wide, and are connected by a common base and seem to be arranged in lines. The castellanus character is especially evident when the clouds are seen from the side. This term applies to Cirrus, Cirrocumulus, Attocumulus and Stratocumulus.. Floccus: A species in which each cloud unit is a small tuft with a cumuliform appearance, the lower part of which is more or less ragged and often accompanied by virga. This term applies to Cirrus, Cirrocumulus, Altocumulus and Stratocumulus.. Stratiformis: Clouds spread out in an extensive horizontal sheet or layer. This term applies to Altocumulus, Stratocumulus and, occasionally, Cirrocumulus.. Nebulosus: A cloud like a nebulous or ill-defined veil or layer of clouds showing no distinct details. This term applies mainly to Cirrostratus and Stratus.. Lenticularis: Clouds having the shape of lenses or almonds, often very elongated and usually with well-defined outlines; they occasionally show irisations. Such clouds appear most often in cloud formations of orographic origin, but may also occur in regions without marked orography. This term applies mainly to Cirrocumulus, Altocumulus and Stratocumulus.. Fractus: Clouds in the form of irregular shreds, which have a clearly ragged appearance. This term applies only to Stratus and Cumulus.. Humilis: Cumulus characterized by only a small vertical extent and appearing generally as if flattened.. Mediocris: Cumulus of moderate vertical extent, with small protuberances and sproutings at their tops.. Congestus: Strongly sprouting Cumulus with generally sharp outlines and often great vertical extent. The bulging upper part of Cumulus congestus frequently resembles a cauliflower.. Volutus: A long, typically low, horizontal, detached, tube-shaped cloud mass, often appearing to roll slowly about a horizontal axis. The roll cloud, volutus, is a soliton, not attached to other clouds and is an example of an undular bore. This species applies mostly to Stratocumulus and rarely Altocumulus.. Calvus: Cumulonimbus in which at least some protuberances of the upper part