Within both the strategic and tactical operation there are various modes that the auto-throttle, autopilot and flight directors may work in, referred to as FMA modes. As the various modes work in different ways and to different principles it is very important that the pilot regularly confirms that the correct mode is engaged for that system. The FMA displays to the pilot which of these modes are engaged and so such regular confirmation is achieved by including the FMA in the pilot’s instrument scan. Due to such importance it is a common SOP that all FMA mode changes must be verbally called out by either the PF or PM as specified, and this may also require a response from the other pilot. It is equally important to understand that the FMA is the only indication of the engaged modes. The modes are usually selected via buttons or knobs on the MCP. These may have associated lights, but such lights may indicate different conditions e.g. the mode is ‘armed’ (therefore not engaged), or the mode is available for de-selection (this does not necessarily mean that the mode is engaged, for example, it may be in an ‘armed’ condition). The action of pressing a button or knob on the MCP can lead to the mindset that the required mode is engaged, especially if an associated light illuminates. However, as stated, it is important to understand that the only confirmation of the actual modes engaged is via the FMA. With reference to the auto-throttle and autopilot, should either of these be disengaged either unintentionally or due to a fault, the relevant indication will be removed from the FMA. However, the aircraft may continue on its current flight path even though it is not being actively controlled. Without a regular check of the FMA the pilot may therefore not realise that the aircraft is not in a state of control. The same is true with regards to regularly checking that the correct mode has been engaged and remains engaged as, should an undesired mode change occur, this could lead to consequences either immediately or at a later time. An explanation of all the individual modes would be lengthy and such an in depth knowledge is not vital for controllers. If further explanation of individual modes is desired this can be sought from flight crews during fam flights. However, for illustration, below are two examples of why it is important that pilots fully understand the principles of the modes and consequently that the correct modes are engaged: With 'Vertical Speed mode engaged the FD will command the vertical speed target value (i.e. as set on the MCP) to be obeyed. The FD will also attempt to attain the airspeed target value, but if this is unattainable the FD will continue to obey the vertical speed command and will not command corrections to attain the airspeed target. This means that if a sufficiently high rate of climb is selected, even with full power commanded from the