also associated with the position of the person, either as the sender or the receiver. Figure 2 gives examples of how this might occur: This illustrates that what may be familiar chunking by the controller is not necessarily familiar chunking by the pilot. The frequency for the next sector is used all the time by the controller and is one chunk for him, but this is not the same for the pilot. Vice versa, the call sign is much more familiar to the pilot than to the controller. A recommendation often made, associated with air-ground communications, is to limit the number of elements in a message to two to reduce the chance of an element being missed or misheard. The elements of an RTF frequency are treated by a pilot as individual digits; and therefore, a frequency change should not be combined with another instruction in order to enable the pilot to remember. The information in short-term memory is lost by two processes: Interference, which causes the information to be confused or replaced by that which was previously stored or the arrival of new information. The impact of interference and hence forgetting may be reduced by increasing the time between the arrival of inputs to be held in short-term memory and by reducing the similarity between items. For this reason, when issuing a clearance, ATCOs should try to avoid a high rate of speech and avoid combining numerical data such as Flight Level, Speed and Heading in the same message.. Decreasing the mnemonic trace - this is the part of the memory that “fades” without rehearsal.. Short term memory is found to be stronger with visual compared to audio information. Experiments show that it is more difficult to recall an acoustically similar collection of words. This acoustic similarity is a contributory factor in call sign confusion. The strategies for helping manage the limitations of short-term memory include: Using reflective habits for processing information - rehearsals. Unless actively rehearsed, the information in working memory is lost in 15 to 30 seconds. The rehearsal may take different forms - repeating the information loud or mentally rehearsing. By this the information enters again the short term for another small period of time. Some of these rehearsal practices are reflected in the principles of Active Listening. One good habit it to ‘Write what you say As You Speak and Read what you hear As You Listen’ - WAYSRAYL. Another habit is to consult the strips when receiving and to annotate the strips during transmission.. Practicing and training on focussing attention on the important things at hand;. Using support aids for storing the information - there are a variety of memory aids like paper strips, or team strategies for remembering.. Long-Term Memory The size and the duration of information in long term memory are unlimited. The issue is retrieving the information which is needed and exactly when it is needed. From an information processing perspective there are three main stages in the formation and retrieval