The Working Memory Model is linked with task and objectives to be performed by the individuals and has been proposed to respond to some of the criticism of short-term memory, but is not a replacement of it as Working Memory is defined not in terms of the amount of time information can be held but, rather in terms of the goal of the task being performed. An example of using the working memory for an ATCO is remembering which aircraft to monitor when. The duration of storage in working memory is dependent on the duration of the task performed and the capacity is restricted. The restricted capacity is very much evident in ATC with the change from phone co-ordination to automated system-supported coordination (SYSCO). The phone co-ordinations are carried out sequentially and will usually yield an immediate response to the request (unless the other PC postpones the response by suggesting calling back). Only if one phone co-ordination is closed would the Planning Controller (PC) initiate the next co-ordination. In contrast to this, SYSCO allows for parallel co-ordinations. This means that a number of co-ordination requests can be open at the same time, which has implications for the PC’s working memory load. In this situation, the ability of the Planning Controller to keep track of the details of open co-ordination requests using SYSCO functionality is important. The Working Memory Model often used is the one proposed by the cognitive psychologist Baddeley. This model consists of: A central executive which acts as supervisory system and controls the flow of information from and to its slave systems;. A phonological loop that stores the audio information. It consists of two parts: a short-term phonological store and an articulatory rehearsal component. Any auditory verbal information is assumed to enter automatically into the phonological store. Visually presented language can be transformed into phonological code by silent articulation and thereby be encoded into the phonological store. The phonological store acts as an 'inner ear', remembering speech sounds in their temporal order, whilst the articulatory process acts as an 'inner voice' and repeats the series of words (or other speech elements) on a loop to prevent them from decaying.. Visuospatial sketchpad that stores information about what we see. An example in ATC is searching for deviations from the planned profile of the flight - holding the cleared flight parameter in working memory, visually searching for the actual flight parameter, and comparing cleared and actual flight parameter.. Episodic buffer that links and stores integrated units of visual, spatial, and verbal information with time sequencing..