“there is no option to modify the software version used by ECAM to display faults”. It was noted that the APU had been de-activated eleven days prior to the flight under investigation because of the low time left on one of its Life-Limited Parts (LLP) pending maintenance action. It was eventually replaced on 4 March 2017.. It was found that during an ‘A’ Check carried out 18 months prior to the event flight by the airline’s maintenance provider, sister airline Iberia, the installed left bleed air system Pressure Reducing Valve (PRV), a type ‘E’ valve, had been replaced with a type ‘G’ PRV. According to the applicable IPC, the type ‘G’ PRV had a part number which was not allowable on the particular aircraft involved because its air conditioning and pressurisation system was not at the required modification level. The Investigation attempted to determine if the presence of the incorrect PRV had been causal or contributory to the malfunctions which had occurred and to do so “relied on the statements provided by the manufacturer of the aircraft (Airbus) and the PRV (Liebherr), the operator (Vueling) and the maintenance services provider (Iberia)”. However, the result of this attempt was inconclusive.. Analysis of both malfunctioning PRVs by OEM Liebherr found that they “showed wear and signs of leaks and indicated that the wear on some components was more than expected considering the number of cycles”. However, Iberia’s Reliability Department advised that their data showed that these on-condition components in the A320 fleet generally lasted longer than the OEMs guaranteed minimum installed life with “no concern that they fail more often than they should”.. The Operator advised that the reason why the CVR and FDR were not automatically removed and quarantined on arrival in Alicante was that the maintenance system in use classified the aircraft as “dispatchable” and any associated diversion as “precautionary” based on severity criteria. This did not take into account the definition of a Serious Incident or the corresponding regulatory guidance supporting this definition.. The maintenance system had recorded a number of faults involving a PRV on the aircraft involved during the last 15 flights which had not also been visible to the pilots on the ECAM so that they had no basis on which to enter a defect for the attention of maintenance in the Aircraft Technical Log with the assessment of repetitive malfunctions being dependent on such entries.. The Investigation found that “the bleed regulating system on this aircraft model is a closed system that does not allow detecting wear of its components over time” and considered that although no evidence could be found that would link any components directly to cause, “the condition in which the PRVs and Temperature Limitation Thermostats found (on the aircraft involved) was worse than expected considering the number of flight cycles”.. The Cause of the event was formally documented as "most likely the undetectable and undetected degradation of the bleed regulation in the aircraft”. It was also determined that the correct version