An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Both the CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and downloaded but it was found that relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten after the operator had failed to ensure that the recording was preserved before authorising a subsequent non-revenue flight by the aircraft to enable the completion of maintenance consequent upon the in-flight failure. It was noted that the 39 year-old Captain had a total of 5,000 flying hours which included 4,710 hours on type all obtained since joining Vueling for his first employment as a transport pilot over 6 years previously. The 36 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 5,700 flying hours which included 616 hours on type. He also had a still-current type rating for the ATR42/72. It was noted that the aircraft and crew were operating their fourth and final sector of the day aware that the APU was inoperative. When passing 1600 feet less than a minute after takeoff, an ECAM annunciation of abnormal pressure in the left bleed air system and an associated air conditioning and pressurisation pack fault occurred. A reset was successful but four minutes later passing approximately FL 120, the same ECAM messages appeared but this time a reset was not possible. It was decided to continue the flight but in view of the absence of the APU to cruise at FL300 rather than the flight planned FL 380 and this was requested from ATC due to a “minor fault in the pressurisation system” and approved. Approximately ten minutes later, almost immediately after the aircraft had levelled off at FL300, the same ECAM messages were displayed for the right bleed air system and in response, the crew initiated an emergency descent, declared a MAYDAY to ATC and were cleared initially to descend to FL110. During this descent, an unsuccessful attempt was made to reinstate the right bleed air system. After initially requesting a diversion to Malaga the crew then changed this to Alicante which, although slightly more distant, was assessed as more suitable given terrain considerations. The maximum cabin altitude reached during the descent was 6,700 feet and the crew did not consider the donning of oxygen masks necessary. The diversion to Alicante was without further event, although at FL 070, a second attempt to reinstate the right bleed air system was successful. After a VOR approach to runway 10 at Alicante, the aircraft landed just under half an hour after MAYDAY status had been declared and it was then cancelled. It was noted that although an OEB procedure was temporarily applicable to the bleed air fault annunciation in place of the displayed ECAM procedure on the particular A320 involved, the Captain had been aware of this. It was also noted by the Captain that although it is possible to select the engine version on the full flight simulators used for Vueling pilot training,