of Pressure Regulating Valve (PRV) was not installed in the aircraft’s No. 1 engine due to a failure to identify the correct component in the IPC during earlier maintenance. Safety Action taken as a result of the event and relevant to the findings of the Investigation whilst it was in progress was noted as having included the following: Vueling took the following action: Any MAYDAY declaration was added to the list of events in the Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition (CAME) which require an automatic quarantining of both the CVR and FDR and a similar requirement was added to the OM. A new system of assessment for repetitive defects based on the data automatically obtained by the maintenance system was introduced to replace dependence on defect entries made in the aircraft Technical Log. An assessment of the practice of intentionally preventing use of an APU to avoid reaching the limits on LLPs was carried out and a requirement that such action should only occur subject to checking the Airbus Statement of Airworthiness Compliance or, if the APU component affected is part of its engine, the APU manufacturer. An inspection of every PRV installed on A320 aircraft operated by Vueling was carried out to ensure their compatibility with the modification status of the aircraft on which they were installed was carried out. After eight aircraft had been initially identified as potentially fitted with incompatible PRVs and grounded, three PRVs with an incompatible Part Number were found and replaced.. Any MAYDAY declaration was added to the list of events in the Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition (CAME) which require an automatic quarantining of both the CVR and FDR and a similar requirement was added to the OM.. A new system of assessment for repetitive defects based on the data automatically obtained by the maintenance system was introduced to replace dependence on defect entries made in the aircraft Technical Log.. An assessment of the practice of intentionally preventing use of an APU to avoid reaching the limits on LLPs was carried out and a requirement that such action should only occur subject to checking the Airbus Statement of Airworthiness Compliance or, if the APU component affected is part of its engine, the APU manufacturer.. An inspection of every PRV installed on A320 aircraft operated by Vueling was carried out to ensure their compatibility with the modification status of the aircraft on which they were installed was carried out. After eight aircraft had been initially identified as potentially fitted with incompatible PRVs and grounded, three PRVs with an incompatible Part Number were found and replaced.. Iberia (the maintenance provider for the airline) created a new SOP to control “Rotable/Repairable Component Replacement” in response to the finding that an incorrect PRV had been installed on the aircraft involved.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Airbus, as the manufacturer of the aircraft, establish a scheduled maintenance task to ensure that the operating ranges of the components in the aircraft’s bleed