As in any other area of aviation, a formalised and fully-documented process of hazard identification, risk assessment and risk mitigation is usually mandated. The possibility of injury to spectators and uninvolved third parties in the event of an aircraft accident during a display will usually need to be assessed separately. Even though the mitigation of risk to each of these two groups will be derived from the nature of each approved 'Display Item' - a display sequence flown by a particular aircraft or group of aircraft - it is likely to be based on rather different considerations. One of the most obvious weaknesses of risk management has often been the failure of the designated FDD to ensure that they have sufficient prior knowledge of exactly what each 'Display Item' will consist of. Risk assessment and mitigation at air displays held under military regulations or in respect of military aircraft featuring in civil air display often appear to have more rigorous requirements than are imposed by civil safety regulators but this reflects the greater risk involved in the display of high performance military aircraft and also reflects the fact that all the pilots involved are not only professional with relevant experience but will almost always have been selected from within such a group on the basis of above average competence. Most air display accidents result from either loss of control or mid air collision and very few involve fatalities except to the pilots involved. However, the fact that accidents involving civil air display aircraft involving death or serious injury to spectators or uninvolved third parties have sometimes appeared to be relatively rare has sometimes been seen to have engendered complacency in both safety regulators eager to delegate responsibility to those directly involved in displays who themselves have become complacent about risk too. For example, after a long period in which only display pilots or volunteer passengers were killed in air display accidents, a 'wake up call' came in the UK in 2015 when 11 people in vehicles on a busy road near an aerodrome at which an approved flying display was taking place were killed when the authorised pilot of a display aircraft lost control of his aircraft after breaching conditions inherent in the display approval and crashed. The increasing tendency during the past 50 years for increasingly high performance military jet aircraft to appear on civil aircraft registers following fleet retirement from military service has introduced a new and sometimes overlooked complexity into civil air display risk assessment and mitigation. It was no surprise to many that the multi-fatality UK air display accident in 2015 involved such an aircraft.