flight safety. For example, the need for ATC to proactively ease the task of navigating the aircraft or for the receiving airport to place their Rescue and Fire Fighting Services on local standby had not been foreseen. It was considered that had the declaration of either ‘PAN’ or ‘MAYDAY’ status been used as the primary notification rather than the sole use of the description ‘medical emergency’, the response might have more effectively addressed the fact that “independently of the risk to the health of the affected crew member, the incapacitation of a member of the flight crew on an aircraft certified for two pilots must be regarded as an emergency situation that threatens safety margins”. Ryanair procedures and training for crew member incapacitation were reviewed against the actual response in the investigated case. It was found that whilst they were quite considerable, there remained a degree of vagueness in some respects, including a certain lack of clarity on the boundary between the discretion afforded to an aircraft commander and a requirement for him to comply with specific directions. In some instances, relevant procedures were “regarded as confusing”. The Cause of the incident was formally given as “the sudden incapacitation of the First Officer which was medically classified as a syncope, probably caused by prolonged heat exposure. There were no indications in either the co-pilot’s medical history or in follow-up tests to suggest that the syncope could have been anticipated”. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Ryanair include the incapacitation of the co-pilot, in addition to that of the pilot, as part of its simulator training and proficiency programs. [REC 16/12]. that Ryanair revise its Operations Manual (OM), its Safety and Emergency Procedures (SEP) and its simulator instructor’s guide as concerns the incapacitation of a flight crew member. Specifically, the text on the emergency declaration to be used in the event of an incapacitation and on the purser’s role in reading the checklists prior to landing should be improved. [REC 17/12]. that AENA ensure that personnel at both ATC stations and at airport coordination centres be made aware that the incapacitation of a flight crew member is a situation that affects the safety of a flight and that (it) must be treated as a declared in-flight emergency, in particular for the purposes of activating the Emergency Plan at the airport where the aircraft will be landing. [REC 18/12]. The IN-021/2011 Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 28 June 2012 and subsequently made available in English translation.