The database-driven TAWS, on the other hand, would normally have been capable of generating sufficient warning of terrain ahead for a successful escape manoeuvre to be facilitated. However, as a military aircraft, the TAWS could be selected to utilise one of a choice of two databases, a commercial database provided by Honeywell when selected to the default ‘Normal’ Mode and a higher resolution tactical database provided by the US National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA) when selected to ‘Tactical’ Mode. However, the latter database was not available north of 60° North and, therefore, not available over most of the land area of both Norway and Sweden (although the separate Obstacle database was available worldwide from both sources - but there were no obstacles on Kebnekaise). Early on, the accident crew had decided to select the TAWS Tactical Mode thereby, because of the high latitude, completely disabling the TAWS function. Whilst such action was contrary to the pertinent SOP, which stated that the Tactical Mode was “most suited for modified contour flight and approaches at low altitudes in accordance with Visual Flight Rules”, the commander was left with absolute discretion and no mention was made of the fact that most of the Scandinavian land area is north of 60° where this mode has no terrain database. The Investigation concluded on the basis of interviews and the wording of a pilot alert on the subject following the accident that “awareness of the (C130J) TAWS system function and limitations north of 60° N….was low”. The Investigation sought possible explanations for the conscious choice of TAWS Tactical Mode by the accident aircraft crew and concluded that there were “a number of partial explanations” for this action, the most significant of which appeared likely to be “lack of understanding of the system's function”. In respect of other equipment which might have supported the use of the paper charts carried in informing proactive terrain avoidance, it was also noted that the aircraft had an advanced radar which was capable of both weather detection and, in ‘ground map’ mode, terrain detection with ground contour display for up to 250 nm ahead. It was also equipped with a Moving Map display that could be presented on the EFIS screens and could show current aircraft position in relation to terrain and indicate terrain elevation, obstacles, latitude/longitude and obstacle-free altitudes to an accuracy of 200 feet. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the accident was “the crew of the accident aircraft not noticing the shortcomings in the clearances issued by the air traffic controllers and to the risks of following these clearances, which resulted in the aircraft leaving controlled airspace and being flown at an altitude that was lower than the surrounding terrain”. It was also concluded that the following Organisational Shortcomings in safety rendered the accident possible: The Norwegian Air Force has not ensured that the crews have had sufficiently safe working methods for preventing the aircraft from being flown below the minimum safe flight level on the route..