level and the provisions regarding the use of flight levels above 3,000 feet (900 metres) MSL in airspace class ‘G’ are eliminated. [RM 2013: 02 R8]. that The Swedish Transport Agency takes measures to remove the ambiguity of having different applications of (the Lowest Useable Flight Level). [RM 2013: 02 R9]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the English translation of “lägsta användbara flygnivå” in AIP Sweden is changed to “lowest usable flight level” so as to be in accordance with international regulations. [RM 2013: 02 R10]. that The Swedish Transport Agency act so that ICAO reviews its regulations with respect to “lowest usable flight level” in order to ensure that they also satisfy the circumstances in an area-type controlled airspace, or clarifies in guidance material how the regulations are to be applied in such airspace. [RM 2013: 02 R11]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that regulations and general advice for airborne rescue units are issued that cover helicopter crew training and exercises in a mountainous environment, with requirements for special training and exercise programmes and that completed training and exercises be documented. [2013: 02 R12]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that a management model is developed by the Swedish Maritime Administration for the air rescue services at JRCC (Joint Rescue Coordination Centre) that encompasses system management and operation management, including local management within the likely area of a crash involving an aircraft, and that the personnel are trained and drilled in accordance with the established management model. [RM 2013: 02 R13]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the Swedish Maritime Administration develops, trains and drills the personnel at JRCC in a staff model adapted for air rescue services and the established management model at the air rescue centre. [RM 2013: 02 R14]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the Swedish Maritime Administration develops documented liaison procedures for air rescue services in a mountainous environment. [RM 2013: 02 R15]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the Swedish Maritime Administration develops planning in collaboration with concerned authorities and organisations for appropriate resources regarding search from the ground in a mountainous environment and how these are to be alerted. [RM 2013: 02 R16]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the Swedish Maritime Administration develops and uses an objective for helicopter SAR operations that is possible to evaluate with respect to each individual operation. [RM 2013: 02 R17]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the Swedish Maritime Administration trains and drills JRCC personnel in collaboration with air rescue services and mountain rescue services and develops procedures for this. [RM 2013: 02 R18]. that The Swedish National Police Board ensures that police authorities with responsibility for mountain rescue services plan and organise activities in such a way that rescue operations are commenced within an acceptable time of receiving an alert and implemented with adequate resources. [RM 2013: 02 R19]. that The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, in consultation with the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Swedish Transport Agency,