An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish AIB. The DFDR and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and their data successfully downloaded and recorded radar data was also gathered and used. The ELT did not transmit and was found to have sustained major damage at impact. It was found that the response on the ground to the accident had been “characterised by very good access to resources from both Sweden and abroad” and noted that “operations lasted for a relatively long time and were carried out under extreme weather conditions in difficult alpine terrain”. However, the Investigation did identify “the importance of further developing management, collaboration and training (in respect of response to remote area accidents) in several areas”. It was noted that the aircraft commander had 758 hours experience on the ‘J‘ model of the C130 after accumulating almost all his considerable previous experience on older Hercules variant(s) with considerably less automation than the ‘J’. He was accompanied by a Co-Pilot who had been acting as PF for the accident flight who had just 91 hours on the ‘H’ model and only 293 hours on all Hercules variants. The significantly increased level of automation on the ‘J’ Variant was noted to have led to the removal of a crew position for a Navigator as carried on all earlier variants. Several of the Air Force personnel interviewed by the Investigation “stated that the (accident aircraft) commander was considered to be the most experienced commander by far on the C-130” and that whilst the co-pilot was considered to have “little” experience, he was “competent”, had “respect for the commander” and that it was “difficult to surpass the co-pilot with regard to knowledge of systems on the aircraft”. It was additionally noted that the aircraft commander had a lower military rank than the Co-Pilot and that the Co-Pilot was his immediate superior, although no direct evidence that this situation had an effect on the conduct of the flight was found by the Investigation. Also on board the aircraft were two loadmasters and one passenger, the latter being an Air Force helicopter pilot. An aftercast provided by the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute stated that there had been a thick and continuous layer of cloud in the area where the accident occurred with a base of between 1000 feet and 4000 feet and a top at between FL090 and FL100. By contrast, the Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) for Kiruna issued 7 minutes before the accident gave “CAVOK”. It was established that after departing from Harstad/Narvik on an Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) FPL, the aircraft had climbed to FL 130 and taken up a holding pattern south of the airport for an hour before continuing on an easterly track towards the VOR at destination. Bodo Control had radar contact before handing the aircraft over to Sweden Control where it was cleared for descent to FL 100 “when ready” and instructed to contact TWR at destination to make their request for a visual