approach. Having acknowledged the clearance, the crew then immediately commenced the descent from FL130 towards FL100 and, on checking in with Kiruna TWR, advised that they were 50 nm to the west and requested a visual approach. Kiruna TWR further cleared the aircraft which by then had descended below FL 125, the base of controlled airspace in the area, to FL 70 and the aircraft continued to descend towards that level, in the process descending below both MSA and into IMC. The aircraft reached FL70 and, based on DFDR data, it was found that 30 seconds later, in level flight and at a ground speed of approximately 280 knots, it had collided with the terrain just below the highest parts of the west side of the highest mountain in Sweden, ‘Kebnekaise’ some 42 nm from Kiruna. CVR data showed that the crew had been unaware of their proximity to terrain. The illustration below shows the format of the annotated 1:500,000 chart provided for the flight, on which the proximity of the intended track is clearly shown as passing over Kebnekaise. As can be seen, this chart only had “maximum elevation” figures for Norwegian airspace. On the Instrument Flying Charts carried on board, the Minimum Sector Altitude for the route was shown as 9300 feet. Whilst it quickly became clear that the accident had been attributable to the way in which the aircraft was operated by the crew concerned, the Investigation identified the root cause of it to be deficiencies in the RNAF procedures which supported the operation of the aircraft. It was also found that there had been “shortcomings” in the ATC clearances issued to the aircraft. Clearances and flight information given to the accident aircraft were found not to have been in accordance with the applicable regulations. This was considered to have been a direct consequence of the ANSP “not having…ensured that the air traffic controllers in question had sufficient experience and knowledge to guide air traffic from the west in towards Kiruna Airport in a safe manner under the present circumstances”. Controllers at Sweden Control interviewed by the Investigation reported that the accident aircraft had not been visible on radar, and that the base of radar cover in the area varied on a day-to-day basis between FL070 and “slightly above” FL100 - a somewhat different view to the official position of the ANSP illustrated above. Kiruna ATC was a one-man TWR operation without radar. Clearly one of the major questions for the Investigation to answer was why no warnings were given of the approach of the aircraft to the steeply rising mountainside which the aircraft hit. The primary - and usually very reliable - equipment which does this is the GCAS/GPWS/TAWS (Ground Collision Avoidance System / Terrain Awareness Warning System). The GCAS system was activated only on the basis of downward looking radio altimeter input, which at any alert setting would not have provided a useful warning as the aircraft approached the very steep side of the mountain.