LFV has not had sufficiently safe working methods for ensuring, partly, that clearances are only issued within controlled airspace during flight under IFR unless the pilot specifically requests otherwise and, partly, that relevant flight information is provided.. Safety Action was noted to have been taken following the accident and during the course of the Investigation by the Royal Norwegian Air Force, The Swedish ATC Regulator, the Swedish ANSP and the aircraft manufacturer Lockheed Martin. Action reported by the latter included: The addition to the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) limitations of information on the TAWS.. The addition of QRH entry for a previously unmentioned TAWS Caution. The addition of a new restriction on TAWS use in the Flight Manual description of the system in respect of the non availability of both databases at latitudes greater than 60°N latitude or less than 56°S.. A total of 22 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows - the first 11 related to the operation of the aircraft and the provision of ATC service and the remaining 11 related to shortcomings found in the processes for ensuring effective accident response in such a remote area: that The Royal Norwegian Air Force ensures that procedures are used that prevent aircraft from being flown below the minimum safe altitude or flight level en route in IFR flight. [RM 2013: 02 R1]. that The Royal Norwegian Air Force ensures that flight crew knowledge and routines means that the system for ground collision avoidance is used in a safe manner. [RM 2013: 02 R2]. that The Royal Norwegian Air Force further examines whether, and where necessary take measures to ensure that, the current crew configuration on the C130J attends to all aspects of the safe implementation of planning and flight. [RM 2013: 02 R3]. that The Royal Norwegian Air Force develops clear rules, manuals and procedures, which make it easier for flight crews to conduct safe air operations. [RM 2013: 02 R4]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that an investigation of the safety culture within LFV is carried out with the aim of creating the conditions for maintaining and developing operations from an acceptable aviation safety perspective. [RM 2013: 02 R5]. that The Swedish Transport Agency further examines whether, and where necessary take measures to guarantee that, the controlled airspace is so designed that it encompasses an area large enough to contain the published routes for outgoing and incoming aircraft under IFR for which air traffic control is to be exercised, so that aircraft can execute all manoeuvres in controlled air, taking into account the aircraft's performance and the aids to navigation that are normally used in the area. [RM 2013: 02 R6]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that air traffic controllers possess sufficient expertise and aids to manage situations that do not frequently occur. [RM 2013:02 R7]. that The Swedish Transport Agency ensures that the discrepancies between the provisions regarding the use of Altimeter Pressure Settings below the lowest usable flight