CPU combined the data value from one parameter with the label for a different parameter. The failure mode was probably initiated by a single, rare type of internal or external trigger event combined with a marginal susceptibility to that type of event within a hardware component. The investigated occurrence was identified as the only known case where this design fault had led to a pitch-down command in over 28 million flight hours on A330/A340 aircraft. However, although all three known occurrences of ADIRU data-spike failure were found to have occurred on two A330 aircraft also operated by Qantas, no contributory factors related to operator-specific aircraft configuration, operating practices, or maintenance practices had been identified. It was considered that the flight crew response to what happened had demonstrated both “sound judgment and a professional approach”. In respect of the injuries to passengers, it was noted that at least 23 passengers were not seated at the time of the first in-flight upset but that there were also more than 60 other passengers who were seated without their seat belts fastened. Whilst it was accepted that a few of these had been in the process of getting into or out of their seats, it was concluded that the majority had not appeared to have a “valid” reason for not wearing their seat belts. Eleven Safety Issues, one categorised as ‘Significant’ and ten as ‘Minor’, were identified by the Investigation as follows: There was a limitation in the algorithm used by the A330/A340 flight control primary computers for processing angle of attack (AOA) data. This limitation meant that, in a very specific situation, multiple AOA spikes from only one of the three air data inertial reference units could result in a nose-down elevator command. [Significant safety issue]. When developing the A330/A340 flight control primary computer software in the early 1990s, the aircraft manufacturer’s system safety assessment and other development processes did not fully consider the potential effects of frequent spikes in the data from an air data inertial reference unit. [Minor safety issue]. One of the aircraft’s three air data inertial reference units (ADIRU 1) exhibited a data-spike failure mode, during which it transmitted a significant amount of incorrect data on air data parameters to other aircraft systems, without flagging that this data was invalid. The invalid data included frequent spikes in angle of attack data. Including the 7 October 2008 occurrence, there have been three occurrences of the same failure mode on LTN-101 ADIRUs, all on A330 aircraft. [Minor safety issue]. For the data-spike failure mode, the built-in test equipment of the LTN-101 air data inertial reference unit was not effective, for air data parameters, in detecting the problem, communicating appropriate fault information, and flagging affected data as invalid. [Minor safety issue]. Although passengers are routinely reminded to keep their seat belts fastened during flight whenever they are seated, a significant number of passengers have not followed this advice. At the time of the first in-flight upset, more than 60 of the 303