passengers were seated without their seat belts fastened. [Minor safety issue]. In recent years there have been developments in guidance materials for system development processes and research into new approaches for system safety assessments. However, there has been limited research that has systematically evaluated how design engineers and safety analysts conduct their evaluations of systems, and how the design of their tasks, tools, training and guidance material can be improved so that the likelihood of design errors is minimised. [Minor safety issue]. Single event effects (SEE) have the potential to adversely affect avionics systems that have not been specifically designed to be resilient to this hazard. There were no specific certification requirements for SEE, and until recently there was no formal guidance material available for addressing SEE during the design process. [Minor safety issue]. The LTN-101 air data inertial reference unit (ADIRU) model had a demonstrated susceptibility to single event effects (SEE). The consideration of SEE during the design process was consistent with industry practice at the time the unit was developed, and the overall fault rates of the ADIRU were within the relevant design objectives. [Minor safety issue]. Industry practices for tracking faults or performance problems with line-replaceable units were limited, unless the units are removed for examination. Consequently, the manufacturers of aircraft equipment have incomplete information for identifying patterns or trends that can be used to improve the safety, availability or reliability of the units. [Minor safety issue]. There has been very little research conducted into the factors influencing passengers’ use of seat belts when the seat-belt sign is not illuminated, and the effectiveness of different techniques to increase the use of seat belts. [Minor safety issue]. Although passengers are routinely advised after takeoff to wear their seat belts when seated, this advice typically does not reinforce how the seat belts should be worn. [Minor safety issue]. Safety Action in respect of the identified safety issues was noted. In respect of the single ‘Significant Safety Issue’, the Airbus response was noted to have commenced a week after the event with the issue of temporary revisions to flight crew procedures for all A330 and A340 aircraft fitted with the incident ADIRUs. These required that in the event of a NAV IR fault or red ATT flag on either PFD, the ADR part of the relevant ADIRU should be selected OFF and then the relevant IR part of the relevant ADIRU should also be selected OFF. An associated temporary revision to the MMML was also issued. All revised temporary procedures for both aircraft types were mandated by certification authority European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), as were two subsequent modifications to the initial procedure changes. Subsequently, Airbus issued SBs for fitment of replacement FCPCs and once this retrofit has been completed, the temporary procedure revisions will be withdrawn The Final Report of the Investigation Aviation Occurrence Investigation AO-2008-070 Final was released on 19 December 2011.