en route diversion was made and a ‘PAN’ declared to ATC. The diversion to Learmonth was accomplished without further event other than the discovery that the extent of cabin injuries amongst unsecured passengers and crew was greater than had at first been appreciated. A descent was accomplished in the vicinity of the airfield before positioning for a visual approach and landing. The Investigation concluded that a design limitation with the FCPC software had combined with an ADIRU failure to falsely activate corrective mechanisms and that this had caused the two uncommanded pitch-downs. It was considered that this design limitation had been a consequence of a failure scenario not being considered. It was noted that: “The development process for a safety-critical system has many elements to minimise the risk (probability and consequences) of a design error. These include peer reviews of design requirements, and system safety assessment (SSA), testing and simulation activities that are done as part of the verification and validation processes. It is widely accepted that not all the potential failure modes and failure scenarios for complex systems can be identified in practice, and fault-tolerant design features are included in a system to reduce the risk of such problems. The A330/A340 FCPC algorithm for processing AOA data was redesigned after a problem was found with the initial algorithm during flight testing that was conducted before the aircraft type was certified. The redesign unintentionally introduced the design limitation in the algorithm, and the fault-tolerant features of the system were not able to fully mitigate the problem. The design limitation was not identified during the redesign activities.” It was noted that whilst the completed SSA had identified the failure that occurred (incorrect high AOA data leading to a pitch-down command) it had not identified the scenario that led to this condition on the investigated flight. In respect if the ADIRU1 fault, it was found to have transmitted a significant amount of incorrect data on inertial reference parameters to other systems, almost all of this data being invalid. It was considered probable that the ADIRU data-spike failure mode involved a problem with the data packaging and queuing within the ADIRU CPU module. The fault had caused numerous data anomalies including air data reference parameters being intermittently transmitted with the data or label of another parameter. Despite extensive testing and analysis, the Investigation was unable to establish the precise origins of the ADIRU1 failure but it was concluded that the ADIRU1 data-spike was probably not triggered by a software bug, a software corruption, a hardware fault, physical environmental factors (such as temperature or vibration), neither had it been due to electromagnetic interference. It was noted that the false AOA data had been able to confuse the FCPC processing algorithm which was unable to respond to a scenario where there were multiple spikes in AOA from a single ADIRU at the elapsed time intervals which occurred. It was considered likely that each of the intermittent data spikes had been generated when the faulty ADIRU