Ref: ICAO Annex 2, Appendix A, 2.1 and 2.2 Series: INTERCEPTING Aircraft Signals: Meaning: INTERCEPTED Aircraft Responds: Meaning: 1. DAY-Rocking wings from a position slightly above and ahead of, and normally to the left of, the intercepted aircraft and, after acknowledgement, a slow level turn, normally to the left, on to the desired heading. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals. NOTE 1-Meteorological conditions or terrain may require the intercepting aircraft to take up a position slightly above and ahead of, and to the right of, the intercepted aircraft and to make the subsequent turn to the right. NOTE 2-If the intercepted aircraft is not able to keep pace with the intercepting aircraft, the latter is expected to fly a series of race-track patterns and to rock its wings each time it passes the intercepted aircraft.. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals. NOTE 1-Meteorological conditions or terrain may require the intercepting aircraft to take up a position slightly above and ahead of, and to the right of, the intercepted aircraft and to make the subsequent turn to the right. NOTE 2-If the intercepted aircraft is not able to keep pace with the intercepting aircraft, the latter is expected to fly a series of race-track patterns and to rock its wings each time it passes the intercepted aircraft. You have been intercepted. Follow me.. AEROPLANES: DAY-Rocking wings and following. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals. HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Rocking aircraft, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals and following.. DAY-Rocking wings and following. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals. HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Rocking aircraft, flashing navigational lights at irregular intervals and following. Understood, will comply.. 2. DAY or NIGHT-An abrupt break-away maneuver from the intercepted aircraft consisting of a climbing turn of 90 degrees or more without crossing the line of flight of the intercepted aircraft.. You may proceed.. proceed. AEROPLANES: DAY or NIGHT-Rocking wings. HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Rocking aircraft.. DAY or NIGHT-Rocking wings. HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Rocking aircraft. Understood, will comply.. 3. DAY-Circling aerodrome, lowering landing gear and overflying runway in direction of landing or, if the intercepted aircraft is a helicopter, overflying the helicopter landing area. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, showing steady landing lights.. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, showing steady landing lights. Land at this aerodrome.. AEROPLANES: DAY-Lowering landing gear, following the intercepting aircraft and, if after overflying the runway landing is considered safe, proceeding to land. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, showing steady landing lights (if carried). HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Following the intercepting aircraft and proceeding to land, showing a steady landing light (if carried).. DAY-Lowering landing gear, following the intercepting aircraft and, if after overflying the runway landing is considered safe, proceeding to land. NIGHT-Same and, in addition, showing steady landing lights (if carried). HELICOPTERS: DAY or NIGHT-Following the intercepting aircraft and proceeding to land, showing a steady landing light (if carried). Understood, will comply.. Series: INTERCEPTED Aircraft Signals: Meaning: INTERCEPTING Aircraft Responds: Meaning: