of both crew members had been adversely affected by a combination of jet-lag, tiredness and the effects of diphenhydramine.. Typically there were no warnings about drowsiness or avoiding operating machinery on the packaging of sleep aid drugs sold in the USA containing diphenhydramine.. Three Causal Factors were formally documented as follows: The crew did not ensure that N90AG’s wings were clear of frost prior to takeoff.. Reduction of the wing stall angle of attack, due to the surface roughness associated with frost contamination, to below that at which the stall protection system was effective.. Possible impairment of crew performance by the combined effects of a non-prescription drug, jet-lag and fatigue.. A total of seven Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the US Federal Aviation Administration and all Authorities who follow FAA practice, delete all reference to ‘Polished Frost’ within their regulations and ensure that the term is expunged from Operations Manuals. [2003-54]. that Bombardier Aerospace include the following specific limitation within appropriate aircraft manuals: ‘Wings and tail surfaces must be completely clear of snow, ice and frost prior to takeoff.’ [2003-55]. that the (UK) Civil Aviation Authority require the following specific statement within the limitations section of the flight manuals of aircraft with a significant susceptibility to ice contamination, ‘Wings and tail surfaces must be completely clear of snow, ice and frost prior to takeoff’, and communicate this recommendation to other civil airworthiness authorities responsible for the primary type certification of new aircraft types. [2003-56]. that the Federal Aviation Administration act upon the National Transportation Safety Board Recommendations A-00-4, A-00-5 and A-00-6 and, in particular review the guidance given to flight crew about the dangers of using non-prescription medication. [2003-57]. that the Federal Aviation Administration take measures to encourage action by the US Food and Drug Administration in line with the National Transportation Safety Board Recommendation, I-00-5, to ensure that over-the-counter medication contains appropriate warnings on any associated potential dangers in operating aircraft. [2003-58]. that Bombardier Aerospace reassess the fault tolerance of the stall protection system for the Challenger 604 and other aircraft models with a similar system and the measures aimed at verifying its integrity in service. [2003-59]. that the Federal Aviation Administration and Joint Airworthiness Authority review the current procedural approach to the pre takeoff detection and elimination of airframe ice contamination and consider requiring a system that would directly monitor aircraft aerodynamic surfaces for ice contamination and warn the crew of a potentially hazardous condition. [2003-60]. The Final Report was published on 20 August 2004.