An Investigation was commenced by the UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB). Data relevant to the Investigation were successfully downloaded from the FDR and CVR recovered from the wreckage and a range of eye witness accounts were available. It was noted that the 51 year-old Captain who was in command of the accident flight and occupying the right hand seat as PM had an approximate total of 10,000 flying hours of which 800 hours were on type. The 58 year-old Captain occupying the left hand seat as PF had an approximate total of 20,000 flying hours of which approximately 800 hours were on type. Both pilots had been employed by the operator since 1968 and were qualified as commanders on type for the operator after both obtaining their Challenger 604 type ratings in April 1999. A third pilot was on board as an ‘observer’ to gain experience of transatlantic operations. It was established that the previous day, the same two-Captain crew and aircraft had arrived at Birmingham at 2039 local time after a 7 hour 40 minute flight from West Palm Beach FL with two passengers after originally departing from Atlanta. Whilst the aircraft was parked remotely at Birmingham overnight, the air temperature, which had been -1°C on arrival, remained below zero throughout dropping to a minimum of -9°C, at which time the dew point had also been -9°C but there was no precipitation and the sky remained largely clear until the following morning. The two pilots and the observer spent the night at a local hotel, eating a meal and consuming alcohol before retiring at about 2315. The older of the two Captains made a long distance phone call shortly before 0200. The rostered reporting time the next morning was 1000 after a 12½ hour rest period, which was within the applicable (FAA) regulatory limitations. The older Captain, who was to act as PF for the flight to Bangor ME for a planned refuelling stop, arrived together with the observer pilot at about 1040 and the APU was started at approximately 1050. The other Captain followed around 25 minutes later and although both pilots were observed to carry out an external inspection of the aircraft at different times, no request for de-icing was made. The Captain of a Bombardier CRJ aircraft who had inspected his aircraft from 1125 onwards, after it had just been towed to the main apron after being parked next to the accident aircraft overnight, reported having found 1-2 mm of soft hoar frost covering all its upper surfaces and he consequently “had no doubt that de-icing was required” and had called for it. It was noted that had de-icing service been requested for the Challenger, it was unlikely to have resulted in any delay to the departure. Refuelling of the aircraft to full tanks with 10,110 litres of fuel was completed at about 1140 and available evidence indicated that the temperature of the fuel in the wing tanks after this was likely to have been