upper wing surfaces may have been created by the effect of the APU exhaust on the right wing, especially at the wing tip when the left wing was not similarly affected, was accepted but whilst this might have accentuated an abrupt wing-drop at the stall, it was found that a wing-drop could have occurred without this effect. It was found that a relatively small amount of surface roughness on a Challenger wing was capable of sufficient interference with the normal airflow over it to cause it to stall at a significantly lower angle of attack than would apply to an uncontaminated wing. For this to happen, the surface roughness would have to be both dense and of a height that was significant relative to the thickness of the wing boundary layer with the degree of roughness rather than its thickness as the most important factor. It was likely that a roughness parameter (Rp) at the lower end of the range associated with the term ‘a small amount of ice’ as defined by the JAR/FAA’ would typically cause a reduction of around 5° in wing stall angle and 30% in the maximum lift coefficient - this roughness level being similar to that of medium-fine emery paper. It was considered that although the magnitude of this effect appeared to be well known to aerodynamic specialists this did not seem to be the case in the aviation industry generally. Guidance to pilots on when this aircraft type needed ground de-icing to ensure a safe takeoff was found to be somewhat contradictory. Whilst Bombardier documentation was unequivocal about the importance of never attempting a takeoff with any frost at all on the wings or tail surfaces and made no reference to the term “polished frost”, generic guidance in FAR Parts 91, 135 and 125 which was also reflected in the Epps Air Service company OM was found to support takeoff with frost contamination provided that the frost had first been “polished smooth”. An attempt was made to “determine the definition of ‘Polished Frost’ and indeed how to polish frost (but) nothing was found” and it was concluded that the explanation may have been “lost in aviation history”. Although it was recognised that there were a range of possible reasons why the crew did not seek de-icing despite the presence of frost on the wing leading edge, it was considered that the uniquely FAA concept of “Polished Frost” may have been a factor. It was considered by the Investigation that the concept “is particularly inappropriate and potentially dangerous to modern aircraft types and detracts from the importance of strictly observing the clean wing principle”. The performance and judgement of what was unquestionably an experienced crew - the commander was also the company Director of Flight Operations - was considered to indicate that they were not being as thorough as might have been expected despite both of them being widely recognised as “highly experienced and conscientious”. Whilst the PF had “displayed a high level of motor