“around 0°C”. Shortly before departure, the OAT had risen to -2°C with a light surface wind and cloud cover had increased to SCT at 700 feet and BKN at 800 feet. Finally the two passengers, the same ones who had been on board the inbound flight, arrived and with the engines started, taxi clearance was obtained at 1205. Speeds for the planned flap 20 takeoff were V1 137KIAS, VR 140KIAS and V2 147KIAS. It was briefed that anti-icing might need to be selected on immediately once airborne. The takeoff from runway 15 appeared to have been normal until lift off. Rotation was commenced at 146 KCAS at an initial pitch rate of around 4°/second with lift off occurring 2 seconds later at about 153 KCAS. Once airborne, the elevator position was reduced from 8° to 3° as the pitch rate increased to about 5°/second and the aircraft immediately began to bank left at a rapidly increasing rate, reaching 50° within 2 seconds as the heading diverged 10° to the left of the runway centreline. FDR data showed that opposite aileron and right rudder inputs had been made immediately after the left bank began and both were fully applied within 1 second and maintained. When the bank angle reached 80°, the left wing tip made surface contact at a point 1,415 metres from the beginning of the runway from where the takeoff had been commenced. As the bank angle continued to increase, nose-up elevator input was progressively increased and 3½ seconds after takeoff, stick shaker activation was recorded. Recorded data ceased at impact 2 seconds later with the last recorded aircraft attitude being 111° left wing down and 13° nose down on a heading of 114°M. The aircraft was observed to impact the ground inverted and as the forward fuselage separated from rest of the aircraft, a major fuel fed fire started which in conjunction with impact forces led quickly to the almost complete destruction of the aircraft. The annotated illustration below shows a plan view of the aircraft ground track from the point where ground contact first occurred. During an extremely thorough examination of the full range of possible causes of the uncontrolled roll which caused the accident, all possibilities except wing surface contamination by frozen deposits were eliminated. In particular the horizontal stabiliser and elevators were operating normally on takeoff when there was a substantial deficit in wing lift. This situation “could only have been the result of abnormal airflow over at least part of the wing and was fully consistent with the effects of surface roughness associated with frost contamination” with such contamination likely to have been present during takeoff. In general, it appeared that a stall for any reason in a Challenger would usually involve a rapid and severe wing-drop with corrective aileron inputs ineffective in controlling the roll rate of a stalled wing until it had first been un-stalled by reducing the angle of attack. The possibility that asymmetry in the extent of frost on the