skills during his reaction to the uncontrolled roll”, it was considered that both pilots had shown “some deficiencies in judgement and concentration” between their arrival at the aircraft and the commencement of the takeoff roll. It was considered of particular note that the accident aircraft was the only one of those which had been parked at Birmingham overnight and then departed the next day without having been de-iced before taxiing for takeoff. It was also found from post mortem examinations that both pilots had taken a sedative anti-histamine known to be used as an aid to sleep and available over the counter which included diphenhydramine. The aviation pathologist who made this finding noted that given that it was known that both pilots had disturbed and/or inadequate sleep for the two nights preceding the accident and had completed an eastbound flight the previous day, it was possible that they were suffering from “jet lag”. With evidence indicating that both had also consumed some alcohol the previous evening, he concluded that a combination of tiredness, jet-lag and the use of medication which included diphenhydramine had combined to impair the performance of the pilots. It was noted that the fact that the side effects of diphenhydramine include impairment of short term memory and attention was widely known but that despite this, there appeared to be considerable evidence that inappropriate use of over-the-counter medication by pilots was an ongoing issue in the USA. Studies had shown that significant numbers of pilots killed in flying accidents there had subsequently been found to have recently taken non-prescription medications including those used to aid sleep containing diphenhydramine. It was noted that in the UK, all such products carry warnings that they may cause drowsiness that if they are affected users should not drive or operate machinery and the statement “avoid alcoholic drink”. However, similar warnings were not found on equivalent products in the USA. It was considered that the findings of this Investigation were supportive of Safety Recommendations made by the NTSB in 2000 (see here and here) which were “internationally applicable”. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included, but were by no means limited to, some generic points relating to frost on the wings of this aircraft type and points of wider concern about the use of sleep-aiding drugs by pilots as follows: Wing surface roughness associated with frost contamination caused sufficient flow disturbance to result in a wing stall at an abnormally low angle of attack. The stall protection system was ineffective in this situation.. The Challenger 604 aircraft typically does not stall symmetrically and any tendency to roll could be accentuated by asymmetric ice contamination.. APU exhaust gas flow during pre-flight preparations probably caused some asymmetry in the frost contamination.. Long standing FAA guidance material suggesting that polished wing frost was acceptable is inappropriate.. Traces of a non-prescription drug containing diphenhydramine, typically used to aid sleep, were found in both pilots.. Specialist medical opinion was that it was possible that the judgement and reasoning