The PF did not announce that he had lost visual contact with the helideck but shifted his attention to the flight instruments and observed the low airspeed and high rate of descent. The PM, unaware that the helicopter had descended into the fog alerted the PF to the increasing rate of descent and reported simultaneously realising that the helicopter was now in IMC. He stated that he had been just about to call for a go around when the PF announced that he was commencing one. The pitch attitude increased to almost 17° nose-up and the PM responded by directing the PF to use the PFD attitude indication to position the nose of the helicopter on the horizon. As the helicopter descended below 100 feet asl, the PM, able to see the water directly beneath them, reported recognising the severity of the situation and placing his hands and feet on the flight controls and making control inputs “to help the PF establish a wings-level attitude in anticipation of water impact”. As the helicopter was descending through 70 feet asl, the collective was rapidly raised to the full up position which resulted in the engine torque increasing to 146% and the main rotor rpm decreased rapidly to a minimum of 77% which triggered a “LOW ROTOR” aural alert. The associated reduction in tail rotor thrust, as a result of the reduction in main rotor rpm meant that it was no longer possible to maintain directional control and at 40 feet asl, it yawed uncontrollably to the right, despite full left yaw pedal being applied, continuing through multiple rotations. The low main rotor rpm caused both main generators to drop offline and the AFCS to revert to stability augmentation system SAS mode, the Attitude and Heading Reference System (AHRS) to drop offline and the left and centre Multi Function Displays (MFDs) to blank. Both pilots reported having reverted to the SBY flight instruments. Six seconds after the torque increase, the helicopter was still rotating to the right at greater than 60° per second but the main rotor speed was slowly increasing through 89% and, as both generators came back online, the descent was arrested “within 13 feet or less” of the sea surface. Water spray was visible on the helicopter’s windows and the helicopter was less than 800 feet from the closest part of the platform’s structure but drifting backwards, away from the platform complex. The Captain in command, who reported having been able to see both the water and the platform to the right of the helicopter, then announced his takeover as PF and commenced an almost vertical visual climb, eventually emerging from the fog. The aircraft flew in a widening right turn away from the vicinity of the upset and toward the northeast with the engine torque slowly being reduced, eventually reaching 100% at 650 feet asl and then being reduced further to approximately 70% as the 1350 feet asl was reached. At this point, both pilots became distracted from