to have created an increased workload which was a material factor in the increase in the nose-up pitch attitude to 17° concurrently with an excessive rate of descent and an increasing left sideslip. The evidence available indicated that this increased workload had made a significant contribution to control difficulties which had led to an unstable approach. When the PF instinctively increased the collective in response to the rapidly increasing rate of descent below 250 feet, it was concluded that the power applied had caused the helicopter to enter a vortex ring state. It was found that neither the manufacturer’s AFM nor the operator’s SOPs contained any warning of the potential hazard associated with the use of the trim release button when in a DVE.. Routine Flight Data Monitoring was in place at the operator in support of its risk management processes but the offshore approach parameters being monitored did not include all the available ones needed for proper oversight of such approaches.. The absence of any EGPWS activation as the rate of descent steepened and the sea surface neared was considered significant. The fact that the helicopter’s Mark 22 EGPWS had provided no alert to the very close proximity to the sea surface was a subject of some interest to the Investigation. It was found that at the aircraft manufacturer’s request, Mode 1 alerting in the S92A EGPWS had been disabled by the OEM prior to installation because of nuisance alert problems identified during initial type certification testing in 2002. Although this EGPWS is installed in many different helicopter types, it was noted that the S-92A is the only such helicopter which has Mode 1 inhibited. During the final stages of the attempted visual approach, recorded flight data showed that the Mode 1 “SINK RATE” Alert envelope had been entered as it descended through 230 feet asl and the subsequent “PULL UP” Warning as it descended though 180 feet asl.. The Investigation noted that a number of previous investigations into accidents and serious incidents to a number of transport helicopter types with similar or worse outcomes had involved unstabilised approaches with excessive use of the cyclic trim release facility. One of these had been a 2006 fatal accident in the UK. It was further noted that guidance contained in a recent revised HeliOffshore guidance document Flightpath Management: Recommended Practice for Oil and Gas Passenger Transport Operations included a generic approach DVE/Night approach procedure which would have been applicable to the approach under investigation. This guidance had been successfully adopted by other operators and was observed to be conducive to the conduct of a stabilised approach. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors At the time of the occurrence, instrument meteorological conditions existed. This created a degraded visual environment that was highly conducive to spatial disorientation and provided inadequate cues to permit a visual approach to the Thebaud Central Facility.. In an attempt to complete their assigned task within self-imposed time constraints, the pilots’