properly monitoring the flight path by their unsuccessful attempts to engage altitude hold and reset the AFCS. Without their awareness, the helicopter began to descend and by the time the PF Captain noticed, the airspeed had increased to 148KCAS and the helicopter was descending through 650 feet asl. The descent was arrested at 480 feet asl which was equivalent to 463 feet agl as at this time, the helicopter was, unappreciated by the pilots, crossing Sable Island (see the illustration above) where its elevation was approximately 10 feet amsl. Given that the conditions around the platform were assessed to be not conducive to a successful visual approach, once the helicopter had been climbed to1,500 feet asl, it was decided that a return to Halifax, where conditions would permit a visual approach, would be made. Despite the potential implications of the significant engine overtorque, no advice of a possible problem during the return was communicated to ATC and in the event, the return was completed without further event. Once the occupants had disembarked, the helicopter was immediately and permanently withdrawn from service and soon afterwards, Canadian Helicopters Offshore ceased operations at Halifax and the lessor decided that they would scrap the helicopter. Disassembly of the helicopter prevented electrical system troubleshooting and meant that a detailed examination of components from the tail and main rotor assemblies and their associated drive systems, which would have been required before return to service could be considered, was not carried out. However, Sikorsky carried out a preliminary examination of the HUMs data and concluded that “the drive train sustained torque magnitudes in excess of the system design limits and therefore many component replacements are recommended” and added that the implications of the main rotor system loading had not been fully investigated. The Investigation found no evidence to indicate that an aircraft system malfunction contributed to the investigated event. The circumstances which led to it were therefore, by default, operational and human factors in a context of the prevailing SOPs and OFDM practice and a number of observations were made. It was evident from the data that the attempted visual approach had become unstable with the helicopter entering a low-energy state. This had not been recognised by either pilot as both were focused on the platform helideck which was above surface fog and within a Degraded Visual Environment (DVE). It was noted that whilst some offshore helicopter operators did have specific procedures for conducting operations in ‘Degraded Visual Environments’ (DVE), Canadian Helicopters Offshore was not one of them.. It was found that the operator’s SOPs made no reference to the importance of energy state when conducting a stabilised approach criteria and did not establish any stabilised approach gates to be met during final. This was incompatible with industry-recommended stabilised approach guidelines.. It was considered of particular note that during this visual approach being investigated, the PF had depressed and held the cyclic trim release, an action which reduces the overall effectiveness of the AFCS. This was considered