fuel endurance at that point would dictate a return to Halifax. However, approximately 15 seconds after beginning the second missed approach, the helicopter exited cloud at about 300 feet and the right seat pilot (PM) informed the PF that he could see the helideck “above the ragged layer of fog beneath them”. Shortly afterwards, although there was no discernible horizon, the PF was also able to see the platform. Having checked that they had enough fuel to make a third (abbreviated) approach by visual reference, the helicopter was levelled off at 500 feet asl and the right turn continued to roll out on a southerly track about 1.1nm from the platform. The sea surface was reported to have been visible vertically through the fog and since there was no significant wind, it was decided that the left seat pilot would take over as PF and make the approach on an inbound track just south of west since this would be more expeditious and would also provide him with a better view of the platform. During the continuing right turn, the Captain, now acting as PM advised that he would be “ready to transition to instrument flight” if visual reference with the helideck was lost. The ground track followed during all three approaches and (the land shown north of the platform is Sable Island). [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the descent was commenced, the PM, who had been primarily focusing on the clearly visible helideck, shifted his attention inside the helicopter and onto the flight instruments as he slowly lost sight of the helideck. As the PF increased the nose-up pitch attitude through 15°, the PM made the standard call to alert the PF to this but at this time neither pilot was aware that the airspeed was decreasing below 40 KCAS, the rate of descent was 670 fpm and increasing, the engine torque setting was only 27% or that the left sideslip was increasing. A few seconds later, the engine torque was increased to 36% engine torque and then pitch attitude decreased to approximately 12° nose-up. The PM, by now on the flight instruments, continued to monitor the reduced pitch attitude but as the helicopter descended though 350 feet asl, the airspeed remained low - less than 30 KCAS and the rate of descent had increased to approximately 850 fpm. After a further 100 feet of descent, the pitch attitude was unchanged but all forward motion had ceased and the rate of descent was increasing though 1200 fpm. The PF reported having recognised that the helicopter was getting low and after initially responding by slowly increasing the engine torque to 45%, he then rapidly increased it to a recorded 103% engine torque. As the engine torque increased at low airspeed, the rate of descent increased from 1200 fpm to 1800 fpm and the helicopter descended below the helideck height and into the fog. About three seconds after the engine torque had reached 100%, the rate of descent began decreasing.