An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). The aircraft involved was fitted with two MPFRs from which most of the relevant FDR data were recovered but all the relevant CVR data were lost after the aircraft manufacturer provided the operators maintenance department with incorrect instructions on how to download the FDR data. Useful data were successfully recovered from the HUMS and FMS computers and crucially, all these on-aircraft data sets were usefully complemented by satellite-routed ADS-B tracking data held by the ANSP and similar data from the aircraft’s satellite-based flight-following service. It was noted that the flight crew involved were both experienced on type and employed by the operator as Captains. The Captain in command for the investigated flight had a total of 6,713 hours flying experience of which 2,242 hours were on type. The Captain acting as First Officer had a total of 7,742 flying hours of which 3,196 hours were on type. Both pilots had commenced work as civil transport pilots flying offshore operations in the S92A after military service as S61 pilots. It was noted that both pilots “had known each other for several years” and had flown together “periodically”. In practical terms, their fitness to fly was not doubted but it was found that the Medical Certificate of the pilot acting as First Officer had expired when he had passed the age of 60 almost two months prior to the investigated event. This appeared to have occurred because of the holder’s lack of awareness of the applicable certificate validity and his employer incorrectly recording his date of birth in their systems. It was noted that scheduled departure time of the investigated flight had been delayed due to the poor destination weather conditions (low cloud base and poor visibility) and had eventually left Halifax almost five hours late. However, this fact was not assessed to have played any part in what subsequently happened. As the flight neared the intended destination, the crew were informed by the platform weather observer that the wind was light and from the west northwest, visibility (equivalent to) 1600 metres and the base of the overcast was 300 feet asl (126 feet above platform helideck level). However, it was also stated that both the cloud layer and visibility were “fluctuating rapidly”. Having descended to 800 feet, the helicopter was positioned above the cloud layer for the approved Area navigation/airborne Radar Approach (ARA) procedure using an approach track of 320°. During the subsequent approach, cloud was entered between 700 and 500 feet asl and it was unsuccessful, because of a combination of low cloud and poor visibility as was a second similar approach. Both these approaches were flown with the pilot acting as First Officer as PF and discontinued approximately half a mile from the platform at 225 feet asl by commencing a climbing right hand turn to avoid the platform superstructure. Prior to commencing the second approach, it was decided that if it was not successful, the likely