from takeoff to such points, if required/prescribed by appropriate ATS authority. Example:EET/ABC0120 XYZ0200 (which means that point ABC will be passed 1 hour and 20 minutes after departure and point XYZ 2 hours after departure) EET/EINN0204 (which means that entering of Shannon FIR is planned 2 hours and 4 minutes after departure) (j) “STS/” followed by particular reason for special handling by ATS (hospital aircraft – STS/HOSP, one engine inoperative would be – STS/ONE ENG INOP, no radio – STS/NORDO) Example: STS/HAZ (which means hazardous cargo on board) The new, 2012 flight plan, introduced new abbreviations in use with STS/ item. These are, among others: - ALTRV – for flight with specified altitude reservation - FFR – for fire-fighting flights - HAZMAT – for flights with hazardous materials Two abbreviations are no longer valid: “ATFMEXEMPTAPPROVED” and “EMER” (k) “OPR/” followed by name of the operator, if not obvious from the aircraft identification in Item 7. Example: OPR/BIG COMPANY (l) “DOF/” followed by the date of the flight in a six-figure format (if flight plan was filed on earlier date, maximum 120 hours before EOBT). Example: DOF/110613 (which indicated that the flight will take place on 13th of June 2011) (m) “PER/” followed by performance of the aircraft according to ICAO document 8168 (categories “A”,”B”,”C”,”D”,”E” or “H” for helicopters). Example: PER/A (n) “ORGN/” followed by contact details to flight plan originator. Up to 30 characters may be used. (o) “RMK/” followed by any other, plain language, remarks when required by the appropriate ATS authority or deemed necessary. There is no limit in number of characters to be used. Example:RMK/TRAINING ILS APPROACH AT SMALL AIRPORT RMK/STUDENT SOLO FLIGHT (p) “PBN/” Indication of RNAV and/or RNP capabilities. (q) “CODE/” Aircraft address (expressed in the form of an alphanumerical code of six hexadecimal characters) when required by the appropriate ATS authority. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Here one can provide all information concerning safety and security of the flight as well as details helpful during search and rescue mission. (a) “E/” and 4 figure group indicates the fuel endurance in hours and minutes. Example: E/0430 (b) “P/” allows insertion of the total number of people (passengers and crew) on board. If total number is not known at the time of flight plan completion, insert “P/TBN” (to be notified). Use leading zeros if necessary to make three digits in this field. Example: P/005 NOT P/5 or P/050. (c) at position “R/” (radio): - cross out indicator “U” if UHF on frequency 243.0 MHz is not available - cross out indicator “V” if VHF on frequency 121.5 MHz is not available - cross out indicator “E” if an emergency locator transmitter (ELT) is not available. (d) at position “S/” (survival): - cross out all indicators if survival equipment is not carried - cross out indicator “P” if polar survival equipment is not carried - cross out indicator “D” if desert survival equipment is not carried - cross out indicator “M” if maritime survival equipment is not carried - cross