On take-off, in order to position the aircraft to a safe height away from terrain and obstacles (i.e. a flight path of maximum height and minimum ground distance desired), the engine thrust is set to a high ‘take-off power’ setting (although this is not necessarily full power) and the aircraft attitude is pitched up to maintain a specific speed (usually in the region of V2 + 15kts). Once the ‘safe height’ is reached the engine thrust can therefore be reduced to a more appropriate (i.e. efficient) setting and the aircraft flight path can be changed to a more appropriate (i.e. efficient) flight path. In order to achieve that described above and also to provide minimum noise disturbance to the area surrounding the airport, regulatory procedures require aircraft to fly one of the two profiles given below during every departure. The aerodrome briefing pages will state which one of the two profiles is to be flown at each particular airport: At 1,500ft aal reduce thrust to climb power and accelerate the aircraft towards 250 knots, retracting flaps and slats.. At 1,500ft aal reduce thrust to climb power maintaining V2 + 15kts. At 3,000ft accelerate the aircraft.. Operator’s SOPs must therefore enable the above procedures to be flown and, as such, controllers will witness flight crews performing certain actions and verbal SOP callouts during the initial climb in order to accomplish this. Aircraft that have highly automated systems will perform the thrust reduction and acceleration manoeuvre with minimal input from the flight crew. Note that the flight crew must input the required data into the FMS during the pre-flight procedure to enable such aircraft to accomplish this. In such aircraft it may be the case that the only physical action required by the flight crew is to move the flap lever, the remainder of the actions are of a monitoring nature to ensure that the correct Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) modes engage and that the aircraft physically performs the manoeuvre correctly. In less automated aircraft it will require an increased amount of button pushing, knob turning and verbal calls to perform the thrust reduction and acceleration manoeuvre. During the initial climb, at the heights stated above, the thrust reduction and acceleration procedure therefore gives rise to issues regarding increased workload in the flight deck.