An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss AIB. ATC recordings, the DFDR downloads from both aircraft and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recording from the rejected take off aircraft were available for use by the Investigation. The other CVR recording was overwritten during the subsequent flight. It was found that both aircraft had been cleared for take off on, respectively, runway 16 and runway 28, by the same controller after he had forgotten about the first clearance he had issued. It was found that, after the two take offs had commenced within less than 10 seconds of each other, the Captain of the aircraft departing from runway 28 had caught sight of the aircraft departing 16 when his aircraft was approximately 550 metres away from the intersection of runways 16/28 after it had passed the buildings between the two runways which obscure the view of one from the other. At this point, the aircraft was within 5 knots of the applicable V1 speed of 135 KIAS and had immediately commenced a rejected take off, stopping just at the edge of runway 16 a few seconds after the other aircraft had passed overhead. An order to stop take off was found to have been given by the controller who had made the error after the crew had already initiated their rejected take off. After considering the traffic load at the time of the incident, and noting the complication introduced by the presence of the light aircraft which had just taken off in order to conduct routine instrument approach procedure calibration work, the Investigation concluded that overall, the volume of traffic could be characterised as “high with slightly increased complexity”. It was found that the same controller had been involved in a previous serious incident in respect of the same two intersecting runways on 31 July 2008 when he had cleared an aircraft to take off from runway 28 after previously clearing an aircraft to land on runway 16. As with the event currently being investigated, a rejected take off by the aircraft rolling on runway 28 resolved the conflict. Following this earlier event, neither a debriefing of the controller nor any other follow up in respect of his performance occurred. It was noted that at the time of the incident currently being investigated, the ANSP procedure after such an event “merely states that the supervisor decides whether the employee concerned can continue working without supervision immediately after the incident” and that “there are no other procedures to clarify whether retraining or other supportive measures are necessary”. The Investigation found that, unlike a number of other European airports with comparable use of intersecting runways, Zurich procedures contained no detailed description of how to manage simultaneous use of runways 16 and 28 for departures. In particular, it was found that there were “no clear and unambiguous criteria according to which a take-off clearance may be given”. It was noted that the surface movement radar system incorporated a Runway Incursion Monitoring and Collision