shortly before, was still on its take-off roll. The result was that an inadvertent convergence of these aircraft occurred, involving a high risk of collision”. The following Significant Contributory Factors were also identified: At a time with a very high volume of traffic at Zurich airport, survey flights were being carried out, which increased the complexity of operation for air traffic control.. The air traffic control officer concerned was engaged on tasks which did not have a high priority at this time.. The aerodrome control centre work concept allowed only inadequate mutual support in the case of a high volume of traffic and in general did not feature any monitoring for early detection and correction of errors.. The air traffic control's collision warning system was inappropriate for re- solving the impending conflict.. It was additionally noted that “the genesis of the serious incident was favoured by the complex operation on two intersecting runways which is subject to a small error tolerance in the event of a high volume of traffic”. Once the initial factual information had been gathered and reviewed, the Investigation had, on 17 May 2011, sent the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) an Interim Report which contained the following seven Safety Recommendations issued at an early stage so that work on them could begin without delay: that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, together with the Skyguide air navigation services company, should examine the extent to which the RIMCAS warning system can be improved for the operation of intersecting runways and should ensure that such improvements are implemented rapidly. [429]. that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, together with the Skyguide air navigation services company and the operator of Zurich airport, should take measures to ensure that periodically necessary survey flights are made outside the operating hours of the airport or during appropriate traffic situations. [430]. that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, together with the Skyguide air navigation services company, should examine at which workstations additional air traffic control officers must be deployed during survey flights or generally in complex or exceptional traffic situations to carry out these tasks. [431]. that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, together with the Skyguide air navigation services company, should examine the extent to which the handling of survey flights and other special flights should be periodically practised in the simulator. [432]. that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation should demand air traffic control procedures from Skyguide air navigation services company which ensure that employees involved in accidents or serious incidents are appraised and if necessary retrained, so that any limitations in terms of capability or performance can be promptly detected and resolved. [433]. that The Federal Office of Civil Aviation, with the Skyguide air navigation services company, the operator of Zurich airport and users of Zurich airport, should carry out a comprehensive analysis of the operating procedures and take all appropriate measures to reduce complexity and the systemic risks. [434]. that [no stated addressee] until these measures, which derive