An Investigation in accordance with the provisions of Annex 13 was carried out by the Dominican Republic Authorities with assistance from the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) and the UK AAIB. Prevailing weather conditions at Puerto Plata during the arrival were overcast with a cloud base similar to the MDA for the available NPA and at times lower. It was established that the aircraft had previously made two unsuccessful NPAs, both using the promulgated VOR/DME procedure to approach the same runway with a short period holding in between. After reaching the MDA on the second of these, the aircraft commander had decided to continue descent without having the required visual reference and when, at low level, it became apparent that the aircraft was too high to complete a landing, he had then decided to fly a low level circuit to a third landing attempt. This circuit was unstable and culminated in ground impact during the initiation of a very late go around. It was noted that throughout the approach, there had been extensive breaches of Operator SOPs by the aircraft commander with no evidence of any effective monitoring or intervention by the First Officer. It was concluded that Crew Resource Management had been poor. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 6 April 1999 and may be seen in full at (bookshelf reference after upload, see below fir source files). Three Safety Recommendations were made: The Operator should ensure that a programme to review, on a regular basis, disidentified DFDR records in order to assess adherence to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) by its crews is introduced as soon s possible. The Operator should review, in general terms, the operating procedures to ensure that they are providing the most effective guidance to pilots in order to ensure safe and efficient approach procedures.. The Airfield Authority should provide an effective form of approach lighting for Runway 26 at Puerto Plata.. The Final Report was released on 6 April 1999 and may be seen at SKYbrary bookshelf: AAIB - Aircraft Accident Report 3/99