making its third go around at Cochin and about to accept radar vectoring towards Trivandrum, Trivandrum ATC "had asked Cochin whether the latest weather has been advised to the diverting aircraft" but had received no response. In fact the most recent Cochin broadcast of the Trivandrum weather had been made half an hour previously, since when a trend of deterioration had continued. The Investigation identified "an apparent lag in (the) flow of information regarding the downward trend of visibility from Trivandrum ATC to the diverting aircraft that were under control of Cochin ATC" and considered that the absence of timely and accurate transmission of weather information for Trivandrum by Cochin ATC "may have had an effect on the decision made by aircraft diverting to Trivandrum". Crew decision making was reviewed and found - even without the failure to get the latest weather for Coimbatore as the nearest diversion option and the failure to get the weather for Trivandrum before leaving Cochin - to have been sub-optimal in respect of continued holding and a third approach at Cochin given the deteriorating conditions there. The Captain had also not taken due account of the potential effects of the out of service ILS at Trivandrum. In respect of the Operator context for crew tactical decision making, it was found that "Jet Airways had no company policy pertaining to the number of approaches/missed approaches to be made in inclement weather conditions [or] a company policy pertaining to the re-designation of destination alternate during the flight in inclement weather". These omissions were considered to have contributed to the choice of "an alternate, which was probably not the best decision given available information and the prevailing weather conditions". The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the event was as follows: The absence of a company policy pertaining to the number of approaches/missed approaches in inclement weather led to the crew of 9W-555 attempting a total of 7 approaches/missed approaches at Cochin and Trivandrum. The crew also attempted 03 visual approaches at Trivandrum in below minima conditions, below circuit altitude and ignored several EGPWS cautions/warnings, thereby jeopardising the safety of the passengers and the aircraft.. The absence of a company policy pertaining to the re-designation of destination alternate during the flight in inclement weather led to the flight crew choosing an alternate, which was probably not the best decision given the available information and the prevailing weather conditions.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the DGCA should advise Jet Airways to define the policy on the number of approaches and missed approaches in inclement weather conditions.. that the DGCA should advise Jet Airways to define the criteria and processes for re-designation of destination alternates during flight.. that the DGCA should advise Jet Airways to include Low Fuel scenarios and decisions making training exercises during refresher LOFT simulator training sessions.. The Final Report was completed on 29 September 2016 and released without restriction on 28 February 2017.