board just above the calculated MDF for Trivandrum, a diversion there was commenced, climbing to FL 210. On initial contact with Trivandrum ATC, the weather there had deteriorated too from the 3,000 metres visibility passed earlier by Cochin ATC to 1,500 metres in haze with cloud SCT at 1,500 feet and SCT at 2,500 feet. A day VOR approach to runway 14 was subsequently commenced in accordance with the applicable procedure minima and ATC were made aware of the prevailing "minimum fuel" status. Visual reference for landing was not acquired and as the go around was commenced, a "MAYDAY due fuel" was declared to ATC. The Captain "informed ATC of his intention to fly a right hand visual circuit back to runway 14" which, as the crew had declared a fuel emergency was followed by ATC approving a (day) "visual approach to runway 14". During this manoeuvre, "the crew was not in visual contact with the runway" and subsequently "sighted it very late" and with the aircraft not aligned which resulted in another go around. The same manoeuvre was again requested and again approved by ATC but the Captain was again "not in visual contact with the runway and once again crew was late in sighting the runway, too high on approach and was not able to align the aircraft" for a landing. A third go around at Trivandrum (the sixth overall) followed, with fuel on board now down to 662 kgs. At 700 feet agl, the Captain requested permission to "make a left 180° turn and self-position for landing for inbound runway 32". On finals following the completion of this manoeuvre with the AP still engaged, the EGPWS caution “TERRAIN TERRAIN” was followed by a series of EGPWS "PULL UP” warnings. In response to both the caution and the warnings, the Captain is heard on the CVR recording saying that "terrain is visual". With a recorded radio height of approximately 50 feet agl, the First Officer selected "Terrain Inhibit" and asked the Captain "do you know where it is?" to which the Captain responds "just going blindly". Soon after this, as the Captain "continued the approach […] with no visual contact with the runway", the AP was disengaged, an EGPWS bank angle alert can be heard and a landing occurs as intended on runway 32. The ground track of the aircraft at Trivandrum during the final stages of the flight are shown on the annotated illustration below. Fuel on board after landing was 349 kg. All three visual approaches at Trivandrum were conducted "in below minima conditions and below circuit altitude". The fact that the flight crew "ignored several EGPWS cautions/warnings on the last approach" before landing on runway 32 was considered to have "jeopardised the safety of the passengers and the aircraft". Analysis of the evidence showed that fuel planning for the flight had not been a relevant contributory factor to the occurrence. It was, however found that at around the time that the Jet Airways aircraft was