An Investigation was carried out by an Indian AAIB Commission of Inquiry. The DFDR and 2 hour SSCVR were recovered from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. The available SSCVR data began as the crew were discussing their options after the first go around at Cochin. ATC recorded radar and voice communications data from Trivandrum were available because of the MAYDAY declaration made there but these data were not preserved at Cochin. The 40 year-old Captain had 6,699 total flying hours which included 6,289 hours on type of which 2,924 hours had been in command on type. He was PF for the investigated flight. The 25 year-old First Officer had 1,465 total flying hours which included 580 hours on type. It was established that the aircraft had been operating a night flight scheduled to arrive at Cochin around dawn and noted that the flight schedule was predominantly within the "window of circadian low" in respect of crew performance. It was nevertheless concluded that the crew had been well rested prior to reporting for duty at Doha. The designated alternate for the flight was Bangalore. On initial contact with Cochin, the reported weather was unexceptional and the visibility well above ILS minima in (night) haze and the lowest cloud FEW at 1,500 feet. However, after the first ILS approach to runway 27 did not provide transition to the necessary visual reference for landing, an auto go around was "initiated at 256 feet" (procedure DA 320 feet). At this point, the aircraft was still well above Minimum Diversion Fuel (MDF) for Bangalore. After a short time in the hold, the aircraft was cleared for another (night) ILS approach. As it proceeded outbound, the crew discussed the MDF for both Coimbatore and Trivandrum with the First Officer noting that the ILS at Trivandrum was out of service. ATC then advised that an Air India Express 737 ahead had carried out a go around, reporting "low clouds at 600 feet" and that the visibility had dropped from 3,500 metres to 2,500 metres. This second ILS approach was also unsuccessful and a go around was made followed by entry to the hold. During this transition, ATC advised that the next aircraft on approach had also gone around and that visibility was down to 2,000 metres. In the hold, diversion options were again discussed with the Captain eventually re-designating Trivandrum as the alternate "in order to gain more holding time over Cochin" than Coimbatore would allow before beginning the diversion despite the First Officer expressing concern about the possibility of visibility at Cochin dropping further. The Captain was recorded as having "responded that in case of emergency they can ask for Coimbatore" but the Coimbatore weather "was not obtained". After about half an hour in the hold, a third unsuccessful (day) ILS approach was flown in the prior knowledge that the weather had deteriorated further to 1,500 metres in mist with cloud at 400 feet aal and after the go around, with fuel on