In forward flight, the relative airflow through the main rotor disc is different on the advancing and retreating side. The relative airflow over the advancing side is higher due to the forward speed of the helicopter, while the relative airflow on the retreating side is lower. The rotor blades incorporate the ability to flap and this allows the advancing blade to flap up due to the increasing relative airflow across the blade as the blade moves forward from the 6 o’clock position. However, the upwards movement of the blade reduces the angle of attack giving constant thrust from the blade. As the blade reaches the 12 o’clock position, the blade is at its highest point. As it continues to rotate it experiences progressively less relative airflow and flaps down. This increases the angle of attack, again balancing the thrust. The blade ends the rotation at the 6 o’clock position at its lowest point. The blade will experience the lowest relative airflow at the point on the retreating side perpendicular to the airflow. With low airflow and high angle of attack, this area (at the 9 o’clock position on counter-clockwise rotors) will stall first as aircraft speed increases. Due to differences in blade tolerances the stall may occur on one blade before the others giving an increase in 1R (once per rotation) vibration and a visible track split. As other blades stall a nR vibration will build (where n is the number of rotor blades). This vibration can be very damaging as it can impose high torsional loads and set off other harmonic vibrations in dynamic components. Retreating blade stall is a major factor in limiting a helicopter’s top forward speed (Vne). High weight, low rotor r.p.m., high density altitude, turbulence and/or steep, abrupt turns are all conducive to retreating blade stall at high forward airspeeds as they increase the blade pitch to generate more thrust and hence increase the angle of attack. In particular, as altitude is increased, higher blade angles are required to maintain lift at a given airspeed. Thus, retreating blade stall is encountered at a lower forward airspeed at altitude. Most manufacturers publish charts and graphs showing a Vne decrease with altitude. Retreating Blade Stall First indication of impending stall is roughness and a low frequency vibration in the main rotor. This might be in one blade of the disc at first due to differences in design tolerances of each blade.. If allowed to progress, the retreating blade side of the rotor will develop a stalled condition causing the nose of the helicopter to pitch up and roll into the retreating blade. The amount of pitch to roll is dependent on several elements including the type of rotor and density altitude..