ADR DISAGREE’ alert not being actioned until after the airspeed fault had ceased which led to an incorrect diagnosis of the origin of the alert. It was considered that whilst an EPR mode fault would not pose a short-term hazard to safe flight because the crew would still have control of engine thrust, aircraft control depends on awareness of the reliability of airspeed information which meant that the prevailing ECAM message relative priority in this instance was questionable. The overall assessment by the Investigation of the crew actions in response to the problems they encountered prior to the stall warning on final approach was as follows: When the autothrust and autopilot first disconnected, the captain announced that he had control and that he would fly the aircraft ‘ten degrees nose up’. Although this was consistent with the unreliable speed indication procedure when below FL 100, there was no indication from the recorded information or interviews that the captain was aware of an airspeed discrepancy and intentionally carried out that procedure. It was more likely an instinctive reaction to the loss of automation to ensure that the aircraft was in a state that the Captain knew was safe. When the Captain’s airspeed deviated from the other indications during the descent, the flight crew were provided with an opportunity to identify that they were confronted with an unreliable airspeed indication event. However, their actions following this do not appear to indicate that they had made this connection. The act of switching the air data source for the captain’s indicator from CAS 1 to CAS 3 was consistent with the NAV IAS DISCREPANCY alert, but there was no record of the alert having been triggered. Neither was it consistent with the unreliable speed indication procedure, because the crew did not switch off any of the ADRs, the aircraft was not levelled out for troubleshooting, there was no discussion regarding unreliable airspeed, and they did not respond to the stall warning that occurred after the air data source was switched to CAS 3. An examination of the FDR data at the time of the stall warning confirmed that the SBY system airspeed display (which by then was being fed to the Captain’s position as a result of the crew noticing that the normal data source was presenting an incorrect speed) was valid. It was noted that at the prevailing Mach number, the AoA threshold to trigger a stall warning would have been 8°. However, although the only valid AoA recorded at this time was 7.4° from ADR 2, it was noted that stall warning logic only requires one of the three angle of attack values to exceed the threshold. Since until the Captain had been obliged to change over his data source to ADR 3, the primary sources of AoA had been consistent, it was considered “most likely that the stall warning was triggered by AoA 3, which was not recorded” on the FDR. It was noted that when the stall warning was activated