during the right turn onto final approach, a small lateral acceleration which indicated a wind gust from the right side was recorded. It was concluded that “the placement of the angle of attack probe for ADR 3 is such that (such) a lateral gust could produce a local increase in the angle of attack (which) in this case was probably sufficient to go beyond the stall warning threshold, triggering the warning”. The stall warning was thus genuine, albeit nominal. The Investigation observed as follows in respect of the stall warning and the response to it: Stall warnings are designed to activate at an angle of attack that provides some margin before the aircraft will actually stall. In this case, the angle of attack measured by one sensor was sufficient to activate the stall warning, but there was no indication that the aircraft had stalled. In their analysis of the sequence of events, the manufacturer identified that the captain made nose-down control inputs while the stall warning was activated. However, the CVR captured the Captain clearly verbalising that he was disregarding the stall warning. Although the nose-down inputs occurred during the stall warning, there was no significant change in the airspeed and the bank angle was increased during the time the warning was active. Thus, it is more likely that the nose-down control inputs were required to control the desired flight path and not related to the warning. Six Contributing Factors were identified, two in respect of the indications of unreliable airspeed and four more in respect of the diagnosis of the origin of the NAV ADR DISAGREE Alert as follows: The unreliable airspeed indications Drains in all three pitot probes were blocked, preventing water contamination from being effectively discharged. Before and during the flight, water temporarily obstructed all three of the aircraft’s pitot probes, resulting in erroneous airspeed indications. Differences in the airspeeds across the three air data reference systems consequently affected the engine control, flight control and auto flight systems, degrading their functionality and generating multiple system alerts.. The determination of the origin of the NAV ADR DISAGREE Alert The flight crew’s workload following multiple system failures was high, affecting their ability to process information quickly. This, combined with maintaining safe flight, resulted in the flight crew taking about 8 minutes to attend to the engine alerts and action the NAV ADR DISAGREE procedure.. When the flight crew actioned the NAV ADR DISAGREE procedure, the airspeeds were consistent on all indicators, leading them to incorrectly diagnose that the system failure was the result of an angle of attack discrepancy rather than erroneous airspeeds. The procedure informed them that in this situation, there was a risk of undue stall warning.. Although the NAV ADR DISAGREE had more immediate safety implications relating to unreliable airspeed, the ECAM alert priority logic placed this alert below the engine related faults. As a result, the NAV ADR DISAGREE alert was not immediately visible to the flight crew due to the limited space available on