for the ‘ENG 1 EPR MODE FAULT’ which involved switching both engines to N1 mode and thereafter manually adjusting the thrust were completed. However, none of those actions was followed by any change in the ECAM display, so this alert was cleared as was the next message, the same alert for the number 2 engine, which did not require any more actions than had already been completed for the no 1 engine so this alert was cleared too. This led to the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ message (Navigation - Air Data Reference disagree) first becoming visible on the ECAM almost 8½ minutes after the AP disconnect had occurred. The required action for this alert was to crosscheck the indicated airspeed on the three available displays which were confirmed as the same which meant the message could be cleared. The next message displayed was the advisory ‘F/CTL ALTN LAW’ which when cleared led to an ‘AUTO FLT A/THR OFF’ advisory which also required no action and was cleared. Advisories for the lack of rudder limiter above 160 knots followed. The flight was continued en-route after communicating with their company and the crew began consulting the FCOM for more information. They noted that the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ procedure and the associated alternate law procedure both stated that if no speed disagreement had been found then there was an angle of attack discrepancy and an associated “risk of undue stall warning”. It also noted that once the landing gear was lowered, Alternate Law would change to Direct Law. Approximately 30 minutes into the flight, and about 150 nm from Perth, the Captain decided to return there. A further attempt to engage the Captain’s AP was not successful but it did restore his FD and after rebooting the no 2 Flight Augmentation Computer (FAC2), the AP did become available. The descent progressed normally and the Captain transferred control to the First Officer. Then, passing about 10,000 feet, the Captain noticed that his airspeed was decreasing and informed the First Officer who subsequently “recalled observing that the minimum speed warning area on the captain’s airspeed indicator was increasing and announced that there was a disagreement between the airspeed indicators”. The Captain disconnected the AP and a check of the three airspeed indicators showed that the Captain’s was indicating a lower speed than the other two so the Captain switched to ADR 3 which restored a correct airspeed reading and he therefore re-engaged the AP and the crew continued with their landing preparations. About 3 minutes later, another un-commanded AP disconnect occurred with similar airspeeds on both pilots displays. The AP disconnect warning was cleared and the Rudder Limiter caution was observed. Radar vectors were requested from ATC to increase track miles to ILS LLZ interception and an orbit was performed at 5000 feet QNH. The Captain used the time to review their situation, noting that they were in Alternate Law and that Direct Law with loss of all flight envelope protections would follow once the gear