was extended. He also “reiterated that there was a risk of an undue stall warning” and decided that a PAN would be declared to ATC advising that they had control system issues, were manually flying the aircraft and were in Alternate Law. ATC responded by offering attendance of the emergency services for the landing, which was accepted. After a turn to intercept the runway 21 ILS LLZ had been commenced, the Captain took over control and requested flaps 1 and a target speed of 200 knots. Then, with the aircraft at 2,550 feet QNH and still in the turn, the stall system warning was activated. The Captain continued the turn and was recorded as repeatedly announcing “disregard” and after 6 seconds, the warning ceased. Once established on the ILS GS, with his airspeed indication reading 170 knots, the Captain requested flap 3 but the First Officer, whose indicated airspeed was 190 knots, responded that the flap 3 limit speed was 185 knots. The approach was continued and the Captain requested that the target airspeed should be set to 145 knots, about 3 knots higher than the calculated approach speed “to carry a little extra speed for the approach”. The landing gear was extended at 2,400 feet and the remainder of the approach and landing was completed without further incident after 70 minutes airborne and the aircraft was taxied to its allocated parking position and shut down. During post flight maintenance action by the operator, it was found that all three pitot systems were contaminated with water, with one drain hole blocked in both the left and right systems and both drain holes blocked in the standby system. Solid matter as well as water was found to have been contaminating the standby pitot system. The system contaminants were not collected or analysed and it proved impossible to establish their source. It was confirmed that the recommended maintenance requirements for the pitot systems had been followed and noted that there was no previous history of system contamination in any of the aircraft types operated by the company involved. Nevertheless, there had been an on-ground erroneous airspeed event three days and three flights prior to the investigated flight and evidence was found in the downloaded FDR data from that flight and the two flights which separated it from the investigated flight that there had been transient rejections of ADR 3 data by the aircraft flight data system in flight without any corresponding in-flight airspeed anomalies. It was considered that the on-ground event three days earlier had been “an opportunity for the operator to have identified an unreliable airspeed indication event and carried out the actions recommended by the manufacturer”. However, it was noted that the aircraft had been at an airport without resident maintenance support at the time and the flight crew had cured the problem by following guidance from company maintenance to recycle the aircraft electrics. Airbus advised that “most airspeed discrepancy events during take-off or approach were the result of water