the ECAM display. [Safety Issue]. A NAV ADR DISAGREE alert can be triggered by either an airspeed discrepancy, or angle of attack discrepancy. The alert does not indicate which, and the associated procedure may lead flight crews to incorrectly diagnosing the source of the alert when the airspeed is erroneous for a short period and no airspeed discrepancy is present when the procedure is carried out. [Safety Issue]. An Additional Factor that increased risk was also identified as “believing it to be an erroneous (stall) warning due to an angle of attack discrepancy, the flight crew disregarded a real stall warning during the approach”. An Additional Finding was that “the source of the foreign material blocking the pitot probe drain holes could not be identified”. Safety Action taken by Airbus in response to the findings of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: the relative ECAM display priority of the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ alert has been increased so that it has a higher priority than ‘EPR MODE FAULT’ alerts. This will significantly improve the detectability of a transient airspeed discrepancy. It is noted that the FCTM presents this alert as one of the typical situations which require the application of the ‘UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION’ QRH procedure.. After review of AoA failure cases which lead to the triggering of the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ procedure, it has been decided to remove the information line ‘RISK OF UNDUE STALL WARN’ from the ECAM message. The existence of a Stall Warning System is deemed sufficient. This modification will be introduced at the same time as the change in the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ alert priority.. The ability to detect unreliable airspeed situations will be further enhanced by introduction of an ‘Unreliable Airspeed Mitigation Means’ (UAMM) function. This will mean that in the event of a scenario such as the investigated one, the ECAM should display the (red) ‘NAV ALL SPD UNCERTAIN’ warning, which will require the ‘ADR CHECK PROC / UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION’ procedure to be applied. This function is planned for introduction on new-build aircraft during 2019 and will also be available for retrofit to in-service aircraft subject to their having a minimum computer configuration.. The Final Report was released on 4 April 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.