contamination of the pitot probes and the pitot probe drainage holes being obstructed by external particles”. It was also noted that the pitot probes fitted to the aircraft involved had an enhanced water trap and relocated drain holes which together were likely to have provided increased system reliability in the event of heavy rain. There was no recurrence of contamination-related pitot system problems following the return of the aircraft to service. The Investigation was particularly concerned to review the way ECAM information had been provided to the crew when the problems arose. It was noted that the procedure for the amber NAV ADR DISAGREE alert, which had appeared once the EPR mode faults for both engines had been cleared, required that the three airspeed displays be cross checked. If they were not all the same, the crew were directed to apply the ADR check procedure, but if at the time the procedure was actioned there was no airspeed disagreement (which was the case during the investigated flight) then the procedure referred the crew to the actions for an AoA discrepancy which were confined to noting the remark ‘RISK OF UNDUE STALL WARN’. It was found that although the FCOM provided specific procedures for how to manage an airspeed discrepancy by following the ‘Unreliable airspeed indication/ADR check procedure’, there was no reference to this in the ECAM messages received. It was also noted that whilst AoA values could be viewed on the MFD ‘alpha call up’ page, this option was not mentioned in the procedure to be followed to confirm an angle of attack disagreement. In summary, it was observed that if the system specifically identified a fault in any of the angle of attack systems, an amber ECAM message ‘NAV (CAPT/FO/STBY) AOA FAULT’ would be displayed for which the FCOM response was ‘crew awareness’. No evidence was found that the amber ECAM alert ‘NAV IAS DISCREPANCY’ amber alert, which is activated when a discrepancy between the two primary airspeed displays is detected - and which would require a cross check of all three airspeeds and the use of air data switching as required - occurred during the investigated flight. This indicated that ADR 3 (standby airspeed) was rejected before ADR 1 and 2 so thereby triggering the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ message. Airbus advised that this message would have inhibited the ‘NAV IAS DISCREPANCY’ alert which, as the ‘NAV ADR DISAGREE’ message was latched until the end of the flight, would have prevented the ‘NAV IAS DISCREPANCY’ alert being triggered when a discrepancy between the Captain’s and First Officer’s airspeed displays occurred at a later stage in the flight. In the light of these findings, it was considered by the Investigation that “the number and nature of the indications of unreliable airspeed indicate that the development of a situation can be insidious and not necessarily obvious”. It was concluded that the crew actions in response to the sequence of ECAM messages which they were presented with had resulted in the ‘NAV