An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data from the aircraft FDR and 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded. Information on the total and aircraft type experience of the pilots involved was not recorded. It was established that on arriving at the aircraft prior to the departure of the event flight, its first flight of the day, the crew found a ground engineer present and that the APU was running but that a GPU was also connected to the aircraft. The engineer advised this was because the batteries had gone flat during overnight maintenance whilst rectification of an avionics defect was being performed. On entering the flight deck, the Captain reported having found it “still untidy” after the overnight maintenance with “a number of controls and system configurations not at their normal settings”. The battery charge was subsequently completed prior to engine start. Takeoff from runway 21 with the Captain as PF proceeded normally until the aircraft was climbing through about 8,000 feet QNH about 4 minutes after getting airborne when an un-commanded disconnection of the A/T was followed 10 seconds later by an un-commanded disconnection of the AP with Normal Law replaced by Alternate Law. The first of several attempts to re-engage the AP was unsuccessful and the crew reported that they had then identified an ECAM alert ‘ENG 1 EPR MODE FAULT’. At this point, it was considered likely that the ECAM display had probably appeared as in the illustration below such that it was only displaying the first lines of a multi-line generated message on the (presumed) basis that the complete message had been generated with its lines in priority order so that the necessary actions would be taken in that order. The Captain took manual control of the aircraft and continued the climb. The airspeed control mode had automatically changed from ‘managed’ to ‘selected’ with the corresponding advice to set the target airspeed to the green dot speed but as this was not visible, the Captain decided to fly at a 10° nose-up attitude to ensure that the aircraft continued to climb. The Captain commented to the First Officer in respect of the loss of the airspeed limit and other speed information and at this time, FDR data showed that the Captain’s airspeed display was around 290KIAS, 40 knots in excess of the applicable speed restriction of 250 knots. A little over 2 minutes after the AP had disconnected, the flight was re-cleared to continue climb to FL 350. Without first acknowledging this, the Captain asked the First Officer to run the ECAM actions related to the alerts received (referred to as ECAM actions). This action was interrupted when the Captain decided instead to request stopping the climb at FL 200 and advise that they were “trouble shooting”. The First Officer’s attempt to run the ECAM actions was further interrupted when ATC gave a frequency change from Perth Departures to Melbourne Centre, but after this had been achieved, the ECAM actions