Provide timely and clear instructions regarding frequency changes. A planned frequency change is by far the most common point from which this type of communication problem originates. Typical examples of frequency change issues are: a significant delay in pilots making their selection of and/ or checking in with the next sector frequency; controllers delaying frequency change instructions (e.g. due to high workload or other lack of proper traffic oversight) to the extent that the aircraft exits the coverage of allocated ground radio transmitter(s) for the frequency; the selection of an incorrect frequency by pilots or the transmission of an incorrect next sector frequency by a controller. Be attentive to pilots’ readback and provide appropriate correction immediately when an incorrect frequency readback is identified. When the readback is ambiguous (for example: the call-sign is omitted during the readback, or when the readback is unclear), promptly repeat the instruction. Use standard phraseology and English language only. Recognise the potential for misunderstanding created by heavily-accented English, especially when the two parties' accents differ significantly. Be proactive. Inform pilots as necessary when there are aircraft with similar call-signs (e.g. Airline 213 and Airline 313) on the same frequency. Also, a simple call ("Airline 213, ATS unit") can be used to draw the pilot's attention before issuing the frequency change instruction. If a response is received from the wrong aircraft (or from both), clarifying the misunderstanding would be easy.. When giving instructions, speak slowly, clearly and at a constant rate and adopt the same level of care when pronouncing call-signs; use short and concise messages. Issue a frequency change as a single instruction. Training – controllers should be made aware of the factors leading to PLOC, its potential consequences, how to recognise such events and how to apply correctly available defences. Implementation of controller-pilot data link communications (CPDLC).