The supervisor had worked for an excessive number of hours over a long period of time, which lowered his performance and his aptitude to carry out checks efficiently.. Boeing work card n°32-011-00-02 in force in July 2011 did not specifically mention re-connecting the shimmy damper hydraulic line to the aeroplane’s hydraulic system.. Safety Action taken by Jet2.com to improve the standards at their Leeds/Bradford base maintenance facility was noted. It included: the introduction of a new technical procedure for managing and checking plugs to blank off hydraulic systems, pneumatic and gas systems which specified the attachment of visible identification tags on the plugs used and the making an entry in a log for every plug installed on a pipe or line. Removal of any plug then requires a log entry and upon completion of any task involving plug removal a check that the total number of plugs installed is the same as the number previously removed.. the addition to the Jet2.com landing gear change Work Card of a specific requirement for a supervisor check of the hydraulic connection on the shimmy damper and a further independent check by a second supervisor.. the introduction of a revised rostering system for maintenance personnel aimed at better management of fatigue risks. a re-evaluation of maintenance task planning and modifications to avoid overloading available resources.. Safety Action taken by Boeing to revise the Boeing 737 -300/400/500 AMM in respect of the requirements for the removal/installation of the shimmy damper and the removal/ installation of the main landing gear was noted. These revisions introduce a specific requirement to reconnect the main landing gear shimmy damper hydraulic line as well as carry out a purge thereof. This action automatically triggers updates to the associated Work Cards. The Final Report of the Investigation Accident Report: Vibrations, failure of the right main landing gear torsion link during landing roll was published in March 2012. No Safety Recommendations were made.