the aircraft was rotated at a speed lower than the actual takeoff weight of the aircraft required because the takeoff weight used to calculate the takeoff performance figures was 70 tonnes less than the actual weight. This had resulted in the insufficient thrust to accelerate the aircraft at the necessary rate and the setting of V speeds which were much lower than those actually required for the prevailing weight. Since the absence of sufficient thrust during what was a reduced thrust takeoff was not detected by the crew during takeoff, thrust was not increased in response to perceived abnormally slow acceleration. The origin of the incorrect takeoff weight was the ‘Last Minute Change’ (LMC) made to the automatically generated load and trim sheet when one of the 344 checked-in passengers did not board the aircraft. Whilst the actual adjustment required for this circumstance was of marginal significance to computation of the takeoff performance data - a reduction of 100 kg - the load controller’s handwritten LMC introduced a significant error in the takeoff weight by writing it clearly but erroneously as 229,075 kg instead of 299,075 kg - although the original figure was still clearly visible as shown on the illustration below. As the same error was not made with the correction to the landing weight, this then showed a landing weight which was higher than the takeoff weight. It was noted that the load controller involved had “ten years of experience in handling flights for the airlines including the one concerned”. The part of the load sheet where the error was made. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Whilst this carelessness of the load controller involved was the source of the problem encountered, it was evident in signing for their acceptance of the hand-amended load and trim sheet, the Captain could not have reviewed the handwritten changes with necessary care to check that only the necessary 100kg had been deducted from all three weights. He had also not noticed that the zero fuel weight was only an implausible 4 tonnes less than the takeoff weight and that the landing weight shown was more than the takeoff weight. Crucially, in order for both pilots to enter the ZFW and TOW into the pilots individual EFBs, the Captain was found to have merely read out the amended weights from the load sheet as both he and the First Officer simultaneously entered them into their EFBs. The First Officer was not able to check the load sheet himself before entering the weights on it although both pilots could reasonably have been expected to notice when entering the ZFW and TOW into their EFBs that the difference between them of only 4 tonnes was nowhere near the 60 tonnes they were expecting to burn whilst crossing the Atlantic. The effect of the use of significantly incorrect performance data on takeoff safety margins was found to have been compromised. It was calculated that without use of thrust reversers, an all-engines operative rejected takeoff at V1