A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board making use of relevant data from the CVR and the FDR. The experience or duty period of the operating crew was not recorded nor was the presence or absence of any observing supernumerary crew on the flight deck. Shortly before departure from the gate, the Captain was advised of one “no show” passenger which had necessitated a handwritten adjustment to the weights shown on the load sheet and it was presented for acceptance and signature. The weights for takeoff were then entered into each pilot’s EFB.Then, after notification of departure runway and SID, both pilots adjusted the information in their EFBs and crosschecked the output of their independently calculated EFB outputs - the flap setting, engine thrust (with assumed temperature if thrust reduced) and takeoff V speeds. After this, the First Officer entered the data from his EFB into the FMS and “the ZFW [Zero Fuel Weight] weight from the load sheet was used to program the FMS”. The FMS V speeds were then replaced by those calculated by the EFBs and this change was checked on the FMS takeoff reference page. With the Captain acting as PF, the aircraft then taxied as cleared to runway 18C. Once cleared to takeoff, the Captain set the EFB-calculated takeoff thrust and the First Officer monitored the speed and on reaching the V speeds announced them. On the VR call, rotation to the indicated pitch attitude was commenced and the aircraft became airborne. The Captain stated that he had found the handling in pitch “sloppy” and that the aircraft had not accelerated and behaved as he had expected, which had led him to limit the pitch attitude achieved during rotation to less than the PFD command bar indicated. The First Officer recollected that “during or just after the rotation, he felt a slight pitch hesitation and a bump” but this had not been accompanied by any noise. However, the aircraft became airborne well before the end of the 3,300 metre long runway. A few minutes after checking in with the Departure frequency, the controller advised that TWR suspected that a tail strike may have occurred and two minutes after that one of the cabin crew advised that “an unusual scraping sound had been heard during the takeoff”. The crew then asked for and received clearance to stop their climb at FL150. Although the EICAS did not indicate that a tail strike had occurred, it was decided to make a precautionary return which, after fuel dumping, was accomplished uneventfully to a landing on runway 27. An inspection after arrival on the assigned parking gate found that although the tail skid detection system shoe had been “slightly scraped” during a tail strike, it had remained within AMM limits for despatch. The absence of a ‘TAIL STRIKE’ warning on the flight deck was attributed to that fact that the “fin” of the tail strike detection system was still intact. The tail strike occurred when