would have resulted in an overrun but had maximum reverse thrust been used, an overrun would have been avoided by 52 metres. It was also calculated that had an engine failure occurred during the first segment of climb (from V1 though lift off to landing gear retracted), the thrust on the remaining engine would have been unable to provide a positive climb gradient. An engine failure between gear retracted and 400 feet agl with reduced thrust on the remaining engine would have resulted in a climb gradient that was less than 1%. The specified minimum climb gradient for the SID being flown was 3.3%. It was noted that at the time the Investigation was complete, there was no on board system on the 777-300 which would generate a warning if the commanded engine thrust setting not sufficient for the aircraft configuration and runway/weather conditions. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The use of incorrect data for the takeoff performance calculation led to an incorrect thrust setting resulting in a takeoff being performed without the required safety margins. In case of an engine failure at or just after the V1 decision speed or at or after liftoff, the aeroplane would not have been able to continue the flight safely.. Investigation reports into takeoff performance occurrences show that in the past decades the airline industry has made efforts on a global scale to improve the operational procedures to prevent incorrect takeoff thrust settings. However these efforts have not resulted in a significant reduction of the risk and incidents.. Introduction of new systems that are fully integrated in the cockpit and, among others, provide a timely alert to flight crew when the achieved takeoff performance is inadequate for the given aeroplane configuration, actual weight and balance and aerodrome conditions, is a matter of urgency.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Federal Aviation Administration take the initiative in the development of specifications for and, subsequently, development of requirements for an independent on board system that detects gross input errors in the process of takeoff performance calculations and/or alerts the flight crew during takeoff of abnormal low accelerations for the actual aeroplane configuration as well as insufficient runway length available in case of intersection takeoffs and do so in close consultation with the aviation industry, including manufacturers of commercial jet transport aircraft.. that the International Air Transport Association (IATA) develop a standard policy for airlines with regard to procedures for reduced thrust takeoffs, including a risk analysis addressing cost reductions versus introduced safety risks.. that Boeing research and develop for existing and future aeroplanes an independent on board system that detects gross input errors in the process of takeoff performance calculations and/or alerts the flight crew during takeoff of abnormal low accelerations for the actual aeroplane configuration as well as insufficient runway length available in case of intersection takeoffs.. that the International Civil