being left in high speed mode making single engine directional control on the ground effectively impossible. A320, Gold Coast QLD Australia, 2017On 18 December 2017, an A320 crew found that only one thrust reverser deployed when the reversers were selected shortly after touchdown but were able to retain directional control. The Investigation found that the aircraft had been released to service in Adelaide with the affected engine reverser lockout pin in place. This error was found to have occurred in a context of multiple failures to follow required procedures during the line maintenance intervention involved for which no mitigating factors of any significance could be identified. A corrective action after a previous similar event at the same maintenance facility was also found not to have been fully implemented. B763, Halifax NS Canada, 2019On 4 March 2019, a Boeing 767-300 crew lost directional control of their aircraft as speed reduced following their touchdown at Halifax and were unable to prevent it being rotated 180° on the icy surface before coming to a stop facing the runway landing threshold. The Investigation found that the management of the runway safety risk by the airport authority had been systemically inadequate and that the communication of what was known by ATC about the runway surface condition had been incomplete. A number of subsequent corrective actions taken by the airport authority were noted. B738, Darwin Australia, 2016On 6 December 2016, a Boeing 737-800 approaching Darwin at night in the vicinity of thunderstorm activity suddenly encountered very heavy rain just before landing which degraded previously good visual reference. After drifting right of centreline just before and after touchdown, the right main gear left the runway for 400 metres before regaining. The landing and taxi-in was subsequently completed. The Investigation attributed the excursion to difficulty in discerning lateral drift during the landing flare to an abnormally wide runway with no centreline lighting in poor night visibility and noted similar previous outcomes had been consistently associated with this context. SU95, Moscow Sheremetyevo Russia, 2019On 5 May 2019, a Sukhoi RRJ-95B making a manually-flown return to Moscow Sheremetyevo after a lightning strike caused a major electrical systems failure soon after departure made a mismanaged landing which featured a sequence of three hard bounces of increasing severity. The third of these occurred with the landing gear already collapsed and structural damage and a consequential fuel-fed fire followed as the aircraft veered off the runway at speed. The subsequent evacuation was only partly successful and 41 of the 73 occupants died and 3 sustained serious injury. An Interim Report has been published. B772, Dhaka Bangladesh, 2018On 24 July 2018, a Boeing 777-200 making its second attempt to land at Dhaka in moderate to heavy rain partly left the runway during its landing roll and its right main landing gear sustained serious impact damage before the whole aircraft returned to the runway with its damaged gear assembly then causing runway damage. The Investigation attributed the excursion to the flight crew s inadequate coordination