After a delay of 11 days in the reporting of the incident to the Myanmar Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) by ATC, an Investigation was commenced. The ATR 72 flight crew stated that they had been unaware that an incident subject to investigation had occurred and had therefore not reported it to the AAIB. Radar and communication channel recordings covering the event were available to the Investigation and it was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had been good and had not been a factor in what happened. It was documented that the 42 year-old A320 Captain had 1,504 total flying hours and the 30 year-old First Officer had 1,102 total flying hours. The flight involved was their first flight of the day. The 41 year-old ATR72 Captain had 3,807 total flying hours and the 47 year-old ATR72 Co-Pilot had 3,279 total flying hours. It was established that at the time of the event, a trainee controller was in position as the “duty air traffic controller”. She had joined the Air Traffic Department three months earlier and her duties on the day included a one hour period in the TWR position supervised by the Watch Controller. At the time of the event, the trainee described the traffic as “light” - the two aircraft involved were the only ones she was controlling. The APP position was next to the TWR position and at the time was also occupied by a trainee controller who, having joined the Air Traffic Department 6 days earlier, was being supervised by the Controller-in-Charge. Times during which traffic was light were specifically selected for trainee controllers to gain experience in position. The 3,413 metre-long runway 21 was in use and the A320 had been instructed to line up and wait. The trainee tower controller was using a headset and the Watch Controller, who was not listening in, was unaware of this exchange. After noting that there was another aircraft (the ATR72) on the ILS approach to runway 21 with about 7 miles to go, she “went to the coffee bar to make coffee” and had not returned by the time the conflict occurred. One minute after receiving a correct read back from the A320, the trainee tower controller instructed the ATR72 to report at 4 DME from touchdown. When no takeoff clearance followed, the A320 called “standing by for takeoff clearance” and received the response from the trainee controller “behind landing aircraft on final, line up runway 21”. The A320 immediately replied “we already line up runway 21” but despite repeating the call after there was no response to it, there was no response to the second call either. After 30 seconds had elapsed, the trainee approach controller intervened to give a takeoff clearance to the A320 and instruct the ATR72 to “continue”. The account of the event provided does not clarify when (or whether) the ATR 72 was given a landing clearance. Examination of the radar recording confirmed that the ATR72 had crossed the runway 21