threshold on its final approach before the A320 was clear of the same runway which was “contrary to the control of arriving aircraft as per Clause 7.10 of ICAO Doc 4444 as well as (the) control of arriving aircraft as per the Myanmar MATS”. It was concluded that the minimum separation between the two aircraft was 1.2 nm laterally and 50 feet vertically. The trainee tower controller subsequently stated that she had forgotten that she had already instructed the A320 to line up and wait and when reminded by its crew that they were waiting for takeoff clearance, “she did not know what to do”. In respect of the separation of landing aircraft and preceding landing and departing aircraft using the same runway, it was noted that ATS procedures in respect of runway occupancy state that “a landing aircraft will not normally be permitted to cross the runway threshold on its final approach until the preceding departing aircraft has crossed the end of the runway-in-use”. It was also noted that in the case of a runway which is observed to be obstructed after a takeoff or landing clearance to it has been given, the “appropriate action” is to: cancel the take-off clearance for a departing aircraft. instruct a landing aircraft to execute a go-around or missed approach. in all cases inform the aircraft of the runway incursion or obstruction and its location in relation to the runway. complete an air traffic incident report. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: The breakdown in separation between the A320 and the ATR 72 was the result of the instruction given by the (trainee) tower controller to A320 "behind landing aircraft on final, line up and wait" when it had already lined up (in accordance with its clearance) and was waiting on Runway 21 at Yangon International Airport.. ATC did not inform the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau of Myanmar of the incident.. Safety Action taken by the Air Traffic Department during the course of the Investigation was noted to have included the comprehensive retraining of all three controllers on duty in the TWR at the time of the event in respect of all the procedures relevant to their roles, their responsibilities when in position and the requirements of the Safety Management System. The latter included both ATS Safety Occurrence Reporting as specified in Appendix B of the SMS Manual and overview of ICAO Doc 9859. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: A trainee controller should be given the training course on ‘Control of Arriving Aircraft’ as per ICAO Doc 4444.. When a trainee controller is in position, a watch controller should be with them all the time.. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 6 June 2018.