An Investigation was carried out by the Estonian Safety Investigation Bureau. The parameters available on the FDR were assessed to be irrelevant to the Investigation and it was not removed. It was discovered that data on the 2 hour CVR had been intentionally erased after the event but were successfully recovered and a subsequent sound spectrum analysis proved important to the Investigation. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain, who was PF for the investigated take-off, had accumulated 14,500 total flying hours which include 530 hours on type. The 49 year-old First Officer had 2,500 total flying total hours of which 2,000 hours were on type. It was established that when the final item on the After Start Checklist 'Start Locks' which refers to the disengagement of the propeller start locks was read out by the First Officer, "the Captain did not reply to that item". During the subsequent taxi from the apron to the beginning of runway 14, both pilots stated that they had "not noticed any abnormalities". They stated that on completion of the Before Take-off Checklist, take-off power had been immediately applied, upon which "the aircraft turned sharply to the right and the crew could not control the directional movement of the aircraft with nose wheel steering or rudder". The Captain reported that he had retarded the power levers to idle and tried unsuccessfully to correct the direction of travel using the rudder. He had eventually regained directional control and had decided to continue "over the grass to the apron where the passengers were disembarked". After this had been completed, the crew had started the engines again, taxied back to the runway and tested the aircraft engines, propellers and systems without detecting any abnormalities. It was noted that "during […] interview, the crew reported “strange noises” coming from the right engine on engine start and starting locks disengagement" but that no evidence was subsequently found of any malfunction. After careful inspections and some testing, no evidence of any compromise to full aircraft airworthiness before or after the excursion was found and in the concurrent absence of any adverse weather or runway conditions which might have contributed to the event, the remainder of the Investigation was "focused on crew coordination and training aspects". It was noted that the aircraft is powered by two Honeywell TPE331-10UF engines which drive four bladed propellers. The engine has a two stage centrifugal compressor and a three stage axial flow turbine. Propeller pitch change is achieved by using boosted engine oil pressure to drive the blades towards fine pitch / reverse and spring pressure assisted with counterweights to drive the blades to coarse pitch / feather. After engine shut-down, this system results in a tendency for spring pressure to coarsen blade pitch so in order to prevent this from happening and thereby reduce the load on the engine starter motor, the blades are held at zero pitch for engine start-up by starting locks, which are automatically turned on shutdown and must be