disengaged by pilot action after engine start. This disengagement needs a combination of an engine RPM greater than 28% (at least 450 rpm) and application of enough hydraulic pressure to the fine side of the pitch control piston to move it forward. This is achieved by moving the power levers to the REVERSE to increase engine torque. It was noted that the aircraft manufacturer's 'Normal Procedures' for taxiing require a “Take off torque” Check to be performed to verify the position of the starting locks but that "there was no procedure in the Operator's 'Taxi' or 'Before Take-Off' Check Lists to verify the status of the start locks before take off power was applied". It was also noted that with only one propeller off the start lock, it would have been possible to taxi the aircraft normally "at all operating weights within the ground range". It was clear from a sound spectrum analysis of the CVR data that, although the Captain had not replied to the challenge 'Start Locks' at the end of the After Start Checks, there had been "some pilot action" which had been intended to disengage them. It was noted that "while the crew went through the After Start Check List, the engines had been running at approximately 72% (equivalent to 76Hz on the CVR) and that just after the 'Start Locks' call, both engines had briefly reached 81% (equivalent to 86Hz) and 80% (equivalent to 85Hz) one after the other during the check". However, although the RPM applied had been enough to overcome the elastic forces of the start lock springs, the power levers had not been moved all the way to the REVERSE position and held there until the engine torque had increased. The right hand propeller had remained on the starting lock but the left hand one had been released. The Captain confirmed that the there was no flight deck indication of start latch position and that this asymmetric condition went unnoticed. He also advised that torque indications were not checked when seeking to disengage the start locks and neither pilot was familiar with the design of the start lock system or its operation. Data on the CVR showed that take off power was set 20 seconds after completion of the Before Take-off Checklist. Two seconds after the rpm began to increase, the aircraft had veered sharply to the right due to the asymmetrical power to the propellers. The First Officer had immediately called a stop and the crew had "eventually" regained directional control of the aircraft and decided that in view of the extent of the excursion, they would continue taxiing over grass to the apron. The formal statement of Conclusions included the following: The pilots did not perform the propeller lock disengagement procedure correctly.. The crew did not try to stop the aircraft exiting the runway by applying the brakes.. The crew erased the CVR recordings after this Serious Incident.. The Cause of the Serious Incident was formally determined as "incorrect pilot