the crew reduced the engine thrust to idle in response to required response to an ECAM ‘ENG 2 STALL’ annunciation. FDR data showed that at about the time ‘ENG 2 STALL’ appeared, the engine oil quantity in Engine 2 had begun to reduce from the level previously recorded for both engines. This would be the expected consequence of a loss of clamping across the front bearing chamber elastomeric oil seal due to bolt unwinding. The liberated oil would then have been ignited either by frictional heat from the rubbing seals or relative movement between the front bearing housing and the low pressure roller bearing housing. This oil-fed fire took hold in the cavity between the front bearing housing and the fan disc, causing aluminium alloy components there to melt but the temperature was not sufficient to damage structural engine parts made from materials with higher melting points. It was considered likely that once the oil seal bolts had fully unwound, the changed air pressure and oil feed conditions would have led to the fire self-extinguishing. The applicable engine certification standards for Trent 700 bird ingestion were contained in (European) Joint Aviation Regulation JAR-E 800, which stated that “when the front of the Engine is struck by a number of medium sized […] or small birds […] there is no unacceptable immediate or ultimate loss of Engine performance, no serious increase of Engine operating temperatures or deterioration of Engine handling characteristics over the full range of Engine operating conditions and no dangerous physical damage” with medium-sized birds weighing up to 700 grams and small birds up to 110 grams. EDITOR’S NOTE: In addition to remarks included in the Official Report and quoted in this summary, the engine certification standard which the Trent 700 had to meet when at a typical initial climb speed and take off thrust includes “simultaneous ingestion of up to 16 small sized birds of weight 850 gm […] shall not cause the engine to suddenly and completely fail and it shall continue to deliver usable but slowly decreasing minimum thrust over a period of 20 minutes after ingestion”. It was noted that what occurred to the engine during the investigated event was not what is tested during the medium bird certification test which requires 8 birds of at least 680 gm being fired into the engine at above 168 knot with the bird trajectory longitudinally aligned with the engine. It was also noted that a total of 430 in-service bird strike events had been recorded since the Trent 700 engine was introduced, of which only five had resulted in the loss of any fan blade material and that all except this one had been caused by large birds. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The ingestion of a single masked lapwing close to V1 but below Vr during the takeoff roll caused the release of a small section of fan blade which led to the number 2 engine producing only idle thrust after approximately 2