was used to highlight areas of organic debris and showed that such debris was present both around the circumference of the fan blade set and in other areas of the engine. DNA analysis of the samples taken confirmed it was from a masked lapwing.. The same UV light inspection also showed that the blade with the missing tip had organic debris in the area near the point of separation and there was also organic debris on the blade-tip that had been recovered at Brisbane (see the first illustration below). DNA analysis of samples from both these areas also confirmed masked lapwing as the source.. Based on the distribution of the debris and engine speed conditions, it was concluded that multiple birds had impacted the fan but that the damage on or near the blade from which the tip had separated was consistent with impact with a single bird.. The blade which had lost its tip showed evidence of damage consistent with soft body impact close to the point of tip release with the radial height of the blade fracture in a leading edge impact cup at approximately 84% of blade-height. Laboratory analysis of the blade fracture surface confirmed the fracture mode as overload with no evidence of fatigue or any pre-existing material deficiencies that could have contributed to the fracture.. As per the illustration, blade damage was also found on one of the blades next to the tip-loss blade which was consistent with hard body impact but laboratory analysis did not identify that any foreign object had impacted that blade.. UV light showing up bird remains on the damaged fan blade. [Reproduced from the original Report] Rolls Royce subsequently sought to use mathematical modelling to determine what conditions would be capable of causing such a relatively small bird to damage an engine fan blade. This modelling used the engine speed (81% N1) and aircraft speed (120-140 knots) corresponding to that at the time of the event in combination with variations of strike position (radial height) and angle of incidence (bird orientation). Only one of the modelled scenarios matched the results of the event under investigation and this was a strike with the bird’s longitudinal axis aligned with the relative velocity of the blade at a radial height of 83 per cent - essentially the radial height disclosed by the physical evidence. It was stated to the Investigation by Rolls Royce that vibration experienced could be attributed to the loss of the blade tip which would have caused the fan to run out of balance when at takeoff thrust. It was also considered that high thrust engine operation with the fan out of balance would most likely have resulted in the outboard section of the fan rear seal being lost due to contact between the rotating and static components with fragments of this seal then entering the engine core leading to “significant damage to the compressors”. This would have created the conditions for the series of compressor stalls which occurred until