An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established from FDR data that Engine 2 vibrations had increased as the aircraft approached Vr and as it subsequently passed approximately 2,300 feet in the climb, an ECAM ‘ENG 2 STALL’ annunciation appeared accompanied by loud banging noises typically associated with such a stall. The corresponding ECAM actions were commenced and a PAN was declared to ATC. As the climb was continued through 4,000 feet, an ECAM annunciation of ‘ENG 2 FAIL’ appeared and at about the same time, the Purser relayed a message from an off duty Company pilot in the passenger cabin advising of a fire in the affected engine being visible. The ECAM ‘ENG 2 FAIL’ procedure was completed and its fire suppression system activated. The ‘PAN’ was upgraded to a MAYDAY and a diversion to Brisbane was made with an overweight landing on runway 01 completed. After clearing the runway, the aircraft was stopped to allow inspection by the Airport Fire Service and after an ‘all-clear’ was given, it was then taxied to the terminal. A visual inspection of the departure runway by the Gold Coast airport operator was made and bird remains and engine debris were recovered on runway 32 including one complete carcass and additional debris from another bird. No other foreign objects with the potential to have caused the engine damage were found. Video recordings of the runway at the time of the takeoff were also found to show flashes of flame coming from the rear of engine 2 during the takeoff with the location of these flashes coinciding with the area from where the bird remains and engine debris were recovered. Tissue samples from the bird remains were subsequently identified as from a masked lapwing, a medium-sized bird which weighs between 230 and 400 grams. An examination of the complete carcass by a veterinary specialist concluded that it was unlikely to have been struck by a moving object and its demise had probably been the result of wake vortex. No signs of burning were evident on the other bird which indicated that it had not been ingested into an aircraft engine. An engineering examination of the failed engine at Brisbane found a single fan blade-tip section with approximate dimensions of 14cm x 12.5 cm missing from one fan blade and the fan rear seal broken into pieces and scattered throughout the bypass areas of the engine. There was also evidence that fire had occurred within the engine. A sample of visible organic debris was taken from the engine in Brisbane and sent for DNA analysis to determine the bird species but the outcome was inconclusive, possibly due to the sample being affected by heat or by storage conditions. The engine was then subjected to a detailed off-wing inspection and strip down by the engine manufacturer. The results from this inspection in relation to the fan blades included the following: UV light inspection of the front of the engine