also noted that the pilot had probably been “subject to subtle pressures which may have reduced his probability of making good decisions” having flown three sectors over seven hours prior to the arrival at Birmingham with his three passengers being his employees and all due to attend the same business meeting as he was. It appeared to the Investigation that “plan continuation bias” had applied in respect of the continued approach. In respect of the landing without clearance, it was considered that the normal presumption of air traffic controllers may be that a loss of communications with an aircraft established on the extended centreline of the landing runway will result in a go-around whereas pilots in that situation may expect to continue to a landing subject to no contrary indications or signals. It was felt that this disparity could lead to conflict between the controller and pilot mental models. In respect of the option for visual signals to aircraft, it was noted that these had, with appropriate regulatory approval, been withdrawn from use but that there was no documented safety case to justify this action. It was also noted that approximately three weeks prior to the investigated incident, NATS, the ANSP responsible for ATC at Birmingham, had issued a ‘Safety Notice’ entitled ‘Runway Safety - Landing without clearance’. Although titled ‘Safety Notice’ this had provided advice rather than presenting a mandatory operating instruction and due to administrative errors had been removed before some controllers, including the incident TWR controller, had seen it. The formally-recorded Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: (High pilot workload during the NDB DME 15 approach) led to peripheral tasks being dropped and (the pilot’s) decision-making process being degraded. This led, without further fault diagnosis, to the misidentification of a frequency selection error as a radio failure. From that point on, the pilot’s actions from his perspective, although based on continuation bias, were in compliance with regulations. The same human factors that led to the misidentification of the radio problem probably also led to the failure of his visual search of the runway before he landed.. The air traffic control procedures in use were compliant with the appropriate (requirements) and are standard practice throughout the UK. The controller’s planning assumption, supported by previous training, that aircraft should and probably will go around following a loss of communications, was widely shared throughout ATC management and the regulator. However, the controller’s plan provided little room for manoeuvre and included a single point, albeit unlikely, that could lead to it being disrupted.. Following a loss of communications, ICAO Doc 4444 and the UK AIP require aircraft to continue visually and at least 17 multi-pilot public transport passenger flights have landed without clearance in the UK in the 12 months to March 2011. In those cases the runway was clear.. Various Safety Actions taken subsequent to the incident were noted and four Safety Recommendations were made: That the Civil Aviation Authority resolve the conflicting expectations of flight crews and air