An Investigation into this Serious Incident was carried out by the UK AAIB. The incident aircraft was not required to be equipped with flight recorders, but the avionics system fitted recorded some flight parameters at one second intervals on an SD memory card which had retained details of the three flights flown on the day of the incident. Although this data was generally comprehensive, it did not include flap or landing gear selections, data relating to the integral Electronic Flight Bag or radio PTT activation. ATC recordings, including some Mode ‘S’ parameters and SMR, were available. The Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) current at the time of the incident included a wind direction and velocity (W/V) of 210° at 9 knots, a visibility of greater than 10 km in light rain and with cloud SCT / 600 feet and BKN / 900 feet. An NDB/DME approach had been in use for runway 15 at the time because the usual Instrument Landing System (ILS) was not available, although this was not being promulgated on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) as required. It was established that the reason why the aircraft did not check in with TWR was because the pilot had mistakenly set 118.03 instead of the correct frequency 118.30. The original ATC intention had been to depart the DHC8 in between a previously landed Boeing 737 and the incident aircraft but the loss of contact created a situation in which the TWR controller had concluded that “there was no option that would allow the (DHC8) to depart or safely clear the runway and that holding it in its current location on the Runway 15 starter extension posed the least risk”. Recorded data suggested that the pilot became visual with the runway at about 600 ft aal and at a range of about 1.3 nm from the threshold. The TWR controller assessed that touch down occurred abeam the Bravo intersection, about 270 metres from the displaced threshold and 170 metres prior to the TDZ. After vacating the runway, the pilot made contact with ATC GND on the same radio as had previously been used to attempt contact ATC TWR on the mis-set frequency. It was apparent that the incident aircraft pilot had not noticed either his frequency selection error or the stationary aircraft on the runway. It was noted that the runway involved had a black-coloured asphalt surface with an landing distance available (LDA) of 2279 metres measured from the displaced landing threshold. Prior to this was a starter extension of 290 metres of which the first 160 metres had a “beige-coloured” concrete surface. The proximity of the two aircraft during the over flight is shown below: It was noted that the incident aircraft pilot had relatively limited total flying experience, low experience on the aircraft type involved and last remembered flying an Non-Directional Beacon approach four years previously. It was considered by the Investigation that “low experience increases the probability of errors in skill and rule-based behaviour”. It was