countries in which there are air operators certified to operate MD-80 series aircraft, increase and optimise the requirements in the flight crew training programmes in the presence of buffeting at high altitudes, and also those with regard to the various configuration modes for the autothrottle system (ATS), the anti-ice system, and the monitoring of altitude and speed and their relation to aircraft power status. [58/2005-AA5]. that the Aeronautical Authorities consider the implementation of a cockpit resource management (CRM) programme as part of the procedures to be assessed in simulator and flight training, via its inclusion in the memory items required in any emergency. For that purpose, controlled training situations similar to this case could be generated, in which appropriate reactions are considered or required in order to maintain or recover an appropriate state of alertness or situational awareness in order to verify what is happening and subsequently carry out the desired decision-making process in an appropriate manner. [58/2005-AA6]. that the Aeronautical Authorities require aircraft operators and aeronautical training centres to step up training in relation to situational awareness, assertiveness and effective communication within the topics scheduled for cockpit resource management (CRM) in order to bring about a definitive change in operational culture in flight crew, in the course of which open consideration should be given, with the professional maturity this aspect requires, to the establishment of specific measures or procedures to improve the interchange of ideas (communication) between flight crew, so that the decision-making processes can be carried out in a timely and appropriate manner without producing obstacles or conflicts of competence during flights, and so that agreements and clear, precise and positive rules can be established before take-off for the purpose of ensuring appropriate planning and execution of those flights. [58/2005-AA7]. that Boeing study the possibility of designing a new algorithm or of reviewing (with a view to improving) the existing algorithms in these aircraft or systems to provide alarms or warnings in sufficient time for flight crew, firstly to recognise in good time aural and/or visual indications of any abnormal or hazardous situation, and secondly also to react in time to such alarms or warnings and then carry out a rapid and appropriate analysis and decision-making process. In this particular case, the present Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Board suggests that an additional alarm, both aural and visual (e.g. lights and a voice saying "Warning: Performance", "Warning: Performance Conflict", etc.), in what is determined to be sufficient time, could alert the crew and put it in a state of situational awareness in a more appropriate manner, and initiate more timely corrective action in order to avert this type of accident. We therefore recommend analysis of the inclusion of an additional audiovisual warning appropriate to the situation detailed here and to the causal factors of this accident. [58/2005-ODF1]. that the Manufacturers of Flight Data Recorders (FDRs) include or add the parameter relating to changes of angle of attack (AOA) during a flight, which was not recorded on the FDR equipment