actions were taken in order to recover the aircraft’s energy state, the aircraft commander’s attention being focused on the engine instrument displays, even when the First Officer said that he had identified the stall. The only recorded flight control input from this point on was a series of manual stabiliser trim inputs to increase pitch attitude which continued until the pitch-up stop was reached. Within a minute of the SPS activation, the First Officer, without reporting any emergency, told ATC that the aircraft was continuing descent to FL 240 and when ATC then asked if there was any problem on board the First Officer, on instruction from the commander stated that they had suffered a flame-out in both engines. With the rate of descent increasing through 7000 fpm, ATC cleared the aircraft for further descent at own discretion. Over the next minute, the A/T was disconnected which was followed by a significant increase in indicated EPR but with the aircraft fully stalled, the rate of descent continued to increase and as the aircraft passed FL 124, ATC were informed that the aircraft was out of control. Ground impact followed shortly afterwards. It was concluded that when SPS activation occurred, both the inaction (failure to follow the memory actions for SPS activation) and inappropriate action (manual pitch up inputs whilst stalled) combined to lead the aircraft into a deep stall condition in which the angle of attack became so great that the airflow over the horizontal stabiliser was disrupted by interference from the wing and rendered ineffective. However, this situation was a result of the loss of control created rather than a reason for the failure to recover from it in a timely and appropriate manner. The overall conclusion of the Investigation was that the lack of knowledge of the flight crew about the performance of the aircraft at high altitudes led them to attempt to climb to and cruise at a flight level which could not be sustained in the prevailing conditions because available engine thrust was insufficient. The failure to recognise and respond appropriately to this led to a progressive loss of airspeed and eventually to activation of the aircraft stall protection system but this was ignored and subsequent crew action in seeking to arrest the stalled descent by increasing pitch led to a complete loss of control, apparently without any crew understanding of what was happening. A detailed analysis of the human factors aspects of the pilots’ performance was carried out as a means to providing a behavioural understanding for the evidence of poor situational awareness and deficient Crew Resource Management which formed the context for the lack of technical knowledge demonstrated. It was noted that in 2002, Boeing had issued a Flight Operations Bulletin warning operators of MD-80s that the aircraft could decelerate to the point of stalling before the autopilot disengaged if the thrust required to maintain flight level was greater than that available. The Investigation was unable to find evidence that this Bulletin or the