An Investigation was carried out by the Venezuelan Junta Investigadora de Accidentes de Aviación Civil (JIAAC), the national Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Board with assistance from the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) and the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). The latter successfully downloaded the recovered Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). However, it was found that a number of potentially useful parameters were not recorded on the FDR and due to impact damage to the CVR, the quality of its recording was poor although still usable. Although it was concluded that “no account was taken either in the flight planning or in the flight dispatching of the limits laid down in the performance tables with regard to take-off weight, planned flight level, aircraft weight throughout the flight, or propulsion ceiling” it was noted that the flight had proceeded normally with the aircraft commander as PF and the AP and autothrottle (A/T) engaged to reach FL310 in 26 minutes. At that level, recorded data indicated that the aircraft had accelerated to reach a cruise speed of M0.74 with engine bleed anti icing systems selected on. This performance was found to be broadly compatible with the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) nominal performance which indicated that in the prevailing circumstances, a speed of M0.75 should be possible. After 13 minutes at FL310, during which clearance for some track deviations around thunderstorm cells had been obtained, climb to FL330 was sought and obtained from ATC. FL330 was reached after a slow climb during which the engine anti icing was switched off at one point to improve climb performance. Once at FL330 and still in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC), the First Officer took a toilet break and delivery of crew food followed. However, eventually, the aircraft was flying behind the power curve, which meant that the thrust required for the aircraft to maintain its speed was greater than that which the engines were producing. CVR data showed that the steadily decreasing speed indications were not properly monitored and that neither the continuing loss of airspeed nor the significance and reason for it were identified by the crew. The increase in pitch attitude which occurred as the angle of attack increased as the AP attempted to maintain level flight was also either not noticed or its significance was not appreciated. It proved impossible to maintain FL330 and when the airspeed had dropped to M0.62 after 13 minutes instead of accelerating in level flight as expected by the crew, it became obvious that a descent would have to be commenced. Clearance back to FL310 was requested and with the airspeed continuing to reduce further to M0.60 in the following 11 seconds, the AP was disengaged a descent commenced. After 29 seconds of descent, passing FL 317, there was a sudden un-commanded reduction in engine thrust and the Stall Protection System (SPS) was activated with both tactile (stick shaker) and aural warnings of an impending aerodynamic stall. None of the appropriate and necessary