content thereof had been disseminated or incorporated into pilot training at the Operator as a means of ensuring understanding of, and appropriate response to, loss of lift at high altitudes. The existence of a National Aeronautics and Space Administration Report issued in 2005 containing details of various examples of situations similar to the investigated event which had affected MD-80 series aircraft and providing recommendations for improved pilot simulator training in dealing with loss of lift at high altitudes was also noted. It was also considered that the persistent financial crisis which had been affecting the Operator and had involved pilots, including those of the accident flight, working without pay for six months, had without question “generated an unfavourable climate for (safe) air operations by creating an environment characterised by uncertainty and stress”. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that the Aeronautical Authorities require effective training of flight crew in the use of the performance tables, focusing on a knowledge of the limits applicable when operating an aircraft in flight, in order to ensure that the altitude margins laid down in the operations manuals are not exceeded, thereby averting high altitude stalls. We also recommend that dispatchers and all staff involved in the preparation of flight plans be instructed in the aspects associated with their specific working roles and the implications or effects on the performance of aircraft in the various flight phases. [058/2005-AA1]. that the Aeronautical Authorities require the inclusion in flight crew training of recovery from high-altitude stalls. This is justified on the grounds that in simulator training, low-altitude stalls are induced, from which the aircraft can recover more quickly, because it can increase power in order to maintain altitude in a more accelerated manner, whereas at high altitudes, the behaviour of aircraft is different, calling for more precise manoeuvres in terms of time of execution. [058/2005-AA2]. that the Aeronautical Authorities update and assess the financial statements of the airlines operating the public air transport service, not only during the certification process but also as a process of permanent oversight or continuous monitoring, with a view to verifying that airlines' finances are sufficient to cover the operations for which they are authorised, and with a view to taking appropriate action in the event of deterioration in those finances, in order to guarantee safe provision of services and maintenance of airworthiness. [58/2005-AA3]. that the Aeronautical Authorities in those countries in which there are air operators certified to operate MD-80 series aircraft, require the inclusion in the flight crew training programme of a review of the accident and incident statistics in relation to the operation of this aircraft type, especially those linked to the configuration of the autopilot and autothrottle modes. We also recommend that it be ensured that the content referring to the description of MD-80 series aircraft autopilot modes in the flight operations bulletin (FBO) issued by Boeing be included in the corresponding training manuals and programmes. [58/2005-AA4]. that the Aeronautical Authorities in those