agl and not continued until at least 1500 feet agl before beginning descent again. The aircraft subsequently turned onto finals where the Captain stated that the aircraft had been "stabilised by 500 feet agl" with a normal landing on runway 15 following. The crew stated that their descent below the standard visual circuit altitude of 1500 feet agl had not been contrary to Company SOP since it was permitted if necessary "due stress of weather". The Captain further stated that "according to the regulations, the aircraft could be flown to an altitude of 500 feet agl which, although below the standard circuit altitude, was considered a ‘safe’ altitude". The Investigation reviewed the evidence available on the conduct of the approach and made a number of observations. These included that: As the aircraft was not in the process of actually landing on runway 16 during the initial descent to below 500 feet agl and other valid approach options were available, standard operating procedures for the conduct of visual flight patterns contained in the Company ATR72 FCTM which indicated that the required circuit height was 1500 feet agl applied.. The spontaneity of the descent below 1500 feet agl cancelled any opportunity for the crew to consider other approach options. These included the originally-planned NDB approach, for which the aircraft was still appropriately configured. Similarly, while the continuation of the visual approach was valid given the Captain had the airport in sight, the lack of associated descent planning meant that an altitude limit was not established for the descent. This negated any opportunity for the crew to recognise that the rate of descent required to avoid the cloud was greater than either anticipated, recognition of which may have prompted them to discontinue the descent and consider a different approach.. The descent led to the onset of an undesired aircraft state, in that the aircraft was lower than desired without being correctly configured and with a high rate of descent.. The crew perceived that the SOP requirement to maintain 1500 feet in the circuit was guidance rather than a requirement because information contained in the State AIP allowed them to descend lower. This misunderstanding that the 1500 feet agl was not a hard circuit altitude limit may have negated one of the intended triggers by the operator for crews to initiate a go-around.. The Investigation also found that although the rate of TAWS/GPWS activations known to Virgin Australia Regional Airlines was similar to the industry average, the reporting rate for such events (the reporting of which is a regulatory requirement) was well below the industry standard. The Investigation formally identified three Contributing Factors for the event as follows: Approaching the circuit, the Captain assessed that a descent below the standard circuit height was necessary to avoid cloud, but did not communicate this to the First Officer in a timely manner, thereby preventing identification of a descent limit or appropriate approach alternatives.. Due to the crew’s focus on avoiding the cloud, the high rate of