along the flight path was reduced because of the cloud". The First Officer recalled having sight of cloud that was "at or below 1500 feet and sloped in appearance with underlying fog". He stated that his workload both generally as the downwind leg was being flown and because of the sudden and for him unexpected descent, he "gave less attention to the outside conditions". Although he was not consulted about the decision to descend to remain clear of cloud, he advised the Investigation that since he had understood what the Captain was trying to achieve, he had no concern about the safety of the aircraft or decision to descend and "believed that communicating any in-flight observations to the Captain was unnecessary and would only have added to their existing workload". Both pilots subsequently reported observing an initial rate of descent of around 700 fpm which was consistent with the recorded vertical speed, but neither noticed a subsequent increase in this rate to almost 2000 fpm and this, together with the approach to around 500 feet agl, led to a series of TAWS activations - first a 'Too Low Terrain' Alert, then a 'Terrain Ahead' Warning and finally a 'Too Low Gear' Alert - the latter because the aircraft was still clean but below 500 feet agl. All three activations occurred within 12 seconds of the aircraft being levelled at about 440 feet agl and it was noted that the recorded average vertical speed during the descent from circuit height had been 1750 fpm. The cloud base above at the lowest point in the circuit was reported by the crew as having been "about 500 feet agl". They stated that they had remained clear of the cloud with the ground and runway in sight at all times and that since they "were aware that no obstacles existed along the downwind leg of the circuit and...knew why the TAWS...(had) activated", they considered that they were permitted to acknowledge and ignore the TAWS and continue the approach. The downwind leg was continued with a climbed to about 870 feet agl whilst beginning to configure the aircraft for landing by selecting flap 15 and the landing gear down. The crew stated that they had felt it "unnecessary" to climb the aircraft back to the normal circuit height of 1500 feet agl since "they would only have had to descend the aircraft again as they approached the base leg position". During the gradual turn onto and during base leg, a bank angle of 38° was recorded (not explained) and then, shortly after flap 35 had been selected, a number of TAWS 'Don't Sink' Alerts were recorded. The crew told the Investigation that as the aircraft had not been descending at the time, the alert was therefore considered erroneous and ignored. The Investigation found that these had been Mode 3 Alerts, which are provided for the take off climb case and which had been triggered after a climb in clean configuration was commenced from 440 feet