An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that the aircraft commander had been promoted to the rank of Captain four days earlier and had since flown 3.5 hours in command on the ATR72. He had about 4530 flying hours of which about 1750 were on the ATR72. The First Officer had about 2880 flying hours of which just over 600 were on the ATR72. This crew pairing was within Company requirements for new Captains. It was noted that the Moranbah TAF available to and reviewed by the crew prior to departure from Brisbane at 0532 local time indicated that from 0600, Cloud was expected to be FEW at 1000 feet and BKN at 4500 feet with visibility 10 km. A 30% probability of fog and a visibility of 800 metres was also included in the TAF. A SPECI present weather report issued at 0700 gave the actual visibility as 1000 metres. The airport had a non-precision approach procedure available based on the MRB Non-Directional Beacon located on the aerodrome and valid for runway 16. The other available approaches were Area Navigation Systems procedures which the crew were not approved to conduct. It was established that the Captain had been PF for the flight and that, in view of the expected weather conditions at Moranbah, the initial intention had been to make an NDB approach. However, when ATC advice that another faster aircraft was expected to arrive at Moranbah two minutes before them was subsequently confirmed by the crew of that aircraft who also announced their intention to make a visual approach to 16 and join downwind to do so, the ATR crew changed their own plan to also make a visual approach. Subsequently, the other aircraft advised that they would slow down so that the ATR72 could be No 1. The latter crew stated that at about this time, they obtained the latest automatic weather report for Moranbah which confirmed that a visual approach was still appropriate for their arrival. Once below an overcast 6,000 feet, the crew could see the Moranbah township and the area surrounding the airport and noted that there was "some low cloud and patches of fog around the runway 34 threshold". With the AP engaged, the aircraft began to level at the pre-selected altitude of 2300 feet - set because the airport elevation made it approximately equivalent to 1500 feet aal which was the standard circuit height for the ATR72. It quickly became apparent that if level flight was continued, cloud would be entered. Without any discussion with the First Officer, the Captain "decided and announced that they were disconnecting the autopilot and continuing the descent in an attempt to remain clear of the cloud". He reported that "they both believed the aircraft would only need to descend 200-400 ft to be clear of the cloud layer". He added that during the rest of the flight, the runway and the ground below remained in sight although "visibility