A Field Investigation was carried by the UK AAIB. Approximately 40 minutes prior to landing, the flight crew made a PA which woke one of the passengers who was asleep on a First Class flat bed seat. This passenger subsequently returned their seat to a more upright position before going to the washroom. Having checked if she could stow the bedding whilst the passenger was away from her seat, one of the cabin crew did so and on detecting a strong “sulphur-like” smell noticed a mobile device charging cable running from the seat socket and disappearing down the side of the seat. The smell was getting stronger so she called the SCCM and they subsequently both heard a “hissing” sound and a large plume of grey smoke appeared from the seat in a “tornado” motion and an orange glow became visible in the seat area amongst the smoke. The seat power was switched off and the SCCM donned fire gloves and, after pulling back the seat padding and exposing a device trapped in the seat mechanism, discharged several bursts of BCF towards the device. Meanwhile, a third crew member used a water extinguisher to fill an ice bucket with water and then contacted the flight crew to advise them of the situation. The flight crew subsequently stated that shortly before receiving this cabin crew call, they had detected an “acrid odour” on the flight deck. The cabin crew stated that “thick smoke was emanating from a seat in the forward cabin and that they had initiated their fire fighting drill”. The operating flight crew responded by commencing their ‘smoke, fire or fumes’ checklist and evaluated their diversion options whilst the relief First Officer went back into the forward cabin to assist. Once the BCF extinguisher had been discharged, the smoke quickly dissipated and the crew were able to clearly see a red mobile phone trapped in the seat mechanism. They attempted to remove it but it was jammed. They noted that very little heat was coming from the device and a check for secondary heat sources did not find any. On receiving an update, the Captain decided that since the source of the smoke had been identified and extinguished and the aircraft was now only 20 minutes from landing at Heathrow, the appropriate action was to continue to Heathrow. He made a PAN call to alert ATC and ensure that the RFFS met the aircraft on landing, gave a NITS briefing to the cabin crew and made a further passenger PA. One of the cabin crew remained in the vicinity of the seat involved with an extinguisher available for the remainder of the flight which was without further event. After landing, RFFS personnel boarded the aircraft and removed the phone from the seat. The burnt phone after retrieval from the seat by fire service personnel. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation noted the comprehensive information on the potential safety issues arising from the presence of all PEDs (portable electronic