devices) on aircraft provided in the company OM. This detailed procedures restricting the way they are used in flight aimed at preventing both over charging and damage caused if activation of seat adjustment mechanism damages an inadvertently trapped device. A series of passenger PAs which must be made at specified points during each flight are also detailed and specific instructions are provided in respect of the response to any PED fire. The Operator’s internal Investigation identified two matters which it deemed worthy of review: The SCCM becoming directly involved in fighting the fire instead of allowing the crew member that found the fire to fight the fire.. The crew member not dowsing the device with water after the fire had been extinguished because they believed this would damage the seat electrics or impact on the spill hazard zone.. The AAIB noted that the seat design involved was approximately ten years old and whilst it was explicitly designed to limit the chances of a PED becoming trapped and had since been modified to mitigate this risk, it was (and remains) challenging to remove the risk completely. It was also noted that over the last ten years, PEDs have become smaller, batteries have become more powerful and the number of such devices passengers are likely to carry has increased. The UK CAA MOR database was consulted to establish the extent of similar PED events and it was found that over the last five years there had been 166 reports of PED’s becoming trapped in passenger seats with 42 resulting in a fire or smoke in the cabin. The current complete absence of any CAA, EASA or FAA regulatory requirements to require seats to be designed to prevent passenger PEDs from becoming trapped or crushed was noted. Following this Investigation by the AAIB, it was noted that the EASA has requested the SAE International Seat Committee to develop design standards and/or recommended practices to address the issue and has advised that this committee intends to update the “Aircraft Seat Design Guidance and Clarifications document (SAE ARP 5526)” and incorporate it in an initial release of a “Performance Standard for Seat Furnishings in Transport Aircraft document (SAE AS6960)” with publication of these documents planned for “late 2021”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority require that passenger seats in commercial air transport aircraft are designed to minimise the chance of portable electronic devices becoming crushed in mechanisms. [2019-009]. The Final Report was published on 19 April 2021.