ADS-B is a Surveillance technique that relies on aircraft or airport vehicles broadcasting their identity, position and other information derived from on board systems (GNSS etc.). This signal (ADS-B Out) can be captured for surveillance purposes on the ground (ADS-B Out) or on board other aircraft in order to facilitate airborne traffic situational awareness, spacing, separation and self-separation (ADS-B In) ADS-B is automatic because no external stimulus is required; it is dependent because it relies on on-board systems to provide surveillance information to other parties. Finally, the data is broadcast, the originating source has no knowledge of who receives the data and there is no interrogation or two-way contract. ADS-B is seen as a key enabler of the future ATM Network on both sides of the North Atlantic and elsewhere and will be vital to the achievement of the Single European Sky (SES) and Next Gen performance objectives, including safety, capacity, efficiency and environmental sustainability. The SES vision for ground Surveillance foresees, in en-route and terminal areas, the combination of ADS-B with independent Surveillance, the latter provided by Mode S and Wide Area Multilateration (WAM). It is noted that WAM system receivers generally include ADS-B functionality. Ground-based traffic separation aided by ADS-B depends on aircraft being equipped with ADS-B Out. Airborne self-separation requires that aircraft be equipped with ADS-B In and a means to effectively display available traffic information to the pilots. At airports, a locally-optimised mix of available technologies, i.e. airport Multilateration, Surface Movement Radars and ADS-B, will enable A-SMGCS systems and integrated airport operations. This could include the availability of suitable display of surveillance information on a consolidated display in the form of a moving map in flight decks and in surface vehicles. The introduction of ADS-B in the Surveillance infrastructure provides important features which can be exploited by the ATM Network: ADS-B is currently being, or already has been, implemented in North America, Europe and other areas worldwide including the Asia/Pacific region. Global interoperability is ensured at application level and system level. The standards for ADS-B are being jointly developed by EUROCAE and RTCA. Relevant ICAO documentation is also produced. The 1090 MHz Mode S Extended Squitter technology is used worldwide to ensure global interoperability. At local or regional level, other datalink technologies can be considered, e.g. the Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) system introduced in the USA. In Europe, Regulation 1207/2011 laying down requirements for the performance and the interoperability of surveillance for the single European sky (SPI-IR) and its amendments Regulation 1028/2014 and Regulation 2017/386 apply. The EU legislation requires all aircraft operating IFR/GAT in Europe to be compliant with Mode S Elementary Surveillance, whilst aircraft with maximum Take-Off Mass greater than 5700kg or maximum cruising True Air Speed greater than 250kts must be compliant with both Mode S Enhanced Surveillance and ADS-B out requirements. Compliance is mandated by 7 June 2020 for both retrofit and new made aircraft. Special provisions (including exemptions) exist for State aircraft.