The best form of overall mitigation is to ensure that all persons authorised to supervise or directly participate in engine ground running from the flight deck, who are not pilots or flight engineers currently rated on the specific aircraft type, are in receipt of suitable initial training and that there is a proper system for both initial and recurrent qualification for engine ground running duties. Both initial and recurrent qualification must include practical training and assessment of task competence using either a full flight simulator or an aircraft. Between formal competency assessments, a maximum interval between performance of the qualified task should be specified. If that interval is exceeded, the qualification would become void until remedial action has been competed. In this respect, the task of engine ground running should be seen as part of a broader group of aircraft ground movement tasks which can be carried out under the control of flight deck occupants other than type rated flight crew. Generic and type specific knowledge requirements and practical experience related to ground engine runs defined in regulations (i.e. in Europe EASA Part 66 Appendix I (Basic Training Requirements) and Appendix III (Type Training Requirements), AMC 66 Appendix II (Aircraft type practical experience list of tasks)) have to be met by the license holders. Only certifying staff, whose competency has been assessed by the Quality Department of the Approved Maintenance Organisation (i.e. Part 145 Approved Organisation in Europe), can / should be issued with “certification authorisation” to conduct ground engine runs. Although the regulations do not stipulate, some organisations use simulators for training their engineers whilst others prefer on-the-job training and expect engineers to carry out engine runs under supervision before they are given the authorisation. All certifying staff must follow the up-to-date ground engine run procedures, which are defined in the applicable Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) as well as the Maintenance Organisation Exposition, which may include additional specific requirements applicable to the organisation. (Ref: AMC.145.A.70) Key proactive components for safe task completion are clear procedural guidance and a series of Checklists for use during each stage of a ground running task. Standard Checklists, which should be specific to the non-airborne limitation and so cannot just be the flight crew versions, should include: In addition, response to potential but unexpected occurrences must be covered by appropriate training and, where a rapid response may be necessary, memory actions. Finally, engine ground running, especially if engine operation above Ground Idle is to take place, is best carried out with both flight deck pilot seats occupied and with clearly defined roles for the person in charge and their assistant. In particular, this allows checklists to be carried out using the challenge and response method.