An Investigation was carried out by the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC). The FDR and CVR were both recovered and data from both were successfully downloaded. It was noted that both the 37 year-old Captain and the 33 year-old First Officer were of Spanish nationality and their Spanish Licences had been validated by the Papua New Guinea authorities. The Captain had 7,110 hours total flying time including 3,433 hours on type and the First Officer had 3,020 hours total flying time including 2,420 hours on type. A 53 year-old ‘Safety Pilot’ of Australian nationality was also on board in order to provide guidance to the operating crew during the approach to Tabubil with which they were unfamiliar but he was not rated on type. It was established that the aircraft had just recently arrived from Port Moresby, after which inbound cargo had been unloaded and new cargo, consisting exclusively of cigarettes packed in large cardboard cartons and destined for both Tabubil and the eventual destination Port Moresby had been loaded. The full 1,569 metre length of runway 25 was used for takeoff and everything was normal until the aircraft commander, who was PF for the flight, attempted to rotate at Vr, which the crew had calculated to be 102 KIAS. He reported having found the controls very heavy in pitch and was unable to pull the control column back as normal. FDR data indicated that after approximately two seconds, and after the aircraft had travelled 1,090 metres including 160 metres since the Vr call had been made, action was taken to reject the takeoff with the power levers being retarded to full reverse pitch and maximum braking applied. By the end of the runway, the aircraft speed was 35 knots and it departed the paved surface and passed over a shallow embankment at its end after which it breached the perimeter fence right wing first which caused the aircraft to yaw to the right and enter a creek just beyond it at an angle of approximately 45° to the runway centreline. The wing/fence collision broke open the fuel tank in the right wing and it caught fire and the fuselage became semi submerged upon entering the water just beyond it. The pilots escaped through the flight deck roof hatch and were uninjured. The Airport Fire and Rescue Service arrived quickly and tackled the right wing fire with foam and water. Their supply of extinguishant was exhausted before the fire was fully out but it did not spread to the inner wing. Almost immediately, local people began to enter the aircraft through the escape hatch and the rear right hand door, which was above water, and began to remove both the cargo and items from the flight deck. In addition to the damage to the right wing and destruction of both propellers during the impact sequence, further damage was caused by the partial immersion in salt water and during the salvage operation to recover the aircraft to dry land