The cause of the accident was recorded as an overloaded aircraft which resulted from Air Niugini’s lack of robust loading procedures and supervision for the ATR 42/72 aircraft and the inaccurate weights provided by the cargo consignor/client company. Four Other Factors identified during the course of the Investigation which, whilst not causal to the accident, “should nevertheless be addressed with the aim of accident and serious incident prevention”, were as follows: The Madang Airport fire-fighting tender vehicle did not have sufficient capacity to fight a more extensive aircraft fire involving an aircraft larger than the ATR 42.. The Madang Airport did not meet the ICAO Annex 14 Standard with respect to the required aerodrome category 6, for rescue and fire-fighting services.. The Madang Airport did not meet the ICAO Annex 14 Standard with respect to the runway end safety areas.. The Madang Airport did not meet the ICAO Annex 14 Standards with respect to the required Airport Emergency Plan.. Six Safety Recommendations were made during the course of the Investigation as follows: that PNG Airline Operators (Air Niugini; Airlines PNG; Travel Air Ltd; Hevilift (PNG) Ltd) review their published procedures and ensure their procedures mitigate the risks associated with a runway end safety area (RESA) not being available at PNG airports, other than Port Moresby International (Jacksons Airport). The runway end safety area requirements are contained in ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1. [AIC 15-R15/13-1007]. that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) of PNG ensures that PNG airline operators’ (Air Niugini; Airlines PNG; Travel Air Ltd; Hevilift (PNG) Ltd) published procedures mitigate the risks associated with a runway end safety area (RESA) not being available at PNG airports, other than Port Moresby International (Jacksons Airport). The runway end safety area requirements are contained in ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1. [AIC 15-R16/13-1007]. that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) of PNG review the capacity for PNG airports to provide runway end safety areas (RESA) that meet the Standards prescribed in the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Annex 14 Volume 1. If the National Airports Corporation is unable to meet the RESA Standard at its airports in accordance with ICAO Annex 14, the CASA should file a difference with ICAO (in accordance with the obligation imposed by Article 38 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation) as soon as possible. [AIC 15-R17/13-1007]. that the PNG National Airports Corporation (NAC) ensures that PNG airports having water or swampy terrain along the departure and/or arrival paths are equipped, in accordance with the ICAO Annex 14, Paragraph 9.2.2 Standard, with specialist rescue services and fire-fighting equipment appropriate to the hazards and risks. [AIC 15-R19/13-1007]. that that the PNG National Airports Corporation (NAC) reviews the procedures and equipment used by airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services at its airports to ensure that they meet the minimum requirements specified in the International Civil Aviation Organization’s Annex 14 and meet the safety requirements for their airports’ operations. [AIC 15-R20/13-1007]. that the PNG National Airports Corporation (NAC) ensures that: its