handler to properly weigh and charge (them) for the goods entrusted to them to transport”. The Investigation concluded that “this inaccurate listing of weights likely contributed to the aircraft being overloaded”. It was found that at the time of the accident, Air Niugini did not have sufficiently robust ground handling procedures for the loading of freight on their ATR 42/72 aircraft and in particular, “there was also no robust procedure for the flight crew to check load distribution”. The Investigation was informed that such procedures as were used were those of the European aircraft leasing company which had provided the aircraft and these were not available to the Investigation. It was concluded that given these findings, the safety oversight of the ATR42/72 procedures and operations of Air Niugini by the PNG Aviation Safety Regulator, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) “was inadequate”. The Investigation estimated that having departed the end of the runway at 35 knots at its calculated deceleration rate, the accident aircraft “would have needed 278 metres to stop in the absence of frangible material in a RESA”. Considering the wider operational risk presented by runway overruns at Madang (and elsewhere in the country) because of the absence of a RESA, the Investigation noted that because Fokker F100 passenger aircraft regularly operate at Madang, the ICAO Annex 14 Aerodrome Reference Code for the airport is ‘C’. This means that the applicable ICAO Standard includes the provision of a 90 metre RESA and since the runway at Madang did not have one at either end of runway 07/25, it did not conform to this Annex 14 Standard. It was also noted that the PNG Aviation Safety Regulator, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA), had not notified ICAO of the difference in its own RESA requirements from those of Annex 14 in accordance with Member States’ obligations under Article 38. It was found that whilst the single fire-fighting vehicle had arrived at the accident site promptly and its crew had been able to extinguish the wing fire, the available water and foam had been fully used to achieve this. It was therefore considered that there would have been no likelihood that any aircraft fire larger than this could have been dealt with. It was noted that the AIP stated that Madang was a Category 5 airport but also that Fokker F100 and Bombardier DHC8-400 aircraft regularly operated there and that such operations require at least a Category 6 airport which meant that rescue and fire-fighting services did not meet ICAO Annex 14 requirements in respect of both the available quantity of foam/fire suppressant agent and the need to have a dry chemical powder, suitable for extinguishing hydrocarbon fires, available. It was also found that although there had been no consequences in the case of the investigated accident, the Madang Airport Emergency Plan (AEP) also did not satisfy the corresponding minimum requirements for such Plans in ICAO Annex 14. These included the capability for water rescue and for periodic exercises to