the right engine fell off into the water. No evidence was found of any airworthiness issue or any matter related to the crew performance of the attempted takeoff that could have contributed to the accident. The focus of the Investigation therefore turned to the loading of the cargo at Madang and to issues relating to the operation of the airport and the regulatory oversight of it, the latter particularly in respect of the risks of runway use in the absence of a RESA. It was found that all inbound cargo had been offloaded at Madang and a consignment of 400 cartons of locally-manufactured cigarettes was awaiting the aircraft at Madang for shipment to Tabubil and Port Moresby. On completion of loading, only 330 cartons had been accepted on board and 70 which could not be accommodated remained at the airport. Each carton was found to have been “of approximately similar dimensions and weights”. The Captain determined that because of limited fuel availability at Tabubil, it would be necessary to restrict the load out of Madang to 3,710 kg. The First Officer stated that he had given the Operator’s ground handling personnel the weight to be loaded in each of the six bays and provided a corresponding diagram. The cartons were then loaded on the (unchecked) assumption that each one weighed 12 kg. In fact, based on average weights for the three types of cartons loaded provided by the shipper, British American Tobacco (BAT), who had manufactured and packed the cartons, the average weight of a carton was just over 13 kg which represented a load which was 593 kg in excess of the 3,710 kg recorded on the loadsheet and 343 kg above the ‘Maximum Permitted All up Weight’. It was not possible to examine the distribution of the cartons as loaded, because about a third of them had been removed before the Investigation had begun. However, information from one of the shipper's staff who had been closely involved in the loading was used to help work out the number of cartons which had actually been loaded in the most forward bay. This was estimated to have been the maximum allowed in the bay instead of the significantly reduced number which had been given in the loading instructions for that particular bay by the crew because of the need to keep the aircraft trim within limits. The effect of this difference was that the weight in that specific compartment was likely to have been more than three times what was shown on the loadsheet - 1,136 kg instead of the 350 kg - as well as being 136 kg above maximum load permitted in that bay under any conditions. It was noted that the ‘Delivery Note’ provided by BAT with the cartons for shipment gave the gross and net weights for each carton as the same and the Company advised the Investigation that “it does not record a difference between gross and net weight as it relies on the freight