dealing with adverse weather avoidance scenarios; in particular they should be prepared to: Maintain awareness of the adverse weather location, its evolution (laterally and vertically) and of the possible deviation routes. A controller may be alerted to the presence of adverse weather by a variety of sources including: radar observations, adjacent ATS units, MET office reports, unit briefings and reports from pilots. Being constantly aware of any ongoing deviations and flight crews’ intentions should provide precious time for separation of affected nearby traffic.. Develop strategies – the executive (radar) and planner controller should develop strategies and practice mutual crosschecks of the current, planned and intended weather avoidance actions.. Provide timely information to and coordinate with the adjacent sectors of any deviations which will affect them.. Pro-actively seek information regarding traffic which is likely to enter own sector.. Request any necessary details from the flight crews on the planned avoiding actions i.e. heading(s) on which the aircraft will be flying, as well as the estimated duration and/or the distance the aircraft will proceed on the heading(s).. Provide extra room for manoeuvring, if in doubt that the traffic could request further deviation provide extra space for separation, issue instructions for flight level change as necessary, provide traffic information, as necessary.. Inform pilot if weather avoidance will take pilot outside controlled airspace and offer an appropriate service.. Organisational measures. Provision of sufficient number of controllers during periods with forecasted severe convective weather.. Use of weather radars/ weather displays to enhance information provided to controllers.. Use SIGMETS and associated weather forecasts to improve prediction of sector loading.. Train controllers to deal with weather during live training; use simulator training to build in more resilience in controllers’ skills.. Provide a periodic refresher course to OPS supervisors.. Consider adoption of a generic checklist for OPS supervisors..