Operational Supervisor’s (SUP) actions. The ATC shift supervisor should be able to mitigate the impact of severe weather avoidance by air traffic on the controller’s workload by facilitating and engaging in the following actions: Establish a co-ordination pattern with the MET office for the provision of periodic weather updates and forecasts for the affected area. Following an established protocol, which outlines the roles and responsibilities of involved persons, will be of advantage.. Use all available information: MET updates/forecasts, traffic load forecasts and availability of ATC personnel to assess the situation and establish with the help of local flow management position (FMP) possible tactical measures.. Inform affected adjacent units of the (flow) measures taken.. Assess whether it is safe and possible to follow the procedures described in local letters of agreement (LoAs) with adjacent ATC units. As necessary, agree with the SUPs of the neighbouring unit(s) special coordination procedures to substitute the normal operating procedures (i.e. flight level allocations, points of transfer etc.). It is important to point out to the controllers the need for dedicated coordination in these exceptional cases.. Provide additional (third) controller as necessary at the sector to help the sector team with coordination / monitoring / planning tasks, as applicable.. Apply dynamic sectorisation management - the OPS Supervisor should monitor the situation and activate the most appropriate sector configuration depending on the traffic volume and complexity, and the scale of the weather avoidance. For example, in case of large deviations from planned routes vertically split sectors may be more appropriate than laterally split ones.. Open additional sectors in order to deal with possible capacity problems and avoid sector overloads.. Consider the application of reduced departure rate or of a specific departure separation (e.g. individual approval request; departure interval of 5 minutes etc.) for aerodromes within the affected airspace and coordinate this course of action with the relevant units.. If relevant, coordinate with respective parties release of temporary restricted airspace for use by general air traffic or its use under special crossing co-ordination procedure (e.g. use of dedicated SSR code).. Consider the rejection/adjournment of planned maintenance work on any technical equipment used for ATS provision.. Consider application of the so-called “one-airway” procedure, i.e. closely situated airways are considered as one airway for traffic separation purposes.. Flow Management Position’s (FMP) actions. The FMP should provide the necessary assistance to the OPS Supervisor and facilitate the management of the severe weather by timely activation of coordinated flow control measures in order to prevent sector overloads. During the normalization period, special consideration must be given to possible bunching of traffic at the end of the regulated period. It is considered that return to normal capacity following flow control measures is usually more efficient if implemented on a gradual (step-by-step) basis. The FMP should consider passing timely information to regional flow management unit (NMOC for the European region) about the forecast and actual convective weather and its impact on ATC operations. Controllers’ actions. Controllers should exercise their best judgement and expertise when