The crew should have studied the Operations Manual and QRH landing gear abnormalities in depth before ever meeting this problem. This is particularly important when changing aircraft types as procedures can vary considerably. Consider jettisoning fuel (or burning the fuel) down to safe reserves, prior to commencing the approach in order to minimise fire risk and to reduce the approach speed. It is important to brief the cabin crew and passengers and to ensure the cabin and flight deck are fully secure. Securing flight deck articles may take longer than might be anticipated. Following a landing gear problem that has not resulted in a leg collapse on landing, it may be appropriate to remain on the runway until getting the landing gear “pinned” before attempting to taxy clear. Cabin crew briefings must cover all the possible outcomes, which could include evacuation on the runway or an eventual taxi clear/to normal parking. It may not be necessary to evacuate the aircraft after landing, even if part of the structure is in contact with the ground; if there is no fire present, it may be better to disembark the passengers via steps. Since there are usually three ways to get landing gear down, the normal system, an alternate system and a freefall option, it is essential to try all of these before preparing to land with abnormal gear status i.e. with one or more legs indicating not locked down. If the problem affects one set of main landing gear only, for some types it may be recommended to land with all the other main gear retracted. However, the general consensus for larger aircraft is to land on all available landing gear, because even if the landing gear collapses, it will absorb some of the aircraft’s energy and momentum and it is far better the impact is absorbed by the landing gear, than by the fuselage. In all cases, crews must be familiar with and follow the instructions and guidance in the AFM or Operations Manual for their particular type. If the problem relates to the nose landing gear only, it may be appropriate to hold the nose off the runway initially. If practicable, shifting the centre of gravity aft (within the allowable limits for landing) by repositioning passengers or freight will assist, as will not arming autobrakes and using wheel brakes in a manner compatible with elevator authority/runway length. However, it is important to lower the nose smoothly onto the runway well before elevator authority is lost and to follow guidance in the AFM or Operations Manual. In all cases when landing with abnormal gear, use reverse thrust only in accordance with the manufacturer’s guidelines. Particular care is required if the drill advises shutdown of some engines prior to landing, or shutdown of all or some of the engines at touchdown or at some point during the landing roll out; the crew must understand fully the implications of losing engine-driven systems and take particular care not to be distracted from the main