the process of repainting the aircraft was evidently the origin of the occurrence in flight, a detailed review of the painting operation and safeguards included in it was undertaken. The fact that a contributing factor to a previous fatal accident investigated by the BEA: A320, vicinity Perpignan France, 2008 had also been actions taken in connection with the prior external repainting of the aircraft was noted. It was noted that the Boeing 737 Aircraft Maintenance Manual was the high level reference document for painting operations. The sequential nature of painting operations was noted to involve two cycles of AOA sensor protection, the first is applied for stripping and cleaning and then removed and a second protection is applied for painting. It was noted that “the methods for masking the AOA sensors are not described in the AMM as they are considered to be basic steps. Nor are there any specific devices for masking these AOA sensors”. It was found that whilst the protection for stripping involved protection which overlapped beyond the fuselage around the AOA sensor, the subsequent protection for painting was characterised by a “common practice” of masking the sensors to minimise overlap onto the fuselage skin so as to minimise any touch-up painting. This meant that only the base of the mobile AOA sensor was protected leaving the gaps between the sensor and the fuselage and between the fixed plate and the base of the mobile AOA sensor unmasked. It was found that whilst Latécoère Aeroservices had a Part 66 certified mechanic making inspections as the work progressed in accordance with the regulatory oversight requirements of its Part 145 approval, no written procedure “describing masking methods for the critical elements in any precise manner” had been developed. In particular, the required checks “did not involve the freedom of movement of the AOA sensor, only the absence of any scratches or dust”. It was noted that painting is quoted as an example of a “sub-contracted specialised activity” in the relevant EASA Part 145 AMC which allows it to be carried out by a non-approved organisation provided it is supervised under the quality system of contracting Part 145 organisation. It was also noted that Part 66 makes no provision for painters, who are considered as “specialised personnel”. Whilst these personnel must, under Part 145, be given human factors training in addition to their qualifications specific to painting, there is no requirement for any specific training to make them aware of the importance of protecting the sensors on which many aircraft systems depend. The French regulatory system for Part 145 organisations was found to consider activities such as painting to be “within the scope of maintenance activities” but to have “no reference text that establishes this point”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that: “The activation of the stick shaker during aeroplane rotation was due to the blockage of the left AOA sensor by paint. The presence of paint was the result of inadequate masking of the AOA sensor during paint