application. The post-painting inspection failed to detect this anomaly. Basic rules alone are not enough to guarantee safe painting operations. In fact, the absence of any systematic procedure from aircraft manufacturers relating to the protection of external sensors during painting activities, or checks on their correct functioning at the end of the work, means that these operations do not necessarily take place in an appropriate and homogeneous manner in given workshops. In addition, the training requirements for specialized personnel do not ensure that they are aware of the potential impact of their activity on flight safety.” It was further concluded in respect of aircraft operational safety that the extent to which aircraft manufacturers prescribe procedures for painting operations in the applicable AMM is very variable. It was considered that pollution of AOA sensors (or of external sensors more generally) associated with painting operations may cause unexpected behaviour of aeroplane systems, whose origin is not known (to) crew members, consequently diminishing flight safety. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that EASA ensure that manufacturers develop in their approved documentation some specific procedures for protection and verification of the external sensors during painting operations. [FRAN-2012-003]. that EASA establish requirements for training in relation to the critical elements of aircraft for specialized maintenance personnel that do not hold a Part 66 licence. [FRAN-2012-004]. that DGAC define painting work more precisely in an OSAC document, so that the oversight of painting activities is well-defined and homogeneous at the national level. [FRAN-2012-005]. that DGAC ensure that maintenance organisations put in place appropriate checks throughout a painting operation. [FRAN-2012-006]. that DGAC sensitise maintenance organisations to the importance of training for painters on the correct installation of protective devices during painting operations and the checks to be performed during a painting operation. [FRAN-2012-007]. The Final Report of the Investigation: BEA Incident Report was published in February 2012.