An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). QAR data was used to inform the Investigation. It was found that the aircraft had been at Montpelier for external repainting at Latécoère Aeroservices, a Part 145 approved organisation. When the painting requirement changed and the contractor was unable to respond quickly, the aircraft operator decided to ferry the aircraft to another paint shop at Toulouse. The aircraft commander, who had been PF, advised noticing an incorrect display of his PFD speed strip during the event but stated that he had not noticed any corresponding anomalies on the First Officer’s PFD or the SBY display, or on the engine displays. Readout of the QAR data showed that at the time of rotation, the angle measured by the left angle of attack sensor did not correspond to the real angle of attack and had been fixed at 16.2º from engine start until 8 seconds after takeoff after which it had gradually returned to a correct position. As the measured AOA reduced through 14.6º, the theoretical threshold value for activation of the stick shaker, the stick shaker had ceased. It was noted that the values subsequently measured by the left AOA sensor during the remainder of the flight varied more slowly than those from previous flights. The left AOA sensor was found to have successive layers of paint on the base of the mobile part, the attachment plate and the seal between the attachment plate and the aeroplane. After further examination, it was concluded that the blocking of the AOA sensor was probably due to the presence of white paint applied in Montpelier having intruded between the base of the mobile part of the vane, the fuselage and the attachment plate. The links between the recorded AOA position, phase of flight, the automatic extension of the slats and stick shaker activation were reviewed. It was noted that: “at the time of rotation, the threshold for automatic slat extension is reduced from 19.8º to 16.2º to account for ground effect. As the left AOA sensor was stuck at 16.2º, the stall management computer (SMC) then activated the automatic extension of the slats to the fully extended position. The stick shaker activated in turn because its activation threshold is reduced during movement of the slats or flaps. Out of ground effect, the threshold for automatic extension returns to its initial value. The slats then returned to their intermediate position. The stick shaker stopped when the left AOA sensor became unstuck, probably due to aerodynamic forces, and the AOA value dropped below the activation threshold.” It was also noted that a maintenance message "AOA vane bent" had been recorded during the takeoff run. This provided an alert that the sensor was positioned more than 3º from its nominal position and is an automatic test carried out during take-off between 60 knots and 105 knots to indicate possible damage to the AOA sensor. Flight crew do not have access to this data. Since