Entry Flight crews need an unobstructed view of the runway, in both directions, to confirm that the runway and approach is clear of conflicting traffic before proceeding to enter or line up. To achieve this clear view, runway entrances should be at right angles to a runway. Where the aerodrome has more than one runway, ensure that runway ends are clearly identified as separated. This may be achieved through visual aids or taxiway design. Use standard taxiway widths, suitable for a wide range of aircraft, including the largest type expected to use the aerodrome. Wide (non standard) taxiway entrances reduce the effectiveness of signs and markings as aids to prevent ground navigation error and wrong runway selection. Use islands or barriers to avoid disorientation at large expanses of pavement. In order to visually round or limit the runway surface, another solution is to apply green artificial turf to the surface pavement, which will blend in with surrounding grass areas. Locating an elevated lighted X at the prethreshold area of the taxiway is a simple way to provide a clear signal to pilots on approach that the area is closed and is not safe for landing. In a situation where there is no room for an elevated lighted X, a lighted X can be imbedded in the pavement. Crossing Avoid designs that include crossing a runway to access a taxiway or another part of the aerodrome. Limiting the number of aircraft crossing an active runway can be achieved through the use of perimeter taxiways. Perimeter taxiways (that run around the runway ends) avoid aircraft having to cross a runway. perimeter taxiways can reduce runway occupancy times, taxi times and congestion on the manoeuvring area, as the time taken to cross a busy runway can be considerable. Sufficient space is required between the landing threshold and the taxiway centreline where it crosses under the approach path, to enable the largest aircraft to pass under the approach without violating the approach surface. The requirement for Runway End Safety Areas, and possible interference with the ILS should also be taken into account. The perimeter taxiway should route traffic behind the localiser antenna, not between the localiser antenna and the runway, due to the potential for severe ILS disturbance, noting that this is harder to achieve as the distance between the localiser and the runway increases. Perimeter roads should also be provided for vehicles wherever possible. Where perimeter taxiways and roadways are not possible, intersections used for crossing a runway, should be perpendicular to the runway. This will allow flight crew an unobstructed view of the runway, in both directions, to confirm that the runway and approach is clear of conflicting traffic before proceeding to cross that runway. Avoid using mid-runway (high energy) crossing points, because the departing aircraft has too much energy to stop, but not enough speed to take-off. Taxiway fillets should be used to allow the aircraft to be perpendicular to the runway, thereby assuring clear line of sight to the runway