the ramp for passenger disembarkation, the Captain stated to the GND controller that he “had failed to recognise the aircraft's approach to runway 18L before landing”. A comparison of the normal (yellow) and actual (green) ground tracks towards runway 18R. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation concluded that after aligning too close to the runway when turning onto the downwind leg of the circling approach, the Captain had then ignored the company requirement to make use of the visual “downwind reference point” when beginning the base turn. Having commenced the base turn too early, he had then been unable to make use of either the guidance available from the RLLS system or right of threshold PAPI. As a result, arrival on final approach was late, leaving little time to confirm a landing was imminent on the correct runway. It was considered that the fact that the First Officer was on his first flight to Busan and in addition had limited flying experience had mitigated against his effective monitoring of the senior Captain’s approach. Overall, it was concluded that “crew resource management was not sufficiently implemented on the flight deck”, notably with an instructor Captain in command. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was formally documented as “during a circling approach under VFR, the flight crew failed to land on runway 18R and instead landed without authorisation on runway 18L”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as: During the circling approach, the crew selected a narrow turning pattern and failed to line up on the final approach course to runway 18R.. The runway 18L PAPI was mistaken for the runway 18R PAPI.. There was insufficient CRM between the Captain and the First Officer.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Findings of the Investigation as follows: that Shanghai Airlines implement flight planning based on the characteristics of special airports and provide measures for Captain and First Officer in order to cross check their roles during pre-flight briefing for aircraft operations at Grade 1 designated special aerodromes [AIR1905-1]. that Shanghai Airlines review traffic pattern, flight procedure and detailed CRM among flight crew members in case of circling approaches in Gimhae International Airport emphasising the importance of landing runway identification and continuous visual check. [AIR1905-2]. that Shanghai Airlines provide pre-flight training to pilots who are beginning to operate flights to designated special aerodromes and be sure to implement it. [AIR1905-3]. The Final Report was completed on 25 November 2021 and released in English translation on 24 December 2021.