messages. Leading or participating in safety meetings, workshops and forums. Encouraging people to report hazards, safety concerns and ‘normal errors’. Listening to, and addressing employee concerns. Treating people justly when they report ‘normal errors’. Being ‘visible’ in the workplace, and. Maintaining safety standards, by example, and by correcting unsafe behaviour by others.. Establishing blame and reward policies outlining the organisational Just Culture is not only an ethically responsible way of dealing with inevitable human errors - it is a pre-condition for reporting systems that enable an organisation to learn about the errors, hazards and risks inherent in its operations. Communication is a fundamental and essential process through which people cooperate to achieve any mutual goal. An effective leader would support a Safety Culture by: Promoting safety - as a priority, reporting related activities and highlighting achievements. Clarifying safety goals - explaining the vision for safety, expressing clear expectations about safe behaviour. Interacting ‘at the coalface’ - being visible, discussing safety issues. Listening - to safety concerns, seeking feedback, asking about problems. Closing the loop - asking how incidents occur, communicating lessons from safety occurrences, notifying improvements made. Shaping behaviour - acknowledging and rewarding good behaviour, challenging and correcting inappropriate actions. Being just - communicating an understanding that people are fallible and will make errors, applying a ‘Just Culture’ policy.. Feedback processes are essential to a positive Safety Culture, so that managers can understand where to make improvements to safety practices. Upward communication channels generally exist in any organisation. These include face to face activities, such as meetings, briefings and debriefs, as well as written processes, such as event reporting systems and hazard notification forms. All of these communication channels provide the opportunity for frontline operators to pass relevant information to their supervisors or managers. In addition, line supervisors / first level managers are supposed to observe and talk to their staff, and report to their managers. As with many aspects of organisational functioning, there is a distinction between policy - what should happen, and practice - what actually occurs. Often, these processes of upward communication and feedback are ineffective. There are many possible reasons for this. They include what might be called ‘barriers’ to effective communication. (See Figure 1) A properly implemented Safety Management System (SMS) operates in a complementary and interdependent way with the Safety Culture to create a safer organisation. The SMS must be actively improved and realised. A Safety Management System represents an organisation’s competence in the area of safety, and it is important to have an SMS and competent safety staff to execute it. For additional information see: Interdependence between Safety Culture and Safety Management Systems in ATM.. The misperception is sometimes held that safety management should be based on formalised processes, detailed, prescriptive procedures and strict hierarchical control over work practices and decisions. In reality, this is impossible. Even well-written, detailed procedures cannot prescribe people’s behaviour in every work situation. Neither can they be constantly supervised, to ensure that employees do the right thing. Moreover,