confirmed that skidding had occurred during both the initially attempted (and SOP-recommended) clockwise turn and the subsequent anti-clockwise turn. In both cases, the Captain had used differential braking with ground speed 5 knots below the recommended minimum whilst significantly increasing engine thrust with the aim of tightening the turn "due to the low turning speed". Runway marks showed that in one of these episodes, the action had actually increased the turn radius by 0.3 metres. It was noted that the SOP for the turn detailed in the FCTM explicitly recommended not using differential braking and highlighted the importance of maintaining a minimum ground speed not less than 8 knots "so as to avoid the need to significantly increase thrust in order to continue moving". It was also noted that during the Captain's attempt at an anticlockwise turn, the aircraft had passed beyond the displaced runway threshold which had led directly to its closeness to the jet blast barrier and, having "not made much use of" the additional space provided by the presence of the very wide taxiway 'C' during the initial turn attempt, had resulted in this space being no longer available. The Investigation also found that: Despite the fact that runway 12R/30L was, according to the Jeppesen Aerodrome Chart available to the crew, a "non-instrument runway" which was restricted to daylight use only, the departure was being made in the hours of darkness - as the earlier landing had been.. No official aerodrome briefing for Tabriz had been available to the flight crew prior to their departure from Jeddah and it was found that "pilots’ knowledge and information related to operations at Tabriz were gathered from other pilots that had been there".. The delayed departure from Jeddah and the short-notice roster changes associated with this meant that the pilots "did not have proper rest and the last minute duty change was not in accordance with Flight and Duty Time Limitations".. The intended take-off was from runway 30L rather than the primary runway 30R because the latter was closed due to construction work and had been so notified by NOTAM. A full length take off was the only option because the flight crew did not have take-off performance for departure from the taxiway 'B' intersection.. The Jeppesen Aerodrome Chart identified Hot Spots in respect of 180 turns made at both ends of the primary but closed runway 12L/30R, instructing pilots to begin such turns in the anti-clockwise direction at the 30R threshold and in the clockwise direction at the 12L threshold whereas there were no similar designations / instructions in respect of turns at the ends of runway 12R/30L. Both runways were of equal width and 180° turns would only be necessary for full length departures if the other runway was (as in this case) unavailable for use as a taxiway.. The applicable A340-300 ACN was found to be 74 whereas the PCN promulgated in the State AIP for runway 30L/12R was only 60, meaning it was not suitable for