use by an A340-300.. Tabriz Airport did not have a suitable tow bar for an A340 although after the excursion and passenger disembarkation, one was used to get the A340 back onto the paved surface.. Only one set of Jeppesen Charts was available on the flight deck of the aircraft involved and "they were not always up to date" with "most pilots resorting to using their own IPADs with Jeppesen applications installed, using an 'uncontrolled' chart database from the open market (P2P torrent download)".. Neither of the Advanced Mission Display Systems (AMDS) - a fully integrated Class III EFB - installed on the aircraft to aid flight management were working.. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the wet surface of a runway which was "unsuitable" for use by an A340 had resulted in the aircraft skidding during the attempted 180° turn despite the use of full nose wheel steering capability and use of a very low groundspeed. A Contributory Factor was identified as the need to backtrack to the full length of the departure runway because the pilots did not have the necessary take-off performance data for a departure from taxiway 'B'. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Saudi Arabia General Civil Aviation Agency should take immediate action to consider the implications of the findings of this investigation on Saudi Arabian Airline operation.. that the Malaysian Civil Aviation Department should take immediate action to consider the implications of the findings of this investigation on Air Asia operations and perform effective supervision on its activities.. that Air Asia should evaluate introduction of a Flight Data Analysis and Surveillance Program which would monitor crew behaviour associated with all aircraft fleets.. that Air Asia should establish and implement an 'Action Plan for Prevention of a Similar incident' which achieves the following: Reinforces pilot education on behaviour in respect of SOP, FCOM, avoidance procedures and the careful use of airport information. Reviews flight crew procedures for efficient and immediate reaction against a similar situation.. Reinforces pilot education on behaviour in respect of SOP, FCOM, avoidance procedures and the careful use of airport information.. Reviews flight crew procedures for efficient and immediate reaction against a similar situation.. that Air Asia should ensure that its flight crew operate within applicable maximum FDP.. that Air Asia should establish an annual CRM training for its pilots, evaluate its performance and send its conclusions to the Malaysian DCA.. that Air Asia should ensure that DFDR parameters are recorded by reference to UTC.. that Saudi Arabian Airlines should obtain all the limitations of their destination Iranian airports from the Iranian Airport Authority and then ensure that appropriate aircraft types are used to ensure adequate operational safety.. that Saudi Arabian Airlines should take note of the content of the Operations Manuals of Chartered Airlines and ensure that flight planning takes place in accordance with it.. that Airbus should insert a warning note in the A340 FCOM to the effect that additional runway width will be required for