An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Department of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). CVR and QAR flight data, the latter with equivalent parameter recording to the FDR, were successfully downloaded and used to assist the Investigation. It was specifically noted that the downloaded data was consistent with the accounts given by the pilots. It was noted that both pilots were Malaysian nationals. The 53 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the departure and had previously operated into Tabriz, most recently two weeks prior to the investigated excursion, had accumulated 19,178 total flying hours which included 675 hours on type. The 27 year-old First Officer had accumulated 3,612 total flying hours which included 203 hours on type and was on his first visit to Tabriz. It was established that after leaving the apron, the aircraft had been cleared to taxi onto departure runway 30L via taxiway 'A' and then backtrack to the beginning of the 45 metre-wide runway in order to perform a full length (3,757 metre) take-off (see the illustration below). As the aircraft approached the end of the runway, the Captain began a clockwise 180° turn but when he detected skidding, judged that there was now insufficient room to safely complete the commenced turn and decided to change to an anti-clockwise turn. However, the turn in this new direction continued, the crew reported having become concerned that it may not be possible to complete it whilst maintaining sufficient clearance for the No 4 engine to pass safety over the jet blast barrier located just to the south east of taxiway 'C' on the north side of the runway and requested and obtained the assistance of a marshaller. Although the marshalling guidance was given to continue the turn, the crew were concerned at both the likely engine clearance over the jet blast barrier and the position of the nose landing gear in relation to the edge of the paved surface and the aircraft was stopped because of this concern rather than a marshaller signal. Once the aircraft had stopped, the Captain had asked the Company Engineer travelling with the aircraft to exit it via the avionics compartment access door to check the situation and once outside the aircraft he was able to see that the nose landing gear was already off the runway. It was found that although the surface wind had been very light at the time of the excursion, it had been raining at the time and the asphalt surface of the runway had been wet. It was noted that the FCOM stated that the actual turn on a dry good condition runway for the aircraft involved "without margin" was exactly the same as the actual runway width. However, the prevailing wet runway surface would have meant that additional width for the turn would have been required despite the Captain's use of the full steering capability - a 72° angle - and his maintaining an appropriate ground speed whilst turning. QAR data