The submerged aircraft was found nose down some 65 metres from the shore where the water depth was around 6 metres and with the only feasible means of escape, the ‘ditching hatch’ on the roof of the flight deck, closed. It was noted that “the sea state and water temperature were such that, had the crew been able to escape from the aircraft, survival in the water for more than a few minutes would have been unlikely.” It was noted that the ice protection system for the engine air intake comprised electrically heated mats on each intake lip together with a two-position, two-vane inertia separator driven by an electrically powered actuator which, in the anti ice ‘on’ position, allows solids and liquids to be ejected from the airflow before they are able to enter the plenum chambers and block the air intake meshes. In respect of the sudden release of frozen contaminant into the core of the engine when engine anti ice was selected on and inertia separator vanes deployed, it was concluded that “At some stage, probably after engine ground running began, the deposits of snow, ice or slush almost certainly migrated from the plenum chambers down to the region of the anti ice vanes. Conditions in the intakes prior to takeoff are considered to have caused re-freezing of the contaminant, allowing a significant proportion to remain in a state which precluded its ingestion into the engines during taxi, takeoff and initial climb.” When the engine anti ice had been selected on, the suddenly altered air flow conditions in the air intake in the presence of snow, ice or slush in the intake system had resulted in the near simultaneous flameout of both engines. The six Causal Factors formally identified were in relation to: the absence of an operator procedure for the fitting of engine blanks in adverse weather conditions and the absence of any such blanks at Edinburgh. the accumulation of snow in the engines whilst parked prior to flight. the air intake flow characteristics of the engines which allowed the accumulation of large quantities of snow, ice or slush in a position where it would not be readily visible during a crew pre flight inspection.. the likely migration of accumulated deposits from the plenum chambers to the vicinity of the anti ice vanes followed by refreezing. movement of the anti ice vanes altered the airflow and led to the released of the accumulated deposits into the engine.. the SOPs of selecting both engine anti ice systems on together eliminated a means of defence against a simultaneous double engine failure.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. On 6 March 2001, it was recommended that: that the CAA requires the manufacturer to advise all operators of the possibility of snow accumulation in the engine air intakes, when parked, subsequently resulting in engine failures. Further to advise that such a failure may be precipitated by a change of intake conditions resulting from the activation of