An Investigation was carried out by the UK Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). The FDR and CVR were recovered and successfully downloaded and the wreckage was recovered and transported the AAIB for further examination. It was found that the 58 year-old Line Training Captain who had been in command and acting as PF had accumulated 13,569 total flying hours on both rotary and fixed wing types including 972 hours on type since joining Loganair almost two years prior to the accident. The 29 year-old First Officer had joined Loganair 11 weeks prior to the accident and had been cleared for line flying 4 weeks prior to the accident. He had accumulated 438 total flying hours of which 72 hours were on type. It was established that prior to the accident flight, the aircraft had been parked outside for 17 hours facing into strong surface winds in near freezing conditions. During this time, light to moderate snowfall had prevailed for between nine and ten hours. It was concluded that this had made it likely that a significant amount of snow had entered the engine air intakes. The investigation found that these conditions would have been conducive to "a large build up of ice, snow or slush to occur in both plenum chambers, where it would not have been readily visible to the crew during a normal pre-flight inspection". It was noted that the severe overnight weather had abated by the time the crew had arrived at the airport in late afternoon. It was established that the flight had proceeded normally with the aircraft commander as PF until the engine anti ice had been selected in quick succession for both engines in accordance with standard operating procedures as the aircraft passed an altitude of 2200 feet. Within 4 seconds of this selection, both engines had almost immediately begun to run down rapidly. It was noted that the aircraft had not been fitted with a continuous ignition system and there was no QRH drill for a rapid engine relight. The aircraft had just transitioned to overwater after its take off from runway 06 and a MAYDAY had been transmitted as a turn towards the shoreline was commenced. Because of the rapid descent and the relatively high tide status, it appears that it was judged, probably correctly, that there was no likelihood of a successful forced landing and so a ditching in relatively shallow water not far from the shore was made. This had had to be made without flaps because of a lack of electrical power and without any procedural guidance for a ditching with both engines inoperative. Although it was concluded that, in the circumstances which the crew had faced, the commander had achieved a combination of speed and aircraft attitude, a 6.8° nose up attitude and a speed of 86 knots, “that were probably the optimum under these adverse circumstances”, the ditching was not successful and the impact forces were such that “there was considerable disruption of the aircraft structure”.