and Display Unit (MCDU) and, if necessary, turning off ADR 3. The latter was done but made no difference so it was restored. AOA values had already been automatically sent by ACARS and, in a further manual message, the crew were advised that a review of the AOA values indicated that AOA1 and AOA2 may be frozen and therefore registering an incorrect (too high) AOA. The turning off of ADR 1 and 2 was suggested, noting that such action would lead to Alternate Law. A minute later, a follow up message suggested just turning off ADR 2. This was then done and Alternate Law took effect as stated. The continuous sidestick input was no longer necessary in order to keep the aircraft level and the AP was available again. The crew stated that they had then decided to continue to destination "and use the remaining flight time of about one hour to become familiar with the systems' functions and prepare the landing". The rest of the flight was uneventful and, fifty minutes later, a normal landing at Munich followed. The three AOA sensors were examined by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) under supervision and found serviceable. Airbus examined the event data and confirmed the AOA 1 and 2 had frozen at 4.5ยบ and remained so until part way through the descent into Munich. When the AP was disconnected at the top of climb, the Alpha Protection value for the prevailing airspeed was 0.3 ยบ below the recorded AOA values and a corrective pitch down was applied by the protection logic contained in the Elevator Aileron Computer (ELAC). After the minute or so of descent, at a point coincidental with the transfer of control to the Commander, the ELAC rejected ADR 3 data because its AOA 3 input data (it was not frozen) differed from that being supplied to both ADR 1 and 2 and it became possible to fly level manually with two-thirds continuous backward sidestick input. "Turning off ADR 2 resulted in the flight control system switching into Alternate Law and subsequently the high angle-of-attack protection had also switched off because ADR 3 had already been rejected. After the FAC had been reset, the values of the AOA sensors no longer deviated so strongly that the limits for rejection of one ADR were reached. After ADR 2 had been turned off the FAC had two ADRs available. Once the high angle-of-attack protection had deactivated the autopilot could be engaged again." Safety Action taken so far as a result of the findings of the Investigation are as follows: Airbus communicated with all A320 family operators on 8 December 2014 to advise that if two or three AOA probes are blocked at the same angle, an increase in Mach Number may activate high angle-of-attack protection which would result in a continuous pitch down which backward sidestick inputs may not be able to stop. The interim and immediately-applicable recommended response was to turn off two of the three ADRs in order to