After delegation of authority from the State of Occurrence on 11 November, an Investigation was commenced by the German Bundesstelle f체r Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU) and is ongoing. Data from the SSFDR and the 2-hour SSCVR has been successfully downloaded and has been central to the Investigation, along with aircraft and maintenance documentation and "various witness' statements". It was noted that both the 52 year-old Commander (16,438 flying hours) and the 35 year old First Officer (6473 flying hours) had achieved most of this time on the A320 series aircraft type. The aircraft had night-stopped in Bilbao and the incident flight was the first of the day. The First Officer was acting as PF. The departure was made in light rain with a thunderstorm in the area of Bilbao and the climb, with the AP engaged, made in forecast moderate icing conditions. From 8 minutes after take off, the FDR recorded a constant 4.2째 angle for AOA1 and, from a minute after that, a constant 4.6째 angle for AOA2. The commander advised that he had noticed the indications of the Alpha Protection Band in the Primary Flight Display (PFD) increasing unusually rapidly. As the cleared level of FL310 was neared, the First Officer advised that he had reduced the rate of climb from about 800 fpm to 500 fpm to allow the aircraft to accelerate. Shortly after this, the First Officer disengaged the AP and made a brief sidestick input to reduce the pitch. The nose of the aircraft then dropped much further and when he attempted to counteract this movement with the sidestick, there was no response. Approximately 45 seconds after the AP disengagement, the First Officer advised the Captain of his inability to arrest the descent and the Commander took over as PF. At that time the pitch angle -3.5째 and the rate of descent had reached around 4000 fpm. On applying maximum backward sidestick input, the pitch down began to reduce, the rate of descent decreased and it was possible to regain level flight at FL270. However, this required a continuous backward sidestick input of "more than 50% of the possible input" and the AP could not be re-engaged. No relevant QRH drills could be found. The two Flight Augmentation Computers (FAC) were then reset by the crew in turn but this had no effect. The crew then sent an ACARS message to Company maintenance control with a short description of the situation and asking whether an in-flight simultaneous reset of the FACs was possible. A reply was received that it was and that doing so would put the flight control system into Alternate Law. The crew sent a further message advising that a constant pull on the sidestick was necessary to maintain level flight, that trim was not available, that the Alpha Protection Band moved very rapidly on the speed display and that the Centralised Fault Display System (CFDS) was showing the failure message "PH6 AOA3". The reply suggested retrieving the AOA values via the Multifunctional Control