The way in which employees work and socialise with each other is influenced as much by the organisation and its culture, as it is by their own motives, characters and habits. Therefore, there are two dimensions to managing and harnessing diversity: the organisational dimension – driven by management commitment. the personal dimension – driven by employee involvement. Of the two dimensions, it is key that the organisation bears main responsibility for encouraging and facilitating employee engagement. How employees respond is based on their perception of management commitment; which has two elements: Is the management commitment tangible in the provision of resources? Are employees provided with adequate training, directed with meaningful policies and assisted by functional procedures etc. or, is it merely all talk?. How well does management promote their commitment? Do employees believe that management actually value diversity, or do they believe that management is merely going through the motions.. Resolving these two elements requires building trust, which, in turn, will directly affect the degree and quality of workforce engagement. Trust is gained and given in different ways within different cultures. Organisations (such as those in aviation) that require team members to trust each other, and management and employees to trust each other, need to understand the cultural differences in building trust. Mistrust between team members and employees can be a hazard. In some cultures colleagues are happy to work effectively side-by-side immediately, but trust needs to be demonstrated by deed; sometimes through consistent performance over a long period. In such cultures trust can be built entirely on a professional relationship level. In other cultures, colleagues might prefer to gain trust first before working side-by-side; yet this trust is gained through strengthening social bonds rather than professional ability. This means some people may seek and offer increasing levels of personal disclosure when building trust. Therefore, for some people, buying-in to the concept of honest self-reporting of human errors will take considerable time; and, for other people, attempts to gain personal information may seem like “one step too far”. Management’s responsibility to build trust can be helped through a policy of active role modelling; where all managers undertake the same training in cultural diversity, and are seen to apply the lessons in the workplace on a daily basis. Such diversity training is likely (recommended) to be included within resource management skills training programmes (CRM, Team Resource Management (TRM), Human Factors, Leadership, Teamwork, Assertiveness, Communications). Perhaps the greatest opportunity for management to build trust is through fair and proper response to accidents, incidents and safety reports. This includes a fair execution of a Just Culture, including measured discipline when required i.e. in cases of gross-negligence.