A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) and relevant data was obtained from the aircraft FDR. It was noted that the Captain had 6,999 hours total flying experience which included 4,264 hours on type and that the First Officer had 5,399 hours total flying experience which included 4,235 hours on type. It was established that shortly after the Captain had taken over as PF from the First Officer as the aircraft passed 80 knots after touchdown following an uneventful straight in visual approach to runway 18, a large flock of medium-sized birds identified as Galahs had taken off from the grass on the west side of the runway and flown eastwards at a low height over the runway. Anticipating a birdstrike, the Captain had increased braking and selected reverse pitch propeller on both engines and then, just prior to an unavoidable impact with some of the birds about halfway down the runway, had re-selected Idle. Having tested the ice protection system before the engines were shut down, the crew advised airport personnel who subsequently recovered around ten bird carcases from the runway. The aircraft was initially inspected externally by the First Officer in accordance with the Operator’s post-birdstrike procedures and he reported finding “clear evidence of multiple bird strikes to the right side of the fuselage and to the right engine and propeller in the form of blood staining and bird carcass debris”. One of the left engine propeller blades was also found to be blood-stained with white powder marks, considered consistent with a birdstrike. No evidence of ingestion into the engines or physical damage to the aircraft or propeller blades was found during this inspection. The Captain and the First Officer reported that they had subsequently carried out a detailed visual examination of the birdstrike-affected propeller blades which included rotating them “so that the forward and aft blade surfaces could be inspected for cracking, buckling, chips, dents or deformation along each affected blade’s leading edge”. After finding no damage, the Captain had contacted the Regional Express for further technical advice and subsequently received clearance to continue with the remainder of the flight schedule. His actions were in accordance with relevant Regional Express procedures. The crew then operated the aircraft from Moruya to Merimbula where, on opening the forward left door after engine shutdown, the First Officer had “observed that the tip of one of the left propeller blades had detached” (see the illustration below) and the aircraft was withdrawn from service. No damage to the aircraft structure which could be attributed to the loss of the blade tip was found. A further detailed examination of the aircraft found that most bird remains were on the right side of the fuselage behind the forward right door which was consistent with birds having contacted the lower half of the right propeller disc. There were small pieces of debris on both engine nacelles but no evidence that any had entered either engine. All of the