that “qualified personnel and good engineering practice” must be used for all procedures and standard practices contained in it. The PMM was found to contain a specific sub section covering inspection of propellers after a birdstrike or other impact which included the following: Propellers which have had, or are thought to have had a bird strike or other impact must be examined immediately.. Refer to propeller blade damage limits for allowable damage limits and repairs. Refer to CMM 61-10-39 Check. If the damage is within the allowable limits the propeller can stay in service.. If the damage is more than the allowable limits, but within the repair limits, a ferry flight may be allowed. The operator should write a ferry flight request on a concession form and send it to Dowty Propellers. Refer to Service Letter E340.. The CMM also contained a sub section on Impact Damage which was applicable to birdstrikes but the ATSB considered that its content was ambiguous as “it was not readily apparent from the procedures whether the bird contact alone would constitute damage” and according to the propeller manufacturer, the presence of feathers and dust marks (a visual indicator) even if there are no signs of visible damage, “may require further investigation”. It was found that in 2011, Regional Express had sought approval from the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) for their flight crew to carry out birdstrike inspections of aircraft. After a period of consultations and receipt of guidance on the matter, the airline had developed and submitted for approval a draft flight crew birdstrike inspection procedure. Following some minor changes, this procedure had been approved and incorporated into the Regional Express Policy and Procedures Manual in April 2012. However, following the event under investigation, the airline had advised the ATSB that it had “misinterpreted” the guidance provided by CASA in that when it developed the procedure, it had relied solely on the AMM and had “inadvertently not considered the propeller manufacturer’s PMM and the birdstrike inspection procedure it contained”. In respect of the wildlife hazard at Moruya, a certified but uncontrolled airport close to the coastline, it was noted that it had a corresponding risk management programme which was assessed as adequate. Although the presence of birds at Moruya Airport was frequent and significant enough to warrant an ‘additional information note’ in the AIP advising that a bird hazard existed, birdstrike rates at Moruya were found to be “considerably lower than those at other regional aerodromes”. More generally, a review of the ATSB occurrence database for the period 1977 to 2014 did not find any other blade failures or in-flight blade tip failures for the propeller type involved in this event which could be attributable to bird impact. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included identification of one Contributory Factor as “the impact from multiple galahs (which) almost certainly reduced the structural integrity of a propeller blade, resulting in the separation of its tip during the subsequent flight”. The Findings also included the