right propeller blades showed evidence of bird impact but only the single damaged blade on the left propeller had any evidence of bird contact. FDR data for the flight from Moruya to Merimbula was examined and found not to provide any evidence as to when the missing left propeller blade tip had separated. It was noted that the propeller blades were of composite construction. The damaged blade had been installed as a new item in 2000 and had undergone routine inspections and, during overhaul of the propeller in 2011, ultrasonic NDT and there was no record of any impact to this blade prior to the observed birdstrike. The propeller manufacturer concluded that the damage was consistent with that likely in the event of a bird or other hard object impact. It also considered that the buckling of the leading edge erosion strip was likely to have been caused by impact rather than being attributable to subsequent aerodynamic loading and that kinking of this strip “would most likely have been present at the time the blade was inspected at Moruya after the strike”. In view of the failure of the pilot inspection at Moruya to detect any signs of bird strike damage given the likelihood that some evidence of propeller blade impact was likely to have been overlooked, the Investigation reviewed the applicable Regional Express procedures. These stated that an External Inspection (Crew Change) as specified in the FCOM must be carried out and noted that “generally, blood and/or feathers are noticeable in the impact area of a bird strike”. They also stated that “if the inspection does not reveal the existence of a defect or damage and there was no effect on the aircraft’s performance following the event, the aircraft may continue to operate”. However, the External Inspection referenced in the FCOM was found to contain only two propeller-related items, namely the inspection of the propeller assembly for oil or grease leakage from the hub assembly and inspection of the propeller de-icer boots. It was noted that the FCOM procedures for a post flight inspection included the item “Propellers - including freedom of rotation and each blade front and back for obvious damage”. It was accepted that it was not possible to know if an engineering inspection at Moruya would have detected any deformation to the leading edge erosion strip of the propeller blade which had subsequently shed its tip but it was considered that if an appropriately qualified person had examined the multiple propeller blade bird impacts, “they may have sought further advice from the propeller manufacturer” in accordance with the PMM procedure requiring this "if there is doubt concerning secondary impact damage”. It was established that under Regional Express aircraft maintenance procedures, birdstrike inspection procedures were supposed to be “derived from” the AMM for airframe inspections and the propeller manufacturer’s Component Maintenance Manual (CMM) and an aircraft specific Propeller Maintenance Manual (PMM) for propeller inspections. The applicable CMM was found to contain a general statement to the effect