later amended to the RNP ZULU approach runway 05. The aircraft was instructed to report passing 6000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings, which the controller anticipated would occur when the aircraft was about 5nm north-north-west of the airfield. Her plan was that if the first aircraft had not landed or had joined the visual circuit by the time the Qantas aircraft made the report, she would instruct it to commence the RNP missed approach procedure which would achieve at least 1000 ft vertical separation between the two aircraft based on her expectation that the first aircraft would be in or joining the figure-of-eight circuit (see the first diagram below) at 4000 feet QNH. However, when the Pacific Blue aircraft advised that they were commencing the missed approach procedure as depicted on their IAP Plate for the circling manoeuvre, this invalidated the separation 'plan' made by the trainee controller. Nevertheless, she immediately instructed the Qantas flight, still on its RNP,to commence the RNP missed approach at its best rate of climb. The supervising Instructor-Controller then took over from the trainee. At one point the Pacific Blue aircraft reported observing a target on their Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) display which appeared to be a couple of miles behind then and 800 to 900 feet higher but neither aircraft received a TCAS TA or TCAS RA during the period of proximity. FDR data from the two aircraft was used during the Investigation to attempt a reconstruction of the relative flight paths in the vicinity of the airfield and the depiction shown in the second diagram below was developed. It shows Qantas descending then flying a climbing figure-of-eight missed approach whilst Pacific Blue tracks away from the overhead climbing. The contemporaneous positions of both aircraft are shown by the two circles. It was noted that ATC was required to separate IFR flights from other IFR flights in Queenstown air space, which in the absence of radar had to be achieved procedurally. The ANSP ‘Airways’ reported the event as a possible loss of separation caused by the Pacific Blue aircraft “not following the published missed approach procedure” as a result of which controllers were not certain that the minimum separation of 1000 ft had been maintained. It was noted that at the time of the occurrence, Airways had a multilateration surveillance system on trial at Queenstown which although it only showed unverified positions of the two aeroplanes and their altitudes it had “helped the controllers to manage the situation”. However, the commander of the Pacific Blue aircraft said later that if ATC had instructed them beforehand to fly the figure-of-eight circuit they might have been able to comply, but once they had commenced the missed approach it would have been difficult to turn right without getting too close to terrain. The commander also observed that as his Company was not authorised to make RNP approaches, its pilots did not know all of the RNP procedure positions referred in communications between ATC and Qantas, and so