Civil Aviation Rule 91.413(e) was likely a factor in the routine non-compliance with the Rule by pilots making non-precision approaches to Queenstown Aerodrome.. The procedure for circling below the minimum descent altitude after an instrument approach to Queenstown Aerodrome needs to be clarified to ensure pilots and controllers are in no doubt as to their respective actions to achieve separation from other traffic.. The minimum required separation between the 2 IFR aeroplanes was not assured because the approach clearance issued to Qantas did not allow for a potential communications failure and it was based on the controllers’ shared assumption that Pacific Blue would, without further instruction, remain in the visual circuit in the event of not landing. Had the Pacific Blue pilots turned back towards the aerodrome while climbing to the missed approach altitude of 8500 ft, which was possible under PANS-OPS, a more hazardous scenario might have ensued, because Qantas had already been cleared to descend through the same area.. Airways [the ANSP] had not clearly explained to operators that it expected large aircraft that did not land at Queenstown after circling to enter the visual aerodrome circuit.. The visual circuit procedure put in place by Airways [the ANSP] for large aircraft at Queenstown should have had the approval of the Director because it was intended as a permanent change that introduced or varied right-hand circuits.. Had the controllers realised that the low cloud around the aerodrome made the visual circuit unsuitable for a jet aeroplane, they could have protected the missed approach for Pacific Blue by a more positive means, such as not clearing Qantas for its approach until Pacific Blue had landed.. The controllers and the pilots of the Pacific Blue aeroplane did not share the same understanding of how the published missed approach would be protected while Pacific Blue was circling. The different texts in the AIP and the Manual of Air Traffic Services at that time contributed to that misunderstanding.. Pilots who are not approved for or not familiar with RNAV procedures may not understand radioed position reports that refer to RNAV waypoints. The communication gap that this potentially creates is a safety issue.. Although not a factor in this incident, the use of similar titles for different RNAV approach procedures to the same runway is a hazard that could result in an aircraft flying the wrong approach.. It is likely that the level of risk (associated) with flight operations at Queenstown Aerodrome has increased because of changes in the variety and intensity of operations.. There is no effective means of ensuring that the common operational information and procedures published by certificated organisations for their internal use are accurate and consistent. That deficiency inevitably results in differences that lead to misunderstandings between operational staff, which can compromise the safety of operations.. A number Safety Actions were taken by Airways to address safety issues identified during the Investigation which had they not been taken would have resulted in Safety Recommendations being issued. These were: The amendment