by ANSP Airways (acting on behalf of the CAA) of the State AIP entry for Queenstown to clarify the direction of turns and the procedure altitudes applicable to figure of eight circuits and amended the chart sub-heading to read “Procedure if aircraft is maintaining visual reference or circling from an instrument approach and unable to land”.. The amendment by Airways of the Manual of Air Traffic Services and (acting on behalf of the CAA) the State AIP to state more clearly the minimum weather conditions before the missed approach could be protected by instructing a pilot to enter the aerodrome traffic circuit, and the restrictions upon a controller’s use of this procedure. The Manual of Air Traffic Services procedures confirmed that protection of the missed approach should remain in place until an aircraft has landed.. The Aerodrome section of the State AIP was amended (by the CAA) to include the CAA requirement that pilots of any air transport flight operating to or from Queenstown Aerodrome be qualified for operations there by a comprehensive briefing, a simulator exercise and a minimum of 2 familiarisation flights into and out of the aerodrome.. Pacific Blue amended its pilot qualification requirements for Queenstown Aerodrome to include initial and recurrent simulator training for First Officers.. Five Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that the Director of Civil Aviation ensure that the strategic plan being developed by [ANSP] Airways and the risk assessment being conducted by the CAA in regard to Queenstown Aerodrome address the following safety issues in respect of that aerodrome and, if applicable, generally: the variability of procedures used by pilots when circling after a non-precision approach and in the event of not landing off an approach the separation of aircraft making different types of instrument approach in Queenstown controlled airspace the appropriateness of the large aircraft visual circuit procedure at Queenstown the naming convention for RNAV procedure waypoints, which makes waypoint recognition difficult for pilots who are not approved for the procedures. the variability of procedures used by pilots when circling after a non-precision approach and in the event of not landing off an approach. the separation of aircraft making different types of instrument approach in Queenstown controlled airspace. the appropriateness of the large aircraft visual circuit procedure at Queenstown. the naming convention for RNAV procedure waypoints, which makes waypoint recognition difficult for pilots who are not approved for the procedures. [012/12] that the Director of Civil Aviation take action, in conjunction with certificated instrument flight procedure service organisations, to eliminate the use of similar procedure titles for different instrument approaches to the same runway. [013/12] that the Director of Civil Aviation require non-precision approaches at Queenstown to be re-evaluated to determine whether any rule exemptions or special procedural requirements are necessary to enable safe circling manoeuvres. [014/12] that the Director of Civil Aviation ensure that operational material published by document holders and approved by the Director is accurate and consistent across all users and complies with the