An Investigation was carried out by the New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC). Whilst the severity of the actual conflict which had occurred could not be defined in detail because of the non radar environment in which it occurred, the Commission determined that a full Investigation was appropriate because of the likelihood that the systemic risk highlighted by the occurrence was significant. It was noted that the air traffic controller on duty at Queenstown throughout the investigated event was under training and being supervised by an instructor. It was established that in the case of the Pacific Blue aircraft, the commander was designated as PF in accordance with aircraft handling restrictions applicable to all that Company's flights into Queenstown. This aircraft had been cleared by ATC Queenstown for a non precision approach (the VOR/DME ‘ALPHA’ IAP) as a prelude to a circling approach to runway 23. The reported weather at Queenstown included cloud patches at 1000 ft a cloud base at 5000 ft and visibility of 40 kilometres. The pilots reported that they had considered that the conditions were ‘a bit marginal’ and had discussed the published missed approach procedure in case they could not land. However, the controller had earlier indicated twice that they would become visual and should be able to land. Visual contact with the terrain was acquired at about 500 feet above the MDA, which was equivalent to approximately 3500 feet above aerodrome elevation. Upon reaching MDA, the aircraft began an orbit at that altitude whilst the flight crew reassessed the extent of the cloud in relation to their clearance to continue to a landing on runway 23. Subsequently, the aircraft commenced visual reference manoeuvring below MDA but as they passed overhead the field, it became apparent that the low cloud near the 23 threshold was more extensive than they had previously thought. Shortly afterwards, ATC were advised that positioning to runway 05 would now be attempted, although this intention was not confirmed by a formally amended ATC clearance. However, it soon became clear that they were likely to lose visual contact with the runway because of low cloud and they advised ATC that they had commenced a missed approach and were tracking to the designated missed approach holding point to the south west of the airfield. This was acknowledged by the controller who added “for separation, remain visual if able.” When the aircraft replied “we’ll do our best (we are) intercepting the 212 radial” (the published missed approach track),the controller asked the pilot if he could join the figure-of eight circuit, (see the diagram below) but was told that the flight was intercepting the stated radial and was clear of terrain. The Pacific Blue aircraft was able to clear terrain prior to entering Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). Earlier the Qantas aircraft, which had previously estimated that they would land about 5 minutes after Pacific Blue, had been cleared by Queenstown ATC to descend to 12000 feet on the RNP ZULU approach for runway 23,