they had been initially concerned that the Qantas aircraft might be on an approach in the opposite direction to the missed approach track they were flying. After a full review of the context of the event described, the Investigation analysed the evidence in detail. As a preface to this it was noted that “the mountainous terrain and weather associated with Queenstown Aerodrome make aircraft operations there challenging and potentially more hazardous than at most other airports in New Zealand”. It noted that the high minima associated with non precision approach procedures at Queenstown “meant that jet aeroplanes were not guaranteed to complete every approach” but that “recent advances in RNAV systems mean that true ‘all weather’ operations are now available for flights approved to use that technology although both types of approach could be expected to be in use for some time yet. Apart from the basic concern about safe separation between IFR traffic, there was a specific concern that there was a mismatch between the understanding of the Pacific Blue pilots and ATC of what would follow in the event that it was not possible to land off the circling manoeuvre. A series of other safety issues were also defined and reviewed: the suitability of the meteorological conditions for the Pacific Blue flight. the awareness of meteorological conditions (during circling behind the intervening terrain of) Deer Park Hill. whether Queenstown circling approaches comply with PANS-OPS. pilot understanding of the design of instrument approach procedures. the separation of arriving IFR aircraft. the validity of the figure-8 circuit and its suitability for jet aircraft. the protection of the missed approach. the naming of RNAV approaches. the safety of operations at Queenstown Aerodrome.. The Visual Circuit for large aircraft (reproduced from the Official Report) On the basis of this analysis, sixteen Findings of the Investigation were listed which collectively represented a comprehensive indictment of prevailing risk assessment in respect of public transport flight operations at Queenstown and are therefore provided here in full: The reported meteorological conditions were acceptable for the Pacific Blue flight to commence the instrument approach, but, because of low cloud behind Deer Park Hill, were not suitable for the flight to have descended below the instrument approach minimum altitude.. The inability of air traffic controllers and pilots of aircraft taking off to observe the meteorological conditions behind Deer Park Hill, an area in which pilots must be able to maintain visual contact with terrain, is a safety issue that needs to be resolved.. Pilots, particularly those of jet aeroplanes, making non-precision approaches to Queenstown Aerodrome cannot fully meet the PANS-OPS requirements for such approaches because the runway cannot be kept in sight at all times when their aircraft are circling below the minimum descent altitude.. The Pacific Blue pilots were forced to fly an escape manoeuvre, but maintained visual contact with terrain until they intercepted the prescribed missed approach track at a point where they were above the procedure minimum height.. The incomplete and inaccurate AIP reference to