The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) developed and published a prototype regulation concerning the licensing and operation requirements for unmanned aircraft (UA) in August 2016. The term "Unmanned aircraft" and the abbreviation UA are used in this document as opposed to e.g. "UAS" or "Drone" in the relevant Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) documents. This regulation shows the vision of the EU regarding the UAS legislation. The approach taken focuses on the risks associated with UAS operations to divide them into categories rather than quantifiable metrics (e.g. weight or size). The prototype regulation lays down: rules for regulating an operation-centric concept for the operation of unmanned aircraft (UA), and more specifically in the "open" and "specific" categories (see descriptions below), within the single European sky airspace.. technical requirements and administrative procedures for the design, production and maintenance of UASs in the "open" and "specific" categories within the European Union, as applicable;. technical requirements and administrative procedures for the implementation of the concepts of registration, electronic identification, and geofencing;. requirements for subcategories in the "open" category;. conditions to issue a declaration or to obtain an authorisation, as appropriate, in the "specific" category;. requirements for the introduction of a concept of standard scenarios in the "specific" category;. conditions to obtain an optional light UA operator certificate (LUC), with associated privileges;. conditions for the making available on the market of UASs intended to be used for operations in the "open" category, as well as requirements for market surveillance relating to the marketing of those UASs in the Union.. Following the publication of the Prototype regulation for the "open" and "specific"' categories in August 2016, EASA drafted and published on 4 May 2017, NPA 2017-05. In 2019 and 2020, three regulations were adopted: Regulation 2019/945 on UAS and third-country operators of UAS. This Regulation defines requirements for the design and manufacture of UAS. Amended by Regulation 2020/1058 of 27 April 2020.. Regulation 2019/947 - rules and procedures for unmanned aircraft. This Regulation lays down detailed provisions for the operation of UAS as well as for personnel, including remote pilots and organisations involved.. Regulation 2020/639 regarding standard scenarios for operations executed in or beyond the visual line of sight.. In 2021, three regulations were adopted defining the U-space concept: Regulation 2021/664 - regulatory framework for the U-space. Regulation 2021/665 - requirements for ATM/ANS providers in the U-space airspace. Regulation 2021/666 - requirements for manned aviation operating in U-space airspace.