As is the case with most safety related equipment, the requirement for a Stall Warning System will be found within the aviation regulations for the State of Manufacture and the State of the Operator for any given aircraft. The required operational parameters of the Stall Warning System on a particular aircraft will, in part, be dependent upon the aircraft weight, capacity and purpose and the regulations under which the aircraft Type Certificate was issued. The regulations concerning a Stall Warning System for aircraft other than Transport Category Aircraft include the following requirements: There must be a clear and distinctive stall warning, in both straight and turning flight, with the flaps and landing gear in any normal position. The stall warning may be furnished through the inherent aerodynamic qualities of the aircraft or by a device that will give clear, unambiguous indications under the expected conditions of flight. A visual stall warning device requiring the attention of the crew within the cockpit is not acceptable by itself. During a wings level, decelerating condition in any normal configuration, the stall warning must begin at a speed which is a minimum of 5 knots greater than stalling speed (Vs) and continue until the stall occurs. During a turn or in the case of a turning accelerated stall, the stall warning must begin sufficiently in advance of the stall to allow the stall to be averted if the pilot takes appropriate action. The regulatory requirements for a Transport Category Aircraft are somewhat more robust and the regulations themselves are more prescriptive. As examples: When the speed is reduced at rates not exceeding one knot per second, the stall warning, in each normal configuration, must begin at a speed (Vsw) which exceeds the stall speed by not less than five knots or by five percent of the calibrated airspeed, whichever is greater. Once initiated, the stall warning must continue until the angle of attack is reduced to approximately that at which the stall warning began. During decelerating turns, with a load factor of at least 1.5g and airspeed reductions of at least two knots per second with flaps and gear in any normal position, the stall warning margin must be sufficient to allow the pilot to prevent stalling when the recovery is initiated not less than one second after the onset of the stall warning. Stall warning must be provided in each abnormal configuration of the high lift devices that is likely to be used in the event of a system failure inclusive of all configurations addressed by AFM procedures.