Type 4 fluids) were unable to rotate and the take off was successfully rejected from above V1. The Investigation found that thickened de/anti ice fluid residues had frozen in the gap between the leading edge of the elevator and the horizontal stabiliser and that there had been many other similarly-caused occurrences to aircraft without powered flying controls. There was concern that use of such thickened de/anti ice fluids was not directly covered by safety regulation. On 1 June 2009, an Airbus A330-200 being operated by Air France on a scheduled passenger flight from Rio de Janeiro to Paris CDG as AF447 exited controlled flight and crashed into the sea with the loss of the aircraft and all 228 occupants. It was found that the loss of control followed an inappropriate response by the flight crew to a transient loss of airspeed indications in the cruise which resulted from the vulnerability of the pitot heads to ice crystal icing. On 5 January 2004, a Fokker 70, operated by Austrian Airlines, carried out a forced landing in a field 2.5 nm short of Munich Runway 26L following loss of thrust from both engines due to icing. On 21 November 2006, an Air Canada Jazz CL-600-2B19 on a scheduled flight from Vancouver to Prince George was cleared for a non-precision approach at destination. During a missed approach because of worse than forecast weather conditions, the crew were unable to retract the flaps from their 45 degree landing setting. A diversion to the designated alternate was commenced but en route, ATC were requested to provide radar vectors to Fort St. John and an emergency was declared due to a low fuel prediction on arrival. The aircraft subsequently landed without further problem at Fort St. John with about 500 pounds of fuel remaining, equivalent to less than 10 minutes of flight time. B789, Melbourne Australia, 2021On 22 September 2021, a Boeing 787-9 was found on arrival at its destination, Los Angeles, to have completed the 14½ hour flight from Melbourne with all four fan cowl static ports taped over. The crew had not observed any adverse consequence. The Investigation attributed the oversight to inadequate pre-flight maintenance and operational procedures and found that failure to identify the taping had resulted in the aircraft departing with reduced redundancy to the engine electronic control systems of both engines. B752, vicinity Puerto Plata Dominican Republic, 1996On 6 February 1996, a Boeing 757-200 took off from Puerto Plata at night despite awareness at the 80 knot check that the Captains altimeter was not working. Thereafter, the crew became confused as to their actual airspeed and lost control before the aircraft hit the sea surface less than five minutes after takeoff. The Investigation found that the Captain’s pitot probe was blocked and that the three pilots on the flight deck had become confused about which airspeed indications were reliable and had then not recovered from an aerodynamic stall which followed the wholly avoidable mismanagement of the aircraft flight path. A320, London