The following text is extracted verbatim from the published AIBN Report. Much more detail may be found in the source documents referenced below. It was found that the aircraft braking coefficient (ABC) was not in accordance with the measured/estimated runway friction coefficients (FC).. Numerous common factors have reduced the safety margins and factors that explain the differences between ABC and FC. These factors are related to: Meteorological conditions and friction measurement uncertainty Runway treatment Operational aspects Regulatory conditions. Meteorological conditions and friction measurement uncertainty. Runway treatment. Operational aspects. Regulatory conditions. Meteorological conditions and friction measurement uncertainty Moisture in combination with contaminated runways plays a more significant role in relation to ‘slipperiness’ than previously understood. The difference between measured/estimated runway friction coefficients (FC) and airplane braking coefficients (ABC) is particularly great under certain meteorological conditions. Layered contaminants, wet and moist conditions, air temperature, dewpoint temperature, sanding and strong crosswinds are important factors. The correlation, when measured on ‘dry’ compact snow or ice, between measured friction coefficient (FC) and experienced airplane braking coefficient (ABC) is in the order of 0.5 of measured FC. On all other types of contaminations there is no consistent correlation. Validity ranges for friction measuring devices lack the necessary scientific basis. The various types of friction measuring devices measure different friction values when used on the same surface. None of the internationally improved friction measuring devices are reliable on all types of contaminations.. Moisture in combination with contaminated runways plays a more significant role in relation to ‘slipperiness’ than previously understood.. The difference between measured/estimated runway friction coefficients (FC) and airplane braking coefficients (ABC) is particularly great under certain meteorological conditions. Layered contaminants, wet and moist conditions, air temperature, dewpoint temperature, sanding and strong crosswinds are important factors. The correlation, when measured on ‘dry’ compact snow or ice, between measured friction coefficient (FC) and experienced airplane braking coefficient (ABC) is in the order of 0.5 of measured FC. On all other types of contaminations there is no consistent correlation.. Validity ranges for friction measuring devices lack the necessary scientific basis. The various types of friction measuring devices measure different friction values when used on the same surface. None of the internationally improved friction measuring devices are reliable on all types of contaminations.. There is an apparent correlation between the observed meteorological conditions and runway slipperiness. The measured friction coefficient should be considered on the basis of temperature, dew point, precipitation and the history of these parameter values. These factors can be used as practical ‘Safety indicators’ for assessing runway friction.. Runway Treatment There has been limited scientific research and inadequate approval by the authorities concerning friction-improving means - both related to sanding and the use of chemicals. Sanding on wet and compact snow or ice, and sanding of loose layers of material in the form of slush, wet or dry snow on top of compact snow or ice, is not very effective. Friction measuring devices measure friction values that are too high when used on such surfaces. A