the sole member of cabin crew was being assisted to walk to her crew seat at the rear of the cabin by one of the passengers and she subsequently confirmed that she had lost her balance and been lifted off her feet whilst walking towards the rear of the cabin during the upset and then had fallen and was now unable to stand unaided. The Training Captain in command advised ATC that the flight had just encountered “severe turbulence” and requested a return to Kagoshima rather than continuing to Tanegashima and this was approved and completed without further event with a landing 25 minutes after the upset. On arrival, an ambulance was waiting to transfer the injured cabin crew to hospital where it was found that she had a broken right ankle and a damaged ligament both affecting the same joint. A subsequent review of FDR data (see the illustration below) showed that during the upset, the pitch angle had changed from -2.3° to +6.3° in one second (marked (a) on the illustration) as the recorded vertical acceleration peaked at +3.3g (marked (b) on the illustration). However, an examination of the aircraft confirmed that it was still airworthy despite the recorded maximum vertical acceleration being in excess of the 2.5g limit load factor. Although there was a slow moving typhoon some 150nm to the east of the accident site, the meteorological synoptic chart showed that the usual steep pressure gradient around this typhoon centre had been confined to an area far from it and that neither the pressure gradient along the route flown nor any other atmospheric factor was likely to have caused a sudden upset of the severity experienced and none was forecast. A detailed analysis of the FDR data established that at the time of the accident, the onset of mild turbulence had been accompanied by a decrease in SAT and a brief change from the previous 20 knot tailwind component to a 20 knot headwind component and then, equally quickly to 30 knot tailwind component. In addition, it was found that when the aircraft was in the vicinity of the accident site level at 8000 feet during its subsequent return to Kagoshima, an increase in SAT and a rapid oscillation in wind component (a 20 knot headwind component briefly became a 10 knot tailwind component and then a 30 knot headwind component). Such localised variations were not at a scale which would be within the capability of en route atmospheric observations or forecasting. Further analysis of the FDR data by ATR was then able to distinguish the contribution made to the rapid pitch oscillation that led to the cabin crew injury by the pilots’ pitch up command and atmospheric variation at that time. Whilst a simulation based on the available data was not precise, it was reliably estimated that almost all of the maximum vertical acceleration of +3.3g (around 80%) resulted from the simultaneous aggressive rearward movement of both pilots’ control columns (marked (d) on the illustration