The event was classified as an Accident and an Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). Relevant data was successfully downloaded from the FDR but since the aircraft had continued in service after the accident flight, corresponding data from the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that the 42 year-old Training Captain in command, who was occupying the right hand seat and acting as PM, had a total of 8,053 flying hours experience of which 978 hours were on type. The 35 year-old First Officer, who was undergoing Captain upgrade training and therefore occupying the left hand seat, had a total of 3,746 flying hours experience of which 849 hours were on type. It was the crew’s third flight of the day having earlier flown an uneventful two sectors from Kagashima to Kikai. It was noted that on the basis of the available forecasts and an absence of any contrary PIREPs, the flight crew had no reason to expect any significant turbulence whilst in clear air and that turbulence in cloud during climb and descent could be reasonably expected to be at the same light intensity as it had been on their first two sectors. The flight was uneventful during the climb and cruise but as they began the descent from a cruise altitude of 11,000 feet QNH just over 30 nm from their intended destination still in VMC, minor turbulence began and the PF became concerned that the 240 KIAS speed which he had intended to fly at had begun to increase towards the 250 KIAS VMO. Having set up the descent with the AP engaged in VS mode at 1300 fpm, he therefore reduced power to flight idle but when this appeared not to be having the expected effect on pitch attitude and therefore airspeed, he used the CWS to temporarily declutch the AP and manually attempted to pitch up. Both pilots observed that this action did not have the desired effect and the Captain - without calling that he was taking control - then pulled back on his own control column as well. The rising airspeed was halted by a very brief but very significant change in pitch attitude from -2.3° to +6.3°in one second which resolved the rising speed problem but led to a momentary spike in vertical acceleration to 3.3g before it returned to the variation associated with minor turbulence with the PF fully in control. An overspeed warning occurred during the upset but lasted only one second and FDR data showed that the corresponding momentary maximum operating speed (VMO) exceedence had been just one knot. Also, since the simultaneous pitch input on both control columns was in the same direction rather than in opposite directions, no pitch disconnect had occurred. The seat belt signs remained off throughout the upset. With a normal flight path resumed after an upset of less than ten seconds at 10,800 feet, the Captain checked the passenger cabin video surveillance camera picture and saw that