met the aircraft and the commander then advised that there had been a problem with the AP to which the Co-Pilot stated that there had been no such problem and that the FDR record should be preserved. No entries were made in the Aircraft Technical Log concerning the stall warning, flap over speed or nacelle overheat and no formal incident reporting action was taken. Subsequently, and when off duty, the Co Pilot had contacted the Company and an internal investigation, which eventually led to the Irish AAIU being informed the following day and the UK AAIB the day after that, was commenced. Overall, the Investigation concluded that there was evidence that during the incident flight “the commander was not operating in a manner consistent with the company’s procedures:. It was considered that although the commander considered that he had been “well rested” prior to commencing duty, the nature of the duty and the fact that he had driven for nearly 3 hours prior to starting duty at Manchester the previous evening, mean that it was possible that, “knowingly or not, he may have been tired or fatigued”. It was also considered that the manner in which the commander had responded to monitoring calls made by the Co-Pilot had been “likely to have discouraged further input at a time when effective cross-cockpit monitoring would have assisted in ensuring safe flight” and that this effect would have been exacerbated by the diminished quality of pre flight rest achieved by both pilots. The formally stated Conclusion of the Investigation was that: “The appropriate airspeed was not maintained during the approach because standard operating procedures were not observed, monitoring was not effective and there was diminished crew cooperation during recovery actions. The performance of the crew may have been affected by tiredness or fatigue, caused by diminished quality of rest in the period prior to flight duty.” The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 August 2013. No Safety Recommendations were made but appropriate Safety Action by both the aircraft operator and its FDR validation contractor in relation to FDR data readout requirements was reported to have been taken.