was disengaged passing 6,300 feet. On transfer to TWR, on 7 nm finals, the aircraft was still to the right of the ILS LLZ and on checking in, the First Officer advised that the flight remained “in a MAYDAY situation”, was “unable to do a go-around” and needed confirmation that they could expect a landing clearance, since “the runway seemed to be occupied”. Soon after this, the ILS LLZ was captured and after inspection vehicles had cleared the runway, the aircraft, still maintaining high speed (216 KCAS) and descending at 1200 fpm, was given landing clearance. With 3 nm to go, and passing 840 feet agl, the Captain was recorded ordering “gear down” with the aircraft still at 213 KCAS. The First Officer, “having previously warned the captain on three occasions that the speed was too high to lower the gear” reminded him of the maximum gear extension speed of 170 KCAS but when the Captain repeated “gear down”, the sound of the gear lever being moved was recorded at 204 KCAS which “triggered a sequence of four aural warnings” upon which “the First Officer rebuked the Captain”, who then noticed the speed and quickly reduced it to below 170 KCAS before again ordering it down. With the aircraft now 340 feet agl and the gear down and locked, the First Officer called “speed” as it had increased again to 183 KCAS as the rate of descent reached 1000 fpm. The flight crew had not alerted the cabin crew to prepare the cabin - and the Captain had not spoken to the passengers since the stall - and so at 126 feet agl, the SCCM, recognising that landing was obviously near, made the landing announcement and reminded passengers to fasten their seat belts. At the same time, a sequence of five EGPWS Mode 4B “TOO LOW, TERRAIN” warnings were annunciated, ending at 37 feet agl with the aircraft still at 160 KCAS. Touchdown, with the airport fire service in attendance, occurred 759 metres beyond the threshold of the 3,500-metre-long runway and as the aircraft decelerated, the Captain stated that “the pedals aren’t working, the left pedal, they’re jammed” but nevertheless achieved normal directional control and was able to vacate the runway and taxi to the allocated parking position where the passengers were disembarked. A vertical profile of the complete flight was prepared (see the first illustration below) and a more detailed one of the stall (see the second illustration below). The Investigation made a detailed analysis of the performance of the flight crew in creating and responding to the aircraft handling issues which defined this event which it concluded were as follows: Flight in severe icing conditions. The fact that three minutes before stalling, the aircraft was unable to continue climbing and that the airspeed was beginning to drop were “clear indications” which were described as such in the applicable procedures, that the climb performance of the aircraft was degrading. Explicit indications that ice was building up on the airframe