An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Both the CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and downloaded with their data used to assist the Investigation. CVR data was only available from just under half an hour before landing, beginning one minute after the MAYDAY had been declared. A full record of all relevant ATC communications was also available. It was found that the 55 year-old Captain had a total of 18,294 flying hours experience including 4,497 hours on type of which 1,230 hours had been as a Captain. He had been employed by Swiftair for two years. The 33 year-old First Officer, who had been designated as PF for the flight had a total of 1,431 flying hours which included 421 hours on type and had been employed by Swiftair for 11 months. Most of the aircraft systems were those found on any similar twin turboprop aircraft but one type-specific addition in this case was the Aircraft Performance Monitoring (APM) system which is automatically activated in icing conditions and in view of its relevance to the investigated flight is described below. The APM works by monitoring the detected aerodynamic drag against the theoretical performance that should prevail and provides alerts if the airspeed drops towards or below a safe minimum speed when the system has detected an abnormal increase in drag. Three visual indications are provided on the flight deck which, in order of increasing importance are: CRUISE SPEED LOW - blue - which is illuminated when an abnormal increase in drag causes the airspeed to fall 10 knots more than expected. The required response is to “monitor icing conditions and speed”.. DEGRADED PERF - amber - which is illuminated in climb or cruise if there is an abnormal increase in aerodynamic drag but the speed is still above the minimum severe icing speed. The required response is to select de-icing on, ensure the speed remains above the severe icing speed, disengage the AP and “if the conditions are confirmed, apply the severe icing procedure”.. INCREASE SPEED -amber- which is illuminated at any time there is an abnormal increase in aerodynamic drag and the indicated airspeed is below the minimum severe icing speed. The required response is to immediately move the control column forward to recover speed and then apply the severe icing procedure.. In order for the APM system to generate these cautions appropriately, the aircraft weight must be manually entered after engine started on each flight sector using a 12 position rotary switch which must be moved even if the value to be set is the same as for the previous sector. The flight departed Alicante for Madrid, a flight of around 200 nm, with an initial climb planned en-route to waypoint ‘NARGO’ (see the illustration below) some 35 nm distant followed by cruise at FL170. Although the weather at Alicante was good, the route forecast was for light icing to be encountered in the climb