to whom he was about to transfer the flight. Soon after this, as the aircraft turned left to avoid entering cloud, the First Officer requested routing direct to waypoint ‘PRADO’. One minute later, the ‘DEGRADED PERF’ caution cleared having been active for almost 13 minutes. After complying with a request to climb to FL150, which they were advised was the minimum altitude in the Madrid ACC sector they would be entering, the aircraft was transferred to that sector. On checking in with Madrid, the controller asked if the icing problem had been resolved to which the crew replied that “they had taken on a lot of ice (and) that something was wrong (with) the problem still present but they were stable”. Five minutes later, the crew reported that actually they had not solved the problem and wanted to descend and followed this with a MAYDAY declaration and requested direct to Madrid due to continuing “problems with the controls” which was approved. Once descent from FL150 towards Madrid began, the average recorded airspeed increased to around 245 KCAS, “a value that was (then) maintained practically until landing”. On being asked if ground assistance was required on arrival, the crew replied no. After requesting runway 32R for landing despite 32L being the active runway with 32R closed for maintenance access, this was eventually agreed and tracking thereafter was towards it. CVR data available from just after the MAYDAY declaration confirmed that by then there were three people on the flight deck, the two pilots and an Air Europa Captain who was positioning on the service and had gone into the flight deck at the operating Captain’s request after the stall recovery. Subjects of conversation during the initial part of the descent included the aircraft’s continued vibrations and “concern about performance when they had to lower the flaps for landing”, the later leading to the decision to make a flapless approach to land on what would be a long runway relative to that required. The Senior Cabin Crew Member ( SCCM) also entered to report that a passenger was going to be administered oxygen. Later, the First Officer “is heard preparing the manoeuvre […] confirming that the speed would be 130 knots” - the correct speed was actually 135 knots. Once transferred to APP, the crew “asked if there had been any reports of turbulence in the area where they were flying” and were told there had not and the flight was cleared for the requested ILS approach to 32R. Approaching 8500 feet, the First Officer reported having the runway, still 20 nm away, in sight. Passing 7,300 feet, the Captain stated that he would land above 130 knots and that “if something strange happens, I’ll give it power”. When the First Officer asked for confirmation of what to do with the flaps in case of a go-around, the Captain replied, “don’t even think of going around, we have to land”. He also decided to land without the yaw damper out and it