from FL140 followed by moderate icing after ‘NARGO’. As the aircraft passed FL100 eight minutes into the flight, the indicated TAT reached 7º C, which when in visible moisture is defined as indicating the presence of icing conditions. Two minutes later and climbing at 175 KCAS, the TAT was 2.7° C and the electrical anti-icing system, which covers the flight deck side windows, the outer extremities of the flight control surfaces and the inboard leading edges of the propeller blades, was switched on. Half a minute after that, the ‘ICING’ light, which is activated when ice builds up on the ice detector located under the left wing, was Illuminated and this prompted the crew to switch on the pneumatic boot airframe de icing system fitted to the wing and empennage leading edges. After a further four minutes, during which the rate of climb had reduced from 1100 fpm to 500 fpm, the aircraft was climbing through FL160 at 169 KCAS and the APM ‘DEGRADED PERF’ caution was activated. When the climb ceased altogether at FL 162, this altitude was maintained for a minute and a half and then the Captain (who was PM) selected VS mode at 1100 fpm “in order to climb clear of the cloud layer” and requested and was granted re-clearance to cruise at FL190. Within 20 seconds, in conditions that were probably worse than forecast, this action had led the speed to reduce to 153 KCAS at which point, twelve minutes after takeoff, the aircraft stalled and the Captain took over as PF (remaining as such for the rest of the flight). The stall continued without any initial attempt at recovery for 33 seconds, during which the aircraft descended at an average of over 3000 fpm at an angle of attack of up to 19.6º, a nose down pitch angle of up to 11º and bank angles ranging 58º to the right and 39º to the left. Intervention to recover the aircraft to controlled flight eventually occurred with a recorded airspeed of 195 KCAS as the aircraft continued to descend. The AP was not re-engaged and remained out for the remainder of the flight. Continued descent was requested from Valencia ACC who gave clearance for descent at the crew’s discretion, advising that the base of radar cover was FL070. The crew then advised that they intended to continue on track and asked if there were any significant weather phenomena ahead and were advised that there were not. The controller then asked the reason for the descent and was told “we stalled due to icing” and on hearing this informed them of the location of the airport at Valencia relative to their position. A few minutes later, descent was stopped at around FL130 and ATC were advised that the flight was clear of the cloud and were proceeding toward waypoint ‘CENTA’, which “was interpreted by the controller as meaning they had solved their icing problem” and was the information he then passed to the Madrid ACC controller