(the ICING LIGHT was on) and that the drag was increasing (the DEGRADED PERF alert was on) were also available. Both demonstrated that the aircraft climb performance was degrading “and that the aircraft was flying in uncertified conditions”.. Management of the Climb. During the climb, the crew took actions that were inconsistent with the procedures and recommendations specified by both the aircraft manufacturer and the aircraft operator. Although some of these actions were initially inconsequential, others such as the failure to carry out the severe icing and degraded performance procedures and the failure to use IAS mode in icing conditions did have consequences. The crew failed to consider the implications of the behaviour of the aircraft during the final part of the climb, forced the aircraft to its limits and then attempted to climb beyond them, all as a result of focusing on the objective of a continued climb. Autopilot modes which were expressly prohibited when in any icing conditions, such as the use of ‘VS’ mode, ultimately drove the aircraft to stall.. Management of the Stall. The recorded actions suggest that the Captain failed to recognise that the aircraft had stalled until 21 seconds had elapsed or alternatively that if he did identify it, he did not take the only essential action that is required, which is to push the stick forward to lower the angle of attack and recover airspeed, or indeed any of the other secondary actions in the stall recovery procedure.. Subsequent Management of the flight. The approach was performed at high speed, no procedures or checklists were used to verify that the aircraft was correctly configured for landing and the stabilised approach criteria were not met. No action - such as a missed approach - was even considered because the Captain was completely focused on landing. He also ignored the First Officer’s calls regarding basic flight parameters, such as speed. Fortunately, the length of the landing runway was such that there were no consequences of a touchdown well past the TDZ.. In summary, there were multiple deficiencies not only in how the emergency was handled, but in respect of the flight as a whole which involved: The failure to follow SOPs.. The failure to perform Checklists.. A certain complacency in how the flight was handled in icing conditions.. The failure to recognise the aircraft stall.. The narrow focus first on increasing the aircraft’s altitude and later on landing.. The first officer’s lack of assertiveness.. It was observed that all of these behaviours are related to training which both pilots had completed and it is therefore assumed that they had thereby acquired the intended “knowledge, skills and abilities” yet the deficiencies identified during this Investigation have shown that “these were not present at the time of the flight”. Two similar events involving in-flight loss of control of ATR 72 aircraft in 2016 were noted. In one, involving a climb by an ATR72-500 in the UK, APM cautions on airframe icing were also ignored and a stall