followed and in the other, involving a climb by an ATR72-600 in Norway in which the crew also lost control in icing conditions, which at the time of publication was still under investigation by the Norwegian Accident Investigation Board. It was also noted that two previous CIAIAC Investigations into events involving a Swiftair-operated aircraft in 2012 and to the same ATR72-500 as was involved in this event in 2013 (published in the Spanish language only) had involved “a failure to adhere to operating procedures” similar to the failure found in this Investigation and that three Safety Recommendations had been made to Swiftair to address this problem. Swiftair had subsequently “informed the CIAIAC of the plan of action that had been put in place (and) since these measures were deemed to be satisfactory, insofar as they complied with the objectives of the recommendations”, all three had been closed out prior to the publication of the Final Report on this Investigation. The Probable Cause of the the loss of control in icing conditions was determined as “deficient flight management by the crew and an inappropriate use of automation”. Relevant Safety Action has been taken by ATR since this event to add relevant improved procedures already communicated directly to operators prior to this event into the AFM and to modify these procedures to bring them into line with revision 3 of the ICAO Airplane Upset Prevention and Recovery Training Aid (AUPRTA) issued in February 2017 by linking the decision making process with the objective performance figures to support the efficient management of aircraft energy. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Swiftair, as the operator, take the measures needed to ensure that its technical crews maintain over time the knowledge and skills related to the following areas: Flying in icing conditions. Aircraft assistance and protection systems in icing conditions. Stall and recovery procedures. [REC 12/19]. Flying in icing conditions.. Aircraft assistance and protection systems in icing conditions.. Stall and recovery procedures. [REC 12/19]. that Swiftair, as the operator, take the measures needed to ensure that its technical crews maintain over time the knowledge and skills related to the following areas: Non-technical skills (CRM): decision making, emergency management, focus and assertiveness. Adherence to operating procedures, task assignment in the cockpit and completion of checklists. Communication and coordination with the passenger cabin in emergency situations. [REC 13/19]. Non-technical skills (CRM): decision making, emergency management, focus and assertiveness.. Adherence to operating procedures, task assignment in the cockpit and completion of checklists.. Communication and coordination with the passenger cabin in emergency situations. [REC 13/19]. that Swiftair, as the operator, provide the measures needed to ensure that its passenger cabin crews acquire and maintain over time the knowledge and skills needed to manage, in a complete and adequate manner, medical emergencies on board. [REC 14/19]. that Swiftair, as the operator, take the necessary measures involving the quality control of the oxygen supply equipment on board to ensure to operability of the