Upon the declaration of an Uncertainty Phase by the RCC or by an ATS Unit, the RCC should: Verify the details of the flight as provided by the alerting unit. In particular, details of the aircraft involved should be gathered and confirmed to the extent possible. These details should include but are not limited to: call sign or registration aircraft description including type of aircraft, colours and marking number of passengers on board (POB) and, if available, names category of operation (visual flight rules (VFR) or instrument flight rules (IFR)) pilot rating and experience place of departure, destination and planned route actual time of departure and estimated time of arrival fuel endurance and fuel expiry time time of last communication last known position any other relevant information.. call sign or registration. aircraft description including type of aircraft, colours and marking. number of passengers on board (POB) and, if available, names. category of operation (visual flight rules (VFR) or instrument flight rules (IFR)). pilot rating and experience. place of departure, destination and planned route. actual time of departure and estimated time of arrival. fuel endurance and fuel expiry time. time of last communication. last known position. any other relevant information.. Log all incoming information and progress reports, details of action taken and subsequent developments. Maintain close liaison with relevant ATS Units for updates or changes in status. Continue the communication search, either directly or through other ground or airborne assets. Plot the flight path of the aircraft involved to the point that contact was lost, making use of all relevant information. Determine the most probable location or most likely continuation of the route of the aircraft involved. If the communication search and/or other information acquired indicates that the aircraft is not in distress, the RCC will cancel the SAR phase and immediately inform all concerned parties. In cases where the aircraft has not been located after application of the above procedures, the need to upgrade the emergency phase will be considered. Upon the declaration of an Alert Phase, the RCC should: Complete or initiate all relevant actions as detailed for the Uncertainty Phase. Ensure that a SAR Mission Co-ordinator (SMC) has been appointed. Alert appropriate SAR facilities. Review all information received;. Continue efforts to obtain information about the distressed aircraft from all available sources. Carefully re-evaluate all known details of the flight to confirm estimated position or most likely route of flight performance under adverse conditions. Estimate and plot the probable position of the aircraft and its maximum range from its last known position. Maintain close liaison with relevant ATS Units. If appropriate, initiate search planning. Whenever practicable, communicate all information received and action taken to the operator. If it is determined that the aircraft is not in distress, the RCC will cancel the SAR phase and immediately inform all parties concerned. However, if the aircraft has not been located after extensive application of the above procedures, the SMC should consider the need to review/upgrade the emergency phase. Upon the declaration