An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish CIAIAC. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data from both aircraft and ground radar recordings were available to the Investigation. A view of the holding area where the collision occurred taken from the Official Report is shown below: It was established that both aircraft had been issued with taxi clearances in accordance with applicable procedures and were following them. It was noted that prior to the arrival of the 737, the 767 had stopped at holding point G3. The 737 was cleared to holding point G1 and a following Air France aircraft to holding point G2. Planned and eventual departure was in the same order as their arrival at the holding area. The 737 was being taxied by the aircraft Captain who had relied on the inexperienced First Officer to observe the proximity of her aircraft to the 767 as the taxi behind was begun at a slow speed. The First Officer had then suddenly called ‘stop’ and expressed doubt as to the clearance and the Captain had left her seat to assure herself that sufficient clearance existed. After realising that the 737 may be having difficulty passing behind from R/T exchanges, the 767 crew had moved their aircraft forward a few metres to the furthest point from which the holding point line was visible to the seated pilots. However, the Investigation found that the collision had already taken place approximately three minutes earlier. Those aspects of aerodrome design covered by the SARPs detailed in ICAO Annex 14 were found to have been followed but to be specified in terms of clearances between aircraft on adjacent parking stands without no applicable reference to the design or use by aircraft of different ICAO size categories of multiple holding point areas such as that where the collision took place. It was noted that these size categories were in any case determined only by aircraft wing span not fuselage length. It was noted that although the VCR was located only 600 metres from the holding area where the collision had occurred and with a clear view of it, it was impossible for controllers to assess separation distances between aircraft manoeuvring there. It was also noted that it is not possible for seated pilots in the 737-800 to see the winglets at the tips of their respective wings and that seated 767 pilots have a restricted ground view for 15 metres ahead of the aircraft nose. In the latter respect, the Investigation noted, in the context of the nose of the 767 at impact being approximately 15/17 metres prior to the holding point ground marking, that: “In this regard, we must bear in mind that when an airplane stops at a holding point, it does so some distance away from the marking at the pilot’s discretion. From the pilot’s point of view, the main concern is not to interfere with aircraft circulating on the runway at any time. A pilot will therefore give priority to this consideration over