any potential problems involving tailing aircraft, and will keep the holding point marking well in sight and ahead of the nose of the airplane, barring any instruction to the contrary from ATC. The distance will depend on the field of view that the crew has from the cockpit.” It was concluded that the stationary positions of the 767 both before and after the collision were not unreasonable given this consideration. Upon arrival at Ibiza, the 737 Captain had observed superficial damage to the right wingtip but had failed to record this in the Aircraft Technical Log on the grounds that to do so would have led to a substantial delay to the next flight due to the absence of contracted engineering cover at Ibiza. As a result of this, the damage was not properly recorded until the aircraft had completed a further flight back to Barcelona. The actions of both the cabin crew and Captain of the 737 in respect of passenger reports of a collision were reviewed by the Investigation. It was noted that several passengers had reportedly seen the collision, with one getting up and walking to the rear of the cabin to tell one of the cabin crew of this. This cabin crew had advised the senior cabin crew located at the front of the aircraft and been told by them to advise the flight deck. This communication had been initiated by means of a routine rather than an emergency interphone call and according to the Captain “gave the impression that only one passenger had witnessed the contact, and not several, as she later discovered” and had been prefaced with the words “sorry to bother you, I know I’m not supposed to…” The report had been quickly dismissed by the Captain who had, according to the cabin crew, explained in “aviation terminology” that the two aircraft had come close but had not touched. During the flight, a passenger who had identified himself as an engineer had “expressed concern that they had taken off under those circumstances” and after arriving at Ibiza, several other passengers had also “voiced their preoccupation over the situation”. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the collision was that “the crew of the Ryanair B737’s misjudging of the distances as it passed behind the B767, which was stopped at the G3 position of the runway 25L holding point”. It was noted that “assigning position G3 to an aircraft with a long fuselage, such as a B767-300, and the position of said aircraft, relatively far away from the holding point marking, contributed to the incident”. It was also concluded that “the deficiencies in the communications between the cabin and flight crews on the B737 resulted in the collision going unnoticed and in both aircraft continuing with their flights without an assessment of the damage produced”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that AENA [the agency responsible for both airports and air navigation in Spain] reassess the taxi limitations applicable