Solar activity is not constant and, from time to time, eruptions appear on the sun’s surface which result in an abnormal level of radiation and of particle ejection. The radiation and particles are thrown into space and, if directed towards the earth, will arrive after a certain interval. Three different space weather events which effect the earth are CME’s (Coronal Mass Ejections), SEP’s (Solar Energetic Particles) and Solar Flares. These vary in times to reach the earth from as little as 8 minutes with solar flares travelling at the speed of light to as long as a day with CME’s. The occurrence and severity of these eruptions follows an 11-year cycle composed of a period during which the severity and probability of occurrence of eruptions are quite low (but unfortunately not equal to zero), followed by a higher solar activity period called the solar maximum. This cycle can be characterized using the sun spot number (SSN), which is the arithmetic sum of the visible dark spots on the solar surface. As this parameter is quite easy to determine, it has been recorded since 1749. The disruption caused on Earth is a result of these highly charged particles from the sun interacting with the upper atmosphere and disrupting the magnetic field of the earth. Figure 1: Monthly Sun Spot Number evolution Figure (1) shows solar activity as indicated by the monthly SSN and highlights that some of the solar cycles have a higher peak than others. However, the intensity of the solar cycle is not directly linked to the severity of eruptions. As an example, one of the most severe solar storms was recorded in 1859 during a fairly moderate solar cycle. Once the period of minimum solar activity of the previous solar cycle has been reached, prediction of the next solar cycle becomes reliable. Figure 2: Solar cycle sunspot number progression from ISES Figure (2) shows the latest prediction of the current solar cycle, known as solar cycle 24. The intensity of this solar cycle was moderate and the peak of maximum solar activity was observed in early 2014. As the solar eruptions are most likely to appear during the period of maximum solar activity but also during the decreasing phase, the occurrence and severity of solar eruptions was highest in the period from 2011 to 2017.