Cabin crew, passengers and other responsible staff should be warned that fuelling will take place and that they must not smoke, or operate electrical equipment or other potential sources of ignition. Operators may permit the use of cellular telephones inside the aircraft during refuelling.. Vehicle(s) and personnel from the RFFS should be by the aircraft before the procedure commences.. The aircraft illuminated 'NO SMOKING' signs should be on together with sufficient interior lighting to enable emergency exits to be identified. Such lighting should remain on until fuelling operations have been completed.. Note: On newer aircraft types the 'NO SMOKING' signs have been replaced by permanently visible unlit no smoking symbols. The 'Fasten Seat Belts' signs should be switched off and passengers should be briefed to unfasten their seat belts.. Provision should be made, via at least two of the main passenger doors (or the main passenger door plus one emergency exit when only one main door is available), and preferably at opposing ends of the aircraft, for the safe evacuation of passengers in the event of an emergency. Throughout the fuelling operation, each of these doors should constantly be manned by at least one cabin crew member per door.. Two-way communication should be established between the flight deck and the ground refuelling supervisor using the aircraft inter-communication system or other suitable means.. Ground servicing activities and work within the aircraft, such as catering and cleaning, should be conducted in such a manner that they do not create a hazard or obstruct exits.. Inside the aircraft cabin the aisles and emergency exits should be kept clear of obstructions.. Whenever an exit with an inflatable escape slide is designated to meet the requirements for refuelling with passengers on board, the ground area beneath that exit and the slide deployment area should be kept clear of all external obstructions and the refuelling supervisor and/or relevant ramp staff informed accordingly.. The access paths to and from areas where potentially additional slides may be deployed if an evacuation is initiated should remain clear to enable service vehicles and personnel to clear these areas expeditiously if necessary..