Absolute authority for the decision to refuel with passengers on board must reside with the aircraft commander. They should ensure that either they or their explicitly designated representative remains on the flight deck throughout the time when refuelling with passengers on board is occurring. Teamwork is essential for normal safety standards to be maintained during such refuelling and there are a number of things that the personnel involved should be doing to achieve this: The aircraft commander or his specifically authorised representative present in the flight deck should: Where possible, establish direct communication with any ground engineer or ramp crew by interphone and if not possible agree alternative means Inform the senior cabin crew member prior to the commencement and after the completion of refuelling Keep watch for any interphone or visual alert of fire or risk of fire from the person supervising the refuelling on their behalf Be prepared to order passenger evacuation if necessary. Where possible, establish direct communication with any ground engineer or ramp crew by interphone and if not possible agree alternative means. Inform the senior cabin crew member prior to the commencement and after the completion of refuelling. Keep watch for any interphone or visual alert of fire or risk of fire from the person supervising the refuelling on their behalf. Be prepared to order passenger evacuation if necessary. The designated dispatch supervisor should satisfy themselves that: at least one pilot is present in the flight deck, all cabin crew are at their stations and any ground engineer required to be present is aware and appropriately positioned The area beneath exits intended for emergency evacuation is and remains clear The fire service has been advised Any passenger boarding / disembarkation is achieved in a controlled manner. at least one pilot is present in the flight deck, all cabin crew are at their stations and any ground engineer required to be present is aware and appropriately positioned. The area beneath exits intended for emergency evacuation is and remains clear. The fire service has been advised. Any passenger boarding / disembarkation is achieved in a controlled manner. The ground engineer (or the equivalent supervisor of refuelling externally) should: Ensure that a means of communication with the flight crew in any emergency has been agreed Have agreed how communications with the pilot(s) on the flight deck will be achieved in an emergency Ensure that the aircraft commander or his representative in the flight deck is made aware of the commencement and completion of refuelling Immediately notify the pilot(s) present in the flight deck if a fire occurs or the risk of one is high If an emergency evacuation is required, indicate to the pilot(s) present in the flight deck that exits that may be used are clear of obstructions Ensure that refuelling is stopped if such a request is made by one of the flight crew.. Ensure that a means of communication with the flight crew in any emergency has been agreed. Have agreed how communications with the