Basic Aviation Risk Standard: Offshore Helicopter Operations – Safety Performance Requirements – Implementation Guidelines, Version 3, Flight Safety Foundation, December 2016.. “Safety Enhancements: Loss of Control,” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee, accessed April 22, 2020. This initiative focuses on using the resources of “aircraft type clubs” to review their common practices regarding missed approach, go-around, and other approach and landing procedures/checklists “to determine if or where [GA] pilots are becoming task-saturated/fixated.” This includes identifying “disconnects” between published flight manuals/procedures and common practices in actual flying, which create higher workloads during specific maneuvers and procedures of high-priority safety concern in GA.. “Safety Enhancement (SE) 3: Aeronautical Decision Making (ADM) (Complete),” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee Safety Enhancement Portfolio, February 28, 2018. This initiative says, “To reduce the risk of LOC accidents, the GA community should develop and implement a flight safety program focusing on ADM … in preflight planning, professional decision making, flight risk assessment tools (FRAT), stabilized approaches, missed approaches and go-arounds. … The FAA and industry will develop new and improved interactive, scenario-based training encouraging sound ADM … on personal computers and [websites].”. “SE 4: Over-Reliance on Automation,” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee Safety Enhancement Portfolio, February 28, 2018. This initiative aims “to reduce the risk of LOC accidents by improving certain aspects of flight training related to over-reliance on automated flight systems.” This includes familiarization with official references to to autopilot malfunctions and failures, and promoting proper training of manual flying in the event of automated systems malfunction or failure during recurrent training, flight review, or [aeroplane type] transition training.”. “SE 5: Transition Training” and “SE 6: Transition Training,” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee Safety Enhancement Portfolio, February 28, 2018. This initiative focuses on “development of website-based tools that will aid in all aspects of transition to unfamiliar aircraft across GA, including ADM. … This will help identify the risk of inadequate training when operating unfamiliar equipment [including experimental aircraft].”. “SE 8: Flight Training After Period of Flight Inactivity,” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee Safety Enhancement Portfolio, February 28, 2018. Safety experts recognise that some GA pilots face specific risks because they do not operate aircraft on a frequent/continual basis. GAJSC aims “to reduce the risk of LOC accidents by improving certain aspects of flight training related to the return to flying after [extended] periods of flight inactivity.”. “SE 9: Part 135 Safety Culture,” General Aviation Joint Steering Committee Safety Enhancement Portfolio, February 28, 2018. This SE says that GA stakeholders should advocate that Part 135 operators conduct mixed operational missions [i.e., segments during the same mission require compliance with commercial safety requirements while other segments require compliance with non-commercial safety requirements as circumstances change] under safety criteria similar to those governing commercial flights. “This will reduce LOC accidents by increasing safety margins and promoting professionalism,” the SE says. Other recommended practices that professionalise single-pilot flying are creating and implementing standard operating procedures for Part 91 positioning legs, routinely using flight risk assessment tools, and fostering positive safety