The 2016 edition of the FAA’s Pilot’s Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge says that the current strong emphasis on single-pilot resource management (SRM) — already part of initial pilot training in many countries — benefits general aviation safety. “While CRM focuses on pilots operating in crew environments, many of the concepts apply to single-pilot operations. Many CRM principles have been successfully applied to single-pilot aircraft and led to the development of SRM. … SRM includes the concepts of ADM, risk management, task management, automation management, controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) awareness, and situational awareness. SRM training helps the pilot maintain situational awareness by managing the automation and associated aircraft control and navigation tasks. This enables the pilot to accurately assess and manage risk and make accurate and timely decisions. … The use of available resources such as autopilot and air traffic control (ATC) replicates the principles of CRM.” As noted, corporate worker transportation to/from offshore oil/gas platform operations and remote mining sites has benefited from SRM. Another often-cited example is helicopter emergency medical services (HEMS). Advocates of SRM–ADM adoption have targeted a number of the extremely diverse areas of general aviation for their attention, which include: Pilot training (involving single-pilot operations, for example, during practice of maneuvers and procedures for flight tests);. Business aviation (involving single-pilot operation of piston engine–powered and turboprop-powered aeroplanes, and some types of turbojet aeroplanes, including owner-operated very light jets);. Recreational pursuits, including single-pilot balloon, glider and model aircraft flying;. Agricultural operations, including single-pilot aerial application (crop spraying);. Mail, newspaper, blood and similar deliveries of time-sensitive materials;. Non-commercial transportation of severely ill passengers, human organs for transplant, medical equipment and medicines;. News media monitoring/reporting of motor vehicle traffic conditions and other news events from the sky;. Civil search and rescue missions by single-pilot volunteers, observers and technicians;. Aerial surveillance of illegal activities, such as smuggling, by law enforcement officer-pilots;. Aerial surveys of land and natural resources by owner-operators of aeroplanes, helicopters and remotely piloted aircraft systems;. Pipeline and power cable patrol by single pilots;. Corporate or non-government organisations’ flights by single pilots for pollution control monitoring, climate change observation and wildfire control; and,. Flying displays/demonstrations..