An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish AIB. It was confirmed that Notice To Airmen and navigation warnings had been issued for the air show area and that the display programme had been advised to the two air traffic control units involved in the incident. It was noted that air show management was co-ordinating the event programme using an aircraft band radio on a discrete frequency. However, they had no means of direct contact with any air traffic control unit. In respect of the VFR operation of the VFR helicopter, it was noted the weather conditions in the area had been broken cloud with bases estimated at 1000-1500 feet and 3000-6000 feet and a 2000-5000 feet wind velocity of 230-260°/20-25 knots. Available evidence indicated that the parachutists who passed near the ATR 72 had done so comfortably clear of cloud. It was established that the helicopter from which seven parachutists were to be dropped had taken off from the intended drop zone at Gärdet, the site of the Stockholm Air Show approximately 4nm east south east of Bromma with initial clearance from Bromma TWR to climb to 2000 feet. This was the limit of both the Bromma CTR and the temporarily-established air show restricted zone. The controlling ATC unit for the airspace above 2000 feet, Arlanda ACC South Sector agreed that Bromma TWR should keep control of the helicopter as it continued to climb to FL070 in VMC for the drop. The helicopter was advised of the clearance and instructed to “report back when you intend to drop the parachutists”. When Bromma TWR found that the ATR 72 was heading for the drop area, Arlanda were contacted and asked to “put the aircraft in a holding pattern until further notice”. It subsequently transpired that this request had been understood by Arlanda to mean that the aircraft should be cleared to the published holding pattern at the ‘NAK’ NDB whereas the intention of the request was that the aircraft should be placed in a ad hoc holding pattern at the position it had at the time of the request. Based on the ACC understanding, the ATR 72 was then cleared direct to the NAK NDB with descent to 4000 feet to expect to hold. Arlanda had then contacted Bromma TWR to get an update on the drop plan. Bromma TWR were unable to contact the helicopter on their frequency but did then make that contact on the air show frequency using a handheld radio but when he asked for the drop to be delayed he was told that it was not possible to delay as the parachutists were already on the skids outside the helicopter. Soon after the dropping of the parachutists had commenced without the Arlanda controller being aware, the ATR 72 was approaching the ‘NAK’ NDB and advised taking up the hold at 2500 feet with the instructed initial right turn. The Bromma TWR controller then realised that the ATR 72 was beginning to approach the helicopter and