contacted Arlanda. Upon being told that it had already been given clearance to turn right over NAK beacon, he asked for the aircraft to be advised instead to continue to final approach for runway 30 at Bromma. As the aircraft had not actually begun the right turn at this point and was still on heading of 350°, the Arlanda controller gave a left turn into a radar heading of 200°. This maintained the required separation against the helicopter but not the parachutists, the final three of whom passed through the aircraft altitude of 2500 feet at a range of about 300 metres. The Airspace Class involved was ‘C’ in which 1000 feet vertical and 3nm horizontal separation was the normal separation required between IFR and VFR traffic, but a general ATC requirement covering all parachute drops required a 5nm lateral separation between any aircraft from which parachutists had been dropped and all others. It was noted that in respect of the hold at ‘NAK’ for which the aircraft had originally been cleared was depicted differently at the Arlanda ACC and on the Jeppesen Chart provided to the ATR72 crew. Both showed a left hand hold but the ACC (and AIP charts, see diagram below) had an inbound track of 209° whereas the Jeppesen Chart (see second diagram below) showed one of 283°. The Investigation concluded after reviewing all the evidence that the breach of prescribed separation which had occurred had arisen because “there were shortcomings in coordination and communication between Stockholm ACC South Sector and Bromma TWR on how to deal with the separation between the helicopter and (the inbound ATR 72)”. It was also found that “correct phraseology was not used in radio communications.” The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the incident was “deficiencies in planning and coordination between the air traffic control centres”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that The Swedish Transport Agency should ensure that the holding patterns belonging to a specific airport will be published in their entirety under the heading for that airport [RL 2011:08e, R1]. The Final Report of the Investigation RL 2011:08e was completed on 17 August 2011 and subsequently published.