The in-flight Hazard Encounter Risk and Knock-on Flight Safety Risk are consistently managed in accordance with ICAO PANS-ATM and PANS-OPS provisions, aircraft operating procedures and other applicable national regulatory provisions. However, it can be argued within the context of this project that the risk of controllers’ excessive workload (associated with the Knock-on Flight Safety Risk) is not sufficiently managed. The severe weather hazard encounter prevention strategies and measures are applied inconsistently at the pre-tactical and tactical levels. The European ANSPs have developed and deployed different capabilities. In the majority of cases, severe weather risk management is not applied at the pre-tactical level. Some ANSPs have developed the needed capability and competence but the lack of incentives, and of an established process to capitalise on the available capabilities, prevents the implementation of an enhanced and more effective severe weather risk management. This leads to sub-optimal ATM efficiency and increased air traffic controllers’ workload, in particular in the critical time period before the tactical ATC measures take effect. In the rare cases of application, the risk prevention and mitigation strategies are based on locally developed capabilities, definitions and processes that are specific (not following common definitions, criteria, format, etc) and do not support an efficient communication and collaboration at Network level. Sub-optimal performance of the European ATM Network. With respect to severe weather risk management the operation of the European ATM Network is suboptimal when applying the following criteria: (1) missed opportunities and (2) use of the available best practices. A risk management approach with adaptive incremental decision making presents a major opportunity for reducing weather related delays. The reasons for the sub-optimal performance can be found in the following groups of impediments: Lack of technical capabilities - tools to enable improved functioning of the risk management chain;. Insufficient competence (e.g. lack of appropriate training) of involved actors;. Lack of procedures - with few exceptions, operational supervisors are required to exercise their best judgement regarding the need to manage the anticipated impact of severe weather on the ATC operations;. Lack of or inefficient incentives due to institutional and organisational reasons, such as: insufficient incentives for the ANSPs to introduce risk-based severe weather impact management and strategies that are optimised for the efficient operation of the Network; insufficient incentives for the meteorological service providers to go beyond the provisions of ICAO Annex 3 and provide information better supporting risk-based impact assessment and decision making; insufficient incentives for the FMPs to apply strategies at the pre-tactical level..