gain altitude, including the practice of operating the aircraft overweight" and that the aircraft had departed without a completed weight and balance calculation being made. That the operator's approved SMS had failed to identify and address such issues and that regulatory oversight had not detected the situation, was of concern to the Investigation. It was observed that since "neither the Pro-Active nor the Re-Active Risk Assessment programs identified issues relating to operational control, weight and balance or calculated aircraft performance, and that the practice of adjusting weight and balance calculations to maintain them within limits after departure was well known and accepted by senior management, it was highly unlikely that these unsafe practices would be reported through, or addressed by, the company's SMS". Other indications that the organisational culture at Buffalo Airways "was not supportive of a system that required the organisation to take a proactive role in identifying hazards and reducing risks" were found during the Investigation. In particular, Company response to findings during regulatory inspections "demonstrated an adversarial relationship between the Company and the Regulator" in which the regulatory basis of findings was refuted and the competence of inspectors questioned. The Investigation concluded that "the overall picture that emerged....was of an organisation that (only) met the basic requirements of regulations when pushed by the regulator". The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors were as follows: An accurate take-off weight and balance calculation was not completed prior to departure, resulting in an aircraft weight that exceeded its maximum certified take-off weight.. The right engine number 1 cylinder failed during the take-off sequence due to a pre-existing fatigue crack, resulting in an engine fire.. After the right propeller's feathering mechanism was activated, the propeller never achieved a fully feathered condition likely due to a seized bearing in the feathering pump.. The windmilling right propeller caused an increase in drag which, combined with the overweight condition, contributed to the aircraft's inability to maintain altitude, and the aircraft collided with terrain short of the runway.. The operator's safety management system was ineffective at identifying and correcting unsafe operating practices.. Transport Canada's surveillance activities did not identify the operator's unsafe operating practices related to weight and balance and net take-off flight path calculations. Consequently, these unsafe practices persisted.. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Risk were as follows: If companies do not adhere to operational procedures in their operations manual, there is a risk that the safety of flight cannot be assured.. If Transport Canada does not adopt a balanced approach that combines inspections for compliance with audits of safety management processes, unsafe operating practices may not be identified, thereby increasing the risk of accidents.. If cockpit or data recordings are not available to an investigation, this may preclude the identification and communication of safety deficiencies to advance transportation safety.. Two Other Findings were also recorded: Current Canadian Aviation Regulations permit a transport category piston-powered aircraft to carry passengers without a flight data recorder