An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was noted that the aircraft had not been fitted with either an FDR or a CVR nor were these required. It was noted that the aircraft Captain had approximately 13000 flying hours which included 4300 hours on the DC-3. The First Officer had approximately 500 hours of flight time including about 125 hours on the DC-3. The Captain was PF for the flight. It was established that "heavy torching and smoke from the right engine" had been observed by ATC almost immediately after the aircraft had become airborne from runway 16. The flight crew were advised but did not reply as they were already aware. The right engine was promptly shut down and the propeller feathering pump selected. However, as the right propeller was moving towards the fully feathered position, it stopped moving and returned to windmilling. In an attempt to reach runway 10, the Captain made a right turn at a very low height (the maximum height achieved was approximately 180 feet agl) but whilst manoeuvring, the aircraft hit a group of trees about 30 feet high situated 210 metres south west of the threshold of the intended landing runway. Initial low-energy ground contact subsequently occurred approximately 130 metres beyond the trees with the landing gear and flaps retracted. A wreckage trail parallel to and south of runway 10 was around 100 metres long. The total time airborne had been about 5 minutes. Reconstructions of the flight track and vertical profile made during the Investigation are shown below. At the time of the crash, ARFF assets were engaged in an unrelated ground vehicle recovery operation in the vicinity of the crash site and arrived at the site almost immediately. There was no fire and once the aircraft had come to a complete stop, the cabin attendant initiated evacuation of the 21 passengers through the rear left door before returning to move some galley drawers which were blocking the entrance to the flight deck and confirmed that the pilots were safe after which all three crew members left the aircraft. The ARFF then made a precautionary application of fire-retardant foam to the aircraft. All occupants, none of whom were injured, remained at the site under ARFF supervision for approximately an hour before being transported back to the Terminal Building. It was established that the aircraft maximum certified take-off weight in passenger configuration was 11884 kg. Taking the APS weight and adding the fuel load of 1228 kg, the passenger load calculated using the applicable standard passenger weights and the actual cargo weight of 486 kg, it was calculated that the actual take off weight had been 12444 kg, some 560 kg above the maximum permitted. It was also established that the Operator was routinely not undertaking the mandatory Net Take-off Flight Path (NTOFP) calculation for its DC-3 flights despite the replication of the requirement in Operations Manual. According to the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM), the aircraft should have been able