to achieve a 330 fpm rate of climb at the maximum permitted takeoff weight with an inoperative engine feathered and both the flaps and landing gear retracted. With an engine idling and at the same weight in the same aircraft configuration, a single-engine rate of climb of 210 fpm should have been achievable. It was noted that the investigation of an Australian DC-3 accident in 1994 mentioned testing of the climb performance of a similar aircraft to see what the effect on single engine climb performance of increasing the maximum permitted takeoff weight would be. With the left (critical) engine inoperative and its propeller windmilling, the observed rate of climb at around the maximum permitted take off weight was only 100 fpm and at a 12700 kg, a weight only slightly higher than the calculated actual take off weight of the accident aircraft, climb was no longer possible. Examination of the failed engine found that Number 1 cylinder head and barrel had separated "due to a fracture of the barrel at the threaded joint with the head assembly". Further examination during the Investigation found a pre-existing fatigue crack in a thread groove on the outer mating surface of the barrel assembly. It was not possible to determine the cause of the fatigue crack because of post-separation damage around the point of origin. At the time of failure, the occurrence engine had accumulated 98.7 hours since a 1400 hour-interval overhaul. However, it was concluded that presence of the crack would not have been detectable externally nor by cylinder differential pressure checks. The crew's inability to feather the failed engine propeller significantly diminished climb performance and in order to maintain the necessary minimum of 90 KIAS, it had been sacrificed to the extent that the crew had been barely able to maintain a constant altitude. The manoeuvring necessary to return to the airport then led directly to the loss of height "which ultimately resulted in the collision with terrain". It was established that when the right hand engine had been shut down and the feathering system had been activated, propeller rotation had slowed but the propeller had subsequently been seen to be windmilling for the rest of the flight. A fault was found in the electric feathering pump motor and it was noted that some system component failures can result in the pump continuing to run but only cycling the propeller blade angle through feather and back towards fine pitch. The effect of such excessive and changing propeller drag would make it difficult to control an aircraft. It was noted that "Buffalo Airways DC-3 flight crews were aware of" a procedure first notified in 1998 which advised that it was possible to interrupt a malfunction of the feathering system and fully feather the propeller by pulling the feathering button out when the propeller reaches full feather. Taking a view of the context in which the accident had occurred, the Investigation noted that "a number of conditions contributed to the aircraft's inability to