The proactive approach in the safety management is based on following a risk management strategy that includes identifying hazards before they materialise into incidents or accidents and taking the necessary actions to reduce the safety risks. Components of a proactive safety management strategy are: Unambiguous safety policy ensuring the senior management commitment to safety;. Hazard identification and risk assessment using state-of-the-art risk assessment methods;. Safety reporting systems used to collect, analyse and share operational safety related data;. Competent investigation of safety occurrences with sole purpose of identifying systemic safety deficiencies;. Safety monitoring and safety oversight aimed to asses safety performance and eliminate problem areas;. Dedicated safety training for personnel. Safety lesson dissemination and sharing best practices among operators and service providers;. Building a corporate safety culture that fosters good safety practices and encourages safety communications in a non-punitive environment. None of these components will, on their own, meet expectations for improved aviation safety management. An integrated use of all these components will increase a system’s resistance to unsafe acts and conditions. The consistent integration of the components of proactive safety management is commonly referred to as a Safety Management System (SMS). The growing recognition of the role and importance of safety management has led to the progressive implementation of safety management systems by aviation service provider organisations (airlines, air navigation service providers, airport operators) in the last few years. This process is managed and monitored by States through dedicated safety programmes in line with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) recommendations. Improving corporate safety performance by proactively managing the safety of provided services is increasingly recognised by all aviation sectors as a prerequisite for sustainable business management and operational growth.