was not stabilised.....(but) did not doubt that the landing could be carried out safely”. He added that “he considered this flight as a non-event”. Whilst there were generally adequate procedures for the conduct of an approach, the Investigation was concerned to discover that the operator’s OFDM programme at the date of the investigated event: did not capture the parameters at the key approach gates before stabilisation.. only measured the deviations at 500 feet because of variable stabilization height, according to unrecordable weather conditions (VMC/IMC). only approaches where the speed was more than 16 knots above the VAPP at 500 feet were categorised as unstabilised.. thrust set was not taken into account above 400 feet.. It was concluded that this failure to collect relevant data meant that the operator was not effectively tracking the operational risk which unstabilised approaches represented. This was considered to be of additional significance give that the operator had adopted the EBT approach to pilot training which is founded on there being adequate evidence from an operator’s own actual relative risk exposure. Four potential Contributory Factors to the unstabilised approach were identified as follows: The decision to carry out a fast approach on a shortened path, outside the scope of the SOP and without carrying out a specific briefing which generated time pressure for no operational reason.. The absence of call-outs by the PM regarding the flight path and speed deviations.. An exceptional context in which the crew’s flight activity in the six months preceding the event had been low.. The final radar vectors bringing the aeroplane above the approach slope which left the crew little room for manoeuvre to reach stabilisation at 500 feet aal.. A potential Contributory Factor to the approach being continued below 500 feet aal was also identified: The crew’s lack of knowledge about the risks associated with continuing non-stabilised approaches.. Two Safety Lessons were drawn from the findings of the Investigation which, in summary, were as follows: Adherence to SOP on approach and the flight safety margin During the approach phase, a crew’s workload increases as they manage aircraft energy to ensure stabilisation by and after the required height. The SOP profile provided gives a crew the ability to manage deceleration effectively and reach stabilisation by 1,000 feet. They then continue to have the ability to deal with any unexpected events which may occur at any time up to touchdown. In addition, an unstable approach, whether the decision at the stabilisation height is to go-around or to land, significantly increases risk. Moreover, in a period of low activity, the crew’s ease and dexterity may be diminished. The procedural compliance always necessary to guarantee essential safety margins is even more important for crews who, as in the investigated case, are flying much less frequently than usual. Effective OFDM One of the aims of OFDM is to enable an operator to establish whether its crews are complying with the procedures in its OM. The detection of unstabilised approaches is important but just as important