illustration), the newly designated landing, flaps 3, was selected with the speed 172 knots, still 46 knots above the VAPP. Passing 500 feet aal, the Air France VMC stabilisation altitude, the speed was 152 KIAS, 26 knots above VAPP (point 10 in the illustration) and the thrust set was “close to idle” at 27%. The indicated airspeed finally reached VAPP some 180 metres after crossing the runway threshold at a height of 10 feet agl. The thrust levers were placed in the idle detent at 6 feet agl and touchdown on the 3,380 metre-long runway occurred 380 metres past the threshold at 123 KIAS (point 11 in the illustration). The elapsed time between point 6 and point 11 on the illustration was exactly 2 minutes. The approach was self evidently and intentionally conducted in gross non compliance with the applicable Air France OM Part ‘B’ procedures. This included but was by no means limited to explicit and significant breaches such as: Flaps 1 must be selected not less than 3 nm before intercepting the ILS GS but it was not selected until after the aircraft was fully established on the ILS.. Flaps 2 must be selected not later than 2,000 feet aal whereas as it was actually selected at 940 feet aal.. At the applicable stabilisation height of 500 feet aal, the speed was VAPP + 26 knots which required a mandatory go around.. It was noted that the wholly unstabilised approach and its continuation to a landing was not only a procedural violation but put both pilots in a stressful situation in which they were both on the edge of coping with it. The consequence of the latter was that the Captain had failed to recognise that they had effectively, without being aware of it, removed any safety margin against something unexpected happening. One example of this would have been an unexpected need to initiate a go around for any reason with only flight idle thrust set below 500 feet. The Investigation noted the typical 4 to 5 fold increase in height loss and 3 fold increase in elapsed time before the transition to a climb occurs when initiating a go around in landing configuration with flight idle thrust (see the illustration below). The effect of thrust on altitude loss during go-around. [Reproduced from the Official Report]. Editors Note: The illustration above was taken from a 2005 Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Note ‘Aircraft Energy Management During Approach’. It was of concern that the Captain stated to the Investigation that he “could not remember the arrival briefing” or having any identified specific threats during it and indicated that his relatively infrequent flying during the Covid 19 health restrictions had prompted a desire “to get some training and stretch his limits a bit”. He further stated that he had considered that “at 1,000 feet there was no danger as there was still a margin and they had the runway in sight (and) at 500 feet, he was aware that the approach