conditions, a requirement which was not met for the accident flight. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The crew undertook the flight to Le Bourget airport despite the presence of the A-I WINGSTAB FAIL message and icing conditions at departure from Moscow. The occurrence of the failure is linked to the activation of the ice protection system in the ALL position before engine start-up. The procedure associated with this failure, as written at the time of the accident, did not enable the crew to reinitialize the ice protection system. The BEFORE TAKEOFF procedure and then the consultation of the MEL should have resulted in the crew postponing the flight. During the climb, the appearance of the STALL PROT ANTICIPATE message on the EICAS informed the crew of the increase in AoA limiter protection activation speeds. The associated procedure should have led the crew to increase the reference speed by 30 knots during the approach. The approach speed selected by the crew was less than the AoA limiter protection activation speed and this protection prevented the Captain from carrying out the flare. Three potential Contributory Factors leading to the accident were identified: Insufficient knowledge on the part of the flight crew as to how aircraft systems functioned, in particular the AoA limiter protection system.. Incorrect application of both normal and abnormal procedures, in particular the engine start-up normal procedure and the ‘A-I WINGSTAB FAIL’ and ‘STALL PROT ANTICIPATE’ abnormal procedures.. Incomplete description of the ‘A-I WINGSTAB FAIL’ procedure, in particular the requirement to set the ICE PROT MODE button to AUTO before re-initialising the system.. Safety Action to be taken by Embraer as a result of the event was noted to have included a revision of the Legacy 450 and 500 AFMs to specify that the ICE PROT MODE selector must be set to AUTO in the A-I WINGSTAB FAIL procedure. All other Embraer AFMs have been reviewed to ensure that they do not contain similar omissions which could give rise to a lack of understanding of corresponding procedures. The Final Report was published in English translation on 5 August 2020 after the initial and definitive publication in French on 16 June 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.