descent and a recorded 4g vertical acceleration. Although they were not aware of this at the time, this caused the right main landing gear to rupture and its upper rear hinge to penetrate the wing and puncture the upper wing surface. After a normal rollout, the runway was vacated and the aircraft was stopped on a taxiway so that the Captain could “check for damage”. The Captain subsequently stated that at that time, “he had not understood why he had not been able to flare”. A full examination of the aircraft subsequently disclosed that the upper rear attachment fitting of the right landing gear had sheared following a vertical acceleration during the landing which was recorded as reaching 4g with the aircraft slightly inclined to the right. The applicable SOP for operation in icing conditions requires ICE PROT MODE selector must be set to ALL only after engine start whereas FDR data confirmed that it had been selected to this position before engine start which was why the ‘A-I WINGSTAB FAIL’ alert was annunciated. The Before Takeoff Checklist also includes an item to check that no CAS messages are displayed in the EICAS. The A-I WINGSTAB FAIL alert that was displayed “assumes that the ICE PROT MODE selector is set to AUTO” and does not enable the flight crew to re-initialise the ice protection system if the warning has appeared during engine start-up with the selector set to ALL and has then remained illuminated. In this case, the ICE PROT MODE selector must be set to AUTO and the system then re-initialised by cycling the WINGSTAB button on the ice protection system control panel to OFF and then ON. The crew’s ad hoc attempt to re-initialise the ice protection system in the case when the warning had appeared when starting engines with the selector set to ALL and the resultant A-I WINGSTAB FAIL message had remained on the EICAS was not valid. It would have been necessary to set the ICE PROT MODE selector to AUTO and then re-cycle the WINGSTAB button. In any case where an A-I WINGSTAB FAIL message is displayed and the aircraft is operating in icing conditions - as in the accident flight - the ‘STALL PROT ANTICIPATE’ abnormal procedure, which involves making a full flap landing, adding 30 knots to the calculated VREF and applying a factor of 1.7 to the landing distance, is mandatory. For the approach and landing at Le Bourget, the actual speed was between 120 and 130 knots whereas application of the STALL PROT ANTICIPATE procedure required that an approach speed of 144 knots should be used for an increased landing distance of 1,219 metres which was still well within the runway 27 LDA (Landing Distance Available). It was noted that (subject to a corresponding entry being made in the Aircraft Technical Log before beginning the flight) the aircraft type MMEL allows despatch with an A-I WINGSTAB message displayed only if the aircraft is not operated in known or forecast icing