An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Relevant data was successfully downloaded from both the FDR and CVR and significant information which was not recorded on the FDR was obtained from the data captured by the Onboard Maintenance System (OMS). It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain had a total of “more than” 1,507 hours flying experience of which 151 hours were on type after obtaining a type rating in October 2016. The 42 year-old First Officer had a total of 5,000 hours flying experience of which just 26 hours were on type. Prior to departure from Moscow, icing conditions prevailed and following “light freezing drizzle" during the night, a thin film of ice covering the aircraft meant that de-anti icing treatment had to be carried out. Before subsequently starting the engines the crew set the ICE PROT MODE selector to ‘ALL’ instead of to ‘AUTO’ which the Before Start Checklist requires. As a result, an ‘A-I WINGSTAB FAIL’ alert appeared on the EICAS during start. In response, the crew reported “trying to re-initialise the system” but they did not follow the applicable AFM procedure and left the ice protection control panel set to ‘ALL’ instead of resetting it to ‘AUTO’. When the alert remained in icing conditions, they did not action the ‘STALL PROT ANTICPATE’ checklist as directed and instead continued with their intended departure. Approximately five minutes after takeoff, a ‘STALL PROT ANTICIPATE’ warning was displayed. According to the available FDR data, this warning then remained on for the rest of the flight. No action was taken in response because “as the rest of the equipment was operating normally, the crew thought that it was a system error”. The destination descent and approach were flown with the Captain as PF. An ILS 27 approach to runway was made in night VMC at a speed of between 120 and 130 knots. Passing 2,200 feet QNH and fully established on ILS for runway 27 at Le Bourget, the AoA limiter protection activated itself and the AP automatically disengaged. Following this, the aircraft was allowed to descend sufficiently below the ILS GS to activate the EGPWS Mode 5 ‘glideslope’ aural alert. The Captain increased thrust and regained the correct flight path, the AoA limiter protection temporarily ceased and AP was re-engaged. Passing around 1000 feet QNH, the AoA limiter protection became active again and caused the AP to disconnect. The First Officer reminded the Captain to keep the speed above the minimum allowed with the AoA protection active. AoA protection, a function of Normal Mode in the aircraft FBW system, is part of the automated flight envelope protection system and limits the angle of attack when appropriate. The Captain subsequently found that he could not increase the aircraft pitch attitude enough to flare sufficiently for touchdown despite making a full nose-up deflection on the side stick. As a result, a nose-first touchdown occurred with a 1,350 fpm rate of