An investigation was carried out by the Accident and Incident Investigation Division of the South African CAA. This found that the aircraft had been released to service the previous day with an ADD for the No 1 Engine Bleed System Inoperative and the aircraft to be operated in accordance with the corresponding MEL requirements, which were “that the No.1 engine bleed system was to be selected 'closed' and No 2 engine bleed system was to be selected ‘open’ by means of the press button switches on the overhead panel." The Captain on the last flight of the previous day nevertheless decided to select both No 1 and No 2 engine bleed switches to the ‘open’; position and in the event of an engine bleed system malfunctioning, he planned to isolate the faulty bleed system. An uneventful flight was then made to a night stop for the aircraft. The next morning, a different crew departed with the No 1 bleed system selected open and the No 2 bleed system selected closed. According to the flight crew, Aircraft Technical Log was only brought to the aircraft 10 minutes prior to departure. They noted the entry that advised that the No.1 engine bleed was faulty and the defect had been subject to ADD action but they stated that they had not configured the system as they “thought that it was already set up……(from) the previous flight the previous day. However, the flight crew failed to notice that the required placard (the ‘INOP” decal) had been fixed at the serviceable No 2 engine bleed system switch position and not at the No. 1 engine bleed system switch position and that in accordance with the incorrect placard, the No 2 engine bleed was selected closed. When failure of the No 1 bleed system was subsequently annunciated en route, the crew response of closing the no 1 bleed left the aircraft with no functioning pressurisation system at all and resulted in the rapid rise of cabin altitude which followed. Only the emergency descent carried out and the simultaneous APU start resulted in the cabin altitude eventually stabilising. The Investigation was not able to establish conclusively whether the placarding of the defect was carried out correctly by maintenance personnel. In the Final Report on this Serious Incident published on 5 May 2009, the Probable Cause of the occurrence was determined to be the “Failure of the crew to carry out a proper pre-flight inspection leading to the number 1 engine bleed air system being left on and the number 2 engine bleed air system being secured; subsequently the failure of the pressurisation system.” Two Safety Recommendations were made: “It is recommended that South African Airways Flight Operations and Technical issue a briefing notice regarding the importance of strictly adhering to requirements stipulated in the MEL, where failure to do so could adversely affect the safe operation of a flight. It is also recommended that the briefing should include the importance of reading the (Aircraft Technical Log) and