An Investigation was carried out by the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) Accident Investigation Board (AAIB). The CVR and FDR were recovered and their data were successfully downloaded and used to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had been good and had not had any direct bearing on accident causation. It was noted that the 63 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had 9,478 total flying hours which included 2,000 hours on type. The 32 year-old First Officer had 572 total flying hours which included about 400 hours on type. It was also noted that the An-140 aircraft involved had been assembled in Iran by the Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Company (HESA). It was established that immediately prior to the accident flight, the crew had begun their duty day by operating the same aircraft from Isfahan to Tehran. The accident takeoff from the 4,300 metre-long runway 29L had been made with Flap 10°and had proceeded uneventfully until just after the V1 call by the First Officer when, passing 116 knots with 5 knots to go below the applicable Vr, the first signs of malfunction of the No 2 engine became apparent. As it ran down, No 1 engine power was automatically increased to the 'contingency' setting where it remained until the aircraft eventually stalled and crashed less than a minute later having reached a maximum height of only 130 feet. After what was identified as a marginally premature rotation, takeoff was continued with FDR data showing that the angle of attack had been above AFM recommendations (4-7°) and that airspeed, which never reached V2, had "continually reduced". The landing gear was not retracted. It was established that the failure of the No 2 engine had been caused by a temporary (17 second) malfunction of its electronic engine controller (EEC) which had resulted in the engine being starved of fuel. Because of this, the continuous aural and visual warning of engine failure did not begin until about 14 seconds after the failure but CVR data showed the Captain had detected and called it after 5 seconds. However, it was found that the crew had not then manually feathered the failed engine propeller by pressing the 'ENGINE OFF - FEATHER' button as required by the AFM and a further consequence of the failure of the EEC had been that it did not detect the failure and had therefore not signalled that it should be shut down and its propeller feathered. This only happened when the No 2 engine EEC began to function normally again as the aircraft was recorded as climbing through 30 feet agl. Meanwhile, the Captain had begun corrective left rudder inputs but despite this, the aircraft began to deviate to the right of the runway extended centreline - see the ground track illustration below. Once the right engine propeller had been automatically feathered by the EEC, the aircraft remained airborne for a further 30 seconds, but as the angle of