attack had reached 12°, pitch control had eventually been lost and an aerodynamic stall had immediately preceded ground impact. It was noted that the First Officer had declared the emergency status to ATC at about the time the delayed engine failure warning had commenced but by this time ATC were already aware that the departure was not proceeding normally having observed the deviation to the right and a poor climb rate. In respect of the EEC malfunction which delayed full feathering of the failed engine propeller, the Investigation found that such malfunctions had been "the main cause of several previous accidents and incidents" and that although the component designer had "performed some modifications and software improvements to rectify the malfunction […] the failure rate […] was not reduced to acceptable levels". Various other matters were examined and their relevance either confirmed, noted or dismissed. These included: There was no evidence to suggest that either pilot was fatigued.. There was no evidence to suggest that wake vortex turbulence from the Boeing MD-88 which had departed 29L ahead of the accident aircraft had affected its controllability as the transition to single-engine flight was made.. The departure flap setting of 10° was not appropriate for an aircraft taking off with a mass in the vicinity of MTOM and in any case, the aircraft operator did not have regulatory approval to use it at all.. The Captain was aware that the takeoff was being conducted with the aircraft marginally overweight.. A number of concerns in respect of the (original) aircraft type certification by both the IAC and Ukraine were identified as were concerns about the calculation of MTOM according to the AFM and its procedure for getting airborne with one engine inoperative. In the case of the MTOM, it was considered that "the confusing performance chart in the AFM" had led to the pilots making a performance calculation that significantly overestimated the aircraft MTOM for the accident flight. In the case of a single engine climb out, it was considered that the procedure in the AFM was "not clear" since it required the achievement of V2 before the landing gear could be retracted.. As a result of the occurrence of a range of defects other than the EEC affecting the reliability of the engines fitted to An-140 aircraft, including "fuel pump plunger gaps, compressor blade corrosion and erosion, turbine blade melting", operation of the aircraft type at the time of the investigated accident, had been restricted by the Iran CAO to operations in the southern part of Iran based on climate (density altitude) considerations. However, no link was made between the problems which had led to this restriction and the cause of the accident.. The Investigation also found that although ATC activated the crash alarm promptly, poor coordination and an incorrect report of the location of the crash site led to the Airport RFFS reaching the aircraft after the City Firefighting team who had turned up after receiving direct calls from members of the