public who had seen the crash. It was found that all those who survived had escaped from the wreckage of the aircraft unaided prior to the arrival of any emergency services. It was also noted that the Airport had failed to provide a timely alert to the Tehran Rescue Organisation as required in the Airport Emergency Plan. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the Main Cause of the accident was "a combination of the failure of the Electronic Engine Control (SAY-2000) simultaneously with the (uncommanded) shut down of engine No 2 about 2 seconds before aircraft lift-off and a confusing performance chart in the AFM which led to the pilots relying on a performance calculation that significantly over-estimated the aircraft MTOM". Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Unclear content in the Aircraft Flight Manual including the procedure for calculating the maximum allowable take-off weight, VR and V2 and ambiguity in the climb segment definition and applications.. Crew performance, including: The Captain's rotation of the aircraft at a speed of about 118 knots whereas 121 knots is the speed recommended in the AFM table 4.2.3. The crew failure to perform the manual propeller feathering procedure for the failed engine. The Captain's decision to fly with the aircraft despite his awareness that it was about 190 kg overweight. The Captain's decision to load about 500 kg more fuel than was required for the accident flight.. The Captain's rotation of the aircraft at a speed of about 118 knots whereas 121 knots is the speed recommended in the AFM table 4.2.3.. The crew failure to perform the manual propeller feathering procedure for the failed engine.. The Captain's decision to fly with the aircraft despite his awareness that it was about 190 kg overweight.. The Captain's decision to load about 500 kg more fuel than was required for the accident flight.. The appearance of negative thrust from the unfeathered propeller blades at takeoff were not considered during the aircraft certification tests, as it was considered improbable. However, in the accident flight the negative thrust did appear and affected aircraft performance.. A total of 24 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should analyse, in conjunction with aircraft designer & manufacturer, the information obtained in this accident Investigation and its related findings to evaluate the adequacy of certification standards and test methods specified in the State regulatory requirements and guidance materials especially for the aircraft and engine type validation process. If appropriate, certification standards should be modified and the compliance of the An-140-100 aircraft and its engine in respect of CAO airworthiness requirements relevant to the findings of the Investigation should be re-evaluated.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should re-evaluate the maintenance procedure regarding engine vibration rectification in conjunction with aircraft/engine designer and manufacturer.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should re-evaluate their oversight of (safety) regulation and take any necessary action to improve their surveillance and monitoring when the rate of (occurrence