of a particular) failure grows.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should take necessary action to ensure that the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) is reviewed and revised according to ICAO Doc 4444.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should take necessary action to establish and implement necessary requirements for Aerodrome Certification.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should take the necessary action to implement SMS at the Iranian Airport Company, related airports and the Tehran Area Control Centre.. that HESA and Sepahan Airlines should revise the aircraft loading procedure and agreements with ground handling service providers to comply with CAO requirements.. that HESA and Sepahan Airlines should revise Sepahan Airlines SOPs to add the procedure for flight with Flap 10°.. that HESA and Sepahan Airlines should revise the An-140-100 pilot training program and ensure it is followed.. that HESA and Sepahan Airlines should fully implement Iran CAO maintenance and continuing airworthiness requirements.. that the State of Design (Ukraine) and the State of Manufacture (Iran) should review and revise the An-140-100 AFM taking into account performance charts, take-off climb segment, OEI procedures and so on.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should review and revise the An-140-100 AMM and correct related charts and procedure.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should take appropriate action to rectify SAY-2000 (EEC) malfunctions and (related) poor engine reliability.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should take appropriate action to reduce the aircraft empty weight to pre-determined design criteria.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should take appropriate action in order to ensure that the automatic propeller feathering system complies with related airworthiness requirements. It should be modified in order to be capable of operating in its intended manner at the time of engine failure with no special operations necessary on the part of the crew in order to make the automatic feathering system operative.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should develop an An-140 training regime that will ensure that flight crew have a full understanding of weight calculation, manual engine control modes and aircraft performance through improved documentation, courseware, and instructor training.. that the State of Design and the State of Manufacture should take appropriate action in order to ensure that Antonov conducts tests to support the development of recommendations for flight crews as to their actions if there appears to be negative thrust from unfeathered propeller blades in the case of engine failure at takeoff.. that the Iranian Airport Company should review and revise the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) according to ICAO Doc4444.. that the Iranian Airport Company and Mehrabad Airport should take appropriate action, including necessary training for controllers to carefully watch-out and watch-in the flight path of aircraft during landing and departure.. that the Iranian Airport Company, Mehrabad Airport and the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Working Group should review the Mehrabad Airport emergency plan