touchdown point. At that very time, both pilots became preoccupied with the reduced forward visibility, and airspeed scanning rate decreased. Without the airspeed control provided through the autothrust, the increase in energy from the extra thrust increased the airspeed and groundspeed. As they crossed the runway threshold, with the heavy rain, low visibility, lightning, and shifting winds, the flight crew members became overwhelmed by the severe weather conditions and became task saturated, making a normal landing difficult… While they were in the flare and the initial float, the pilots did not appreciate how much of the runway was being used up… The delay in the selection of the thrust reversers and the subsequent delay in the application of full reverse thrust added to the landing distance needed.” It was noted that whilst the surface water on the runway reduced the braking action available, calculations during the Investigation had shown that the aircraft could not have stopped in the runway distance remaining after the late touchdown even if the runway had been wet instead of contaminated. Given that the flight crew had “observed the runway to be shiny, like the surface of a lake” which suggested that there would probably be more than 3 mm of water on the runway it was considered that they “either did not take this into account… when they continued with the approach and landing, although they knew that the crosswind exceeded (the allowable limit for contaminated runways). It was also noted that "Air France Airbus A340 crews have the option of conducting a go-around during an approach when it becomes evident that it is unsafe to land. In theory, the decision to go around can be made as late as when the aircraft is on the ground, as long as reversers are not yet selected.” However it was considered that “when the aircraft was near the threshold… the crew members became committed to landing and believed that their option to go around no longer existed”. The non use of available rain repellent was considered by the Investigation. The flight crew had been unaware of this capability and ”a survey among other pilots flying aircraft that have this system revealed that many of them either do not use or do not know under what conditions it would be advantageous to use it.” The fact that under Air France SOPs the decision on whether to initiate a go-around, missed approach or a balked landing could at the time be made only by the Captain, regardless of who is flying the aircraft, was noted and it was considered by the Investigation that “having more than one pilot responsible for making the call about a missed approach can increase the likelihood that an unsafe condition will be recognized early and decrease the time it might otherwise take to initiate the missed approach”. In respect of the evacuation, it was noted that: the speed of the evacuation was impeded because “nearly 50 per cent of the passengers retrieved carry-on baggage”;.