An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). It was established that all aircraft systems had been serviceable and working as designed throughout the approach and landing and that, therefore, no mechanical malfunction contributed to the accident outcome. It was established that the First Officer had been designated Pilot Flying (PF) for the approach and landing. It was noted that forecast weather for the arrival had included the possibility of thunderstorm activity at both destination and alternates and that the flight crew had been aware of weather-related delays for their arrival and that other aircraft were having to divert because of them. It was found that the approach briefing had not included any reference to either runway length or the missed approach procedure and no runway distance calculations for a wet or contaminated runway were included. When the aircraft was on short finals, it was evident that an active thunderstorm was in the vicinity of the airport and the previous landing aircraft reported that braking action was poor. FDR data showed that after the PF had disconnected the autopilot at 323 feet (above ground level), the aircraft had begun to deviate above the ILS GS. It crossed the runway threshold still high and, as the flare was commenced, it entered heavy rain which reduced visual reference - recorded visibility just after the accident was 2000 m. Numerous lightning strikes were occurring, particularly at the far end of the runway. The aircraft did not touch down until it was 3800 ft from the beginning of the 9000 ft runway and did so with the right main landing gear slightly left of the runway centerline and the aircraft axis about six degrees to the right of it. Autobrake had been set to Medium, but the crew immediately applied maximum manual braking and attempted to align the aircraft with the centreline. FDR data showed that Idle reverse was selected 12.8 seconds after main gear touchdown and full reverse 3.6 seconds later. There were no standard callouts for spoiler and reverser deployment from the aircraft commander. The aircraft was not able to stop on the remaining runway and overran the end at a groundspeed of approximately 80 kts It was concluded that there was no information to indicate that the aircraft had encountered windshear during its approach and landing. The Investigation considered that: "The point at which the situation changed from normal and manageable to abnormal and critical was near the runway threshold when the aircraft entered the perimeter of the cell activity. At this time, a number of circumstances combined, leading directly to the accident. The PF was monitoring the airspeed trend vector and responded to an indication of decreasing airspeed by adding power; however, he kept it there too long. Had the autothrust been engaged, the engine power would have been adjusted to maintain the proper airspeed, and it would have been more likely that the aircraft would have been landed closer to the target