appeared on the radar screen at Yangon ACC showing it at FL 352 as it passed within about 2.5 nm of the A319 at FL 350 which was in the instructed right turn and passing through 101°. Thirty seconds later, the radar track of the A330 reappeared on the Yangon radar display showing that the A330 was now climbing through FL 357 and the A319 was still in the right turn. The Investigation found that although the radar controller involved had been working in the Yangon ACC for "about four years", he had never completed the ACC radar course which meant that he was "unlicensed" in respect of the applicable regulatory requirements. It was noted that neither he nor the A330 crew had conducted their RTF communications in accordance with the procedures for use of callsigns. The A330 crew had failed to listen out with sufficient care and the controller had failed in the same way to listen carefully to readbacks and challenge any that were incomplete or incorrect. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included a description of the RTF communications performance of both the duty controller and the A330 crew as "careless" in respect of both their transmissions and their listening, especially in respect of callsigns. In addition, it was found and that the Yangon ACC radar coverage of A599 in the area where the conflict had occurred was "not good enough" and it was noted that the event under investigation had not been reported to the MAIB by either the A330 pilots or the duty controller who had been the direct cause of it. The Primary Cause of the conflict was formally documented as "the duty air traffic controller and the pilot from (the A330) listened carelessly to their conversation in their radio communication especially not concentrating on the aircraft Call Sign". A Contributory Factor was also identified as follows: The radar coverage on air route A599 between LSO and LINSO was intermittently not working properly and not good enough for radar operation around the time of occurrence.. A total of 5 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that Duty Air Traffic Controllers should be more careful to and concentrate on the read back of pilots and then acknowledge by using standard radio telephony procedures.. that Pilots should listen more carefully to and concentrate on the call sign of their own aircraft and follow the ATC instructions accordingly (when in doubt ask again) by using standard radio telephony procedures.. that Radar Coverage on ATS Route A599 between LSO and LINSO should be upgraded and enhanced.. that the Duty Controller Involved should be sent on an Area Control Surveillance Training Course.. that Air Traffic Controllers and Pilots should send notification of accidents and incidents to the Myanmar Accident Investigation Bureau with minimum delay and using the most suitable and quickest means available.. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 8 September 2017. It did not make any mention of TCAS