New European rules covering operations of sUAS — signed 24 May 2019, and published on 11 June — have set the stage for major changes to remote pilot training and licensing, according to the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/945 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/947 will replace existing national rules in the European Union’s Member States. “The new rules cover each operation type, from those not requiring prior [flight] authorisation to those involving certified aircraft and operators, as well as minimum remote pilot training requirements,” EASA said. A timeline of future dates for implementing all provisions begins in June 2020. European Commission background addresses how training and licensing of remote pilots will apply based whether flights either of two operational risk categories (called the specific category and the certified category). A third category, called the open category, is irrelevant to this discussion because it does not require holding a remote pilot licence because of low risk level. Specific category — In the specific category, operators should conduct a thorough risk assessment to identify other measures necessary to keep the RPAS operation safe. National aviation authorities also define a standard scenario with detailed risk-mitigation measures. Therefore, no declaration by the UAS operator prior to flight and no operational authorisation by the authority normally is required before the operation takes place — subject to a few exceptions. Certified category — Operators and remote pilots in the certified category typically are subject to rules on certification of the operator, licensing of remote pilots and certification of the aircraft. The certified category also applies whenever an operation is conducted over assemblies of people; involves transportation of people; or involves the carriage of dangerous goods, which may result in high risk for third parties in case of accident. Competent authorities also may require a separate certificate for a specific mission of the unmanned aircraft, and grant authorisation based on the operator’s presentation of a satisfactory safety case with adequate risk mitigations. In such advanced operations, the remote pilot-in-command — among other expected competencies — must be able to assess the competence of other licensed flight crewmembers for conducting the operation, including their composition, role, responsibilities, training and recent experience. The regulations also state that “The competent authority shall grant an operational authorisation when the evaluation concludes that: the operational safety objectives take account of the risks of the operation; the combination of mitigation measures concerning the operational conditions to perform the operations the competence of the personnel involved and the technical features of the unmanned aircraft, are adequate and sufficiently robust to keep the operation safe in view of the identified ground and air risks.”