in the daily airport inspections". It was also noted that the orientation of signage and the correctly aligned right hand runway guard light were both optimised for traffic approaching along runway 31, rather than joining it from taxiway 'V'. It was also found that at the time of the incursion, the intensity setting for both runway guard lights had been at its lowest level 1, which was contrary to the requirement in the TWR Operations Manual that “Runway Guard Lights shall be operated at all times, with intensity 3 selected during daylight”. It was noted that intensity settings were adjusted from a panel in the TWR but that there were "no procedure for the controllers to verify the intensity settings". It was noted that runway 18/36 had recently been returned to service after a period of closure lasting just over three months for land drainage repairs and resurfacing which had meant that runway 13/31 had been the runway in use. It was found that although a "Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment" for the construction project had identified the fact that single runway operations would "reduce the ability to conduct maintenance on the operational runway", the "documented ongoing risk control for this hazard relied on routine inspections and maintenance to identify and mitigate deficiencies". It was found that routine airport inspections were conducted by the airport duty manager and the airfield maintenance staff "at least every 24 hours" but there were "no checklists or documented procedures" for this activity. It was noted that the "construction plan" had specified that a "construction zone" extending 100 feet from the edge of runway 18/36 should be inspected prior to the re-opening of the runway but that this zone did not include the intersection holding point. The area where the incursion occurred is detailed with annotations on the diagram below. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Causes and Contributing factors The hold-short line painted on Runway 31 southeast of Runway 36 was significantly degraded, with 123 feet of the line missing. As a result, the crew of WEN3112 did not see it and stopped in the runway protected area.. The daily airport inspections at Winnipeg Richardson International Airport (CYWG) did not identify the degraded condition of the hold-short line, allowing continued use of the hold-short position.. The orientation of the runway holding position signs was optimized for traffic on Runway 31, which likely contributed to the pilots not identifying the hold-short position.. The fact that the left runway guard light (RGL) was aimed 15 degrees away from Runway 31, the orientation of the right RGL relative to the aircraft’s position, and the reduced RGL intensity setting likely contributed to the pilots not identifying the hold-short position.. Risk If there are no checklists or documented procedures for airport inspections, then there is an increased risk that non-compliance with regulatory requirements or safety deficiencies will not be identified.. Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigation by Winnipeg Airport Authority was noted