by selecting a 160nm range - reduced to 80nm just before the encounter with tilt set to 1.5° - the isolated cell would not have shown returns on the radar. In respect of the range selected, it was considered that if it had been reduced from 160nm to 80nm with a corresponding adjustment to the tilt when 80 nm (and ten minutes) from the turbulence, detection of the developing cell may have been possible. Five minutes before the turbulence, when the aircraft was approximately 40nm from the centre of the cell, it was concluded that reduction in the selected range from 80nm to 40nm "would have been necessary to have a reasonable chance of detecting the cell". It was concluded that the incident had shown that "the type of (weather) radar used is also an important criterion for the detection of convective cells, especially when their development is rapid" and that, had a more technologically advanced model been installed in the aircraft, "it would probably have helped the crew to detect this type of cell, though without eliminating the need for active monitoring of the meteorological situation". The Investigation noted that as a result of a previous investigation into a serious incident to an Air France Airbus A340 in 2011, Safety Recommendations in support of improving crew use of weather radar had been made. It also noted the potential value for avoidance of severe turbulence due to convective weather which the now-feasible graphical display on the flight deck of recent lightning strikes in the vicinity of an aircraft can provide. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that: “The incident was due to the non-detection of a convective zone during the rapid development of a cumulonimbus cloud in a tropical zone. This zone was all the more difficult to detect because of the extremely rapid development of the cell. The lack of any onboard means or tools available to the CCO [Operations Control Centre], which would allow more reliable and effective detection of cells that are forming, contributed to the incident. Inappropriate adjustment of the range on the ND meant that the crew did not have optimal detection conditions. Taking into account the extremely rapid development of the storm cell, it is not certain whether such detection may have been possible without active monitoring of the onboard weather radar when approaching the turbulent area. The crew’s appropriate inputs on the flight controls helped maintain control of the aeroplane in flight conditions that had suddenly become very difficult.” It was also concluded that “crossing a convective zone with very severe turbulence leads to changes to many parameters (pitch attitude, angle of attack, attitude, speed, vertical speed, load factors, altitude) which, combined with inappropriate actions by a startled crew, can take the aeroplane out of its flight envelope” and that the event had shown that “installation of a technologically more advanced type of radar would probably have helped the crew detect the convective cell without, however, neglecting the need for (their )active