An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) using recorded data from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and QAR and weather satellite imagery. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) record of the event was overwritten. The aircraft commander was PF for the flight. The Captain reported to the Investigation that "he was surprised by the strong turbulence, which made all flight instruments unreadable, as well as by the intensity of the noise in the cockpit, which resulted in a failure to communicate between the crew". He also reported a startle effect followed by a "state of shock" and "sensory illusions which, according to him, made the (First Officer) think that the aeroplane was descending while he thought it was climbing". The First Officer "said he was surprised not to have noticed a level bust of more than 2000 feet because he thought the Captain had managed to maintain the pitch attitude". It was established that soon after take off from Antananarivo, the crew had received an Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System message describing current satellite images and realised that avoiding the worst of the convective activity depicted on the significant weather chart provided prior to flight would require attentive navigation. As they approached the coastline after the over water crossing from Madagascar in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC), lightning was seen but, with the weather radar settings in use, there were no weather returns ahead and the seat belt signs were off. Soon afterwards, the speed began to increase and then a lightning flash ahead was seen and the sudden turbulence episode began. Uncommanded AP disconnection occurred due to the high angle of attack and flight envelope protection (Alpha Prot) was activated three times for a total of eight seconds as the aircraft rapidly climbed 2000 feet. The episode lasted approximately 40 seconds during which time: pitch attitude varied between -6° and +11°;. Mach varied between 0.77 and 0.83;. angle of attack was between -0.7 ° and +10.2 °;. roll angle was between -16° and +31°;. vertical speed reached a maximum value of about +8,500 ft/min;. vertical load factor was between +0.02 g and +2.28 g;. lateral load factor was between -0.16 g and +0.17 g;. the FD cross bars disappeared and reappeared several times;. the PF mainly applied nose-down inputs, especially for 10 consecutive seconds after the AP disconnected.. Analysis of the prevailing meteorological situation led to the conclusion that the turbulence had been a consequence of penetrating an isolated thunderstorm cell which had developed particularly rapidly and that "strong updraughts and severe turbulence" were to be expected because of the dynamics rather than the size of the cell. Satellite images recorded soon after the event are shown below. The Investigation noted that the manually controlled weather radar installed in the aircraft was serviceable and that the crew were using it. However, it was concluded that the crew's manipulation of the tilt control and selection of range had not been optimum. It was concluded that