The occurrence was reported to the UK AAIB who provided an initial assessment of it to the State of the Operator, India, who then accepted an invitation to undertake the required Serious Incident Investigation which was carried out by a Committee of Inquiry constituted by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Relevant data were downloaded from the aircraft DFDR/QAR and ATC radar and voice recordings were also available, but relevant CVR data had been overwritten during the subsequent flight. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the departure, had accumulated 13,436 total flying hours which included 2,003 hours in command on type. The First Officer was Cat III qualified and had 1,996 total flying hours almost all of which (1,743 hours) were on type. The Investigation found that movement area improvement work in progress at Heathrow meant that at the time the flight under investigation was ready to depart, taxi access from Terminal 4 direct to the full length of runway 27L was only available from the north (central area) side of the runway and necessitated crossing the runway before taking the parallel taxiway on the north side to reach the only available full length departure runway entry point. This situation was correctly NOTAM'd and on the ATIS and although re-advice of this situation was not an operational requirement, all aircraft departing from Terminal 4 were being asked by ATC if they required a full length takeoff. The Jet Airways aircraft clearly stated that departure from intersection S4 was acceptable and acknowledged receipt of this clearance when issued. It was also found that around the time of the investigated departure, only one other aircraft, an AirbusA320, accepted takeoff from the S4 intersection. Three others, an Airbus 340-600, an Airbus A330-200 and another Jet Airways Boeing 777-300 elected to cross to the north side for a full length departure. As part of her pre-flight duties, the First Officer had used her EFB Onboard Performance Tool (OPT) to check whether the estimated takeoff weight was within the aircraft performance-limited MTOW from intersection S4W and found that it was. Subsequently, the load and trim sheet arrived, and each pilot re-ran the performance calculation again using the actual TOW to establish takeoff speeds and the thrust setting for the takeoff. However when they compared their respective outputs, it was apparent that the Captain had used the ‘First Four’ option for entry to the runway from the first four north-side access points NB1, NB2E, NB2W and NB3 (see the illustration shown above) whereas the First Office has used access at S4W. Without any attempt to understand the difference, the First Officer “changed the option in her OPT to match the Captain’s option and did not select S4W again” so that the reduced thrust calculated for a full length departure was input instead of the rated thrust which was required for takeoff from S4. During the takeoff, as the aircraft approached Vr, the Captain reported having noticed the runway centreline