lighting change from all-white to alternating red-and-white lights, a change which occurs when only 900 metres of runway remains. FDR data showed that actual rotation commenced a little earlier than Vr and the First Officer commented that rate of rotation “was a bit faster than normal”. Ground track analysis showed that lift off occurred just 95 meters from the end of the 3,658 metre-long runway. As it crossed the end of the runway, the aircraft was at 16 feet agl and had reached only 112 feet agl as it passed over a public road just beyond the airport perimeter. Between these two points there were a series of promulgated obstructions up to 31 feet agl. Subsequent calculations showed that the Takeoff Distance Required had been 3,349 metres, which was within the full length Takeoff Distance Available but that the Takeoff Distance Available from intersection S4E was only 2,589 metres, i.e. 760 metres less than that required. Although the aircraft lifted off within the actual Takeoff Distance Available, it was noted that the takeoff: Did not meet regulatory requirements for the all-engine, continued takeoff case.. Would not have been able to reject the takeoff and stop on the runway remaining following an engine failure just below V1.. Would not have been able to continue the takeoff while meeting regulatory requirements following an engine failure just above V1.. The Investigation considered the effectiveness of the applicable Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in trapping data entry errors of the type which had occurred. It found that although the procedure on receipt of the load and trim sheet ensured that the OPT based its takeoff performance calculation on the actual rather than the estimated TOW, there was neither an explicit requirement to check that data input as part of the departure briefing was still valid, nor a guarantee that an earlier incorrect or invalid entry into the OPT would be corrected before the performance calculation was made. It was also noted that despite this, the fact that in this case a discrepancy between the two OPT calculations was detected, the opportunity to resolve matters was probably lost due to the significant authority gradient between the two pilots. The formal determination of the Investigation in respect of Probable Cause attributed the Serious Incident to “the wrong selection of aircraft take-off performance by the Captain despite the First Officer selecting the right take-off performance initially but the Captain overruled her take-off performance selection”. A total of 5 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that Jet Airways (India) amend its Standard Operating Procedure for the “Departure Briefing” to specify the takeoff data to be input into the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) On-board Performance Tool (OPT).. that Jet Airways (India) amend its Standard Operating Procedure for “On receipt of Load and Trim sheet” to ensure that: Before the performance calculation is made, data entered into the Electronic Flight Bag On-board Performance Tool (OPT) is valid and appropriate to the current circumstances. The runway