altitude of 13,600 feet.. Even though the crew reported the tailstrike to ATC, the tower controller did not recognise the nature of the event and authorised two movements on the runway before it was checked and verified to be free from foreign objects.. Contributing Factors in this event in respect of the operation of the aircraft were determined as : The flight crew delay in performing the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedure for Tail Strike which per the Boeing Flight Crew Training Manual should be performed when a tail strike is suspected or known.. The uninterrupted climb during the time it took the crew to conclude that the airplane had in fact struck the runway.. The failure of the relevant non-normal checklist in the QRH to mention the importance of the flight altitude.. Contributing Factors in this event in respect of the response of ATC to the report of a tailstrike were determined as : Deficient communications between ATC and the aircraft.. The lack of knowledge of the tailstrike phenomenon by the ATC personnel involved.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Boeing revise the “Tailstrike” Checklist in the B737 QRH and evaluate the suitability of explicitly mentioning the implications of the flight level at which the procedure is carried out and the explicit recommendation to interrupt the climb. [REC 27/14]. that Ryanair, as part of its training program, emphasise and reinforce the importance of avoiding an increase in flight level insofar as possible whenever a tailstrike is suspected during take-off, as well as the implications that the flight level has on the execution of the associated procedure. [REC 28/14]. that AENA Air Navigation, as part of the procedure and training on emergency and abnormal situations, include known as “tailstrike events” and explicitly include the implications that this type of event can have on the presence of foreign objects on the runway. [REC 29/14]. that AENA Air Navigation, as part of the procedure and training on suspected birdstrikes during take-offs and landings, underscore the hazard associated with the presence of (any) foreign objects on the runway and the need to immediately check the affected runway before authorising new operations on it. [REC 30/14]. The Final Report was approved on 28 May 2014 and subsequently made available in English translation.