An Investigation was carried out by the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR), Quick Access Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). Conversation between the pilots was in both English and Dutch and assistance was obtained from the Dutch Safety Board to translate the Dutch into English. It was found that whilst the 49 year old aircraft commander was experienced both generally and on the aircraft type, the 24 year old First Officer, who had been PF for the flight, had just over a year of experience on the aircraft type and that this constituted almost all his total flying experience. During rotation from runway 28 in the presence of a light crosswind, both pilots had "felt something strange" and had realised that the normal rotation to achieve a 7° pitch angle had reached 15°. The possibility of a tailstrike had subsequently been discussed and during the initial climb after take off, the Purser had informed the Captain by interphone that her crew members at the rear of the cabin had reported hearing "a strange noise at the end of the take off run". An uninterrupted climb was continued as cleared but after further conversations with the cabin crew, the commander "decided to stop the climb at FL 220" and return to Alicante. ATC were informed of the situation and were recommended to carry out a runway inspection for possible debris. However, after receipt of this message, another aircraft was cleared to take off from the same runway before it had been inspected - without consequence. Passing FL136 in the descent to return with a 4.9 psi pressure differential, the Captain changed the cabin pressure control from automatic to manual and selected the outflow valve to its fully open position. This resulted in an immediate rapid depressurisation with recorded data showing that the cabin pressure altitude had risen from 2160 ft to 13320 ft in around 30 seconds. The pilots donned their oxygen masks pending the return of a safe cabin altitude. Activation of the Cabin Pressure Warning followed and continued for a little over 2 minutes until the cabin altitude was approaching 9000 feet. On removing their masks, the CVR recorded the Captain saying (in Dutch) "[expletive] We shouldn't have done that" followed by the First Officer saying (also in Dutch) "No, I have no idea what’s going on with this". Forty seconds after manual mode was selected, automatic mode was re-selected but by then, the pressure differential was zero and the system initially commanded the valve to close to reduce the cabin altitude from the 13,000 feet it was at the time. With the aircraft descending at around 3000 fpm, the negative differential pressure was increasing and this caused the outflow valve to return automatically to its fully open position to maintain zero differential pressure. This protective measure, operating as designed, overrode the normally automatic limit on the rate of