caution was an unsatisfactory aspect of the situation faced by the crew. It was considered that the presence of airframe ice accretion which was within the capabilities of the aircraft systems did not negate the importance of adhering to SOPs and initiating a go around in response to what had clearly become an unstabilised approach characterized by excessive deviation from the ILS GS, a rate of descent of > 1000 fpm and airspeed less than the required approach speed. However, there were differences of opinion amongst the NTSB Board Members involved in approving the In Investigation Report especially in respect of the validity of flight in SLD conditions based on the certification of the aircraft type for flight in icing conditions. The Captain’s response to the flap fault was considered by the Investigation to be contrary to his training given that his recognition that the aircraft had “no flaps” could reasonably be taken to indicate that he had sufficient information to recognise that the initiation of a go-around and the actioning of the appropriate QRH drill were required. Although some of the airspeed bugs (including the ASI internal bugs) were not set to the appropriate approach airspeeds and were not reset following recognition of the flap anomaly, it was concluded that the pilots had had an adequate reference for the minimum safe airspeed because the airspeed for a no-flap approach in icing conditions was correctly briefed as 143 knots, and the ‘red’ airspeed bugs were set near that value. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation included the following: The airplane was controllable with the flap asymmetry and airframe ice contamination and could have been manoeuvred and landed safely if the appropriate airspeed had been maintained.. The Captain’s failure to immediately respond to the aural stall warning, the stick shaker and the TAWS activation resulted in his inability to arrest the airplane’s descent and avoid impact with the ground.. Had the Captain complied with standard operating procedures in response to the flap anomaly, unstabilised approach, stick shaker and (the) terrain awareness and warning system warning and initiated a go-around manoeuvre, the accident likely would not have occurred.. The First Officer’s failure to maintain airspeed while acting as the pilot flying likely resulted from being distracted by the flap anomaly, the Captain’s actions in response to it, and the control force inputs needed to maintain aircraft control.. The Captain’s failure to call out the First Officer’s airspeed deviations resulted directly from his preoccupation with performing an inappropriate, nonstandard procedure in response to the flap anomaly.. The First Officer’s failure to assert herself to the Captain and initiate a go-around manoeuvre when she recognised the unstabilised approach likely resulted from the steep authority gradient in the cockpit and the First Officer’s minimal training on assertiveness; further, the Captain’s quick dismissal of the First Officer’s go-around inquiry likely discouraged the First Officer from voicing her continued concerns and challenging the Captain’s decision to continue the unstabilised approach.. The NTSB determined that Probable Cause