An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that the aircraft was correctly loaded. Icing conditions prevailed but no evidence that they were outside the certification of the aircraft or otherwise contributed to the outcome was found. The aircraft commander was experienced but the First Officer, designated as PF had low aircraft type experience and lacked much previous experience of flight in icing conditions. En route, it had been anticipated that the destination weather conditions would preclude the First Officer remaining as PF and so the approach brief had been given by the aircraft commander. In the event, conditions were better than expected with overcast at 500 feet, a light northerly breeze and visibility 3200 metres and so the First Officer had remained as PF. After descent through an inversion layer, when airframe ice previously accumulated had been shed, icing conditions with freezing drizzle were re-entered below 6000 feet. The ILS LLZ for runway 17R was captured with the AP engaged, but the PF failed to reduce power appropriately on intercepting the GS so that airspeed became excessive. The response was a rapid reduction in power almost to Flight Idle. At about 1400 feet aal, Flap 15 and Gear Down were called but the selected flap 15 failed to deploy properly with only partial deployment on one wing and nil deployment on the other. The aircraft commander as PM failed to action the corresponding Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill and became so pre-occupied with the flap problem that he ceased monitoring the actions of the PF. The problem also distracted the PF from managing the aircraft and airspeed reduced to the point where a brief stick shaker activation occurred at 900 feet aal and the AP disconnected. The First Officer, having tentatively asked if she should fly a go around and been firmly instructed to continue descent , applied power and began to fly the aircraft manually. However, in evident difficulty, she willingly accepted the aircraft commander’s offer to take control at 700ft aal with the aircraft at the applicable minimum safe speed for zero flap in icing conditions of 143 KIAS. Then, just after the aircraft emerged from the cloud base at 500 feet aal, there was a second stick shaker activation and a GPWS/TAWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning. Thereafter, there was no effective response to the stick shaker - speed was 124 KIAS by 200 feet aal and the aircraft stalled, crashed and caught fire. It was established that when the flight crew had selected 15° flap, flap asymmetry had occurred with the left flaps extending 8° to 10° and the right flaps not extending at all. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data also showed that the flaps returned to symmetry deployed at about 4.5° about 25 seconds before ground impact. Impact and post accident fire damage made it impossible for the Investigation to determine the reason for the flap asymmetry, but it was considered that the absence of a flap asymmetry