ADS-B is a Surveillance technique that relies on aircraft or airport vehicles broadcasting their identity, position and other information derived from on board systems (GNSS etc.). This signal (ADS-B Out) can be captured for surveillance purposes on the ground (ADS-B Out) or on board other aircraft in order to facilitate airborne traffic situational awareness, spacing, separation and self-separation (ADS-B In) ADS-B is automatic because no external stimulus is required; it is dependent because it relies on on-board systems to provide surveillance information to other parties. Finally, the data is broadcast, the originating source has no knowledge of who receives the data and there is no interrogation or two-way contract. ADS-B is seen as a key enabler of the future ATM Network on both sides of the North Atlantic and elsewhere and will be vital to the achievement of the Single European Sky (SES) and Next Gen performance objectives, including safety, capacity, efficiency and environmental sustainability. The SES vision for ground Surveillance foresees, in en-route and terminal areas, the combination of ADS-B with independent Surveillance, the latter provided by Mode S and Wide Area Multilateration (WAM). It is noted that WAM system receivers generally include ADS-B functionality. Ground-based traffic separation aided by ADS-B depends on aircraft being equipped with ADS-B Out. Airborne self-separation requires that aircraft be equipped with ADS-B In and a means to effectively display available traffic information to the pilots. At airports, a locally-optimised mix of available technologies, i.e. airport Multilateration, Surface Movement Radars and ADS-B, will enable A-SMGCS systems and integrated airport operations. This could include the availability of suitable display of surveillance information on a consolidated display in the form of a moving map in flight decks and in surface vehicles. The introduction of ADS-B in the Surveillance infrastructure provides important features which can be exploited by the ATM Network: Full “Network-wide” Surveillance coverage Surveillance “everywhere”, i.e. no gaps from gate-to-gate Air-to-air Surveillance possible, i.e. traffic situational awareness picture available on board The aircraft is integral part of the Network Surveillance data provided directly from on-board systems. Surveillance “everywhere”, i.e. no gaps from gate-to-gate. Air-to-air Surveillance possible, i.e. traffic situational awareness picture available on board. The aircraft is integral part of the Network. Surveillance data provided directly from on-board systems. High performance. Improved safety. Increased capacity. Cost-efficiency Reduced cost of the Surveillance infrastructure (ADS-B is cheaper than radar) More efficient flight profiles (in areas where previously surveillance was not cost-effective) Fuel savings etc.. Reduced cost of the Surveillance infrastructure (ADS-B is cheaper than radar). More efficient flight profiles (in areas where previously surveillance was not cost-effective). Fuel savings etc.. Environmental sustainability (CO2 reduction). Reduced RF pollution (leading to an increased viability of the 1090 MHz datalink). Global Interoperability. Foundation for future ATC applications (spacing, separation, self-separation). ADS-B is currently being, or already has been, implemented in North America, Europe and other areas worldwide including the Asia/Pacific region. Global interoperability is ensured at application level and system level. The standards for ADS-B are being jointly developed by