A Straight-In Autorotation to SEOL is often used to practice the final stages of a touchdown autorotation. Given that in a practice forced landing the aim is always to be wings-level and at the recommended IAS for an EOL by 300 ft agl, from that point on the procedure, and in particular energy management of the RRPM, is generally the same. Refer to figure above (position 1). From level flight at the manufacturer’s recommended airspeed, at above 500 feet AGL and heading into the wind, smoothly, but firmly, lower the collective pitch lever to the full down position, maintaining RRPM in the green arc. Coordinate the collective movement with the yaw pedals to maintain balance and use the cyclic stick to adjust the pitch attitude to select and maintain the desired airspeed. In piston engined helicopters, once the collective is fully lowered, decrease throttle to ensure a clean split of the needles. After splitting the needles, readjust the throttle to keep ERPM above normal idling speed, but not high enough to cause rejoining of the needles. The manufacturer often recommends the ERPM to set. Different engine management techniques may be specified in the flight manual for turbine-engine helicopters and others with engine-governing systems. At position 2, the aircraft should be in autorotation at the recommended autorotative IAS, with IAS steady, RRPM in the green sector, and with the helicopter in balance. At approximately 40 to 100 feet above the surface, or at the height recommended by the manufacturer (position 3), the flare is begun, selecting a decelerative attitude with sufficient aft cyclic stick to reduce forward airspeed and decrease the rate of descent. Care must be taken in the execution of the flare so that the cyclic stick is not moved rearward so abruptly as to cause the helicopter to climb, nor should it be moved too slowly, as there will then be little flare effect to help arrest the descent. The flare may be a ‘once only’ manoeuvre to a defined nose-up pitch attitude, or progressively applied, but so as to avoid any extreme pitch attitude. The RRPM should increase during the flare, and a marked increase in RRPM allows the pilot to make a small upwards movement (or ‘Check’) of the collective lever to maximise both lift and deceleration with the helicopter in the flared attitude. As the ground clearance between the helicopter tail and the ground reduces, and forward speed has decreased to an apparent fast runner’s pace, (position 4), the cyclic is moved forward to place the helicopter in the level fuselage attitude for landing. The height at this time should be approximately 8 to 15 feet AGL, depending on the height recommended by the manufacturer. Extreme caution should be used to avoid an excessive nose high and tail low attitude below 10 feet. At this point only the remaining inertia in the rotor system remains to provide lift and the helicopter will be descending with low forward speed (position 5). The pilot must increase collective