on a taxiway where the right engine was shut down. Once the the RFFS had confirmed that there was no fire or obvious danger, the aircraft was taxied to the gate using the left engine. A line maintenance engineer made an initial inspection and reported that there was a very strong smell of burnt bird at the rear of the right engine but no obvious signs of an ingestion except two small pieces of bird feather on one of the fan exit guide vanes inside the engine fan case. These were subsequently confirmed to be from the same bird species as the other remains removed earlier from the same engine and had "identical" DNA sequences. Once the aircraft had been removed to a hangar, the deferred borescope inspection was carried out and revealed that one of the third-stage high-pressure-compressor blades was missing and that this missing blade appeared to have caused substantial damage to the engine core as it had exited through the core. The engine was removed from the wing and sent to a specialist repair facility for further assessment. A full examination of the engine at this facility confirmed extensive engine damage and that it was attributable to bird ingestion which had initially led to cracking of the missing compressor blade. This crack had then grown under the stress of continued engine operation in a damaged state and eventually led to it fracturing completely and causing significant damage to other engine components as it passed through all the other compressor stages. Compressor blades adjacent to the failed one were found to have "soft body impact damage typical of a bird strike". It was noted that the Operator's Maintenance Operations Centre (MOC) had routinely received ACARS data from the aircraft during the flight from Wellington to Auckland in the form of a 'Cruise Report'. This had contained three alerts which indicated changes in EGT, fuel flow and N2 vibrations on the right engine. However, "an incorrect data character in the report resulted in it being sent to a telex-error-holding folder, so the alerts did not appear in front of the MOC duty manager during the flight". The message was not seen until the evening of the same day after a systems engineer had fixed the problem by correcting the data character which allowed the report to be processed correctly. FDR data for the flight showed similar differences between the two engines throughout the flight. The Investigation formally documented the following five Findings: It is highly likely that this contained engine failure was the result of a single bird strike event on the previous flight when the aeroplane was landing at Wellington Aerodrome, when a black-backed gull was ingested into the engine core.. The maintenance actions taken by the operator following the bird strike exceeded the engine manufacturer’s requirements.. Releasing the aeroplane to service under the “fly-on allowance” would have been highly unlikely to result in an unacceptable risk to flight safety.. Indications that the right-hand engine was not performing