After receiving preliminary information about the occurrence, in which it was clear that IAE 2500 engine involved had sustained substantial core damage, the New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC) decided to open an Investigation. It was found that although the flight crew were initially unaware that the bird had been ingested into the IAE V2527-A5 engine and used reverse thrust on both engines to decelerate as usual, soon after this, the strong smell characteristic of bird ingestion into a turbine engine core became evident. On arrival at the parking gate, ATC and line maintenance were advised. An initial inspection of the engine by a maintenance engineer confirmed that a bird had entered the core of the right engine and the aircraft was withdrawn from service for the inspection prescribed in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual. Following this inspection, in which no evidence of damage was found, the aircraft was released to service and departed for Auckland in revenue service. Bird remains were sent for analysis and the bird was later subsequently identified by DNA analysis as a male Southern Black-Backed Gull (an adult male typically weighs over 1kg). It was noted that that the AMM procedure after bird ingestion required an internal examination of the engine using a borescope to conclusively verify that no damage had occurred. However, with no obvious signs of damage found on the initial inspection and only one engine involved, the procedure allowed the borescope inspection to be deferred for up to 10 hours’ flying or one further flight whichever came first and this conditional release to service was made. The aircraft subsequently left Wellington in revenue service on the incident flight to Auckland with a different flight crew to the one which had experienced the earlier bird strike. The 35 minute flight was uneventful until the aircraft was between 1500 feet and 1000 feet on approach at Auckland with the runway in sight when loud banging noises were heard from the right engine indicating compressor stall. A smell of burnt bird became increasingly evident both on the flight deck and in the passenger cabin. In response, the right engine thrust lever was set to idle and the banging noises stopped. The Captain "elected not to spend time trying to find a thrust lever position where the stall ceased, as the runway was clear but a heavy rain shower was approaching the far end" and the left-engine thrust lever was advanced to maintain the required flight path. A 'PAN' call was made to ATC requesting the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services to attend the aircraft after landing and in a brief conversation between the First Officer and the Inflight Service Manager to confirm that the cabin was secure for landing, it was established that flames had been seen coming from the right engine tail pipe when the banging noise had occurred. After touchdown, both thrust levers were selected to reverse with a normal response. Once at taxi speed, the aircraft cleared the runway and was stopped