selected. Approximately 3½ minutes into the descent, a request was made to ATC for a further deviation to “20 nm right of track due to weather” which was approved with a turn onto 070°. At almost the same time, whilst the cabin crew were still in the process of securing the cabin, turbulence began without warning and quickly became worse. ATC were advised at around 0804 UTC that the turbulence being experienced was “moderate to heavy” but after a further 3½ minutes had elapsed ATC were then informed that the turbulence had decreased and was now “light” with the worst of it having been encountered between FL300 and FL270. Once below FL 240, the flight crew contacted the SCCM to assess the situation and were advised of the injuries which had been sustained. Most of those injured, including the seriously injured passenger, had been in or very close to the rearmost cabin section. The light turbulence continued for the remainder of the flight which was without further event and a landing at Beirut occurred approximately 35 minutes later. An examination of available FDR data showed that the significant turbulent conditions occurred during the five minute period beginning two minutes after descent had commenced as the aircraft was descending from FL 292 to FL 222. Within this period, there were two intervals during which the severity of the turbulence was greatest. The first of these intervals began 3½ minutes after the beginning of descent and lasted for 48 seconds as the aircraft descended from FL284 to F255 and included a peak negative vertical acceleration of -0.49 followed immediately by a peak positive vertical acceleration of +1.72 g. The second of these intervals began one minute after the first ceased and lasted 17 seconds during which the aircraft descended from FL246 to FL238 and included a peak positive vertical acceleration of +1.71 g, and peak lateral accelerations of -0.19 g (to the left) and +0.35 g (to the right). Boeing provided an analysis of the atmospheric conditions which it was likely had been affecting the aircraft at the time of the CAT encounter based on satellite images, atmospheric sounding, radio frequency lightning triangulation, convective available potential energy and Ellrod Index. The latter is used to assess turbulence potential attributable to wind shear along jet streams and weather fronts. An Ellrod Index mapping of the area where the aircraft was is shown below with the exact location where severe turbulence occurred marked. This location was in an area with an Ellrod value above 30 and next to one with a value above 50, which Boeing atmospheric physicists advised is capable of producing strong turbulence. Modelling indicated that the jet stream had reached speeds of about 170 knots just to the south and above the location of the aircraft. In summary, the aircraft position in relation to that of the jetstream at the time of the CAT encountered was presented as follows: The aircraft was passing through significant jetstream shear on the northern underside