of a jet core;. Wind speed was changing both vertically and horizontally as the aircraft descended out of and passed north of the 170 knot jetstream;. The aircraft flew just above, or perhaps through the tops of, a line of thunderstorms at the same time.. The Ellrod Index showing the relative potential for CAT with the aircraft position indicated. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation discovered that, whilst most turbulence-related SIGMETs valid around the time the flight operated for the route taken were about convective (thunderstorm related) turbulence rather than CAT. However, there was one exception, a SIGMET about CAT in the area where it was encountered which, whilst it was received at the Emirates flight despatch/flight watch centre almost three hours prior to the turbulence episode, was not then sent to the flight by ACARS until it was too late to be of use. This delay occurred because the automatic software interface did not recognise a non standard format used by the originating Meteorological Watch Office at Larnaca. The existence of this SIGMET was also not communicated to the flight by Nicosia ACC. It was found that the operator’s SMS had not identified the potential for incompatibility between the format of inbound weather messages and the capability of the proprietary conversion software. A review of the conduct of the flight and cabin crew in respect of the actual circumstances which prevailed during the flight concluded that both their performance and the procedures they followed were not contributory to the occurrence in any way. There were also no problems controlling the aircraft with the AP remaining engaged throughout. The Cause of the accident was formally documented as “the significant vertical g-forces imposed on the aircraft because of severe clear air turbulence, which caused an unsecured passenger to be forcefully lifted off her feet and impact cabin furnishings which resulted in her right foot sustaining a serious fracture injury”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The influence of the jet stream and thunderstorm in the flight path area was significant enough to produce severe turbulence.. The flight crew decision making lacked (the benefit of access to) critical information contained in SIGMET 3 issued the Larnaca Meteorological Watch Office (MWO) for the period from 0530Z to 0930Z which forecasted severe turbulence between FL260 and FL390, south of latitude N 34° 30’.. The format of the SIGMET issued by the Larnaca MWO in a format which differed from the recommendations contained in ICAO Annex 3 and EU regulation No. 2020/469 such that the Weather Services International ‘Fusion’ application (WSI Fusion) used by the aircraft operator’s flight dispatch department did not generate a sufficiently timely alert for the SIGMET 3 report issued by the Larnaca MWO.. One formal Safety Recommendation was issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the ICAO engage the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the ICAO meteorology subject matter experts for the purpose of addressing the significance of Meteorological Watch Offices standardising the