The event occurred within the Nicosia FIR and Cyprus was thereby identified as the ‘State of Occurrence’ and notification was therefore sent to the Cyprus Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation Board (AAIIB) the same day. The subsequent Investigation was then conducted by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector, the corresponding agency of the State of the Operator and the State of Registry of the aircraft. Relevant data were obtained from both the FDR and the QAR but as the aircraft had continued to operate for more than two hours following the turbulence encounter, relevant data from the CVR had been overwritten. Assistance in the analysis of the FDR and QAR data was provided by Airbus. No information was recorded as to the flying experience of either the Captain, who was PF for the flight, or First Officer operating the aircraft during the accident involved. The Operational Flight Plan (OFP) was downloaded by the flight crew 2 hours and 45 minutes prior to a delayed departure for the four hour flight to Beirut. Having examined the SIGWX chart provided with the OFP (see below) and noted the possibility of “occasional, isolated and embedded CB cloud” on track, the Captain advised the cabin crew of the possibility of in-flight turbulence during the descent. In their interview during the Investigation, the flight crew stated that after crossing the Egyptian coast northbound in the cruise at FL 360, CB cloud had been visible approximately 80 nm ahead of the aircraft. After transfer to Nicosia ACC, they were given advisory information to deviate to the right of track so as to avoid this area of convective weather ahead and invited to request any further deviation if required. At this point, the Captain recalled that the weather radar was displaying returns approximately 120 nm ahead in the 12 o’clock relative position and at approximately 50 nm ahead between the 9 and 11 o’clock relative position. The SIGWX Chart provided to the flight crew prior to flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] About 40 minutes from destination, the seat belt signs were turned on and the cabin crew were instructed to begin securing the cabin in anticipation of turbulence ahead. Half a minute later, descent from FL 360 was commenced but after only 800 feet of descent, clear air turbulence began to become evident and the First Officer made a PA announcement “cabin crew take your seats”. The Captain stated that soon after this announcement had been made the turbulence had increased rapidly in severity in parallel with a sudden increase in airspeed and violent jolts had made the flight instruments difficult to read. The flight mode VNAV PATH was engaged and to avoid an overspeed, speed intervention was selected with a reduction towards 280 knots. However, as the speed continued to increase, the speedbrake was intermittently extended for additional control. In the event, the AP remained engaged and there were no overspeeds. However, because the vertical speed momentarily exceeded 5,000 fpm, VS mode was then