aircraft had begun its take-off roll. It was noted that the chances of either pilot seeing it may well have been reduced by the 'night blind spot effect', the occurrence of a central 5-10° cone of reduced visual acuity which may mean an object ahead my go undetected or if detected may fade away. The Investigation found that there had been significant gaps in the airport perimeter wall/fence at the time of the accident and that such gaps and related weaknesses had a long history in respect of both their existence and lack of rectification. It was also found that a significant part of the perimeter fence/wall was only accessible from outside the airport and that the whole operational area was covered in thick vegetation of approximately 3-4 feet in height which "acted as camouflage/shelter for wild animals and birds". It also found that both the declared runway inspection regime and the system for recording inspections carried out in accordance with it were not effective. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was the collision of the aircraft with an animal (buffalo) standing on the runway during its initial take-off roll resulting in damage to its engine, the animal having entered the operational area and the runway because of several breaches in the perimeter wall. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: Non adherence to standard ATC procedures in respect of the conduct of runway inspections.. Non adherence to regulations and standard procedures which if followed would have ensured maintenance of the full integrity of the airport perimeter fence/wall.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the DGCA should increase surveillance at aerodromes known to be prone to wildlife activity and ensure proper follow up action. The same may be harmonised with the process of aerodrome license/ renewal process.. that Indian Airports should implement the various passive and active management techniques for wildlife hazard management contained in ICAO Doc 9137 'Wildlife Control and Reduction' which gives clarification on appropriate vegetation management, data collection and training.. that Indian Airports should have Aerodrome Manuals which include specific mitigation technique and process for use by personnel responsible for wildlife/ bird hazard management rather than generic information.. The Final Report was completed on 3 January 2017 and published the following month.