The twin-engine airplane is high and fast on approach to runway 08, having prepared for runway 33 with a briefing from the captain, who is pilot flying (PF). You, as first officer, obtained automatic terminal information service (ATIS) information during the descent that indicated strong westerly winds on the ground. Because of high terrain, the most common approach to runway 33 is via the Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 08 with a circle-to-land maneuver southwest of the airport for a landing on runway 33. ATC advises you the ATIS has been updated and you should expect a straight-in approach to runway 08, the most common approach and familiar to you. You have slightly more than 5 min to prepare for landing on the new runway from notification to approach clearance. Without performing a completely new approach briefing, you prepare for this change by confirming your previously planned flap setting of 40 degrees, calculating a target airspeed of 138 kt. As the aircraft is flying assigned headings and descending steadily with the autopilot engaged, crew workload initially was relatively low. The short time available to prepare the approach is now almost entirely consumed by routine communications with ATC. Runway 08 is relatively short, adequate for landing but providing little margin for error. While you are obtaining the new ATIS, the captain receives and acknowledges ATC instructions to maintain 230 kt or more until advised, with vectors to a base leg to intercept the final approach path. When the aircraft receives clearance for a visual approach to runway 08, it is at some 230 kt, at 4,200 ft msl, approximately north of the extended runway centerline and almost 10 mi west of the runway. Airport elevation is approximately 800 ft msl, meaning that the airplane has to slow 95 kt and descend some 3,400 ft to reach a runway about 10 mi away by the planned ground track. Positioned too high, too fast and too close by ATC, you are faced with the difficult if not impossible task of establishing a stabilized approach, given the characteristics of the airplane. The other option is to extend the approach path in cooperation with ATC or even to go around despite the traffic. One minute after being cleared for approach, autopilot is engaged with manually-commanded idle thrust; the first configuration change is performed to get the aircraft below 225 kt, the maximum speed to extend flaps to 5 degrees. In quick succession the captain then commands extension of the landing gear and the flaps, in stages, to 40 degrees. The aircraft crosses abeam the waypoint navigation aid, descending to 3,000 ft, slowing through 225 kt and slightly overshooting the final approach course on autopilot. The captain then disconnects the autopilot and brings the aircraft back on course, ordering the gear to be extended and successive flap extensions, maintaining 3,000 ft until 3 mi from the threshold. Flaps 40 is commanded while the aircraft is above 180 kt. Placard speed for this setting is