well below this speed and is never achieved. The aircraft then slows to 180 kt, and the captain is flying it at more than twice the normal 3-degree gradient in his efforts to touch down just beyond runway threshold. When the aircraft passes below 1,200 ft above ground level and its descent rate increases through 2,900 ft/min, the ground-proximity warning system (GPWS) “sink rate” warning starts to sound continuously, later followed by the more stringent “whoop, whoop, pull up” warning. However, when the aircraft reaches 1,000 ft above airport elevation, its airspeed has increased to almost 200 kt with a 14-kt tailwind, and it is descending at more than 2,600 ft/min. When descending through 500 ft, 16 sec from touchdown, speed is unchanged and descent rate is almost 2,000 ft/min. You miss the 500-ft callout as you are also concerned about the aircraft that has landed ahead and has not yet cleared the runway. Despite all this, the aircraft continues at a steep gradient of 7 degrees until the captain begins the flare for landing at approximately 150 ft above ground level. Although he manages to land the aircraft within the normal touchdown zone, he has not been able to slow the aircraft while descending at that angle. Despite the engines remaining at idle, the aircraft is flying on average some 45 kt faster than the target speed throughout the final approach and landing. The aircraft touches down at a speed of 182 kt with a 6-kt tailwind, some 2,150 ft beyond the runway threshold with approximately 3,900 ft of runway left and approximately 4,150 ft remaining to the blast fence at the far end of the runway. The captain apparently does not apply and hold maximum brake pressure. It is the airline’s policy to use manual braking rather than autobraking during landing rollouts. One advantage of the airplane’s autobraking system is the faster application of heavy braking following which a crew can take over with maximum manual braking for even faster deceleration. The captain applies braking “pretty well” and uses reverse thrust. However he is unable to stop, so he steers to the right near the end of the runway, but the aircraft continues and passes through the airport boundary and across a street, stopping near a gas station. Two passengers are seriously injured, while the captain and dozens of passengers receive minor injuries leaving the seriously damaged airplane.