An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Coordinating Committee (AAIC) of the Maldives Civil Aviation Authority which functions in accordance with the principles of ICAO Annex 13. Relevant data was downloaded from the aircraft CVR. It was noted that the 30 year-old Captain, who was PF for the incident flight, had a total of 4,906 flying hours all except 200 hours on which were on type and of which 846 hours were in command on type. The 24 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,766 flying hours all except 200 hours of which were on type. It was found that the despatch briefing prior to departure from Trivandrum had been “done remotely” although the pilots had been given all the documents and were aware that they “were supposed to study them”. The First Officer stated subsequently that she had been aware of a NOTAM about the closed runway but had not mentioned this to the Captain. This NOTAM read “CONST OF NEW RWY IN PROGRESS. NEW RWY E AND PARALLEL TO CURRENT ACTIVE RWY. ACTIVE RWY EDGE LGT ON DAY AND NIGHT. ALL OPR TO EXER CTN. REFER AIC 04/17”. The AIC referred to was issued on 20 July 2017 and provided a comprehensive overview of the construction project supported by the illustration reproduced below. No evidence was documented to indicate that the edge lights of the runway in use had actually been on. The flight proceeded normally and after transfer to Malé Radar, the crew had requested a VOR approach to runway 18 and been advised that they could expect this request to be granted by Malé APP once transferred. That transfer occurred and at 10,000 feet QNH, the flight was cleared to continue descent but instructed to reduce to minimum speed as it was number 2 to land. Passing 4000 feet QNH, the flight was transferred to Malé TWR and after checking in was cleared for a VOR approach to runway 18 and asked to call on a seven mile final. Subsequently, landing clearance was issued before the aircraft reached seven miles with an instruction to vacate the runway after landing via taxiway ‘B’. Approximately three minutes after landing clearance was issued, the Malé TWR controller reported that he had noticed that the aircraft had landed on the runway that was under construction, located about 150 metres to the east of runway 18 and had transmitted “you just landed on the wrong runway”. Both pilots subsequently stated that they had not been aware that they had lined up with wrong runway until they were about to land. According to the Captain, as they were on final approach, they could see “very bright and clear” runway markings and that he had not seen the “old” and its markings “were not conspicuous as those on the new runway”. He stated that “he never thought that they were aligned towards to the wrong runway” and that although he saw “cross markings” on the runway when the aircraft speed