any confusion created amongst pilots operating into the airport”. It was also observed that Air Safety Circular (ASC) 139-5 included some specific requirements on “visual aids to denote closed runways and taxiways or parts thereof” but that despite this, the ‘closed runway’ markings on the runway under construction were not fully in compliance with these requirements and in particular “the runway markings were not fully obliterated”. The Cause of the Serious Incident determined was found to be “confusion between the runway in use and the runway under construction”. Although not formally documented as such, a Contributory Factor was found to be the fact that “Male’ Aerodrome Control personnel on duty in the Tower were seen to be completely distracted when the flight landed on the runway under construction”. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air India determines that airline dispatch procedures are properly adhered to so as to ensure that all crew operating the aircraft are duly briefed on the current NOTAMs, AICs etc.. that the Malé Airport Operator determines the procedure established for ensuring that regulatory requirements are met while maintenance, development and upgrading work are in progress.. that the Malé Airport Operator ensures that runway markings on the runway in use are kept renewed.. that the Malé Airport Operator ensures that the runway lights for the runway in use are kept switched on at all times.. that Air Navigation Services determine that procedures have been established for ensuring the staff on duty are not distracted.. that Air Navigation Services ensure that precautionary measures are taken by ATC when development and maintenance work are in progress.. that the Maldives CAA determine whether or not specific procedures are established and complied with to ensure that regulatory requirements are met by Airport Operators whilst regular maintenance and upgrading works are in progress.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 28 August 2019.