An aircraft departs from or lands on a runway other than that designated or a taxiway either of which may be obstructed and/or shorter and/or narrower than the intended runway. In exceptional cases, the landing case may involve the use of the wrong airport.. A departing aircraft fails to get airborne before end of the runway due to: Inappropriate aircraft handling technique; or, Decision to reject a take off taken at a speed exceeding V1; or, Aircraft weight exceeds maximum for prevailing conditions; or, Reported runway conditions differing from actual conditions; or, Aircraft weight and/or trim used for setting thrust/power or pitch trim position is wrong; or, Aircraft system malfunction (e.g. nose wheel steering or engine malfunction).. Inappropriate aircraft handling technique; or,. Decision to reject a take off taken at a speed exceeding V1; or,. Aircraft weight exceeds maximum for prevailing conditions; or,. Reported runway conditions differing from actual conditions; or,. Aircraft weight and/or trim used for setting thrust/power or pitch trim position is wrong; or,. Aircraft system malfunction (e.g. nose wheel steering or engine malfunction).. A landing aircraft is unable to stop before end of runway due to: Touch-down speed is excessive; or, Threshold crossing height is too high and/or the touchdown point is beyond the normal touch down zone; or, Aircraft weight exceeds maximum for prevailing conditions; or, Reported wind velocity or runway surface conditions differ from actual conditions; or, Aircraft system on which landing performance is predicated such as brakes or spoilers malfunctions; or, significant Aquaplaning occurs. Touch-down speed is excessive; or,. Threshold crossing height is too high and/or the touchdown point is beyond the normal touch down zone; or,. Aircraft weight exceeds maximum for prevailing conditions; or,. Reported wind velocity or runway surface conditions differ from actual conditions; or,. Aircraft system on which landing performance is predicated such as brakes or spoilers malfunctions; or,. significant Aquaplaning occurs. An aircraft landing or taking off departs the side of the runway due to: Inappropriate aircraft handling technique; or, Wind Velocity exceeds the maximum specified AFM limitations for crosswind component or the maximum demonstrated POH cross-wind ; or, Aircraft malfunction (e.g. engine failure or low power, asymmetric brake or spoiler failure, nose-wheel steering failure); or, Loss of directional control due to the effects of Aquaplaning.. Inappropriate aircraft handling technique; or,. Wind Velocity exceeds the maximum specified AFM limitations for crosswind component or the maximum demonstrated POH cross-wind ; or,. Aircraft malfunction (e.g. engine failure or low power, asymmetric brake or spoiler failure, nose-wheel steering failure); or,. Loss of directional control due to the effects of Aquaplaning..