Stage 1 HP Turbine (see the illustration below). A comparison between the remaining ash residues in the three engines used to complete the diversion and engine no 2, which was not subject to attempted restarting after being shutdown following the second ash encounter, showed as suspected, a significant difference. It was deduced that a substantial amount of ash debris which had been taken above its melting point in the engine hot section had, during the initial 25,000 feet of descent then cooled and solidified when the engines ceased operating and that the subsequent restart attempts had led to deposits which had solidified and become brittle to be partially shaken free in this form. Continued operation at a much lower air density had then enabled them to continue operating during cruise and descent, albeit at reduced efficiency. The NGVs on the engine no 2 HP turbine showing the characteristically greater ash deposits on alternate vanes (the ‘leading’ ones. [Reproduced from a contemporary unpublished source] Perhaps of most significance was the fact that neither the flight crew involved nor British Airways (or, apparently, ATC) were aware of the ash cloud in advance. In fact, it was from an eruption of Mount Galunggung which had only begun approximately two hours before the encounter. However, that this volcano was generally in an active phase was known - it had been intermittently active during the previous three months. As the new eruption continued, the ash cloud began to be visible on satellite weather pictures. This event and a similar one to a Pratt & Whitney-engined Boeing 747-200 which also entered an ash cloud from Mount Galunggung again at night but at the slightly lower cruise altitude of FL330 on 13 July 1982 (three engines failed but were eventually restarted and the fourth was reduced to flight idle) were the trigger for the ICAO to begin work to address the ash risk. In particular, a network of Volcanic Ash Advisory Centres was introduced in order to make it more likely that high density ash clouds could be avoided. This event started what remains an ongoing debate about what ash loading was encountered in the two episodes and whilst this was evidently enough to put continued high altitude engine operation at thrust levels significantly above flight idle at risk, it has yet to be possible to reliably establish even a range of densities encountered on the indirect evidence available.