had visually scanned the approach sector, he had not, as he normally would in the prevailing conditions, seen the aircraft. Some 38 seconds later, the aircraft impacted mountainous terrain at an elevation of about 700 feet in a wings-level attitude approximately 4.5nm from the runway and a post-crash fire began. It was considered that the observed wreckage pattern "was consistent with a controlled shallow descent". The power levers were found in a position near flight idle and the CVR data showed that prior to impact there had been no flight crew call outs relevant to range/distance or terrain proximity and no GPWS alerts/warnings. The track flown to impact is shown on the map below. The Investigation found that throughout the approach, the flight crew had not complied with the Operator’s Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and that there was no sign that CRM techniques had been applied. The absence of any SOPs in respect of the performance of a stabilised approach was also considered relevant as was the fact that by the time the accident occurred, not only had both pilots exceeded their maximum allowable FDP of 14 hours by almost 3 hours, but the circadian low had been reached, a combination strongly favouring fatigue. Although part of the elapsed FDP was attributable to a late departure from Gdansk, the Investigation concluded that departing Keflavik on the accident flight sector was in gross contravention of the applicable German Flight Time Limitations. An underestimation by the flight crew of their fatigue may well have contributed to their "improper decision making, lack of situational awareness and thereby to their failure to properly execute the approach". The Captain may also have been affected by stress, since the contracted task was to deliver the cargo to Louisville by 0900 hrs; the handling agent in Keflavik told the Investigation that the Captain "had seemed stressed". The absence of automatic callouts at 500 feet agl and 200 feet agl as well as any terrain proximity Alerts/Warnings prior to impact led the Investigation to conclude that "the GPWS was inoperative". It was observed that whilst the Master MEL for the aircraft type allowed dispatch with the GPWS inoperative, it was clearly "hazardous to operate in mountainous terrain" without this system functioning. A number of other findings in the area of non-compliance, in particular that the AOC held by the Operator limited flight operations to the EUR/MED regions yet the accident flight occurred in the NAT region and the final destination was in the NAM region, were considered not directly relevant to the accident. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the Accident was "a combination of non-adherence to the approach procedure and the lack of vertical position awareness". In summary, it was found that "several of the most common factors found in CFIT accidents were present in this accident". These were summarised as: The flight crew did not follow SOPs (adherence to the approach procedure, altitude calls, checklist reading).. The GPWS was inoperative. The flight crew were exposed