An Investigation was carried out by the Danish AIB. The accident aircraft was equipped with both an FDR and a CVR and both were recovered with no significant damage. On examination, the FDR was found to be malfunctioning and only poor quality audio data were obtained from the CVR due to a lot of background noise on the area microphone channel which meant only a partial transcript of flight crew communication could be made. However, the NVM from the GPS installed in the aircraft was recovered and provided useful flight data. The 56 year-old aircraft commander and his 40 year-old First Officer both held German licences on which the only multi-engine type rating was the Falcon 20 but it was not possible to establish the extent of the flying experience of either pilot. The Captain was the owner of the aircraft operator and under its German AOC was the Accountable Manager and the Flight Operations Post Holder. The First Officer was the nominated Post Holder for Maintenance, Flight Crew Training and Ground Operations. The sole passenger was employed by the Operator as a Falcon 20 First Officer. It was noted that the accident flight was between two airports designated as technical stops on a contracted cargo flight from Gdansk, Poland to Louisville USA. It was established that the approach had been briefed as an NDB/DME to runway 07 at Narsarsuaq (see the chart below) and that the Captain had taken over as PF prior to its commencement due to his greater familiarity with the aerodrome. The Aerodrome FISO had advised broken cloud at 6000 feet as the lowest observed, good visibility and a surface wind favouring runway 07 and had approved an approach to that runway at own discretion. On the evidence available, the Investigation concluded that the NDB/DME approach procedure had been initiated prior to the aircraft descending clear of cloud on the outbound leg of the procedure at a high speed contrary to the Operator’s SOP for a two-engine VOR or NDB approach. It was further concluded that during the inbound turn the crew obtained visual reference with the aerodrome and to save time decided to continue visually, then set a direct course to short final - it was considered possible that the Captain's familiarity with the area may have led to overconfidence. Further descent would then have been reliant on "the angular subtends of the runway and the aerodrome lights" with the pilots so preoccupied with maintaining visual reference that they did not adequately monitor the aircraft flight instruments. It was a dark night and the likely lack of visual vertical position awareness was considered as a manifestation of the “black hole” phenomenon - bright aerodrome lights in an otherwise dark area in good visibility. The First Officer reported that the aircraft was on final to runway 07 when it was in fact on a "wide left base". The FISO passed the spot wind and confirmed that the runway was clear but stated subsequently that although he