A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The event was not appropriately reported to the Operator and notification of it as a Serious Incident was delayed accordingly. The Investigation was provided with Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data from the CVFDR fitted to the helicopter but the voice data from this recorder had been overwritten. The Non Volatile Memory of the Honeywell MKXXII EGPWS fitted was a useful source of data on the Alerts and Warnings generated during the event and the ground track at the time but data from the Digital Video Recording System (DVRS) which provides a recording of EFIS display screens, had been overwritten due to delay in the disclosure of the event. It was noted that the 55 year old aircraft Commander was an experienced helicopter pilot with nearly 5000 hours on the S76 but that although the Co-pilot was also a qualified commander and with plenty of experience, he had only 185 hours on the S76. The programme for the days flying involved positioning from the Operator's base at London Stansted to a private landing site at Peasmarsh, a small settlement just to the north west of the small town of Rye, to collect passengers, taking them to the London Heliport and waiting there until they were ready to return to Peasmarsh before positioning back to Stansted. Both pilots were familiar with the landing site at Peasmarsh. The Co-pilot had been PF for the initial positioning flight and had briefed that the MSA in the vicinity of Peasmarsh was 1250 feet amsl and that he intended to descend to this altitude slightly to the north-west of the landing site to gain visual contact with the ground and if this was achieved, he would then continue with a visual approach and land. The approach was executed as briefed. The return flight from London took off at 2235 local time. The Commander was PF and had "assessed from the available information that the chances of being able to make a successful approach at Peasmarsh were good, but he retained Lydd (approximately 9nm to the ESE), as an alternate destination". It was reported that no formal briefing for the approach and landing had been given but the pilots had agreed that "they would follow the same routine for the arrival at Peasmarsh as they had done earlier". Initially, the flight proceeded in IMC at 2100 feet amsl below controlled airspace. The weather at Lydd was checked and had clearly deteriorated a little from earlier on. When asked by the Co-pilot what his plan was for the destination approach, the Commander said that he "intended to descend to 500 feet with the aim of achieving visual contact with the landing site" but the Co-pilot did not query on what datum the 500 feet value was to be based and assumed that it would be above the highest obstacle near the site. The flight proceeded with the AP engaged towards an FMS waypoint inserted at 3 nm west