of the landing site. This position had been chosen because an approach from the west would provide the best view of both the lit helipad in the north east corner of a large field surrounded by mature trees and a triangular arrangement of three lights in the middle of the field. Approaching it, forward visibility was sufficiently limited to require flying on instruments although the Commander "recalled that the Co-pilot had stated he had visual contact with the ground beneath". He reported having set 600 feet on the altitude pre-select, begun a descent towards Peasmarsh using the FD and AP and selected the landing gear down. The Co-pilot subsequently recalled "informing the commander of his concerns that the helicopter was below the safety altitude without sufficient visual references" but had taken the view that "rather than pressing this point, his better option was to support the commander as effectively as he could, even though he believed that the commander’s actions were flawed". Ground contact remained intermittent as the descent continued and forward visibility was poor. The Co-pilot reported having focussed his attention on his flight instruments and moving map display so as to give a running commentary of height, speed and the distance to run to the landing site. The Co-pilot stated that he had become aware that at 350 feet agl, the landing site was only about 30 seconds flying time away. During a subsequent interview, he recalled that at this point they were still “in the bottom of the cloud” and that he had considered calling for a go around or taking control of the helicopter to do so himself. Soon afterwards, the Commander caught sight of the landing site but assessed that the helicopter was too high and too fast to continue the approach straight in. As they flew over the site at approximately 300 feet agl and 35 KIAS, the Commander noted that the driver who was meeting the passengers had parked his car near the helipad. He was able to see the lights of the small town of Rye about 3nm away and it appeared that towards Lydd on lower terrain, the visibility was rather better and the cloud base higher. He decided to maintain height whilst making an orbit to the right to position for a further approach from the west and disconnected the AP. He reported having been flying by a combination of reference to the instruments and outside cues but as the helicopter turned through a westerly heading, it began to descend and an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) 'CAUTION TERRAIN' occurred followed by a 'WARNING TERRAIN' as it approached 100 feet agl. but neither pilot recalled being aware of these activations at the time. After a brief climb, a further descent occurred and the Commander recalled seeing the three lights in the middle of the field "begin to flicker". The Co-pilot, who was monitoring his instruments, saw that the helicopter was descending and reported beginning to speak to highlight this