independently of the warning and had begun to react to avoid it at the same time the warning was issued. It was found that the Operator had its main base at Oxford and operated a small fleet of Eurocopter EC135/EC155 and Sikorsky S76 helicopters from various UK bases. Although the minimum flight crew for an S76 for both for Visual Flight Rules (VFR) or Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) operations is one pilot, the Operator "habitually operated the helicopter with two pilots". The helicopter was certified for flight by day and night and under VFR and IFR. The Company Operations Manual, which had been "accepted" rather than "approved" by the UK CAA, "did not contain specific procedures for operations at private landing sites". "A senior company official" stated that the "recognised procedure" for landing at a private landing site after an en route transit in IMC above MSA was "to descend to MSA approaching the site and only continue to land if sufficient visual references can be identified". This source further advised that this "recognised procedure" also included the expectation that "if visual contact is not gained, the crew should either continue to their alternate (normally a licensed airfield with instrument approach aids) and make an instrument approach or remain at or above MSA until visual conditions prevail and a visual descent and approach can be carried out". The Investigation noted that although helicopter EGPWS does incorporate a database of runways which allows 'nuisance' annunciations to be disabled, private landing sites such as that where the event occurred are not included. No mention of visual EGPWS annunciations could be found in the Operations Manual but it did say that "when operating in IMC or at night or in conditions of impaired visibility…..pilots are to be familiar with the corrective actions to be taken in the case of an audio warning" and provided a table of responses such as "reduce rate of descent" in response to a "PULL UP" Warning. No guidance was provided as to the expected response in the event of ‘look ahead’ alerts such as the ‘CAUTION TERRAIN’ and ‘WARNING TERRAIN’ annunciations which occurred during the event. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "The descent from above the minimum safe altitude was conducted in reduced visibility and low cloud conditions into an area with limited visual references. The helicopter was therefore brought close to terrain in an environment in which situational awareness could become degraded easily. The decision to execute an orbit around the landing site, in the circumstances pertaining, further increased the chances of situational awareness becoming degraded, whilst the helicopter was at low height above unlit and undulating terrain. In the course of the orbit, the commander became spatially disorientated and the helicopter descended towards the tops of trees. Although the EGPWS issued warnings that the helicopter was approaching contact with the ground, the flight crew were not aware of these warnings." One Safety Recommendation was issued as a result of the Investigation as