when he saw the radio altimeter “winding down towards zero extremely quickly” but found himself momentarily unable to continue, expecting the helicopter to crash. Simultaneously, the commander reported realising that the lights were flickering because his view of them was becoming obstructed intermittently by the tops of the trees around the field and commenced an 'aggressive' climb by rolling level, making cyclic control inputs to arrest the rate of descent, pitching to 20°nose-up and raising the collective lever to apply 'blowaway' or maximum power. A rate of climb of 1300 fpm was achieved within six seconds. It was considered that the Commander’s control inputs were "swift, aggressive, and co-ordinated". As the recovery commenced, both pilots heard an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) 'TAIL TOO LOW' Warning. It was noted from the Non Volatile Memory data downloaded from the EGPWS computer that this Warning occurred only 20 seconds after the WARNING TERRAIN which both pilots had been unaware of. The minimum radio height recorded was 2 feet agl to a accuracy of +/- 2 feet. The recovery climb was continued into IMC and a diversion to Lydd completed without further event. The helicopter was then positioned back to Stansted where they went into an office and completed post-flight paperwork which did not include an ASR or MOR. No indication was found that there had been any "unusual pressure… to complete the proposed series of flights should conditions prove unfavourable" had been placed upon the pilots by their employer, the passengers or anybody else. It was noted that during the orbit for a second approach, the helicopter had "turned towards higher ground, worse weather and less cultural lighting". As the orbit continued with the commander’s visual references reduced to the triangle of lights in the centre of the field, it was considered that maintaining both orientation and situational awareness would have become challenging. It was surmised that the descent close to the ground during the orbit could have been a result of intentional control inputs by the commander in an endeavour to remain visual below a lowering cloud base or alternatively the result of degraded spatial awareness. No technical reason could be found to explain how EGPWS warnings could be recorded without being presented to the pilots. If the audio inhibit switch had been selected prior to the approach, then no audible warnings would have been issued but neither pilot believed that the inhibit switch had been selected and both had recalled hearing the 'TAIL TOO LOW' Warning. It was considered that "the earlier audible alerts may have also been announced, but not ‘heard’ by the pilots, because of inattentional deafness or the effects of overload on the pilots’ capacity to process auditory cues". However, since the 'WARNING TERRAIN' annunciation had bee followed temporarily by a climb, it was considered possible that either they had assimilated and reacted to the EGPWS warnings, but later did not recall doing so, or that the commander became aware of the close approach to terrain