and few landings) after a long period on the MD-80. It was also considered that the same pilot’s handling of the aircraft brakes generally and of the thrust reversers during landing confirmed this view - in effect, the pilot “operated the aircraft systems as he would have operated the systems of a MD-80 aircraft” which has steel brake discs rather than carbon ones. The Investigation also considered that higher pilot eye level above ground level of the A319 compared to that of the MD-80 (1.2 metres) would have created an impression of being at a lower ground speed than the actual one. The Investigation also concluded after making inquiries of other SAS crews and noting the guidance provided by the Company that because the runway exit used was an RET, the subsequent encounter after a relatively short distance with quite a sharp curve was habitually but unconsciously overlooked by SAS pilots still focused on their presence on an RET. The Investigation reviewed the design of taxiway B4 in respect of the transitions at either end and found that there were no deviations from the requirements described in ICAO Annex 14. It was established from friction testing that although taxiway B4 had been damp, braking action at the time of the excursion would have been good. It was found that SAS aircraft had been involved in similar incidents at the exit from taxiway B4 onto taxiway B in the past, most recently two months earlier when an MB87 had also experienced a loss of directional control but had stopped just before departing the paved surface. This aircraft had entered taxiway B4 at 58 KIAS and by the time directional control had been lost, the speed was 31 KIAS or below (no recorded ground speed was available from the FDR on this aircraft type). The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that: Ineffective braking was a contributing factor to the high ground speed at the end of the straight part of taxiway B4. The ground speed was approximately 12 knots above the curve design speed and therefore led to the serious incident. The inertia (mass/speed) of the aircraft exceeded the friction ability of the nose wheel tires leading the aircraft to skid off the curved end of taxiway B4 onto the grass area. Contributing human factors to event were identified as: The commander’s relatively low A320 series flying experience compared to a substantial period immediately prior to type conversion on the MD-80 series experience which has a pilot eye level 1.2 metres lower than the A320 series.. Perceived pressure on the cockpit crew to be “on-time” and the effect of the permanent Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) information to “expedite vacating the runway”.. The incident aircraft crew’s perception of taxiway B4 - it was defined as a “rapid exit taxiway” but the curved end of B4 was a sharp angled curve that tended to be overlooked.. Safety Action taken by SAS as a result of the event included a reminder that maximum