An Investigation was carried out by the Danish AIB with assistance of downloaded Flight Data Recorder (FDR), Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and ACMS information. It was found that the aircraft commander, who was acting as PF, was new to the aircraft type but that the First Officer was “an experienced A320 series pilot”. It was established that the aircraft commander had landed the aircraft on runway 22L and selected the reversers to the FWD IDLE position before the aircraft turned to the right to enter the RET designated as B4 - aligned at 30° to the runway centreline - at 45 knots ground speed (see diagram below). Braking had been ineffective and inappropriately biased towards use of the left brakes. As the 142° turn further to the right at the end of the RET was approached, there were surface skid marks showing that the nose wheels had lost traction with the groundspeed by then recorded as 31 knots - 12 knots higher than the design maximum speed for the aircraft inertia which was calculated by the Investigation based on the radius of turn and aircraft inertia. At this speed, the prevailing inertia had then exceeded the capability of the nose wheel steering to turn the aircraft in the direction of the curve and the nose landing gear ended at a significant angle to the direction of aircraft movement - up to 70°- and the aircraft skidded almost straight ahead and onto the grass. It was found that surface friction on B4 had been good and it was considered that “consistently braking on the straight part of B4 could have prevented the serious incident”. It was noted that the commander had not made use of the ground speed indication available at the top left corner of the ND and that the First Officer had been ‘head down’ whilst occupied with the checklist and had been unaware of the situation before the aircraft began to skid. It was found that there was no taxi speed limitation in the FCOM or the AFM but noted that the FCOM did include the statements that: the normal maximum taxi speed should be 30 knots in a straight line, 10 knots for a sharp turn.. as the ground speed is difficult to assess, monitor ground speed on the ND.. as 30 knots is exceeded with idle thrust set, apply brakes smoothly and decelerate to 10 knots, release the brakes and allow the aircraft to accelerate again.”. The A320 series FCTM was found to state that “for turns of 90° or more, the aircraft speed should be less than 10 knots”. The aircraft commander reported that he had biased his brake application towards use of the left pedal because he had observed that the right brakes were warmer but no evidence was found of any hot brake discs and it was considered that this perception had been erroneous. The Investigation attributed this partly to the relatively low A320 series type experience of the pilot involved (76 hours