An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB and established that with the aircraft commander as PF and the AP engaged, FD mode selection upon leaving 3000ft amsl for 2100 ft amsl with clearance to establish on the ILS LLZ, had been VS and LOC modes but not ALT SEL. The ILS LLZ had then been captured in descent through 1250 ft amsl with almost full scale fly up showing on the flight deck ILS displays. ATC APP transferred the aircraft to TWR without noticing the breach of clearance or continued descent well below the ILS GS. As the aircraft passed through 1,000 ft amsl the co pilot checked in with ATC TWR with the premature descent still un-noticed by either pilot despite flight deck indications confirming a position lower than full scale fly up on the ILS and a PF declaration of ‘Visual’ (the runway) and Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems indications confirming the below GS status. Once ATC TWR had prompted awareness of the abnormally low altitude, there was a delayed response attributed by the aircraft commander to difficulty disconnecting the Autopilot. At 700 ft agl, landing gear down was selected followed by land flap selection and receipt of land flap at 570 ft amsl. . An uneventful landing followed. It was noted that the absence of any Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Mode 5 ‘Glideslope’ Alert was attributable to the fact that the landing gear was not selected down until the premature descent had been arrested. Both the relevant aircraft systems and ground installations were subsequently confirmed to have been fully serviceable. On 8 May 2009, whilst the investigation was in progress, a similar event occurred to another of the same Operator’s DHC8-400 aircraft whilst it was making an ILS approach to Runway 23 at Glasgow, UK albeit with a different flight crew involved. Because of the circumstantial similarity, an investigation into this second event was also carried out as part of the principal investigation. In this second case, which also occurred to a scheduled passenger flight in day VMC with the aircraft commander as PF, as the aircraft passed through 2,600 ft amsl with the AP engaged, the Mode was switched from HGD to LOC. Again, the aircraft continued descending below the cleared altitude whilst tracking the ILS LLZ in the absence of a GS Mode selection. By 1,600 feet amsl the landing gear was down and locked and land flap was then selected. The first of five EGPWS “Glideslope” warnings was recorded at 5.4 nm DME as the aircraft descended through 975 ft agl and initially the aircraft continued to descend with the same vertical speed. After a second “Glideslope” warning at 920 ft agl the autopilot was disconnected and the rate of descent was reduced. A third “Glideslope” warning was recorded at approximately 730 ft agl after which descent was converted to level flight over slightly rising ground. At 630 ft agl and 4.1nm DME, a fourth Glideslope warning was recorded and