the aircraft remained in level flight with a full “fly up” indication on the glideslope indicator until a fifth “Glideslope” warning was recorded at 4.0 nm DME. The aircraft intercepted the ILS GS shortly afterwards and continued to an uneventful landing. The Investigation noted that in both cases, although it was ATC who had alerted the flight crews to their premature descent, APP to TWR handoff had been made with the aircraft on the LIS LLZ but in descent below the ILS GS. Appropriate ATC action was noted to have been taken in respect of procedures. The Investigation also noted that an Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) system had been on trial at Edinburgh had not been operational at the time. Finally, the Investigation note that the Aircraft Operator, Flybe, had an SOPs in place at the time of both events to the effect that: Provided PF has called "visual", no further reference to altitude is required and if the visual profile is normal, no reference to speed and sink. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 4 March 2010 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf:AAIB Bulletin: 3/2010 ref. EW/C2008/12/05 It contained two Safety Recommendations. The first was to the aircraft manufacturer and arose from the mode selection difficulties which characterised both events: Safety Recommendation 2009-005. It is recommended that Bombardier Aerospace enable automatic arming of the altitude select mode of the flight director fitted to Dash-8-400 series aircraft upon selection of a new altitude and vertical mode. The second was made to the Aircraft Operator, Flybe, after they declined during the investigation to modify their Standard Operating Procedures to require that a “final fix” check should be made on all approaches, even ones where the PF has declared that they are “visual” with the runway: Safety Recommendation 2009-006. It is recommended that Flybe consider amending its standard operating procedures to require an altitude check whilst on final approach even when the pilots are in visual contact with the runway.