The event was reported to the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC) the following day and an Investigation was immediately commenced. Recorded data from the FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded but relevant CVR data had been overwritten. Recorded ATC communications data were also available. Both pilots were Papua New Guinea nationals. It was noted that the 39 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 11,936 hours flying experience including 4,976 hours on type and 9,404 hours in command (all types). He had been employed by Air Nuigini as a pilot for 13 years. The 36 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,993 hours flying experience of which 1,876 hours were on type and had been employed by Air Nuigini as a pilot for 9 years. Three cabin crew were on board and the 26 year-old SCCM had “over three years cabin crew experience”. The Captain stated during interview that after departing from Boram, the crew had responded to a left engine bleed fault annunciation by resetting the system in accordance with the applicable QRH Checklist. As the fault indication did not reappear, it was decided to continue the flight as planned climbing to FL 350 on an almost direct track to Port Moresby. Twelve minutes after takeoff whilst passing FL 230, Moresby Centre was asked for permission to deviate up to 15 nm either side of track due to convective weather ahead and this was approved. Approaching FL 290, both engine anti-icing were momentarily activated as the aircraft encountered cloud but on clearing cloud a few seconds later they were deactivated. As the aircraft continued climbing, a left engine bleed fault light was again annunciated followed after about three seconds by a right engine bleed fault indication. The MFDU displayed the ‘Double Bleed Fault’ Checklist, the Captain levelled off at FL300 and both pilots donned their oxygen masks as required. Half a minute later, in response to an observed rapidly rising (2000 fpm) cabin altitude, the Captain initiated a rapid descent and altered course towards the coast to avoid high ground in the Mount Wilhelm area. The First Officer stated that as the descent was continued, the Captain switched off both engine bleed systems in order to reset them in accordance with the Double Bleed Fault Checklist but before he had switched them back on, an ‘Excessive Cabin Altitude’ warning was annunciated at a recorded FL 293 and the corresponding Checklist was displayed on the MFDU. At this point, the crew recalled noting that the cabin altitude had exceeded 14,000 feet. The crew stated that they had switched on the fasten seatbelt/no smoking signs and whilst the First Officer made an ‘Emergency Descent’ PA and manually deployed the passenger cabin oxygen masks, the Captain had commenced an emergency descent by setting the thrust levers to flight idle and (not explained) retracting the speed brakes. As the aircraft passed FL 240, the Captain declared a PAN to Moresby Centre and advised of