the emergency descent and added that they were 63 nm from waypoint MUDIX (located at Goroka) and was instructed to advise when operations returned to normal. Moresby Centre then contacted Madang FIS of the flight’s PAN status so that they could notify any potentially affected traffic in their area but were advised that they were unaware of any. Seven minutes after the descent from FL300 had begun, the aircraft was levelled at 10,000 feet and the ‘Excessive Cabin Altitude’ warning ceased. The crew removed their oxygen masks and after initially deciding to divert to Nadzab, they re-assessed the weather conditions in that area and decided instead to divert to Madang. The Madang TWR was then contacted and appraised of the flight’s intentions. The crew then reported having reviewed the checklists which had been displayed on the MFDU during the emergency phase of the flight and completed the remaining items on the ‘Emergency Descent’ and ‘Double Bleed Fault’ procedures. During the latter, they were able to successfully reselect both engine bleed systems. The Madang overhead was reached 5½ minutes later and after two holding patterns during which the cabin crew were instructed to carry out their follow up duties and the pilots reviewed the QRH ‘Manual Cabin Pressurisation Control’ procedures, a descent and positioning for runway 07 was commenced. Six uneventful minutes later, the aircraft landed at Madang for a normal disembarkation. The Operator’s maintenance records following the emergency diversion indicated that during the troubleshooting process, both Shut Off Temperature Modulating Valves (SOTMV) and both Pressure Regulating Valves (PRSOV) were replaced in accordance with the AMM after testing showed that they were not reliably sustaining their required performance. These component changes led to the cessation of the intermittent bleed air system faults which had previously been occurring at irregular intervals. However, it was concluded that “well before” the investigated event, there had been recurrent defects in the aircraft’s bleed air system but no meaningful attempt at fault identification or use of troubleshooting procedures to resolve this. Overall it was concluded that no effective process to identify and address the underlying causes of these faults had been followed. During the Investigation, it was also found that eight passenger oxygen masks which had not activated properly were subsequently not reported as defective by the cabin crew and the resulting absence of corresponding maintenance records meant that it was not possible to determine the cause of the defective oxygen units. The Causes of / Contributing Factors to the occurrence were identified as follows: The loss of cabin pressure in flight was due to simultaneous faults with the PRSOVs and SOTMVs in the engine bleed air system.. The aircraft had been having recurrent defects in its bleed systems but no proper fault isolation and troubleshooting was applied to identify and address the underlying causes of the faults prior to the occurrence.. Due to the intermittent characteristics of its faults, the bleed air system tended to operate in a normal manner when subjected to both function