An Investigation was carried out by the Bahamas Air Accident Investigation Department (AAID). Relevant recorded ATC communications data and security camera data were available. It was noted that the Saab 340 PF at the time of the event was the First Officer and that the flight was being made under VFR with 25 passengers and three members of crew on board. The 53 year-old PA27 pilot was a PPL holder and the only occupant of that aircraft. No details of pilot experience were given. It was decided that with light winds prevailing, the Saab 340, which was taxiing from the main passenger terminal, would use the full length of runway 14 for its departure and that the PA27, coming from the south general aviation apron, would depart from runway 27 at its intersection with taxiway ‘K’ (see the illustration below). The PA27 was given its taxi instructions first and eight seconds later the Saab 340 was given its taxi instructions. Both instructions were read back correctly but without the controller noticing, the PA27 taxied instead to the intersection of taxiway ‘L’ with runway 32. When both aircraft were successively cleared for what the controller believed were non conflicting takeoffs, the PA27 began its takeoff on runway 32 heading directly towards the Saab 340. After a takeoff roll estimated as “at least 10 seconds”, the PA27 became airborne first and came into view on the available security camera footage midway between the ‘B’ and ‘D’ taxiways at an estimated height of 50 feet agl. Approximately 12 seconds after the PA27 first appeared, the Saab 340 was observed to complete rotation just prior to taxiway ‘D’ and then passed beneath the PA27 as the two aircraft were abeam the control tower, by which time the PA27 was no longer visible on the available camera footage. Neither aircraft was aware of the near miss until advised by the TWR controller after it had occurred. The PA27 pilot subsequently admitted that he “forgot” to follow the acknowledged instructions issued for departure from runway 27. It was noted that another aircraft was lined up at the threshold of runway 14 at the time the near miss occurred. It was noted that that as a result of the investigated event, the ANSP, the Bahamas Air Navigation Service Division (BANSD), had established their own three-member ‘Internal Review Board’ to examine procedures to determine whether an ‘operational deviation’ had taken place and if so, to determine its cause(s) and recommend corrective measures and to review the Industrial Agreement between the Government of the Bahamas and the Bahamas Air Traffic Controllers’ Union as the basis and guidelines for the review. This Review produced 14 Recommendations but “due to the nature and sensitivity of those concerns and recommendations” they were not adopted as formal Safety Recommendations by the Investigation or otherwise included in this Report. It was nevertheless noted that these recommendations have been identified in the Investigation Department’s safety tracking system “for follow up at prescribed intervals to determine