whether they are being addressed by BANSD management, as the BAAID finds the findings and recommendations credible and critical to safety and air traffic management” and capable of negatively impacting safety if not addressed. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the near miss was “the poor decision making exercised by the PA 27 pilot in not following directions issued by ATC, despite advising he understood the instructions given”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as: the TWR Controller losing visual contact with the PA27 which he had issued instructions to.. the failure of the Saab 340 crew to notice that another aircraft was on the same runway at the same time before commencing their takeoff roll.. It was further considered that: the loss of visual contact with the aircraft by the controller may have been as a result of distraction due to the ongoing shift change at the time and the fact that the controller was manning two separate radio frequencies during a time of high traffic volume, while using a system that required additional training and frequent data input to allow all systems to function properly with adequate current information.. the failure of the Saab 340 crew to notice the PA27 may have been the result of distractions or preoccupation with completing final checks while on the runway, before takeoff.. It was also observed that “Pilot training, qualification and air traffic controller training, licensing and record keeping practices had been investigated and while not directly contributing to the incident were noteworthy and required action”. This included that the TWR controller’s Medical Certificate had expired and that several other controllers were operating without current medical certificates, that neither the TWR Controller nor any other ATCO had been issued with an ATCO Licence, that the ANSP had no documented process to track medical status of ATCOs and that there was no record that the PA27 pilot had completed his required annual recurrent training. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Safety Oversight Department of the Bahamas Civil Aviation Authority (BCAA) should re-examine the PA27 pilot for his competence to hold a Bahamas-issued pilot licence.. that the Safety Oversight Department of the BCAA should, based on additional information obtained post-incident, have the PA27 pilot reassessed by a medical assessor for medical fitness.. that the Safety Oversight Department of the BCAA should issue all ATC personnel with ATC Licences as required by the Civil Aviation General Regulations.. that the Bahamas Air Navigation Services Division (BANSD) should institute policies which will address controllers’ medical certificate validity.. that the BANSD should put in place a process to ensure that ATC schedulers are aware of the medical status of ATC personnel prior to scheduling them for active duty.. that the BANSD should liaise with the BCAA to ensure that all personnel are issued with the required ATC licences.. that the BANSD should address the practise of dual position assignment by one controller during busy periods of