Capability to remotely identify UAs in flight is essential to further breakthroughs in the commercial drone industry. Specifically, it is a key to safety in implementing beyond visual line of sight operations and in integrating UAs into civil airspace formerly available only for manned flight operations. Drone remote ID also is expected to lead to greater operator accountability for aviation safety and security. In the United States, with limited exemptions, UAs will be required by FAA to routinely and automatically transmit specific message elements. Whether flying a standard remote ID drone or a drone with a removable remote ID broadcast module, the broadcasts must occur from UAS take-off to shutdown. Per FAA, either UA configuration must transmit these message elements: The unique identifier for the drone;. The drone’s latitude, longitude, geometric altitude and velocity;. An indication of the latitude, longitude and geometric altitude of the control station [if standard remote ID drone] or take-off location [if using a drone with a removable remote ID broadcast module];. A time mark; and,. Emergency status (applies to standard remote ID drones only).. Remote ID technology and recorded flight data also will yield a realistic picture of volumes of drone activity in a given airspace, such as restricted areas near aerodromes and near other sensitive facilities. While anticipating benefits to U.S. flight operations, FAA also expects drone operators in many other countries to enjoy developments equivalent to: Enhanced situational awareness among UAS pilots operating in the U.S. National Airspace System, pilots of manned aircraft and drones in the vicinity of these operations and airport operators;. Near real–time situational awareness of the typical UA’s position in the airspace by FAA air traffic controllers, military ATC, national security agencies and federal/state/local law enforcement officers;. Broadcast message elements that distinguish rule-compliant UAS operators from others identifiable as potentially posing a safety risk or security risk. In June 2021, FAA said on its website that, “Remote ID helps the FAA, law enforcement and other federal agencies find the control station [or take-off location] when a drone appears to be flying in an unsafe manner or where it is not allowed to fly. Remote ID also lays the foundation of the safety and security groundwork needed for more complex drone operations.”; and,. UAS registration and notification requirements by FAA for readily identifying aircraft, enforcing operator compliance and accountability. FAA’s website says, “All drone pilots required to register their UAS must operate their aircraft in accordance with the final rule on remote ID beginning September 16, 2023, which gives drone owners sufficient time to upgrade their aircraft.”.