The phrase 'Required Visual Reference' is used in relation to the transition from control of an aircraft by reference to flight deck instrumentation to control by reference to external visual references alone. Those visual references, including aids, should have been in view for sufficient time for the pilot to have made an assessment of the aircraft position and rate of change of position in relation to the desired flight path. In Category III operations with a decision height the required visual reference is that specified for the particular procedure and operation. (ICAO Annex 6, and PANS-ATM). The establishment of visual references at the completion of an instrument approach is an important process which determines whether the approach may be continued to landing, or a go-around must be flown. Note: the vertical or slant view of the ground through broken clouds or fog patches does not constitute an adequate visual reference to conduct a visual approach or to continue an approach below the applicable MDA/H or DA/H. The section below headed "European Regulations" details what these visual references must be. The remainder of this article deals with the process of transition within the aircraft cockpit. According to Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) Briefing Note 7.3 — Visual References , "The transition from instrument references to external visual references is an important element of any type of instrument approach." The briefing note points out that two common Task task-sharing philosophies are common: "Pilot flying-pilot not flying (PF-PNF) task-sharing with differences about the acquisition of visual references, depending on the type of approach and on the use of automation: Nonprecision and Category (CAT) I instrument landing system (ILS) approaches; or, CAT II/CAT III ILS approaches (the captain usually is the PF, and only an automatic approach and landing is considered); and,. Nonprecision and Category (CAT) I instrument landing system (ILS) approaches; or,. CAT II/CAT III ILS approaches (the captain usually is the PF, and only an automatic approach and landing is considered); and,. "Captain-first officer (CAPT-FO) task-sharing, which usually is referred to as a shared approach, monitored approach or delegated-handling approach.. "Differences in the philosophies include: The transition to flying by visual references; and,. Using and monitoring the autopilot.". "The task-sharing for the acquisition of visual references and for the monitoring of the flight path and aircraft systems varies, depending on: The type of approach; and,. The level of automation being used: Hand-flying (using the Flight Director [FD]); or, Autopilot (AP) monitoring (single or dual AP).". Hand-flying (using the Flight Director [FD]); or,. Autopilot (AP) monitoring (single or dual AP).". The briefing note than proceeds to discuss task sharing and other considerations for different types of approach.