The vestibular system has primary responsibility for equilibrium/balance and plays a major role in the subjective sensation of motion and spatial orientation.. Vestibular inputs to the nervous system help control eye movements and stabilize the eyes during head movements.. Vestibular inputs to the nervous system help control muscle activity and body position to adjust posture.. Vestibular illusions may appear in the absence of visual references. Illusions are primarily caused by: Sensory threshold. Slow and gradual motion below perception thresholds will not be detected by the vestibular system. This threshold of sensitivity is approximately 2 degrees per second. Sensory adaptation. If sustained acceleration (10 - 20 seconds) takes place in one direction, the fluid in the appropriate canal also remains continually displaced. As a result, the hair cells will eventually return to the vertical position and the brain will perceive that the acceleration has stopped. Simultaneous sensory stimulations. The angular motion of the head and of the aircraft in two different planes can stimulate two of the three semicircular canals simultaneously which can cause illusions.. Sensory threshold. Slow and gradual motion below perception thresholds will not be detected by the vestibular system. This threshold of sensitivity is approximately 2 degrees per second.. Sensory adaptation. If sustained acceleration (10 - 20 seconds) takes place in one direction, the fluid in the appropriate canal also remains continually displaced. As a result, the hair cells will eventually return to the vertical position and the brain will perceive that the acceleration has stopped.. Simultaneous sensory stimulations. The angular motion of the head and of the aircraft in two different planes can stimulate two of the three semicircular canals simultaneously which can cause illusions.. Motion sickness arises from conflicting or mismatched sensory input from visual, vestibular and proprioceptive pathways.. Acceleration causes pitch-up illusion.. Deceleration causes pitch-down illusion.. Banking and angular acceleration increase the effects of vestibular illusions.. The pitch-up/pitch-down illusion may sometimes be accompanied by visual illusion.. Returning to a wings-level position after a prolonged bank can feel like a bank in the opposite direction.. Sudden tilting of the head during a turn can cause total disorientation and loss of control.. Always monitor the PFD for: airspeed, rate of climb, angle of climb and bank attitude.. Do not respond to sensations by pushing nose down when instruments contradict this action..