Three categories of UAS operations are defined: "Open". These are not subject to any prior operational authorisation, nor to an operational declaration by the UAS operator before the operation takes place.. "Specific". These require an authorisation by the competent authority or a declaration by the UAS operator. Note: The latter option is not available at the time the Regulation is published and will apply after Appendix 1 to the Annex is updated.. "Certified". These require the certification of the UAS pursuant to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/945 and the certification of the operator and, where applicable, the licensing of the remote pilot.. The "open" category is further split into 5 classes (C0, C1, C2, C3 and C4) based on size, weight (including payload), speed and other requirements (e.g. lights, presence of geo-awareness system, contents of the User manual, etc.). The maximum take-off mass of this category is less than 25 kg (classes C3 and C4). Operations in the open category must meet the following requirements: the remote pilot ensures that the unmanned aircraft is kept at a safe distance from people and that it is not flown over assemblies of people.. the remote pilot keeps the unmanned aircraft in VLOS (visual line of sight) at all times except when flying in follow-me mode or when using an unmanned aircraft observer.. during flight, the unmanned aircraft is maintained within 120 metres from the closest point of the surface of the earth, except when overflying an obstacle.. during flight, the unmanned aircraft does not carry dangerous goods and does not drop any material.. UAS operations in the "open" category are divided into three sub-categories (A1, A2 and A3) based on the conditions to be complied with, e.g. restrictions on overflying of uninvolved persons and maintaining safe distances (e.g. from people, residential, commercial, indurstrial and recreational areas, etc.).. requirements to be fulfilled by the remote pilot (e.g. to be familiar with the user manual, to have completed appropriate theoretical and practical training, etc.).. requirements to the aircraft (e.g. A1 must be C0 or C1 class, A2 must be C2 class and A3 must be C2, C3 or C4 class).. UAS operations in the "open" category must comply with the operational limitations set out in Part A of the Annex to this Regulation. If the requirements for the "open" category cannot be met, the UAS operator must obtain an operational authorisation to operate in the "specific" category from the competent authority in the Member State where it is registered. When applying for this, the operator must perform a risk assessment and if the competent authority considers that the operational risks are adequately mitigated it will issue an operational authorisation which may apply to a single operation or to a number of operations. An operational authorisation or a declaration shall not be required for: UAS operators holding an LUC (light UAS operator certificate) with appropriate privileges.. operations conducted in the framework of model aircraft clubs and associations that have received a specific authorisation.. UAS operations in