the "specific" category must comply with the operational limitations set out in their authorisation, or in a standard scenario defined in Appendix 1 to the Annex (unless the UAS operator holds an LUC with appropriate privileges). UAS operations in the ‘specific’ category are also subject to the applicable operational requirements in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 923/2012. Operations are classified in the "certified" category if both the following requirements are met: the UAS meets any of the following conditions: has a characteristic dimension of 3 m or more, and is designed to be operated over assemblies of people; is designed for transporting people; is designed for the purpose of transporting dangerous goods and requiring a high level of robustness to mitigate the risks for third parties in case of accident.. has a characteristic dimension of 3 m or more, and is designed to be operated over assemblies of people;. is designed for transporting people;. is designed for the purpose of transporting dangerous goods and requiring a high level of robustness to mitigate the risks for third parties in case of accident.. the operation is conducted in any of the following conditions: over assemblies of people; involves the transport of people; involves the carriage of dangerous goods, that may result in high risk for third parties in case of accident.. over assemblies of people;. involves the transport of people;. involves the carriage of dangerous goods, that may result in high risk for third parties in case of accident.. In addition, UAS operations are classified in the "certified" category where the competent authority, based on the risk assessment, considers that the risk of the operation cannot be adequately mitigated without the certification of the UAS and of the UAS operator and, where applicable, without licensing remote pilot. UAS operations in the "certified" category are subject to the applicable operational requirements in Regulations 923/2012, 965/2012 and 1332/2011. The Regulation also contains: Rules and procedures for the competency of remote pilots, including minimum age requirements.. Rules for conducting an operational risk assessment.. Provisions for cross-border operations or operations outside the state of registration.. Procedures for registration of UAS operators and certified UAS.. Provisions for perational conditions for UAS geographical zones.. Provisions for UAS operations in the framework of model aircraft clubs and associations.. Procedures for the designation of the competent authority and its tasks.. Procedures for collecting safety information.. Special provisions, e.g. for UAS that do not comply with Regulation 2019/945, UAS that have been certified in accordance with national law, etc.. The Regulation contains an Annex that further clarifies UAS operations in the "open" and "specific" categories and contains three parts: Part A, containing provisions for UAS operations in the "open" category. Specific provisions for operations in subcategories A1, A2 and A3 are provided as well as general provisions for the responsibility of the UAS operator and the remote pilot, including duration and validity of competency and certificates.. Part B, containing provisions for UAS operations in the "specific" category, e.g. application for and