Three categories of UAS operations are defined: The "open" category is further split into 5 classes (C0, C1, C2, C3 and C4) based on size, weight (including payload), speed and other requirements (e.g. lights, presence of geo-awareness system, contents of the User manual, etc.). The maximum take-off mass of this category is less than 25 kg (classes C3 and C4). Operations in the open category must meet the following requirements: UAS operations in the "open" category are divided into three sub-categories (A1, A2 and A3) based on the conditions to be complied with, e.g. UAS operations in the "open" category must comply with the operational limitations set out in Part A of the Annex to this Regulation. If the requirements for the "open" category cannot be met, the UAS operator must obtain an operational authorisation to operate in the "specific" category from the competent authority in the Member State where it is registered. When applying for this, the operator must perform a risk assessment and if the competent authority considers that the operational risks are adequately mitigated it will issue an operational authorisation which may apply to a single operation or to a number of operations. An operational authorisation or a declaration shall not be required for: UAS operations in the "specific" category must comply with the operational limitations set out in their authorisation, or in a standard scenario defined in Appendix 1 to the Annex (unless the UAS operator holds an LUC with appropriate privileges). UAS operations in the ‘specific’ category are also subject to the applicable operational requirements in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 923/2012. Operations are classified in the "certified" category if both the following requirements are met: In addition, UAS operations are classified in the "certified" category where the competent authority, based on the risk assessment, considers that the risk of the operation cannot be adequately mitigated without the certification of the UAS and of the UAS operator and, where applicable, without licensing remote pilot. UAS operations in the "certified" category are subject to the applicable operational requirements in Regulations 923/2012, 965/2012 and 1332/2011. The Regulation also contains: The Regulation contains an Annex that further clarifies UAS operations in the "open" and "specific" categories and contains three parts: