silent handover is used, this barrier may not be applicable. If the ATCO has detected the track drop/loss, it may also be used within a sector for improved situational awareness.. Tactical conflict management Alert for change in track status - Any change of track status should be alerted to the controller. This includes the loss of transponder information (i.e. primary only, or flight plan track), or the total loss of a track. Alerting improves the detectability. This is also applicable for multiple sectors, i.e. also alerting the next sector the aircraft is due to enter, and may be used at the planning stage. Use of voice reporting remains important to resolve conflicts and separate traffic, as long as the ATCO is aware of the two aircraft.. Alert for change in track status - Any change of track status should be alerted to the controller. This includes the loss of transponder information (i.e. primary only, or flight plan track), or the total loss of a track. Alerting improves the detectability. This is also applicable for multiple sectors, i.e. also alerting the next sector the aircraft is due to enter, and may be used at the planning stage.. Use of voice reporting remains important to resolve conflicts and separate traffic, as long as the ATCO is aware of the two aircraft.. ATC collision avoidance Collision avoidance via procedural control – Use of altitude information acquired through voice reporting to achieve vertical separation.. Collision avoidance via procedural control – Use of altitude information acquired through voice reporting to achieve vertical separation.. Crew collision avoidance See and avoid practiced by aircraft - This could include the executive controller actively encouraging the aircraft to see-and-avoid through informing them of the track loss situation (if detected) and notifying them of proximate aircraft’s approximate or last known position. The effectiveness of see-and-avoid for Commercial Air Transport is not thought to be high, particularly where there is no indication of the other aircraft through other means (e.g. via TCAS display or through party-line situational awareness).. See and avoid practiced by aircraft - This could include the executive controller actively encouraging the aircraft to see-and-avoid through informing them of the track loss situation (if detected) and notifying them of proximate aircraft’s approximate or last known position. The effectiveness of see-and-avoid for Commercial Air Transport is not thought to be high, particularly where there is no indication of the other aircraft through other means (e.g. via TCAS display or through party-line situational awareness)..