A mitigation barrier is called “repairable” when a failure has reduced the effectiveness of a barrier in the system, but certain actions may be able to restore its effectiveness. The main repairable mitigation barrier at each stage are: Design and strategic planning Application of transponder validation procedures on first contact - On first radar contact with an aircraft, the ATCO should validate the transponder function, including e.g. operation, Mode A code and Mode C operation. This could include on start-up or departure. The thoroughness of completion of this procedure could be improved for certain sectors or environments.. Application of transponder validation procedures on first contact - On first radar contact with an aircraft, the ATCO should validate the transponder function, including e.g. operation, Mode A code and Mode C operation. This could include on start-up or departure. The thoroughness of completion of this procedure could be improved for certain sectors or environments.. Traffic planning and synchronization; More effective flight plan data - This is the improvement of controller prediction tools to give more accurate performance when using only flight plan data (even if designed for “dynamic” updates using track data), for example when manually updated by the ATCO. The ATCO also requires clear procedures and training for manually inputting and updating flight plan data for the most effective use during a loss of track scenario. This also reflects the general mitigation of appropriate use of flight plan data in the event of a loss of track for both ATCO tools and the controller.. More effective flight plan data - This is the improvement of controller prediction tools to give more accurate performance when using only flight plan data (even if designed for “dynamic” updates using track data), for example when manually updated by the ATCO. The ATCO also requires clear procedures and training for manually inputting and updating flight plan data for the most effective use during a loss of track scenario. This also reflects the general mitigation of appropriate use of flight plan data in the event of a loss of track for both ATCO tools and the controller.. Tactical conflict management Regular scanning by ATCO - The controller should maintain an effective regular scan (e.g. to be able to detect non-alerted dropped tracks), rather than solely rely on “first contact” procedures. This also applies to detection of incorrect aircraft being given a clearance (due invalid correlation). There is some debate as to the effectiveness of this barrier, since in en-route controlled airspace, strip management is traditionally the primary means of deconfliction. Use of primary radar data If available, this can be used to maintain a correlated track to support tactical conflict management in the event of a loss of secondary surveillance information. Note that this may be assisted by cooperation with the military, allowing the sharing of primary radar data. Crew detection of transponder failure. Existing alerts are incorporated on most commercial aircraft, but may not be immediately noticeable in flight (e.g. Embraer Legacy-B737 accident in Brazil). Fail-safe