MLW. On touchdown, which occurred at approximately 470 metres past the displaced landing threshold, there was an abnormally rapid de-rotation and the PF reported that he had found that it was difficult to maintain directional control despite making corrective rudder inputs. The Training Captain reported that he had thought that the PF might be “riding the brakes”, which he considered was not an unusual occurrence during type conversion training, and had advised him to take his feet off the brakes. He had then again intervened when the PF had sought to use the steering tiller at excessive speed. The PF stated that although he had then considered using asymmetric thrust, he "did not think he had moved the thrust levers" whereas in fact they had been advanced. After a brief deviation right of the centreline, the aircraft departed the left side of the runway onto wet grass and the Training Captain reported having seen at that point that the parking brake was on. The aircraft continued for 120 metres before coming to a stop whereupon the PF saw that the thrust levers were actually forward of idle and retarded them to idle. After reviewing the situation, the crew decided that the aircraft was in a safe condition and an evacuation was not necessary. Whilst the PM was advising ATC of their excursion and approximate position, the PF made a PA to the cabin to advise the passengers to remain seated. The engines were then shut down and the APU started and the RFFS reached the aircraft within three minutes and established two-way contact on the designated ground emergency communications frequency 121.6 MHz. Soon after the aircraft had stopped, the PF reported having realised that he must have set the parking brake when he had intended to select the speed brakes. FDR data were able to establish the actual sequence of events once the aircraft was on the runway. When the aircraft initially began to track to the right of the runway centreline, left rudder was used in response but the rudder input exceeded that required and the aircraft swung back to the left and briefly skidded almost along the centreline. An application of right rudder was not enough to correct this and the yaw left continued. Deceleration ceased when both thrust levers were advanced, the left slightly more than the right, and with thrust applied the aircraft departed the left side of the runway at a groundspeed of around 45 knots some 1100 metres past the displaced landing threshold, with a little over 40% of the LDA remaining. Once on soft ground, deceleration resumed and at a ground speed of approximately 20 knots, the thrust levers were retarded to idle and three seconds later, the aircraft came to a stop on a heading of 296°M. The main landing gear wheels were all buried up to their axles and all their tyres had deflated on touchdown when wheel rotation was prevented. The only other damage was to the left main landing