A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Data were successfully downloaded from both the FDR and CVR. FDR data parameters did not include use of the Emergency/Parking Brake but did include use of the speed brakes. Other available recorded data sources were ATC communications, the airport primary radar, the regional secondary radar which covered the Bristol area and airport CCTV recordings. FDR data were matched to ATC radar data to establish the aircraft flight path as it positioned for the approach. It was noted that the 50 year-old Training Captain in command and occupying the right hand seat as PM had a total of 8,600 flying hours which included 5,100 hours on type. The Captain under supervision had recently joined the Operator after flying the Saab 2000 for another operator and had 17 hours flying experience on the 145 at the time of the accident. The accident sector was his eighth line training sector with previous sectors including four Category II approaches including one in actual low visibility conditions. His training was recorded as having "progressed well" prior to the accident. It was established that with the flight already transferred to Bristol ATC the crew were advised that there would be no delay to their approach and that when the aircraft was approaching FL140, ATC had advised that there were 30 nm to touchdown and asked if any more were required. This was declined and almost immediately, the PF was recorded as saying "speed brake coming on" but this was not followed by the FDR evidence which deployment would have provided. Soon after descending through FL110, the Training Captain was recorded as advising that speed brake deployment and idle thrust would be advisable followed by the PF saying "it's already on" during an R/T transmission by the former who was consequently unaware of this response. After a short interval and as it became increasingly clear to the Training Captain that the aircraft was too high for the originally envisaged approach track, he further advised "I would go speed brake open" and the PF response was "it is, oh no it's not, who closed that?" and selected it for the first time. A request for additional track miles was granted and a routing through the extended runway centreline was followed by completion of the descent checklist and commencement of the approach checklist was started. On reaching the second item - ‘Seatbelt Sign.....ON’, the PM erroneously called “Park Brake” and received the response “On” from the PF which was immediately followed by an ATC instruction to continue descent to 2500 feet and turn right onto 360º. Because of the interruption, the approach checklist was restarted from the beginning and this time completed without any errors. The final approach was stable and the required visual reference was available at the 100 feet agl CAT 2 ILS DH. The PF then disconnected the AP at 80 feet agl and performed a manual landing with the aircraft ELW 2½ tonnes below the