gear strut and to the main landing gear wheel rims due to tyre deflation. The two handles are located in close proximity on the left hand side of the central console. However, the Speed Brake control moves fore and aft in the same plane as the thrust levers with the forward position being closed and operates the outer spoilers. The Parking Brake - which also doubles as an Emergency Brake - is applied by pulling the yellow and black striped handle up and then turning it 90° to the left to lock it in position. The illustration below shows the relative positions of the two brake selectors. It was noted that with the pilot’s seat in its fully forward position, the parking brake handle is no longer in their direct line of sight and is therefore likely to be operated by ‘feel’. The aircraft manufacturer’s system safety case was found to have classified the consequences of landing with the parking brake on as of ‘major’ severity but rated the chances of this occurring as extremely improbable and the risk was therefore assessed as acceptable. No consideration was given in this assessment to the possibility that the parking brake might be applied before landing because of an operational error and Embraer advised that “it does not have a plan to conduct a system review related to the parking brake status”. Embraer advised that they were aware of two previous occurrences where an ERJ 145 family aircraft (this includes the smaller E140 and E135) had landed with the parking brake on but as neither had resulted in a runway excursion, no investigation had been carried out. It was noted that one of these events had involved a flight deck with the ‘Brake On’ light situated within the normal pilot field of view in contrast with the other and the case under investigation here where the ‘Brake On’ light was outside the direct field of view. However, it was considered that “there was insufficient evidence to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of the different panel layouts in preventing this type of accident”. The Investigation noted that the UK AAIB had carried out an Investigation into an Airbus A319 landing with the park brake sector on in 2007 in which the aircraft had remained on the runway. In this case, the parking brake had been set to on instead of selecting flaps to the landing position. This aircraft type had subsequently been modified to provide a master caution light and audio alert should the parking brake be set on in flight. Other cases where controls of different shape/feel on the central console had been mixed up were noted to have included incidents in 1986 and 1987 which involved Boeing 767 double engine flameouts during the initial climb after takeoff when both engine fuel control switches were set to off when the intention was to select the differently shaped and differently-actioned EEC switches. More recently, two UK AAIB investigations of A320 family events in February