and stress associated with the inaugural regular public transport flight into Kosrae at night in rapidly deteriorating weather, the crew’s decision making and task execution on the missed approach were affected.. Two Other Factors that increased risk were also formally identified, one of which was classified as a Safety Issue requiring urgent attention: The crew’s recurrent training had not included B737-300 full thrust go-around simulations.. The operator commenced regular public transport operations into Kosrae with the only instrument approach available for use being an offset procedure based on a non-precision navigation aid. The risk associated with this type of approach was amplified due to the need to use a 'dive and drive' style technique instead of a stable approach path, and that it required low level circling manoeuvring from the instrument approach to align the aircraft with the runway. Furthermore, there was very high terrain in close proximity to the runway and the airport did not have a manned air traffic control tower. For this occurrence, the risk was further elevated as a result of the approach being conducted at night-time in poor weather conditions. [Safety Issue]. Safety Action taken by Nauru Airlines as a result of the investigated occurrence whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included, but not been limited to the following: The identified ‘Safety Issue’ relating to approaches at Kosrae was addressed by fitting GPS navigation equipment and the training of flight crew in its use, as well as obtaining regulatory authorisation for the use of GPS based instrument approach procedures which has enabled the operator to conduct runway aligned stabilised approaches into Kosrae - and elsewhere.. The flight crew recurrent training regime has been changed to two days twice a year in lieu of one day four times a year so as to provide at least two full days of training each year instead of trying to fit training and checking into each quarterly four-hour session.. A review of the process facilitating the conduct of descent and approach checklists has led to the introduction of a control column checklist incorporating tactile indicators.. Two engine go-arounds have been added to recurrent simulator training for pilots.. QNH setting requirements have been re-visited in ground school and a formal reminder that the validity period for a QNH is 15 minutes has been issued.. The Final Report was released on 16 March 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.