had been initially pressed to the time when the aircraft was finally stabilised on the missed approach track, the pitch angle had varied from -0.35° to +16°. Repositioning for a second approach and a successful landing followed without further event. It was noted that even disregarding the fact that the altimeters had been over-reading, height keeping at the 500 foot MDA prior to the go around had, despite the AP remaining engaged, been poor - a correctly set altimeter would have read about 320 feet by the time the go around was commenced. The Investigation reviewed a number of operationally-relevant aspects of the event: Although the crew were unaware of the fact, the EGPWS has an internal GPS and so the position it detected was more accurate that assumed by the FMS (and recorded on the FDR) which was reliant on the IRS using the last reliable position. It was suspected that given the absence of precision radio aids en route, the FMS-computed position had probably been IRS-based for the whole flight sector and a comparison of the recorded runway position at the commencement of the takeoff from the Marshall Islands showed that the FMS position was 810 metres southwest of the actual position. The lateral error had increased to 1,065 metres by the time the Kosrae EGPWS Alerts occurred and after the go around the lateral discrepancy appeared to have increased again to 2,090 metres. However FMS position was not relevant to the approach procedure conducted.. The Boeing 737 control column TOGA switches require two consecutive presses to command the A/T to set full thrust. One push only leads to a reduced go around thrust, disconnection of the AP if engaged and a 15° nose up pitch command on the FD. It was noted that the Captain had said that he was not used to conducting two engine go-arounds because simulator training always involved single-engine go-arounds and in this case, full thrust is automatically commended using a single TOGA switch press. Despite over 16,000 hours (as well as almost all) of his flying experience being on the 737, he also commented that the only full thrust go arounds he had made had been in VMC.. At the time of the investigated event, the Operator had developed a Fatigue Risk Management System (FRMS) but it was only in draft format and had not received regulatory approval so the risk of fatigue was reliant on the prevailing scheme of flight and duty hours management.. The three EGPWS Alerts activated were all triggered by the forward looking Terrain Clearance Floor (TCF). It was noted that the first one was triggered by the initial penetration of the TCF alert envelope. The second was triggered because after an initial envelope penetration, the Alert will re-occur for each further 20 per cent loss of height. The data indicates the aircraft had exited the TCF envelope after the second alert, but then re-entered it for a second time after the flight crew had attempted to fly