approval was still pending and in any case, the particular aircraft involved was not one of the ones that had already been modified. The Captain stated that during the briefing, special mention had been made regarding the unusually low transition level of FL 55 given that at most airports they operated into, the transition level was between FL 110 and FL 130. It was decided that they would make a maximum of two approaches and then divert back to Nauru, the nominated alternate, if these were unsuccessful. By the time the aircraft descended through the Transition Level the crew had not - and did not thereafter - complete the Approach Checklist, which consisted of only one item which was to set the altimeters to the local QNH and cross check them. Since the Kosrae QNH was 1007 hPa, this oversight meant that the altimeters were over-reading by about 180 feet. The whole approach was flown without the crew recognising their error. The AP and A/T remained engaged for what was charted as a ‘legacy’ step-down or ‘dive and drive’ procedure wholly over the sea with the final approach beginning from 1500 feet QNH. An altitude of 900 feet was required at the IAF which was at 5 DME (the DME was at the airport), the MDA was 500 feet and the missed approach point was at 2.9 DME. The missed approach procedure required a left turn to pick up and track the 300° outbound radial from the NDB climbing to 3,000 feet. The procedure is shown below. The final descent from an indicated 900 feet began prior to the IAF and as the indicated 500 feet MDA was reached with reportedly intermittent contact with the landing runway through breaks in the cloud, ‘ALT HOLD’ was selected. Almost immediately, an EGPWS ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ Alert occurred but after 5 seconds, it was inhibited by the crew on the assumption that it was attributable to ‘map shift’ due to FMS dependence on the IRS in the absence of better data sources. However, the same Alert immediately restarted and continued for 12 seconds. The first Alert was found to have occurred at a height of 368 feet and the second at a height of 340 feet. As the Missed Approach Point was approached, the previously intermittent visual reference with the landing runway was lost and the AP was disconnected and a manual go-around was commenced. However, as only one press of the TOGA switches on the thrust levers was made, only an intermediate thrust setting was commanded and in the absence of immediate corrective action, the commanded 15° pitch angle led to a reduced speed and then, when reduced, to descent. This continued to within 200 feet of the sea (160 feet below the indicated MDA) and a third EGPWS ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ Alert occurred, this time lasting 10 seconds. Corrective action was then taken to place the aircraft in a climb, but FDR data showed that from the time the TOGA switches