An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data relevant to the Investigation was obtained from the aircraft QAR and the NVM contained in the EGPWS. It was noted that the Captain, a Nauruan national who had been acting as PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 16,600 flying hours of which almost all - 16,100 hours - were on type. He had positioned from his base in Brisbane the day before the investigated event and was well rested after days off but on arriving at Nauru, he reported having discovered that his mother was very ill. As a consequence, he had spent a significant amount of time overnight at the hospital with his mother, achieving only five to six hours sleep. The Company had not been informed of the situation with his mother and at interview, the Captain believed it might have led to fatigue and stated that with hindsight, it would have been better to remove himself from duty. He had not done so because of his perceived ‘pressure’ to meet the ‘request’ that he should be the Nauruan captain flying a duty which involved operating the inaugural Nauru Airlines scheduled service into the Federated States of Micronesia. The First Officer, also based in Brisbane, had a total of 3,300 flying hours of which 1,600 hours were on type and had also positioned to Nauru the day before the investigated event after two days off. It was established that the flight involved had originated at Nauru before landing at Tarawa and the Marshall Islands. The investigated flight was the following sector to Kosrae, after which the final destination was Pohnpei, both in the Federated States of Micronesia and was the Operator’s inaugural scheduled public transport service to Kosrae and Pohnpei. Those on board included the Nauruan President, the Nauruan Minister of Aviation, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Operator. In the six weeks prior to this flight, the Operator had flown three charter flights to Kosrae and Pohnpei, two of which had been operated in daylight hours by the Captain on the investigated flight. The departure of the aircraft from Nauru was delayed by an hour after an aircraft change was necessitated by a technical issue with the originally-assigned aircraft. This meant that the 1 hour 20 minute sector from the Marshall Islands to Kosrae was made after nightfall. En route, it became apparent that the weather at Kosrae had deteriorated and during the descent and approach, the Kosrae FISO had provided a considerable number of weather updates. The approach briefed and flown required use of the only instrument approach procedure available to the flight - an offset NDB/DME approach tracking 084° M to the published MDA followed by circling for just over 30° to the right to align with runway 05. There was a straight-in RNAV(GPS) approach procedure to runway 05 but although the Operator was in the process of obtaining regulatory approval for such approaches, this