the missed approach manoeuvre which was the trigger for the third alert. At the time of all three alerts, the aircraft had been in a ‘landing configuration’. The First Officer’s instrument panel included the GPWS controls one that was the ‘Terrain Inhibit’ switch for which the default normal position was mechanically guarded. To inhibit terrain/obstacle alerting, as the crew did after the first Alert, this mechanical guard had to be lifted so that such action was only taken with definite intent. The FCOM was noted as stating that the only exception to correcting the flight path, aircraft configuration or airspeed in response to a TCF Alert was that if it occurred in day VMC and “positive visual verification is made that no obstacle or terrain hazard exists” then it may be regarded as cautionary and the approach continued. Crew action after deciding that the Alerts received had not been generated due to terrain proximity was not in accordance with this procedure.. There is considerable evidence over a long period of time that there are a number of factors which tend to increase the risk on an approach and that several of these had been present: The absence of an ATC approach service or airport tower service. A non-precision approach, especially one with a step-down procedure or followed by a circling procedure. A visual approach in darkness. The presence of hilly or mountainous terrain in the vicinity of an approach or missed approach track. Visibility restrictions such as darkness or instrument meteorological conditions.. The absence of an ATC approach service or airport tower service.. A non-precision approach, especially one with a step-down procedure or followed by a circling procedure.. A visual approach in darkness.. The presence of hilly or mountainous terrain in the vicinity of an approach or missed approach track.. Visibility restrictions such as darkness or instrument meteorological conditions.. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation were that there were four Contributing Factors as follows: The flight crew did not complete the Approach Checklist before commencing the non-precision NDB approach into Kosrae. As a result, the altimeters' barometric pressure settings remained at the standard setting of 1013 hPa instead of being set to the reported local barometric pressure of 1007 hPa. The flight crew descended the aircraft to the minimum descent altitude of 500 ft as indicated by the altimeters, however, due to the barometric pressure setting not being reset, the aircraft descended to a height significantly below 500 ft.. The crew descended the aircraft in IMC and at night below the approach profile for the Kosrae runway, resulting in EGPWS alerts. Terrain clearance assurance was eroded further by the flight crew not correcting the flight profile until the flight crew lost visual contact with the runway.. The flight crew's belief that the EGPWS warnings were due to a decreased navigational performance and not terrain proximity led to their decision to inhibit the first EGPWS warning and not correct the flight path.. Due to the Captain’s fatigue and the increased workload