The HFACS taxonomy describes four levels within Reason's model and are described below. The Unsafe Acts level is divided into two categories - errors and violations - and these two categories are then divided into subcategories. Errors are unintentional behaviours, while violations are a willful disregard of the rules and regulations. Skill-Based Errors: Errors which occur in the operator’s execution of a routine, highly practiced task relating to procedure, training or proficiency and result in an unsafe a situation (e.g., fail to prioritize attention, checklist error, negative habit). Decision Errors: Errors which occur when the behaviours or actions of the operators proceed as intended yet the chosen plan proves inadequate to achieve the desired end-state and results in an unsafe situation (e.g, exceeded ability, rule-based error, inappropriate procedure). Perceptual Errors: Errors which occur when an operator's sensory input is degraded and a decision is made based upon faulty information. Routine Violations: Violations which are a habitual action on the part of the operator and are tolerated by the governing authority. Exceptional Violations: Violations which are an isolated departure from authority, neither typical of the individual nor condoned by management. The Preconditions for Unsafe Acts level is divided into three categories - environmental factors, condition of operators, and personnel factors - and these two categories are then divided into subcategories. Environmental factors refer to the physical and technological factors that affect practices, conditions and actions of individual and result in human error or an unsafe situation. Condition of operators refer to the adverse mental state, adverse physiological state, and physical/mental limitations factors that affect practices, conditions or actions of individuals and result in human error or an unsafe situation. Personnel factors refer to the crew resource management or TRM and personal readiness factors that affect practices, conditions or actions of individuals, and result in human error or an unsafe situation. Physical Environment: Refers to factors that include both the operational setting (e.g., weather, altitude, terrain) and the ambient environment (e.g., heat, vibration, lighting, toxins). Technological Environment: Refers to factors that include a variety of design and automation issues including the design of equipment and controls, display/interface characteristics, checklist layouts, task factors and automation. Adverse Mental State: Refers to factors that include those mental conditions that affect performance (e.g., stress, mental fatigue, motivation). Adverse Physiological State: Refers to factors that include those medical or physiological conditions that affect performance (e.g, medical illness, physical fatigue, hypoxia). Physical/Mental Limitation: Refers to when an operator lacks the physical or mental capabilities to cope with a situation, and this affects performance (e.g., visual limitations, insufficient reaction time). Crew Resource Management: Refers to factors that include communication, coordination, planning, and teamwork issues. Personal Readiness: Refers to off-duty activities required to perform optimally on the job such as adhering to crew rest requirements, alcohol restrictions, and other off-duty mandates. The Unsafe Supervision level is divided into four categories. Inadequate Supervision: The role of any supervisor is to provide their staff with the opportunity to succeed, and they must