raised bars and damage to the brushes (see the illustration below). The removed right starter generator armature and its lifted and damaged commutator bar. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that initial engine starts in normal operations use a GPU power supply which the design of the aircraft only allows to be connected to the left side electrics. This means that whilst the left starter-generator regularly works under a high electrical load, the right starter-generator only does so in the event of a cross start such as the one attempted and for almost all its installed time it is only functioning at a much lower electrical load. This would potentially mean a longer life but one which may eventually make it vulnerable to a very occasional high power demand during a cross start. The critical importance of load shedding in the event that electrical power is reduced to batteries only as in this event was noted. Without it, the endurance of the main batteries is less than 15 minutes whereas it is approximately 45 minutes if immediate load reduction is carried out and “a minimum of 60 minutes” if only essential equipment is connected to the hot battery, essential and emergency bus bars. It was found that the AFM has no emergency checklist for the loss of both generators when relying on single engine operation but seeking to restore a serviceable second engine. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: "The engine was shutdown intentionally as part of a training exercise. The right starter/generator had latent damage probably caused by insufficient time between starts in service with a previous operator. The right starter/generator then failed under loads higher than those it was normally subjected to, which had not occurred previously because it was not normally used for engine starts. The crew of four, who all had relevant experience, coordinated their activities to produce a successful outcome, and were assisted by the availability of a non-precision approach procedure approved for use by another operator for whom one of them also flew. The Final Report was published on 13 October 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.