visible. A T-DODAR review considered attempting a re-light of the left engine using battery power but since even after load shedding, and from a full charge, the two batteries would only provide 60 minutes power. It was not known how much battery power would be consumed by such a start attempt and given that there was also no guarantee that such an attempt would be successful, it was decided not to do this. It was decided to connect the two battery bus bars together even though this was not a stated action in the applicable emergency procedure. It was clear that flight on instruments would be necessary to descend safely below MSA and possibly to conduct an approach. In the latter case, it would only be possible given the remaining aircraft systems to fly a VOR or an ILS approach set on NAV 1 since the loss of the FMC had removed the option to make a GNSS approach. Also, only the Standby OBS was available - the RMI (Radio. Magnetic Indicator) and ADF were no longer functioning. This ruled out Prestwick which only had an NDB approach and whilst both VOR and ILS approaches were available at Glasgow, the weather there was deteriorating to the extent that only an ILS was likely to be possible and the distance to get there was not compatible with likely battery power endurance. The weather at Islay and Campbeltown was more favourable and these airports were visible through the cloud layers, but they only offered GNSS approaches. Fortunately however, the Captain in command had his Loganair EFB with him and this included a VOR approach to runway 11 at Campbeltown which was approved for company use so this was selected as the only practicable option. Radar vectors towards Campbeltown were requested and received and on reaching the MSA, the sea surface was visible through breaks in the cloud. The aircraft was established on the VOR procedure FAT (final approach track) and the runway was visually acquired at about 6 nm out and a landing was completed approximately 40 minutes after the right engine starter-generator had failed. It was found that the aircraft had been acquired by the operator after previously having been in long term storage and had only flown approximately 31 hours since the change of ownership. An examination of the right engine starter/generator found that it had, unknown to the aircraft operator, failed which meant that there was no power to enable a cross start of the left engine. This failure was considered by the operator’s MRO to have been the result of multiple starts at intervals insufficient to allow the unit to cool. Since the current operator reported that no such circumstances had occurred since they had acquired the aircraft, it was concluded that this must have occurred whilst the aircraft was in service at a previous operator. The failed starter-generator had accrued 261 hours since its last overhaul and was found on examination that its generator armature had two