A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). It was noted that the 59 year-old Training Captain-in-command at the time had a total of 14,894 hours flying experience which included 7,208 hours on type and was occupying the right hand seat. Another similarly qualified Training Captain from the same airline was seated in the passenger cabin after completing his planned training duties in command with another trainee from the operator earlier in the same flight. The pilot in the left hand seat when the investigated problem arose was a Captain and Nominated Post Holder with the aircraft operator undergoing type training. A second trainee who had been under training earlier, was occupying the supernumerary crew seat and observing. He was the operator’s programme manager responsible for overseeing the introduction of the type into service and had previously held training qualifications for the aircraft type. The training provided was intended to cover aircraft handling characteristics including stalling as well as an intentional in-flight engine shutdown and restart, the latter to enable the trainee to experience the handling characteristics of the aircraft with one engine inoperative noting that the available full flight simulator was considered not to replicate the engine out handling characteristics very accurately. Briefing prior to single engine operation included inability to re-light an engine. In VMC at FL120, a scenario involving a loss of oil pressure in the left engine was followed which led to the shutdown of that engine. After a demonstration of single engine handling, briefing for the intended engine re-light was given including for a start malfunction and it was then attempted. It was not successful - a hung start occurred with the engine speed settling at only 40% Ng before dropping. As the crew were discussing the failed start, the two EFIS screens used to display a composite EADI/EHSI went blank and FMC stopped working. The Captain handed control to the trainee and established that the right engine starter-generator, essential for a cross start, had failed. The reset procedure was not successful which meant that the electrical power was now being provided only by the batteries with obvious implications for endurance. The Training Captain in the cabin noted the time and began to assist his colleague in command. Completion of the emergency procedure for the Loss of Both Generators (Both Engines Running) and load-shedding of non-essential electrical equipment was delegated to the Observing trainee in the supernumerary crew seat and the Captain declared a ‘MAYDAY’ and requested the weather for Glasgow, Prestwick, Islay and Campbeltown. The trainee in the left hand seat continued as PF with only the standby mechanical flight instruments available and descended to FL100 whilst remaining in VMC. The aircraft was over the sea between the Mull of Kintyre and Islay and whilst a layer of cloud could be seen below, it was also possible to see that cloud was more widespread over land - although the southern end of the Mull of Kintyre was