The time needed for occupants to escape from a submerged or capsized transport helicopter after a ditching or water impact event has been estimated to be between 45 and 60 seconds. It has been recognised for some years that this interval significantly exceeds the time that most individuals can breath-hold in cold water due to the effects of cold shock. Research suggests that for those wearing immersion suits and immersed in water colder than 10˚C, the average breath-hold time is probably around 20 seconds but with a wide range about that figure. This means that maximum breath-hold time is often a limiting factor in the survival of the individual. An EBS can provide a means of extending the time that can be spent underwater and is thus an important means of increasing the chances of survival. An EBS which can be deployed with one hand and, if necessary, underwater is considered preferable. EBS becomes particularly important where higher sea states prevail and/or the event is a water impact rather than a controlled ditching because of the absence of much, if any, prior awareness. There are currently three EBS designs available for use in the event an underwater helicopter egress is required: Compressed Air systems - a miniature version of a ‘Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus’ (SCUBA) cylinder with a mouthpiece. This is simple to deploy but, because the air supply is activated immediately, use should normally be delayed until just before immersion unless the user is trained in purging techniques. In that event, it would be possible to successfully deploy this type underwater. These are generally favoured for military use and are used for civil applications in Canada.. Rebreather systems - allow the user to rebreathe expelled air by directing it into a bag prior to immersion. They require that the mouthpiece is in place before activation but have the advantage that, where time permits, the user can fit the mouthpiece in advance whilst still breathing from the ambient atmosphere and only switch to rebreathing just before immersion. Although some of these systems are automatically activated when immersed, the disadvantage is that, unless the mouthpiece has been fitted in advance, water will enter and successful activation will be unlikely. These are used in the Norwegian offshore sector.. Hybrid systems - these consist of a rebreather bag and a small cylinder of compressed air and were originally designed for the controlled ditching scenario. However, if manually activated underwater, the air supply can provide time to purge water from the rebreathing system before switching to it, so although not originally designed to be used in this way, underwater deployment is possible. These are used in the UK offshore sector.. All three systems are usually carried in a container which can be fitted to an immersion suit or lifejacket. In general, most rebreather systems have been designed for the scenario where there is time to deploy before submersion, whereas compressed air systems have the capability for underwater deployment. Some authorities regard EBS which