Information used to measure an organisastion’s safety performance is generated through its safety reporting systems, and there are two types of reporting systems: Mandatory incident or occurrence reporting systems, which require the reporting of certain types of events, such as serious incidents and accidents; and. Voluntary incident or occurrence reporting systems, which allow for the submission of information related to observed hazards or inadvertent errors without a legal requirement to do so.. Other sources of safety information to support safety performance monitoring and measurement may include: Safety audits and informal inspections, which focus on the integrity of the organisation's SMS and its supporting systems.. Safety surveys that examine procedures or processes related to a specific operation.. Safety occurrence reporting. Investigation of safety occurrences. Safety studies, which are rather large analyses encompassing broad safety concerns. An in-house safety analysis can find arguments and make use of findings and recommendations of studies carried out at industry-wide or global scale. Because of their nature, safety studies are more appropriate to address system safety deficiencies rather than identify specific, individual hazards.. Safety reviews that are conducted during introduction and deployment of new technologies, change or implementation of procedures, or in situations of a structural change in operations. Safety reviews are a fundamental component of the management of change. They have a clearly defined objective that is linked to the change under consideration.. Systematic capture of data reflecting actual day-to-day performance (by means of dedicated programmes, such as Flight Data Monitoring, Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) and Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS)). Continuous monitoring of day-to-day activities related to the delivery of services.. Each of these types of information source may be available to an organisation. However, specifications about what these sources should be and what they should “look like” are not available - individual organisations should tailor them to the appropriate scope and scale.