on that wing to the extent that "even full application of corrective flight controls" had been insufficient to control the increasing right bank. It was noted from FDR data that this engine had been difficult to start prior to previous flights with the likely occurrence of hung starts which had been interrupted. When preparing for departure on the accident flight, it was noted that the crew had started the No. 4 engine (only) with the engine anti ice 'on', even though this was not required in the prevailing environmental conditions. The engine anti ice was selected off again after a successful start. It was concluded that "the most probable reason of abnormal starts of the No. 4 Engine was reduction of compressor efficiency because of wear of blades". This conclusion was based on the known reduction in compressor efficiency due to blade wear/roughness increasing both axial and radial clearances and the fact that the effect of heating mode on the inlet guide vanes is to increase the amount of air passing through the first stages of the compressor thus improving start reliability. It was considered probable that the No 4 Engine had remained in service despite having significantly worn compressor blades. A failure by the aircraft crew to complete a routine R/T transmission as the aircraft climbed through approximately 300 feet was found to correspond to indications from FDR data of the likely initiation of the accident sequence. Mathematical modelling concluded that after the engine failure, some flight control inputs were no longer capable of producing the expected movement of their corresponding flight control surface. In the absence of any other information which would support different explanations for the loss of control, the Investigation therefore focussed on the failure of the No 4 engine and its consequences. A series of fragments from the No 4 Engine were found below the flight path. Those from the LP compressor second stage disc were nearest the runway leading to the conclusion that it had probably been the origin of the failure. All of this debris only showed signs of mechanical damage in addition to evidence of thermal / fire damage. A detailed assessment of the recovered engine parts made by engine manufacturer NPO Saturn concluded that the LP compressor second stage disc had failed which had been followed by overspeed of the LP turbine and the disintegration of its sixth stage disc. A fatigue crack found in the disc of the LP compressor second stage disc was found to have started from the extreme edges of a hole in the disc which is used to install the bushing for the compressor blade pins. Previous failures of the same engine type were found to have been caused by fatigue fractures of the same LP compressor stage as a result of "fretting corrosion" in these holes. Comparative analysis of disc fractures in previous cases with the failure on the No 4 engine of the accident aircraft "showed that they were of similar character". Such failures