assigned life limits until the first overhaul the results of these Checks to be coordinated with Ilyushin and NPO Saturn, the manufacturer of the installed D30KP engines.. observance of the assigned life limit until the first overhaul. the presence of life limit prolongation Permits (Conclusions) issued by Ilyushin until the first overhaul in accordance with the applicable Bulletins on the subject. the conformity of the issued (available) airworthiness certificates data to the assigned life limits until the first overhaul. the results of these Checks to be coordinated with Ilyushin and NPO Saturn, the manufacturer of the installed D30KP engines.. that Airline Managements should ensure that a thorough check is made of aircraft and technical log books for correctness of records and trustworthiness of the life limits data while following the procedure of the inclusion of an aircraft in their Air Operator's Certificate. Moreover, required data as desired by investigation agencies should be provided.. that Airline Managements should ensure that, at the time of delivery of the aircraft from the owner to the airline under lease arrangements, the complete aircraft and technical documentation is delivered to the Operator. The management of Independent Certified Maintenance Organisations must ensure the availability of all applicable technical documentation, correctness of records and trustworthiness of the life limit data of any aircraft maintained by such an organisation.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Authorities of States which intend to include the IL-76TD aircraft in their public register should first make a thorough check of the contents of the aircraft and engine log books and the life limit data. The final decision of the inclusion in the public register should be taken only after the coordination with the airframe and engine manufacturers (Ilyushin and NPO Saturn).. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Authorities of States should ensure that the continuing airworthiness aspects of the aircraft included in their public register are in accordance with Annexes 6 and 8 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Special attention should be paid to the airworthiness status of such aircraft which are operated outside the State of Registry.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Authorities of States should ensure that in the event that non-conformity or the violation of aircraft / engine life limits or Time-Between-Overhaul (TBO) prolongation procedure is identified, operation of affected aircraft must be stopped immediately.. that the Pakistan CAA should ensure proper preservation of all available evidence collected during the process of investigation until the investigation concerned has been finalised.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Authorities of States should ensure the institution of and compliance with flight crew training on emergency procedures related to engine failure during takeoff.. that NPO Saturn should conduct a one-time inspection of the LP compressor 2nd and 3rd stage aft and fore ledges using the vortex-current method under the procedure prescribed by Bulletin No 578BD-G.. that the Aviation Administration of the Kirghiz Republic should perform a check of the conformity of the maintenance company 'Airline Transport Incorporation FZC' Osh branch with the Certificate Regulations..