had been addressed some 25 years ago in IL-76 aircraft operating in the Russian Federation. However, since the Engine Log Book was not provided to the Investigation by the Operator, implementation of the remedial measures promulgated could not be established. According to the engine manufacturer NPO Saturn, this issue "is checked every time during life prolongation". However, it was found that the airframe manufacturer's "assigned calendar-based service life" for the accident aircraft had expired in May 2004. Thereafter, operation of the aircraft had continued without manufacturer approval. It was also found that all four of the accident aircraft engines were being operated beyond the service life established by their manufacturer without any life extension approval and that serial numbers of various components installed on the No 4 engine "were not the same as they should have been according to the information available in the engine documents". The Cause of the Accident was formally determined as "failure of the 2nd stage disc of LP compressor of Engine No 4 due to a fatigue fracture which resulted in an in-flight fire and damage to adjacent areas of right wing / flaps to the extent that flight could not be sustained". It was also determined that "the use of the engine which failed beyond its manufacturer’s assigned life without assessment and life enhancement by the manufacturer was the cause of its uncontained fatigue failure". A total of 14 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that All Operators and Ground Handlers should ensure preparation of a proper load / trim sheet while keeping within the maximum authorised allowable takeoff mass of aircraft / cargo loads for the specific type of aircraft.. that the Georgian Aviation Administration should cooperate with the State of Design when putting an aircraft onto the State Register and issuing an Airworthiness Certificate. Notification of the inclusion of an aircraft on the State Register must be provided and the continuing airworthiness of the aircraft and its engines must be determined in accordance with the requirements applicable to the type of the aircraft.. that the Aviation Regulatory Authorities of States which have the IL-76TD aircraft on their public register or on lease by their airlines should organise a check of the log books of the aircraft's D-30KP engines. Such checks must ensure that life limits, records and documentation are in conformance with Bulletin No 670-BE-G dated 8 February, 2002. The results of these checks should be coordinated with NPO Saturn, the manufacturer of the engines.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Authorities of the States which have the IL-76TD aircraft on their public register or on lease by their airlines should organise a check of the IL-76TD aircraft log books for following: observance of the assigned life limit until the first overhaul the presence of life limit prolongation Permits (Conclusions) issued by Ilyushin until the first overhaul in accordance with the applicable Bulletins on the subject the conformity of the issued (available) airworthiness certificates data to the