An Investigation was carried out by the Pakistan Safety Investigation Board (SIB). Relevant data was successfully recovered from the FDR for use in the Investigation by the MAK but the same agency was unable to obtain any data for the Investigation from either of the two CVRs installed on the aircraft due to their accident-damaged condition after recovery from the wreckage. The 6 man flight crew of the aircraft was as follows: the Captain, born 1953, who held a Ukrainian Licence and had accumulated 7,272 total flying hours which included 5,502 hours on type. the First Officer, born 1964, who held a Ukrainian Licence and had accumulated 2,220 total flying hours on all types but for whom type experience was not provided. the Navigator, born 1961, who held a Ukrainian Licence and had accumulated 6,350 total flying hours in that role which included 4,800 hours on type. the Flight Engineer, born 1968, who held a Ukrainian Licence and had accumulated 3,391 total flying hours on types which included the IL-76. the Flight Radio Operator, born 1959, who held a Ukrainian Licence and had accumulated 3,393 total flying hours which included 3,334 hours on type. the Flight Operator who held a Russian-issued "Flight Operator's Licence" and had 4,870 hours IL-76 experience.. It was established that the flight was carrying humanitarian aid in the form of tents which weighed 30.5 tons and with "about" 74 tons of fuel on board. It was calculated to have had a TOM of approximately 197 tons. The absence of a definitive TOM was attributed to the lack of "exact data about the fuel remaining after arrival at Karachi earlier in the day". The estimated take-off weight was between 5 and 7 tons above the applicable MTOM and it was considered that the delay in initiating rotation for take-off until the speed was 19 knots above Vr may have been intentional and if so indicative of crew awareness of an overweight take-off. FDR data showed that an uneventful take off from runway 25L was quickly followed by failure of the No 4 engine. The available evidence indicated that this failure was uncontained and that it was debris ejected from the engine which caused impact damage to the right wing. Video evidence available to the Investigation indicated that it was the ignition of fuel/fuel vapour which started the observed wing fire. After reaching a maximum recorded height of 600 feet, the aircraft began to descend with a progressively increasing right bank before crashing right wing first onto an unoccupied construction site slightly to the right of the extended runway centreline approximately 2 nm from the airport at a speed of about 160 knots. The in-flight fire immediately intensified and almost the entire aircraft structure was destroyed. It was concluded that impact debris from the engine failure had also damaged the flaps on the right wing which were still at the 30° take-off setting and that this damage, which worsened as the fuel fed fire continued, had reduced lift