failure which had initiated the collapse sequence was found to have been attributable to the fracture of both of the lugs at its inner end which held the through bolt which allowed the brace to pivot in the fuselage attachment bracket. A fractured lug recovered from the runway was found to be one of these lugs. The failed brace was found to have been forged from a billet of Aluminium supplied by a separate smelting company. After re-heating the billet, forging the part and heat treating it to its final temper, the part was then passed to a third company associated with the landing gear manufacturer for finishing which included machining of the bores of the lugs which had failed. It was then forwarded to the landing gear manufacturer and thereafter saw service installed in an unknown number of landing gear assemblies and was subjected to the prescribed action at overhaul. However, it was established during the Investigation that the recorded total life of the component was within its design fatigue life, which is considerably in excess of the normal component overhaul interval. Metallurgical examination of the brace in order to establish a reason for its failure proved difficult. Eventually, destructive testing was employed and it was then found that the brace contained a small metallurgical feature at the origin of the fracture “which was consistent with titanium rich particles.…..which are introduced as a grain refiner during casting of the billet prior to forging.” The feature was within the defined specification but further analysis of the area around the fracture “revealed an area of static loading before propagating a crack in fatigue, indicating that there may have been a single overload event at some point in the history of the side brace upper arm”. The summary Conclusion of the Investigation was that the left side main landing gear brace upper arm had suffered a fatigue failure which had rendered it ineffective so that “the unrestrained main trunnion continued to translate outboard, leading to the collapse of the gear”. It was observed that although the immediate safety significance of a landing gear collapse at or shortly after touchdown on an ATR 42 “is limited”, the Investigation led the aircraft manufacturer to identify a more critical situation should such a failure occur at high speed during a take off roll as “hazardous” in accordance with type certification under CS 25.1309. No Safety Recommendations were made but “the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) have been made aware of the findings of this investigation and are reviewing whether there is any safety action required on aircraft components which use (the same) material”. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 10 October 2013.