An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). Data relating to the event was successfully downloaded from the 25 hour Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). It was established that the accident flight was the second of the day and had been without incident during the 11 minutes airborne. A visual approach to runway 27 at Jersey was made with a landing made by the aircraft commander as PF in a slight crosswind (reported as 210°/16 knots) with the left main gear touching first but not especially heavily. However, shortly after the touchdown, the pilots heard an unusual noise and the commander stated that “the aircraft appeared to settle slightly differently from usual” which had made him suspect that a tyre burst had occurred. The single cabin crew also reported hearing a noise which she too suspected was due to a tyre bursting. The aircraft was stopped using the normal procedure although once the First Officer took over the ailerons as airspeed decreased through 70 knots to allow the commander to operate the steering tiller, he reported that despite applying corrective aileron inputs, he was unable to arrest the left wing down tendency of the aircraft. Meanwhile, in the passenger cabin, some of the passengers became concerned at the abnormal situation, particularly a smell of burning and began to leave their seats. Although the cabin crew quickly instructed them to return to their seats, as soon as the aircraft stopped, passengers again left their seats and began moving towards the rear of the cabin where they had originally boarded the aircraft through the main (left hand side) passenger door adjacent to which the cabin crew was seated. The latter “realised the aircraft had suffered some kind of accident and that it would be difficult to contact the pilots whilst trying to control the passengers wishing to leave the aircraft” so being aware that the engines had stopped, she decided to initiate an evacuation by opening the main door. Due to the angle of the aircraft and the base-hinge design of the door, it was not possible to fully open it and the exit was additionally awkward to use because the steps normally used are part of the door. Nevertheless, all passengers were able to leave the aircraft through this door. The Investigation found that the cause of the landing gear collapse was a consequence of structural failure in the side brace upper arm of the left main landing gear - see an illustration of the assembly below. This had allowed the main gear leg to continue to pivot outboard beyond its normal fully-deployed position. This had resulted in an excessive load being transmitted to the actuating cylinder attachment to the fuselage structure which had then also failed, allowing the now-unrestrained main trunnion to continue to extend outwards. ATR 42 Main Landing Gear showing the locations of the primary and secondary failures (reproduced from the Official Report) The side brace