The following general points are aimed at Multi Crew operation but they also serve as good reminders of the self-discipline required if operating single pilot. Briefing – The key building block for flying a successful Go-Around is a good briefing. This should cover normal Go-Around and how a Go-Around above Decision Altitude and/ or Acceleration Altitude might be handled. This could usefully be revised at a quiet moment during the approach so that actions are clear in everyone’s mind, should they be needed.. Complacency – It is tempting in good weather, particularly on last sector into home base not to bother with detailed thinking about a Go-Around. There have been several potentially serious incidents caused by such complacency. A Go-Around can be triggered at any time. The more unexpected and more unprepared crew members are, the more likely that serious error will occur. Research indicates that those who make use of mental rehearsals of possible actions make fewer errors than those who don’t.. Priorities – It is important in a Go-Around that crew members deal with the primary flight task first and secondary tasks afterwards. The priority is to get the aircraft climbing away from the ground at an appropriate attitude, in the right configuration, at the right speed with appropriate power set. It is always surprising to watch crews carrying out a Go-Around make an R/T call during the manoeuvre and arrive at Acceleration Altitude with the wrong configuration/ speed/ power.. Standard Procedures – using Standard Operating Procedures and Call-Outs can help trigger all the appropriate actions. It is easy to use non-standard calls and discover later that some important triggers for flap and gear retraction have been missed. It also needs careful thought when carrying out a Go-Around from an unfamiliar position such as above D. Alt or Acceleration Altitude that Standard Calls such as 'Go-Around - Flap xx' do not trigger an inappropriate flap movement if the flaps are not in the landing setting.. Missed Approach Altitude - It is important to consider the Missed Approach Altitude when discussing how to handle a Go-Around. A low Missed Approach Altitude will require careful and thoughtful handling of power, acceleration and clean up to avoid an altitude bust..