An Accident Investigation was carried out by the NTSB using relevant data downloaded from the CVR and DFDR and obtained from other sources. It was noted that the 58 year-old Captain had a total of 19,654 hours flying experience which included 3,005 hours on type and 2,975 hours in command on all types. The 58 year-old First Officer had a total of 10,103 hours flying experience which included 1,824 hours on type. Both were former flight engineers. After an on time departure from the gate with the Captain as PF, the aircraft was eventually cleared to line up and wait on runway 31L. Takeoff clearance was then given with the wind from 010° at 17 knots. Engine thrust was applied symmetrically with no nose wheel steering input and left rudder pedal inputs consistent with a small right crosswind ranging of up to 13° were made as acceleration occurred. DFDR data showed that as the speed reached the VR, the Captain’s left rudder input suddenly began to increase from around 8° and its recorded lateral acceleration increased from 0.11g to 0.32g. As the aircraft began to veer left in response, the Captain then applied full aft sidestick and right sidestick up to 16°. A momentary change from right sidestick to left occurred before an almost immediate change to maximum right deflection as the nose landing gear left the ground with the rudder deflected about 20° to the left. The left roll reached 26° with left roll rate still increasing as the right main landing gear left the runway with the aircraft on a heading 25° to the left of the runway centreline. Two seconds later, the achieved left roll reached a maximum of 37° and in addition to being held at maximum nose up position, both sidesticks were moved the maximum nose-up and one second later, “a sound consistent with a wing strike” could be heard on the CVR. DFDR data showed that the left aileron moved then towards neutral without a control input consistent with the left aileron moving due to contact with the ground. The rudder pedals then reached their full right position and the left main landing gear became airborne. Over the next several seconds, with the aircraft still close to the ground, the Captain made a series of seemingly random rudder and aileron control inputs during which the First Officer was recorded as saying “I don’t know what’s goin’ on” followed by the Captain saying “what the (expletive) happened?” and the First Officer responding “I don’t know” and “the engines all…good” followed by the Captain adding “it just (expletive) rolled on me”. During interview, the Captain stated that he had been “looking at the runway edge” and knew that he had to get the aircraft into the air and recalled making right rudder and right aileron inputs “as the aircraft had begun to roll left”. DFDR data showed that the corrective action had been taken by the Captain’s reversal of his left rudder input to full right