rudder accompanied by both pilots’ sidesticks being moved to the maximum (20°) deflection right and maximum pitch up which led to an automated aural warning of dual input. The First Officer tentatively suggested a return to land and after a brief discussion, the Captain concurred and the First Officer advised ATC of the flight’s wish to return after “experiencing a strong roll to the left”. The controller asked if the situation was an Emergency but after checking with the Captain the First Officer responded that it was not. Five minutes later, one of the cabin crew called on the interphone to say that a passenger seated near the left wing had reported that the wing “looks dented” and “doesn’t look normal” following this up five minutes later with a call saying that the left wing looked as if it had sustained “a little damage”. By this time, the climb had been stopped at FL200 and radar vectors were being provided back to the airport. The remainder of the flight was uneventful and a few minutes later, the aircraft landed after 28 minutes airborne. An examination of the departure runway found a 170 metre-long left main landing gear tyre mark, a 65 metre-long right main landing gear tyre mark and a 98 metre-long left wingtip scrape mark. The wingtip scrape marks began beyond the runway edge marking and extended to the edge of the paved surface shoulder. Debris found embedded in the aircraft left wing (see the illustration below) was found to have been part of a ‘distance remaining’ marker located on the outer edge of the 60 metre-wide runway’s paved shoulder. Damage to the left wing outboard slat, aileron, and outboard flap as well as to the underside of the left wingtip sharklet were also found. The left wingtip with part of a runway maker mountimg embedded in it. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Scrape damage to underside of the left wing slat. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Further examination of the six year old aircraft found that the left wing had a permanent upward deflection starting at about midspan which resulted in the left wingtip being about 15 cm higher than the right wingtip. This discovery led to a decision by American Airlines to retire the aircraft from service and scrap it. It was determined that the significant left roll during liftoff had caused the left wingtip to strike the paved area beyond the runway left side edge and the collision with a runway distance marker which became partially embedded in the wingtip. Engineering simulations were carried out by Airbus for the Investigation which showed that the several seconds of near-maximum left rudder “had generated a rolling moment after the gear had left the ground” which alone had caused the left roll rate recorded on the DFDR. Nothing else abnormal in the aircraft flight control was noted except for the deflection upwards of the left aileron as the wingtip scraped the ground. These simulations were also able to show