declaring the airfield closed when visibility dropped below (approach) minima.. Thirteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DRC Ministry of Transport should provide appropriate meteorological equipment to the Meteorological Service in DRC so that the expected level of meteorological services can be provided.. that the DRC Civil Aviation Authority should exercise effective safety oversight over all operators in the Democratic Republic of Congo, including aircraft chartered by MONUSCO.. that the DRC Airports Authority (RVA) should procure appropriate weather radars for important airfields in the DRC or alternatively, provide suitable web connections to important Meteorological stations so that they can log on to relevant web sites like EUMETSAT, in order to monitor the weather conditions in real time;. that the DRC Airports Authority (RVA) should provide appropriate training to the staff of the Meteorological Services as well as to the ATC, in order to improve their performance standards.. that MONUSCO should consider doing away with a separate Meteorological Service provider for its use and instead rely only on DRC Government provided meteorological service.. that MONUSCO should demand that all Operators chartered by it should have a FOQA program in place, whose results should be shared with MONUSCO.. that Georgian Airways should consider revision of its training program including the increased use of simulator flights for initial upgrade on type.. that Georgian Airways should ensure that a system is put in place to retain a copy of the Load and Balance Sheet on ground for each flight.. that Georgian Airways should consider implementation of a FOQA Program for its CRJ aircraft.. that Georgian Airways should consider laying greater emphasis in its Ground Training program on the following: Recognition and management of threats and errors; (ICAO Annex 1, Chapter 2, Para. 2.6.1.3.1.2 a) Exercise of good judgment and airmanship, to include structured decision making and the maintenance of situational awareness; (ICAO Annex 1, Chapter 2, Para. 2.6.1.3.1.2 e). Recognition and management of threats and errors; (ICAO Annex 1, Chapter 2, Para. 2.6.1.3.1.2 a). Exercise of good judgment and airmanship, to include structured decision making and the maintenance of situational awareness; (ICAO Annex 1, Chapter 2, Para. 2.6.1.3.1.2 e). that the Georgian Civil Aviation Authority should exercise effective safety oversight over operations being conducted for extended periods of time by its Operators outside the main operational bases.. that the Georgian Civil Aviation Authority should review the training program of Georgian Airways.. that the International Civil Aviation Organization should consider stipulating Flight Operations Quality Assurance (or Flight Data Monitoring (FDM)) program as a mandatory requirement (i.e. a 'Standard') for all aircraft above 20,000kg MTOW which are engaged in commercial operations.. The Final Report was published in December 2013. A French language version of the Report is also available.