An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian NTSC with access to recorded data from the SSFDR but not from the 30 minute SSCVR which was left running after the aircraft stopped so that the relevant period was overwritten. It was noted that Lion Air had not provided the total and aircraft type pilot hours for either pilot to the Investigation. It was found that the arriving aircraft, with the aircraft commander as PF, had delayed its approach until the worst of some convective weather had moved away from the aerodrome and had then commenced an ILS approach to runway 36 for which the LDR calculated from the FCOM was 1700 metres and thus comfortably within the 2240 metres available. During the approach, TWR gave a spot wind of ‘calm’ but the FDR recorded that on short final, there had actually been a consistent tailwind component of between 8 and 10 knots. This effect of this unknown factor was to increase the required landing distance previously calculated by a further 250 metres. It was note that the official weather report for the time at which the aircraft touched down gave the wind as calm, the surface visibility as 3000 metres and the cloud base as Cb/Sc at 1500 feet aal. The FDR recorded that the aircraft touched down with an ELW of 66 tonnes at the prescribed touchdown point with flaps 40 and auto brake 3 armed after a stabilised approach had been flown. Speed at touchdown was recorded as 155 knots in the present of an 8 knot tailwind component. This speed was 17 knots above the target speed and this excess had the effect of adding a further 264 metres to the previously calculated LDR. With the addition of a further 20 metres on account of the ISA+6 surface temperature, the LDR calculation was now 2234 metres compared to the 2240 metre LDA. Advice was received from Boeing that the preselected rate of longitudinal acceleration with auto brake 3 set was - 0.224g which FDR data showed had been achieved during the high speed part of the landing roll largely because of the effect of the thrust reversers applied with the engine N1 reaching 80% so that only a small amount of brake pressure being applied. This rate of deceleration was observed from the FDR to have remained “relatively constant” until maximum manual brake pressure was applied at approximately 70 knots ground speed and with approximately 300 metres to go till the end of the runway. The thrust reversers were stowed at approximately 50 knots by which time their effect on the rate of deceleration had become minimal. It was concluded that absence of the normally expected effectiveness of the applied maximum braking below 70 knots ground speed was indicative of runway friction not being sufficient for normal deceleration. Inspection of the runway following the overrun found that significant rubber deposits were present on the runway between the 18 threshold and the 18 touch down marker located at