which oversees the management of airports and ATS in western Indonesia] Angkasa Pura II should conduct periodic runway friction testing to ensure (that) the runway friction is within the approved value. that [the Department of Transport Agency which oversees the management of airports and ATS in western Indonesia] Angkasa Pura II should conduct rubber deposit removal (using an) approved method and personnel (at the maximum intervals specified in) the DGCA Advisory Circular number SE.04 issued in 2012. that [the Department of Transport Agency which oversees the management of airports and ATS in western Indonesia] Angkasa Pura II should ensure that weather observation sensors (are located) free of any possible disturbance according to the ICAO Annex 3, section 4.5 ‘Observing and reporting of surface wind’. that Lion Air should emphasise flight crew training on Approach and Landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) and ensure that the criteria for (a) stabilised approach are included in simulator training. that Lion Air should ensure that pilots calculate the landing distance required based on the actual runway condition. that Lion Air should introduce a comprehensive procedure to ensure (that) the electrical power to the CVR (is) disconnected immediately after a (reportable event) to prevent automatic overwriting of (relevant) information. It was stated in the Final Report of the Investigation published in mid 2013 that, as a result of the occurrence of the investigated event and a second similar overrun which had occurred at the same airport the following day, a meeting had been held on 3 May 2011 attended by representatives of the DGCA, PT Angkasa Pura II and the Pekanbaru Airport Authority. It was noted that this meeting had agreed that Safety Action would be taken by the Pekanbaru Airport Authority as follows: revise the scheduled interval for cleaning to remove rubber deposits from six months to ‘on condition’ based on inspection findings.. carry out repairs to the runway surface to ensure the elimination of standing water patches. issue a Notice To Airmen to advise that the runway skid resistance was 0.55 and was below the minimum requirements of 0.60 and that this condition may result in poor braking action when the runway is wet..