300 metres from the threshold. The examination also found some water spots. It was noted that the combination of the rubber deposit and water spots would significantly reduce both the runway friction and brake effectiveness. It was found that the airport operator had a regular schedule for rubber deposit removal every six months with the most recent removal prior to the overrun being on 31 December 2010 at the TDZ for runway 18 (i.e. the end of runway 36). It was also established that the most recent runway resurfacing had been carried out in 2010 following which runway friction measured by Mu meter had found skid resistance to be between 0.55 and 0.59. This was compared with the content of a DGCA Advisory Circular issued after the investigated event which stated that the minimum skid resistance should be 0.6. In this respect, the Investigation noted that a routine runway inspection using the “sand patch” method on 1 January 2011 had found that the condition of the surface in the vicinity of the runway 18 TDZ was “smooth”. After the overrun, the runway was examined for the presence of standing water and it was found that there were several slight depressions in the runway surface containing water up to a depth of 3 cm. The disparity between the consistent tailwind component recorded on the FDR during the final approach and the spot wind of ‘calm’ given by the TWR controller at the same time was considered. It was concluded that this was, in the light of the probable effect on wind speed measurement of vegetation and buildings surrounding the source anemometer, attributable to the unrepresentative readings available to the controller. The formal statement of Probable Cause concluded that “the aircraft was decelerated according to the preselected value until…..the last 1000 feet of the runway available….(and thereafter)….the failure of the aircraft to stop (was) most likely due to the significant deterioration of both the runway friction and brake effectiveness as result of the existing of the combination of the rubber deposit and water (patches)”. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should ensure that all airport operators conduct periodic runway friction tests to ensure the runway friction is within the approved value. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should ensure that all airport operators conduct rubber deposit removal (using) an approved method and personnel in a period according to the DGCA Advisory Circular number SE.04 issued in 2012. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should ensure that weather observation sensors (are) put in a location that (is) free of any possible disturbance according to the ICAO Annex 3, section 4.5 ‘Observing and reporting of surface wind’. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should ensure all aircraft operators conduct proper flight crew training on Approach and Landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) and include the criteria for a stabilised approach in simulator training. that [the Department of Transport Agency