The UK AAIB was informed of the Incident by the Operator on 29 September 2009 and subsequently notified the Eastern Caribbean CAA, which is the designated Regulator for aviation in States and Territories which belong to the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The conduct of the Investigation was then delegated to the UK AAIB. It was noted that the Operator had begun a new service to St Kitts in January 2009 and that this was the first time either of the incident flight crew had operated to or from there. The Operator’s New Destination Assessment was found to have been completed by reference to the AIP, commercially available charts and NOTAMS and had led to the production of a flight crew Route Brief which did not contain a warning about the lack of taxiway and holding point signage because the Operator was unaware of this having made no site visit prior to the service commencing. The Investigation established the sequence of actions leading up to the take off. The flight crew had obtained Runway 07 takeoff performance data for both the full length and from Intersection Alpha and subsequently agreed that Intersection Alpha would be acceptable and would avoid the need to backtrack. After ATC clearance to “taxi via Alpha and backtrack Runway 07, taxiway Alpha is parallel the active” the aircraft, with the First Officer as PF left the ramp, where there were no taxi guidance markings, and upon sighting a taxiway centreline at the edge of the ramp ahead the First Officer “assumed”, in the absence of signage, that it was leading onto taxiway Alpha”. The aircraft continued on this taxiway to Holding Point Bravo and after a short delay waiting for the ‘cabin secure’ report, ATC were advised that the aircraft was ready for departure and gave line up and departure clearance. Once the aircraft had entered the Runway and begun to turn towards the direction of take off, ATC inquired slightly hesitantly whether a backtrack was required and the response was “err negative Speedbird 2156 we are happy to go from position Alpha” after which take off clearance was given. With the aircraft stopped, the Commander stated that the runway looked very short and advised the First Officer to “stand on the brakes” and apply 55% N1 before brake release, which he did. The Operator’s Station Engineer and Airport Duty Manager were passengers and realised that the aircraft was going to attempt take off from the wrong intersection. One of them ran up to the Cabin Manager seated by Door 1L and asked if she had contacted the flight crew. She assumed he was referring to the cabin secure notification and said yes. He then said he needed to contact the flight crew immediately as “we are in the wrong position” but on hearing the engine power increase towards takeoff thrust and realising that the takeoff run was starting, he then sat down in the nearest available seat. As the aircraft accelerated, the flight crew