the plan progress and making updates as necessary as opposed to letting the situation run and hoping that things will work. Communicating with pilots/drivers on a level team basis when necessary in order to enhance their situational awareness and increase the likelihood of avoiding a go-around.. Non-aggressive approach sequencing. Avoiding positioning aircraft too close, too fast, too high on the approach or too marginally behind preceding aircraft.. Low-risk runway occupancy planning. Avoiding the creation of situations which are always going to be marginal, relying on everyone to expedite on and oﬀ the runway and no room for unexpected factors.. Requesting the aircraft to enter or exit the runway at a specific position. If the ATC plan relies on an aircraft vacating the runway at a particular exit point, the pilot should be advised well before action is required.. Constant evaluation of the plan progress and making updates as necessary as opposed to letting the situation run and hoping that things will work.. Communicating with pilots/drivers on a level team basis when necessary in order to enhance their situational awareness and increase the likelihood of avoiding a go-around.. Pilot defensive ﬂying. This comprises a range of proactive cockpit ways of thinking and acting. It involves taking a share of responsibility for runway safety. Pilot defensive ﬂying is limited for events initiated by ATC or runway incursions. Examplse of defensive flying: Reacting quickly and decisively to arising situations. Just like ATC, this involves not letting the situation run and hoping that things will work. Informing ATC of the likelihood of a go-around, thus providing an early warning and time for ATC to plan a conﬂict-free path. Informing ATC of inability to vacate or depart expeditiously, thus providing ATC with additional time to re-plan.. Reacting quickly and decisively to arising situations. Just like ATC, this involves not letting the situation run and hoping that things will work.. Informing ATC of the likelihood of a go-around, thus providing an early warning and time for ATC to plan a conﬂict-free path.. Informing ATC of inability to vacate or depart expeditiously, thus providing ATC with additional time to re-plan.. The barriers that are available after initiation of the go-around but before a conflict happens are: Conﬂict-free procedures. These provide sufcient separation between a go-around aircraft and other traffic such that safety margins are maintained. Unfortunately, it is not always possible to design conflict-free procedures or to use these at all times. Examples of conflict free procedures: Missed approach procedures and other departure/arrival routings provide procedural separation. ATC standard procedures in the event of a go-around, providing conﬂict free routings.. Missed approach procedures and other departure/arrival routings provide procedural separation.. ATC standard procedures in the event of a go-around, providing conﬂict free routings.. ATC prevention of conﬂict. This involves a range of actions by one or more controllers to maintain safety margins on or following a low-level go-around. These, however, may be limited by the ability to maintain visual contact with aircraft or by the use of