An Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB-N). The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft on its return to Istanbul and their data downloaded by the aircraft operator and sent to the AIB-N. However, by this time, relevant CVR data had been overwritten. The aircraft operator also provided a copy of relevant QAR data to Airbus “for analysis and transcription”. The 43 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight involved, had a total of 11,538 hours flying experience of which 694 hours were on type and the 42 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,726 hours flying experience which included 1,752 hours on type with 695 of those hours recorded as in command. Departure of the 7 hour flight from Istanbul was delayed for in excess of three hours but once in the air, the flight proceeded uneventfully. When contacted, Port Harcourt APP advised the flight to expect an ILS Approach runway 21 with no delay and passed the latest METAR which gave the wind calm, visibility 5km in haze and no significant cloud. After twelve minutes on the APP frequency, during which a 21 ILS approach was confirmed, the flight was transferred to TWR and on checking in and reporting that it was established on the localiser it was cleared to land with the wind still reported as calm. The A/THR remained engaged and maintained the applicable VAPP. FDR data showed that the approach was stable almost to touchdown and that the Captain had disengaged the AP at 324 feet agl. The same source also showed that in the final 100 feet before touchdown, several right roll inputs of up to half deflection were made which created a 6.5° roll angle within 9 seconds and initiated a deviation to the right of the runway centreline. Below 45 feet agl, a progressive left rudder pedal input was made but it did not change the established deviation and the thrust was set to flight idle at 40 feet agl. The aircraft subsequently touched down on the right hand side of the 3000 metre-long 60 metre-wide runway at approximately 612 metres beyond the runway threshold soon after which (27 metres after the point of touchdown) the right main gear departed the runway edge. The left rudder input then took effect and as the right main gear entered the 7½ metre wide runway shoulder, the aircraft longitudinal axis turned to align parallel to the runway. The right main gear remained on the runway shoulder for just over 1000 metres before regaining the runway with the aircraft still travelling at a groundspeed of around 110 knots. After a further 450 metres, the runway centreline was regained - about 15 seconds after touchdown - and the remainder of the landing roll was completed normally. Almost half an hour after landing, the crew reported to TWR that they had “a flat main gear tyre” and requested a runway inspection. This found both tyre debris and three