damaged right hand side runway edge lights located immediately after the rapid exit for runway 03. The damaged no 8 tyre. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Although the TWR advised that the surface wind for landing was calm, reconstruction of the actual wind velocity on final approach carried out by Airbus found that between 1000 feet agl and 200 feet agl, the mean wind velocity was from 278° at 10 knots. It also found that a crosswind component from the right between 1000 feet and 500 feet of 10 knots had thereafter steadily decreased to 2 knots by touchdown. However, this variation did not contribute to the excursion which was entirely due to the combination of right aileron and rudder inputs in the final 100 feet prior to touchdown which were contrary to the guidance on flare and touchdown provided in the Airbus A330/A340 Flight Crew Techniques Manual (FCTM). The Investigation did note that despite the runway being 60 metres wide it only has Cat 1 approach procedures and has no centreline lighting (nor a requirement for any). The Cause of the Accident was determined as “the extra right aileron and rudder input by the Captain in the last 100 feet (prior to touchdown) resulted in the aircraft drifting to the right of the runway centreline”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as: The inappropriate rudder application by the flight crew in the last 45 feet (prior to touchdown) did not prevent the right drift before touchdown but rather increased the drift at touchdown.. The non-adherence to the provisions of the Standard Operating Procedures as contained in the Turkish Airlines Flight Crew Techniques Manual.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Turkish Airlines should ensure flight crew adherence to provisions of the Standard Operating Procedures as contained in the Turkish Airlines Flight Crew Techniques Manual vis-à-vis landing techniques. [2021-24]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 July 2021.