To enable the Implementing Rules to be applied in day-to-day practice by regulatory personnel, and to assist the industry in complying with the regulatory provisions, further material is required to provide additional explanation and necessary technical detail. The term Acceptable Means of Compliance and Guidance Material (AMC) (as referred to in Articles 18 and 19 of the ‘Basic Regulation’ and its Implementing Rules) is primarily used to qualify technical interpretative material to be used in the certification process. In this respect, the AMC serve as means by which the certification requirements contained in the ‘Basic Regulation, its Implementing Rules and, more specifically, in their annexes (also referred to as "Parts"), can be met by those subject to the Regulation. AMC material is not binding on those applying for regulatory approval, who may decide to show compliance with the applicable certification requirements using other means. Competent NAAs may also produce their own acceptable means of compliance, based or not on those issued by EASA. Just as with AMC issued by EASA, such national means of compliance cannot bind the applicants either; the applicant can always choose to comply by other means. Guidance Material is typically developed to accompany AMC material in order to provide additional explanation to assist the application of the ‘Basic Regulation’ and its IR’s, and to help illustrate the meaning of specifications and requirements. Guidance Material is not binding on those applying for regulatory approval. For those regulatory activities where IR Certification is required, the Agency issues Certification Specifications (CS). The provisions of CS are developed in consultation with industry interested parties and, where applicable, in conjunction with industry bodies such as the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment (European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment (EUROCAE)). Compliance with CS is a necessary condition for obtaining the relevant regulatory approval or certification. CS material may therefore be regarded as binding when taken in conjunction with the binding rules which require compliance with the CS.