compass, an instrument which is relatively easy to read in straight and level flight but difficult in turns. To turn onto a specific heading it is generally necessary to use a timed turn technique. Furthermore, because the compass card is vertically mounted, the direction of turn is often misinterpreted. This was demonstrated when, for the first few heading instructions from ATC, the aircraft turned in the opposite direction. In contrast, the normal instruments were available for altitude and speed, and instructions relating to these were complied with throughout. During the flight the pilots continued to have difficulty in complying with heading instructions and were not able to fly the aircraft to intercept the ILS course to Runway 09L. To attempt an intercept with the navigation system in this degraded configuration, without direct heading reference, would require a high level of crew co-ordination. In fact, because of the non‑compliance with the heading instructions, the aircraft crossed the ILS course at 90°, which would have made the task of intercepting it almost impossible. The pilots had little idea of their position and, after a few minutes, they were entirely dependent on ATC for their navigation. ILS DME range information was available but the pilots were offered no information from ATC, other than track miles to run, about their geographical location. It would have helped their situational awareness if their location relative to the airport and updated weather information had been given to them. […] The departure controller at LHR already had a high workload at the time this incident started and the declared ‘navigation problem’ was more severe than he anticipated. He stated afterwards that, if the pilot had said there was an ‘instrument problem’, then his own response might have been different. Furthermore, the aircraft did not declare a MAYDAY, even when asked specifically if there were any other problems. […] While the aircraft was being vectored, it was getting nearer to the airport and was descending, under ATC instructions, without following any recognised procedure. This was an undesirable situation and was only resolved because visual contact was established by the pilots. The situation arose because ATC did not initially understand the nature of the aircraft’s problem; this was compounded by the difficulty of obtaining information from the pilots because of their limited command of English. The commander did not declare a MAYDAY, so the aircraft was not treated as an ‘emergency’ aircraft. However, it should have been possible for ATC to have recognised earlier that the aircraft was not able to comply with instructions, even if the pilots appeared to think otherwise, and to have treated it as though a MAYDAY had been declared. The AAIB bulletin provides the following conclusion: A fairly simple error in the pre-flight procedure of entering the aircraft’s position into the IRS went undetected and led to a serious incident. Better cross-checking procedures, either when initially entering data or by conducting a check of the entered route against that displayed on the map, would have