This is an extract from the bulletin on the serious incident (Bulletin: 6/2008) published by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB), UK: [After landing at London Heathrow (LHR), and] during the turnround, the pilots carried out a ‘fast realignment’ procedure for the two Inertial Reference Systems (IRSs)*, which required a ground position to be entered. This was done by the co-pilot on the Flight Management Computer (FMC) Control Display Unit (CDU) using the commercial chart Stand 114 position as the reference. However, although the value of the co-ordinates entered was correct, the longitude was entered as East instead of West. The longitude co-ordinate was thus entered […] 33.5 nm to the east of the actual aircraft position. […] The co‑pilot was the handling pilot. Immediately after takeoff, at 1009 hrs, the pilots noticed that there was almost no information on their EHSIs and EADIs; they described the displays as ‘blank’ [See Figure 1]. Approximately 40 seconds after takeoff, the aircraft entered cloud at around 1,500 ft aal and the co-pilot had no option but to fly using the standby attitude indicator and standby compass for attitude and heading reference; the airspeed and altitude indications were unaffected. The autopilots were not available but autothrottle remained available and in use. As the aircraft climbed through an altitude of 3,000 ft, the commander contacted London Terminal Control North East (TCNE) Departures […] and advised that the aircraft had a ‘navigation problem’. The controller asked if the aircraft was able to fly a heading of 055° and the commander replied that they could. The heading was assigned and the commander was instructed to maintain 6,000 ft. However, after about 30 seconds, the controller called [the aircraft] and advised that the aircraft appeared to be tracking north. The reply from the commander was unintelligible and the controller said he would call the aircraft back. The controller now dealt with several other aircraft before calling [the aircraft] again. He advised the commander that the aircraft was tracking northwest and instructed him to ‘FLY A HEADING OF ZERO FIVE ZERO DEGREES THAT’LL BE A RIGHT TURN OF APPROXIMATELY 90 DEGREES’. [The crew] acknowledged the instruction but, a minute later, the controller noticed the aircraft was tracking approximately west. At this stage there were a number of exchanges between [the crew] and the controller in which it was apparent that the commander, who was making the radio calls, was not able to understand some of the instructions. The controller then asked for the crew’s intentions and, after another exchange, the commander decided to return to LHR. Heading and altitude instructions were given. The altitude instructions were complied with and gradually the aircraft began to follow the headings […]. […] the controller handed [the aircraft] over to a dedicated controller on a discrete frequency. The new controller issued heading instructions and asked the crew if they were able to fly an ILS; the commander replied that they could. Further heading instructions, together with altitude and speed instructions were given.