Altitude and speed were complied with but the aircraft continued to respond to heading instructions slowly and erratically. The controller attempted to vector the aircraft to the west on a heading of 260°, to allow for an extended final approach track, but the aircraft maintained a heading of south and cut across the localiser course for Runway 09L at 90°. The commander then reported that he had “GLIDESLOPE ONLY, NO DIRECTION”. The controller asked the crew to turn left on to a northerly heading, which was achieved, and then on to a heading of 060°, to intercept the localiser. However, the aircraft continued to fly north and again passed through the localiser at 90°; the commander again reported that he had “NO DIRECTION ONLY GLIDESLOPE”. The controller now advised [the crew] that he would give radar vectors until visual contact with the runway was established. He issued ‘start and stop’ turn instructions and a further descent clearance. […] the commander reported “RUNWAY IS THE GROUND IN SIGHT” and was cleared for a visual approach to Runway, 09L. However, the controller noticed that the aircraft continued to track to the south of the airfield and asked the commander to confirm that they were approaching Runway 09L. The commander replied it was not in sight and, a moment later, that he was now visual for Runway 09L. […] the controller issued a landing clearance for Runway 09L. In the meantime, the ATC Ground Supervisor became concerned that the aircraft appeared as though it might be landing on Runway 09R, and asked for the traffic to be cleared from the runway. […] the aircraft landed on Runway 09L and taxied to a parking stand. In Difficulties experienced by the pilots section, the Bulletin states: The pilots appeared confused by what had occurred and had to fly the aircraft in IMC using only the standby instruments for heading and attitude reference. Pilots of modern EFIS equipped aircraft do not routinely fly their aircraft using a basic instrument presentation and without a map display. When suddenly presented with such a situation, pilots will need time to adapt their instrument scan and a higher level of crew co-ordination to enable them to conduct a safe instrument approach. The commander also had some difficulty with comprehending and communicating with ATC. At the time, his workload was high and he was under stress, both factors which would have contributed to his problem. When the co-pilot realised that the normal heading and attitude references were not available, he quickly reverted to using the standby instruments. The commander decided that the co-pilot should continue to fly the aircraft to allow himself extra capacity to manage the failure. After takeoff, with the aircraft in a climbing attitude and about to enter cloud, visual references would have been limited. The standby attitude instrument is small and located on the left side of the flight deck, making it difficult to use from the co-pilot’s side. The heading reference was obtained from the standby