indirectly by the bird ingestion. Expert examination of the bird remains identified them as from an immature male Bald Eagle with a mean mass of about 4.13 kg, above the 2.75 kg test bird weight used for engine certification purposes based on the size of the inlet throat area on the PW1100 engine. A review of the results of the large bird ingestion certification test results found that only sections of airfoil material from several blades with no full blade release like the one which had occurred in the event under investigation. Also, because the test was carried out using a test rig rather than a complete engine, the components which were damaged were not installed so “no comparison could be made”. It was considered that the engine containment fan blade out certification test was arguably more relevant to a situation which had only been made potentially hazardous by the impact destruction of a fan blade. It was found that the fan blade out test had identified two fuel leak locations, neither of which was the result of damage to the fuel tube which had caused the leak after the bird ingestion blade release and the fuel leaks which did occur did not result in an under-cowl fire. In respect of the ignition of the leaked fuel after the bird strike, although the hot brakes had reached a high enough temperature to cause ignition, the dripping fuel from the bottom of the nacelle had not been close enough to them ignite the fuel vapour present and even if the fuel vapour had reached the brakes, “it was unlikely to be at a concentration sufficient for combustion”. The only other ignition source was therefore the various engine case temperatures and it was concluded that the turbine intermediate case, the low pressure turbine case and the turbine exhaust case, all of which were downstream of the fractured fuel tube, would have been at temperatures “sufficient to support hot surface ignition of the leaking fuel”. The Probable Cause of the investigated event was determined as "the ingestion of a bird into the right engine during the takeoff roll triggering a rejected takeoff and causing a fan blade to fracture near the blade platform resulting in high fan blade off loads and engine vibrations sufficient which resulted in an eventual failure of a fuel tube in the right engine that sprayed fuel onto hot engine cases, igniting an under-cowl engine fire”. Editors Note - the word order in the text immediately above has been slightly modified in the light of FDR data included in the corresponding docket which shows that the fire warning only occurred after the aircraft had completed its rejected takeoff - as seen on the graph on page 7 of the Investigation’s ‘Engineering Factual Report’. Safety Action being taken by International Aero Engines (IAE) in the light of this and other PW 1100 geared turbofan engine bird strike events was noted as a redesign of the fan blades which will include