An Engineering Investigation was carried out by the NTSB supported by downloaded SSFDR data and specialist input in respect of the bird species involved from the Smithsonian Institute. No assessment of the evacuation was carried out. Approximately 20 seconds after beginning takeoff roll a large bird was ingested into the right engine and with immediate indications of engine distress, the takeoff was rejected from just below the applicable V1 of 125 KIAS. About 40 seconds after the aircraft came to a stop, a fuel fed fire ignited within the engine cowling and was extinguished by the airport RFFS whilst an emergency evacuation was ordered and completed. A subsequent initial examination of the aircraft and its geared turbofan engine by the Investigation team found no visible impact damage to the wing or any other part of the aircraft caused by ejected engine debris and the only significant airframe damage was to the right engine outboard thrust reverser translating sleeve which showed signs of thermal distress in the form of “blistered and consumed paint and slight damage to the sleeve skin panel (with) no burn-through holes observed”. A more detailed on site examination of the engine found that one fan blade had been fractured near its root which essentially constituted a complete fan blade airfoil release. The root portion of the fractured fan blade remained in situ and “the fracture surface had a shiny and clean appearance”. There were no “breaches, tears, or holes” in the fan case assembly, but several fan blades adjacent to the fractured one in both directions had been damaged and all fan blade airfoils “had a combination of impact damage, tears, missing material” and had been bent in the direction opposite to rotation. A large quantity of bird remains (snarge) was found on the forward acoustic liner mainly “at the bottom of the fan case assembly and at multiple locations on the fan exit guide vanes” and samples were taken and sent for specialist analysis. When no signs of any obvious flammable fluid leak sources were found, an on-wing fuel leak test was carried out by operating the aircraft’s right wing tank boost pumps to provide pressure and fuel was then seen “coming from behind the fuel-oil heat exchanger and the fuel-oil cooler generator located on the left side of the engine”. The test was stopped due to the large quantity of fuel leaking and since it had been impossible to identify the source(s) of the leak(s), the engine was removed from the aircraft and returned to the manufacturer Pratt &Whitney for further evaluation of its condition. Looking into the damaged engine showing the position of the fractured missing blade. [Reproduced from the Official Report] There, it was found that the leak had been coming from a fuel tube which had fractured as a result of vibration/cyclic loading generated by the loss of the missing fan blade following bird impact. Testing showed that there had been no pre-existing weakness underlying any of the damage caused directly or