From an aircraft performance perspective, there are two types of shear, those that enhance performance and those that diminish it. The term “performance shear” is used to describe the wind shear conditions as they relate to a specific aircraft’s performance ability. During an increasing performance shear, both IAS and lift production will increase whilst encountering a decreasing performance shear will result in a loss of both lift and airspeed. The potentially most dangerous scenario occurs when there is an increasing performance shear followed closely by a decreasing performance shear as could be the case in a Microburst encounter, when the wind direction can change 180o within seconds. Increasing performance shears are interchangeably referred to as Positive Shears, Performance Increasing Shears, Decreasing Tailwind Shears, and Increasing Headwind Shears. Increasing performance shears can be manifested as any one of a rapidly increasing headwind component, a rapidly decreasing tailwind component, or a tailwind component which rapidly changes to a headwind component as the aircraft progresses along its flightpath. An increasing performance shear causes an immediate increase in the velocity of the airflow across the aircraft surfaces resulting both in a corresponding increase in IAS, and an increase in the amount of lift generated by the aerofoils. This, in turn, causes the aircraft to climb above the intended glidepath. If the shear is encountered on short final and the approach is not abandoned, the landing is likely to be long and fast and could lead to a Runway Excursion. Decreasing performance shears are interchangeably referred to as Negative Shears, Performance Decreasing Shears, Decreasing Headwind Shears, and Increasing Tailwind Shears. Decreasing performance shears are characterised by any of a rapidly increasing tailwind component, a rapidly decreasing headwind component, or a situation where a headwind rapidly becomes a tailwind. A decreasing performance shear is manifested by both an immediate loss of IAS and an immediate loss of lift which result in descent below the intended glidepath. A decreasing performance shear encounter at very low level can result in landing short of the runway during approach, or ground contact immediately after takeoff.