Pilot reaction time and technique are critical factors in a wind shear recovery. A mishandled recovery can lead to an undesired aircraft state (UAS) and a potential accident. In many circumstances, trying to "salvage" an approach after a wind shear encounter can diminish the likelihood of a successful recovery. For example, in an decreasing performance shear situation situation, the loss of speed and descent below the glidepath would necessitate that the pilot increase both thrust and pitch to regain the desired glidepath. However, should the pilot overcorrect or maintain the recovery actions for too long, the outcome could potentially culminate in the aircraft being both fast and above the glidepath - a situation that could result in a long, fast landing and potential runway excursion. Conversely, overly aggressive reductions in thrust and pitch in an attempt to reduce speed and simultaneously regain the desired flightpath during an increasing performance shear have the potential to leave the aircraft low and slow. In a microburst encounter, normal pilot reaction can negate any potential for recovery. As the aircraft enters the microburst, it first encounters an increasing performance shear in the form of a strong headwind. Normal pilot reaction would be to reduce power and pitch to recover to the original flightpath. As those actions are occurring, the aircraft then loses the headwind and encounters a strong downdraft which pushes the aircraft down whilst the thrust is at a reduced setting. The pilot then increases thrust but the situation is further exacerbated as the wind rapidly becomes a tailwind, a decreasing performance shear, as the aircraft exits the microburst. This shear then causes a further loss of speed and lift, leaving the aircraft dangerously low and slow and, potentially, unrecoverable. For these reasons, most NAA's, manufacturers and operators have specific wind shear recovery profiles which should be flown if significant shear is encountered. Refer to the article Low Level Wind Shear for information on wind shear recognition, avoidance, best practices, and recovery.