Each ATS unit (or sector if the unit is split) operates on a separate frequency. Therefore, when an aircraft approaches the boundary, the pilot needs to change the operating frequency to that of the next unit or sector. This process is called transfer of communication and is effected either by a voice instruction ([callsign] CONTACT [unit name] [frequency]), or. a CPDLC message, or. a special procedure, described e.g. in the AIP. For example, when an aircraft is about to start up at a controlled aerodrome, the pilot is supposed to contact the appropriate ATC unit (tower or ground). Similarly, when the aircraft is about to enter airspace where ATS is provided (most often controlled airspace but not necessarily), the frequency of the appropriate ATS unit should be aquired in advance from e.g. the relevant AIP.. The transfer of communication is done in accordance with the procedures established in Letters of Agreement or in local procedures (e.g. operations manuals). Within controlled airspace it usually happens a few minutes before the Transfer of Control is effected. This creates a potenially dangerous situation where one controller is responsible for the safety of the flight (but is unable to issue instruction) and another is in contact with the crew (but the aircraft is not yet within the area of responsibility). It is therefore important that the accepting controller does not introduce flight profile changes before the aircraft passes the transfer of control point unless these are coordinated with the transferring controller or a release has been obtained. This does not mean that no communication is to be carried out. There are a number of things that can be safely communicated, e.g.: instructions to be carried out after the transfer of control point has been passed. Note that when issuing these, the after part must be emphasized and correctly acknowledged.. exchange of information, e.g. ATIS designator, meteorological information, runway in use, etc.. confirmation of entry or diplomatic clearance. Note that in case there is an issue with any of these the controllers need to coorinate what happens next (e.g. a holding pattern, return to the departure aerodrome, deviation to an alternate, etc.).. Another risk with communication transfer is that for a (usually short) period of time no controller is in contact with the flight crew. It is therefore crucial that aircraft being transferred are clear of any potential conflict. While this is applicable to air traffic control in general, the transfer of communication phase is an inherently riskier situation and therefore extra vigilance should be exercised. Also, the risk of Loss of Communication should be taken into account. The accepting unit (or sector) is normally not supposed to inform the transferring unit (or sector) that communication with the aircraft has been established. However, if communication has not been established as expected, the accepting unit (or sector) should notify the transferring unit (or sector). While not mandatory, it is generally safer not to combine communication transfer with other instructions, e.g. level changes. The controller may not