be able to correct an errorneous instruction (or a wrong readback) if the pilot changes the frequency quickly enough. If this happens, the situation may quickly deteriorate while neither controller is in contact with the aircraft and both are therefore unable to issue corrective instructions. The situation can be further compounded if there is an issue with the frequency change (e.g. wrong frequency being set) or if the next frequency is congested. Transfer of communication of several aircraft one right after the other may cause frequency blocking (due to simultaneous transmissions) in the downstream sector (or unit). This risk can be mitigated (but not elliminated since most sectors and units have more than one neighbour) by: System support. For example, the OLDI message MAS (manual assume) can indicate that the aircraft being transferred has made initial contact so the next transfer can commence.. Time management. If a bunch of aircraft are approaching the boundary, the transfer of control of the fist one may take place a little earlier than usual so that proper interval (e.g. 10-20 seconds) between consecutive transfers is maintained.. In case the flight time within a sector (or unit) is very short (e.g. 1-3 minutes) communication may be transferred directly between the two adjacent sectors (or units). This procedure is sometimes called "skipping". The following aspects need to be considered if it is to be used: The sector or unit being skipped remains responsible for the safety of the flight even though it is not in contact with the crew. Therefore it should be kept fully informed about this traffic. Any profile change must be coordinated with this sector or unit.. The sector or unit being skipped must ensure separation between this traffic and the other aircraft within their area of responsibility.. Special attention should be paid to the handover process during controller training stressing the importance of proper timing of frequency change, e.g.: If two climbing, vertically separated aircraft are to be transferred, the higher is to be transferred first. This allows the accepting controller to reclear a higher level thus providing continuous climb.. If two descending, vertically separated aircraft are to be transferred, the lower is to be transferred first. This allows the accepting controller to reclear a lower level thus providing continuous descent.. If an aircraft is climbing to a level below the requested one due to another aircraft above, the maintaining flight is to be transferred first and the climbing (which is cleared to a safe level below) is transferred shortly before the boundary. This serves as a reminder to the accepting controller not to reclear the climbing aircraft to a higher level unless horizontal separation is applied.. If there is a potential conflict near the boundary, a common solution should be coordinated. This includes agreeing on the frequency the aircraft will be until clear of each other. This may mean that the transferring controller may (after coordination) remain in contact with an aircraft after it has left their area of responsibility..