Since the accident occurred over international waters and the Challenger was German registered, the German BFU as the agency of the State of Registration commenced an Investigation once it became aware of the occurrence. The FDR and 2 hour CVR installed on the Challenger were successfully downloaded but the CVR data did not cover the event under investigation as the post-event diversion had taken 2 hours. By the time they were requested, relevant data from the A380 FDR, CVR and QAR were no longer available but relevant data from the DAR, which is used by Emirates for their OFDM programme and records over 1,000 parameters, was obtained via the UAE GCAA. The TCAS and EGPWS from the Challenger were also seized in order to access potentially relevant data recorded on the NVM of both units. Recorded data from the Challenger's Maintenance Diagnostic Computer (MDC) was also made available to the Investigation. There is no radar coverage over large areas of the Arabian Sea but it was possible to determine the flight paths of the two aircraft using their recorded flight data. It was noted that both pilots of the Challenger were German Licence holders. The 39 year-old Captain was PF for the accident flight and had been employed by the aircraft operator since 2012. He had 5,334 hours total flying experience which included about 4,564 hours on type. The 41 year-old First Officer, who had been employed by the aircraft operator for just over a year, had about 1,554 total flying hours which included 912 hours in type. It was established that the Challenger had been level in the cruise at FL 340 in day VMC and in contact with Mumbai ACC on HF with the AP engaged when the crew noticed the A380 traffic on their TCAS display passing in the opposite direction a thousand feet above and tracking very slightly to their right. Forty-seven seconds later, the aircraft FDR data showed that as the aircraft began to roll slightly to the right, a counter-rotating aileron deflection was recorded and fluctuation of the vertical acceleration rate began. Over the next 10 seconds or so, the aircraft maintained a bank to the right bank of between 4° and 6°. This bank angle then suddenly increased and within a second it reached 42° to the right as the aileron deflection to the left increased to 20° and the vertical acceleration reached -3.2 g. One second later, a lateral acceleration of 0.45 g to the right was recorded and the pitch angle changed from about 3° to about 1° before almost immediately increasing to 9° and then just as rapidly changing to -20°. At the same time, the FDR recorded a rudder deflection to the left which reached 11.2° as the bank angle changed from 42° right to 31° left. Over the next 5 seconds, the airspeed dropped from 277 KCAS to 248 KCAS and the left engine N1 began a un-commanded decrease from 95% N1. Several rapid rotations of the aircraft