occurred and the IRS parameter values became invalid, the lateral acceleration reached 0.94g to the left, the AP disengaged and a 7 second Master Warning was annunciated. A loss of altitude began which continued for half a minute and totalled approximately 8,700 feet and was accompanied by "large control surface deflections and acceleration". During this descent, the airspeed quickly increased, reaching approximately 330 KIAS as the spoilers were extended. The spoilers were stowed after 13 seconds by which time the left engine N1 had decreased to approximately 40%. The left engine ITT then began to increase reaching 850째 C within nine seconds, at which point that engine was shut down. The maximum recorded ITT was 1097째 C. Control of the aircraft was regained and level flight resumed at FL 230. Once the dual IRS had been restored and the aircraft position and heading manually entered, it was decided to divert to Muscat. With the left engine still shut down, the Captain declared an emergency to Mumbai ACC, advising their new altitude and that they would be diverting to Muscat and Mumbai advised Muscat of this intention. A cross bleed start was then successfully used to restart the left engine and the rest of the diversion was without further event. Mumbai advised Muscat of the intended diversion and a landing there was made just under two hours later. The Cabin Attendant stated that at the time the upset occurred, she had been standing in the middle of the cabin preparing the service and that four of the six passengers had also not been seated. She believed that the aircraft had rolled around its longitudinal axis three times, "during which the occupants had been thrown against the ceiling and the seats". Damage occurred to the cabin - see the illustration below. According to data from the A380 DAR, the upper wind in the vicinity of the point where the upset began was from around 315째 at a mean speed of about 23 knots with the SAT recorded as -44째 C The Investigation noted that the airspace where the accident occurred was RVSM airspace between FL 290 and FL 410 but that SLOP was not permitted on L894 within the Mumbai FIR, although it was on 17 other routes in that FIR. The 'Safety Case' produced on A380 Wake Turbulence risk in 2006 was also noted, in particular the finding that "during the cruise, wake vortices from B744, A346 and A388 aircraft can descend more than 1,000 feet". An Interim Report was published in May 2017.