Basic design. One of the simplest concepts to grasp concerning design is the use of more than one engine; if one fails, the other is designed to be powerful enough to continue operations safely. Furthermore, by placing engines under-the-wing instead of inside the wing, then added protection is provided to other critical aircraft systems (other engines, fuel, hydraulics) if an engine fails “explosively”.. Recovering from a system failure. E.g. recovering from the failure of flaps to lower. First of all the possibility of this happening on modern aircraft is much reduced by the design of the hydraulic system allowing for leaks to be isolated, thereby protecting essential services such as undercarriage and flaps. Furthermore, back-up air-driven, or electric hydraulic pumps may be available allowing for redundancy. Further back-up may be possible through accumulators that hold “one-shot” applications of services. This example shows a multi-level design that allows many opportunities to recover from failure; or, actually prevent total failure. If, however, the flaps still fail to lower, there will be Standard Operating Procedures that guide the pilots to select a suitable runway (landing length, navigation and visual aids), environmental conditions (wind, runway contamination), adjusted approach and landing speeds, recommendations for braking and reverse thrust use for deceleration etc. Performance calculations to determine the landing distance required can be considered to contain a safety net in the form of a % safety margin.. Recovering from specific situations. When people talk about the concept of “recovery from failure” they are often referring to the several critical situations that pilots are trained to recover from, such as recovery from: engine failure during take-off, unusual attitudes (loss of control), uncontained engine failure, rejected take-off and rejected landing. These recovery techniques are skill-based and procedure driven. The latest aircraft designs (2013) now have the capability to recover automatically from situations such as unusual attitudes, without input from pilots. In many cases it is even possible that entry into an unusual attitude and/or a stall is prevented by the aircraft’s automated systems.. Recovering from human failure. When humans perform a skill poorly, or omit to perform an action (see human error), then a Safety Net can assist recovery. At the simplest level a safety net could be a harness to prevent an engineer from falling whilst attending to an engine. To a more technical degree, if an air traffic controller clears an aircraft to an unsafe level (where a conflict exists), or two pilots fail to level-off on time at their cleared Flight Level, then an Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) can help the pilots recover from a conflict caused by the Level Bust.. Recovering from an accident. The worst kind of failure, of course, is an accident; and even with serious accidents there is the possibility of containment and partial recovery, i.e. the saving of lives. Design, procedures and safety nets can all assist in recovery. E.g. passenger seats and restraints designed to withstand high deceleration forces (typically 16 x gravity); cabin interiors designed to prevent