Basic manual and cognitive flying skills can decline because of lack of practice and feel for the aircraft. This is exacerbated if operators actively discourage flight crew from manual flying or limit the manual modes they may use – e.g. prohibiting manual flying with Auto-Throttle disengaged;. Unexpected automation behavior: uncommanded disengagement caused by a system failure resulting in mode reversion or inappropriate mode engagement by the pilot may lead to adverse consequences;. Pilots interacting with automation can be distracted from flying the aircraft; selection of modes, annunciation of modes, flight director commands may be given more importance than values of pitch, power, roll and yaw and so attending to automation can distract the flight/crew pilots from monitoring flight path;. Flight crews may spend too much time trying to understand the origin, conditions, or causes of an alarm or of multiple alarms, which may distract them from other priority tasks and from flying the aircraft;. Short notice changes by ATC requiring reprogramming of a departure or landing runway are potentially hazardous due to the possibility of incorrect data entry and crosschecking in a time critical situation. This creates intense workload. Reducing the level of automation in such circumstances to basic modes such as Heading Select, Flight Level Change can buy the space and time to re-programme FMS as and if required.. Diagnostic systems are limited with regard to dealing with multiple failures, with unexpected problems and with situations requiring deviations from Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs);. Unanticipated situations requiring manual override of automation are difficult to understand and manage, can create a surprise or startle effect, and can induce peaks of workload and stress. Unless the crew has been correctly trained and is adequately practiced in handling such situations, flight deck workload levels can reach the point where crew co-operation becomes severely challenged. Good training in surprise and startle can be effective. UK CAA CAP 737 Chapter 7 ‘ Surprise & Startle’ shows how simple linear rules can buy crews the time to reduce startle by providing the comfort of a simple routine to bring us back to the task;. For highly automated aircraft, problems may occur when transitioning to degraded modes (e.g. multiple failures requiring manual or less automated flight);. Data entry errors (either mistakes or typing errors) made when using Electronic Flight Bags (EFBs) in addition to avionics systems may have critical consequences; errors may be more difficult to prevent and detect as there is no system check of the consistency of the computed or entered values and technology gives a certain sense of confidence (if the data entered in the machine are accepted, they should be OK);. In critical situations following disconnection or failure of the automation, the alarm system only indicates the condition met but not the action to take (although the action that the flight crew must take to regain control is known);. It may be difficult to understand the situation and to gain/regain control when automation reaches the limit of its operation domain and disconnects or