A Mark-III GPWS was installed in the aircraft. It was established that it had not produced a warning as terrain was approached because, with the aircraft clear of terrain by 700 feet and approaching the suddenly higher terrain at about 133 knots, the closure rate, although rapidly increasing, had only reached 1800fpm just before impact and so the warning envelope for Mode 2B (landing configuration) terrain closure alerting - see below - had not been entered. It was noted that 767 aircraft manufactured since February 1999 had been delivered with 'forward looking' Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) based on GPS position and an integral database installed and also that Boeing had issued a SB which enabled upgrade of basic GPWS systems like the one on the accident aircraft to MK-V standard which added the option of user-specified automated height callouts. Air Traffic Control. Gimhae ATC was operated and managed by the Korean Air Force but with participation of civilian controllers in line with formal coordination arrangements. The APP control team included rated civil controllers but the TWR team did not and only a single non-rated civil controller was assigned to each shift and that person was not in the control room at the time of the accident. The APP controllers had surveillance radar and, as usual, had kept control of the circling civil aircraft until they had confirmed that it had commenced the normal visual manoeuvre, at which point control was transferred to TWR where it was usual for controllers to monitor progress visually. There was no requirement for APP controllers to continue monitoring circling traffic once it had been transferred to TWR and any such monitoring was, as in this case, entirely optional under the prevailing procedures. In the case of the accident aircraft, it appears that the APP controller observed that it had extended downwind beyond the point where a base leg turn would normally be made and he had therefore queried with TWR whether it might be going around. It was noted that the TWR controllers had, since the installation of surveillance radar in APP, had a radar repeater display designed for daylight use (the type designated by the FAA as 'BRITE'), installed at the centre of their console . It could be set to between 6 nm and 60 nm but was "usually set to 20 nm". It was found that the TWR controllers on duty for the arrival of the 767 had, as per normal practice, used their radar repeater display to observe it from about 20 nm out whilst under APP radar control, but thereafter, they appeared not to have referred to it once the aircraft was transferred to them and had only noticed after the crash that the aircraft had disappeared from the display. It was noted that use of the TWR radar display during a circling approach was, as for all other types of visually controlled traffic working TWR, optional under the prevailing regulations. It was found that non-use of the