An Investigation was carried out by the Korean Aviation Accident Investigation Board. The SSFDR and the CVR were recovered and their data successfully downloaded and cross-referenced. Some useful data were also recovered from component Non Volatile Memory media, although in some cases, potentially useful data had been lost due to fire damage to host components. Hard evidence collected and reviewed during the initial stages of the Investigation was sufficient to be able to eliminate both airworthiness and aircraft loading as factors leading to the accident. In particular, data in the NVM of the two Engine Electronic Controllers (EECs) confirmed that the engines had operated normally. There were three pilots on the flight deck. The 30 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight had joined Air China as a 767 co-pilot in 1994 on completing his pilot training and had been promoted to command 7 months prior to the accident. He had accumulated 6497 total flying hours including 6287 hours on the 767 of which 500 hours had been in command. The 29 year-old First Officer had joined Air China in 1993 and had completed upgrade training to First Officer three months prior to the accident. He had accumulated 5295 total flying hours including 1215 hours on type and the accident flight was his third as a First Officer. The 27 year-old Second Officer had joined Air China in 1997 on completing his pilot training and had accumulated 1775 total flying hours of which included 1078 hours were on type. It was established that as the flight approached its destination, the Second Officer who was occupying one of the flight deck supernumerary seats would be taking responsibility for radio communications. When just over 30 nm north west of the airport at 17000 feet QNH, the flight checked in with Gimhae APP and was given a southerly radar heading and cleared to descend to 6000 feet and was informed that runway 36L was in use and that a straight-in approach could be expected. The controller then asked what the aircraft's "approach category" was and having been so informed by the First Officer, the Second Officer advised that it was “Charlie” upon which the APP controller responded that the arrival would now be a circling approach to runway 18R. On receiving acknowledgment of this change, the controller queried whether the aircraft's approach category was 'Charlie' or 'Delta' and having been so informed by the Captain, the Second Officer confirmed "Category Charlie". The Captain and First Officer spent the next two minutes discussing the visual manoeuvring involved in the circling approach and noting the applicable MDA as 700 feet. The Captain was recorded as saying “We won’t enlarge the traffic pattern, the mountain is all over that side” and subsequently remarked that it was now raining and that they had not received any information on rain. Descent to 2600 feet was given with some adjustments to the radar heading which the Captain noted were taking them towards the rainy area. Flaps 1