forward visibility had been lost was considered significant - and had been contrary to Air China SOPs. It was considered that the fact that the downwind track had been flown closer to the runway than it might normally have been would have hindered the ability of even the right seat pilot to retain sight of the runway as the circuit proceeded if the weather conditions had allowed and certainly that had the turn onto final approach been completed, an overshoot of the extended runway centreline would have occurred. Situational Awareness. The Investigation considered that the whole flight crew had "lost situational awareness of the danger posed by obstacles, etc. as they transitioned from the ILS approach to the circling approach after reporting the airport in sight" and noted this "can be due to a failure to attend to and perceive the information that is necessary for people to understand a given situation". It was concluded that this had been "precipitated by the lack of a proper approach briefing when the runway was changed from 36L to 18R". As the circling manoeuvre progressed, it was considered that there was evidence that the three crew members "were not communicating properly among themselves or with ATC" and had also "misunderstood and responded incorrectly to other ATC communications" and failed to "respond to comments made by other crew members on several occasions", the latter being "a classic symptom of loss of situational awareness". Pilot Training at Air China. It was noted that pilot ground training did not include anything on Circling Approaches and that the only simulator training involved approaches at Beijing Airport where there were no significant terrain or obstacle constraints and the sort of marginal weather conditions which might have encouraged tactical decision making were not encountered. It was considered that the risks presented by circling at places like Busan - which had not been designated as a "Special Airport" - had not been properly assessed and hence an appropriate pilot training input had not been provided. Differences in the circling minima described in Air China’s Operations Specifications and in its Operations Manual were identified and it was considered that these "may have been a source of confusion for the flight crew". It was also considered that, on the evidence of the Investigation, crew co-ordination had not been "consistent with Air China’s standard callout procedures". The Charting of the Circling Procedure. The only Jeppesen instrument approach chart available to (and used by) the Captain (there was only one set of approach plates on board) was essentially for the 36L ILS approach and "did not show any reference point for the circling approach, circling approach area, or any mountains north of the runway". It was considered that a circling approach such as the one flown by the accident aircraft should have a separate visual circling chart which included "visual references oriented to the runway, the radius of circling approach area and major ground references" as well as "warning messages about dangers, etc." GPWS.