downwind. However, it considered a range of factors which together were considered to have provided the context for the accident. These included: The Weather Conditions and their observation/measurement. Approximately 20 minutes prior to the accident, the airport weather was reported as SCT at 500 feet, BKN at 1000 feet and OVC at 2500 feet in -DZ with visibility 3200 metres. The south westerly surface wind at this time had been recorded as mean speed 7 knots, but when this increased to12 knots, the runway in use was changed to 18R. The recorded weather conditions were still above the weather minima for the circling approach by category 'C' aircraft - visibility had increased slightly to 4000 metres - but remained below those required for category 'D' aircraft. It was noted that the controller had not been able to keep the aircraft in sight as it progressed downwind and considered that the crew would also have been unable to see the runway and its environment as they continued downwind and onto based leg. It also became clear that it was not possible to visually assess weather conditions within the circling area from the roof of the Weather Office due to obstructions and a walk to an alternative position some distance away would have been required for that purpose. The Conduct of the Circling Procedure. The Circling Approach to runway 18R was generic procedure without a prescribed and charted track based on ground visual references/signage and/or obstruction and runway lead-in lights. The only related supplementary lighting was a line of six "circling guidance lights" which were located immediately to the west of and parallel to the first 600 metres of runway 18R. The absence of any other specific guidance meant that the approach at Busan required particularly "close coordination among the flight crew" especially but not only in marginal weather conditions such as those which prevailed when the visual circling manoeuvre commenced. But the late change to this approach meant that the opportunity to complete a crew briefing was time-limited. In the presence of a significant tailwind component, the First Officer's initial turn left from the ILS LOC was delayed and when made was too gentle. The result was that the aircraft arrived on the downwind leg late and the 20 second timing for the base turn from abeam the runway landing threshold had to begin soon afterwards. On downwind, the aircraft was flown at almost 160 KCAS compared to the maximum for a category 'C' aircraft of 140 knots. This and the 20 knot tailwind component would have combined to take the aircraft too far downwind even if the base turn had been commenced at 20 seconds - which it was not. The available evidence suggests that although the ground below the aircraft may have been visible, meaningful forward visibility had probably ceased soon after the 20 second timing started. The absence of any proactive intervention by either the First or Second Officers as soon as sight of the runway or required