TWR radar display when visual monitoring of the accident flight "became difficult and the aircraft went out of sight" could not be attributed to workload since there had been two TWR controllers present and there had been no other traffic under their control. MSAW. It was found that an MSAW system had been installed at Busan since 1991 and operated concurrently with surveillance radar. However, it was configured so that only visual warnings of low altitude - by means of a flashing "LA" on the radar display - were generated. This was considered a significant flaw in the system and one which was contrary to the intent of prevailing ICAO recommendations. Visual warnings were produced whenever an aircraft was less than 700 feet above the highest obstacle in the 2 nm square area it was in or was projected to be so "within the next 30 seconds or about 2 nm away using an assumed speed of 250 knots". The effect of this configuration was noted as being that MSAW could be activated by an aircraft on a normal base turn to runway 18R below 2800 feet within the circling approach area for aircraft categories 'C' or 'D'. However, the radar display did not show the circling areas by aircraft category on either the APP or TWR radar displays. Emergency Procedures. A number of concerns relating to both proactive and reactive emergency procedures were identified including that: When TWR lost radio contact with the aircraft and no visual or radar contact could be established, the TWR controller "did not determine the situation to be an emergency" and only "individually informed the related departments (and) did not use wording to convey the urgency of the situation, probably due to the lack of experience and training in responding to an emergency situation". It was "approximately 24 minutes after the accident" before the senior of the two TWR controllers "concluded that flight 129 had crashed.....and used the crash-phone and bell to make the initial notification".. When TWR lost radio contact with the aircraft and no visual or radar contact could be established, the TWR controller "did not determine the situation to be an emergency" and only "individually informed the related departments (and) did not use wording to convey the urgency of the situation, probably due to the lack of experience and training in responding to an emergency situation". It was "approximately 24 minutes after the accident" before the senior of the two TWR controllers "concluded that flight 129 had crashed.....and used the crash-phone and bell to make the initial notification".. •*Korean survivors reported that they had not understood any of the in-flight announcements, including the pre-departure passenger safety briefing, because these had been made only in Chinese and English. The following Findings Related to Probable Causes were formally documented: (1) The 767 flight crew performed the circling approach, not being aware of the weather minima for landing of their aircraft type and, in the approach briefing, did not include the missed approach, etc.,