and then 5 were selected as the speed was reduced and the Captain was recorded as saying "the wind is so strong". A closing radar heading for the ILS LOC was then given along with clearance for the ILS DME runway 36L and a circle to land 18R. As the ILS was captured, the Captain was recorded as saying "do we have to maintain this altitude?" to which the First Officer replied "do not maintain, continue down to 700 feet" and queried if the Captain would like the gear down, which the Captain agreed to and asked for flaps 20 as well. With the aircraft at 2200 feet, the APP controller instructed the flight to descend to 700 feet. The First Officer had previously remarked that the (tail) wind on the ILS was strong and at this point, it was found from FDR data that the tailwind component had been 47 knots. Having been asked by the controller to report the runway in sight, the Captain stated passing about 1000 feet that he had it in sight and the Second Officer advised the controller accordingly. The APP controller instructed the flight to contact TWR and "circle west" to which the Second Officer replied with “Circle, circle, 18 right, Air China 129” omitting the frequency change instruction and the "circle west" guidance without challenge from the controller - and did not then check in on the TWR frequency. The Captain stated "disconnect, turn left” and the First officer said, “I have control, heading select” and thereafter disconnected the AP and began to fly manually, commencing the left turn towards downwind at 700 feet (see the illustration of the aircraft track below) The Captain then followed this by saying “OK, maintain 700 feet, watching the altitude.” As the aircraft diverged from the ILS, it was at 158 KCAS and subject to a 24 knot tail wind component. A 'Glide Slope' alert prompted the First Officer to ask for the ILS to be turned off and soon after this the Captain said "keep watching the runway”. The First Officer made the right turn onto the downwind leg as the aircraft passed the mid point of the runway and sixteen seconds later, he called abeam the end of the runway and the Captain announced "timing", by which he intended to prompt commencement of the turn onto base leg after 20 seconds. After 11 seconds had elapsed and the Second Officer was checking in with TWR (a 90 second delay), the First Officer was recorded as saying "the wind is too strong, it is very difficult to fly" and the Captain took control and said "turning right" but when he did not immediately do so, possibly because he could not see the runway, the First Officer had said "turn quickly, not too late". Shortly after this, TWR issued a landing clearance qualified by the (procedurally required) addition of "not in sight", initially adding 36L and then correcting it to 18R. The Captain asked the First