Officer to "reduce speed" but it was a further 17 seconds after the First Officer's "turn quickly" remark before he even began the right turn and a further 13 seconds after that when he asked the First Officer to "assist me to find the runway". The First Officer's responses to this request were limited to "pay attention to the altitude" (he had probably already lost sight of the runway). As the aircraft reached its furthest distance from the runway on base leg during the turn inbound, the Captain asked the First Officer if he had the runway in sight and was told by the First Officer that he "could not see out". The First Officer immediately followed this with "must go around" and three seconds after that, he called out "Pull Up!" Pull Up!". The aircraft pitch increased to +11.4° but there was no concurrent increase in thrust and initial contact with terrain at 670 feet began two seconds later as the aircraft reached the extended runway centreline. The aircraft was equipped with a serviceable GPWS but no alerts were activated at any point during circling. The Investigation noted that at the time of the accident, the definition of the area within which circling by Category 'C' aircraft had to be accomplished and thus the calculation of the applicable MDA was, under the FAA TERPS system on which the Busan procedure was based, within 1.7 nm of the runway. The TERPS area for Category 'D' aircraft was defined as within 2.3 nm of the runway. It was also found that there were no international procedures or regulations requiring aircraft operators to notify airports in advance of the approach category of their aircraft and local records of such information were "both incomplete and unreliable". This meant that controllers had to ask the crews of inbound aircraft for their approach category as happened prior to this accident. It was also noted that all circling procedures not only require that aircraft remain within the aircraft category-based circling area but that if visual contact with the runway and its environment are lost, a go-around must be initiated immediately. In the case of the procedure as flown by the accident aircraft, it was noted that the crew had declared their aircraft as Category 'C' and had used the Jeppesen MDA for that category of 700 feet. Editors Note: Boeing list the 767-200 as aircraft category 'C' but the 767-200ER (the accident aircraft) as aircraft category 'D', the same as the 767-300 for which the Jeppesen chart gave an MDA of 1100 feet. The aircraft track took it outside both Category 'C' and 'D' circling areas (see the illustration above) but the crew had no access to a Busan-specific circling procedure chart or any other chart showing these areas or proximate terrain at an appropriate level of detail. The Investigation attributed the accident primarily to the failure of the Captain to immediately initiate a go around when sight of the runway and its environment was lost