inputs which were recorded following this initial manoeuvre. Once the upset was quickly developing, it was noted that the composition of the picture on the faulty PFD would have been affected by the built-in de-clutter function, the appearance of chevrons and the removal of comparator cautions designed to alert to differences between the two PFDs which in the case of pitch or bank indications are designed to direct both pilots' attention to the Standby Artificial Horizon so as to determine which PFD is correct. The provision of accessible information on these subjects was found to be lacking. It was also noted that "there are no regulatory requirements for standard callouts for abnormal or unusual situations". Overall, it was considered that "the rapid change of the pitch angle indicated on PFD 1, the severe changes in g-loads that the crew was subjected to and the large number of audio and visual warnings probably contributed to the pilots focusing on their on-side PFD units". It was concluded that "these conditions, the fact that there was no training method for effective communication in an unexpected or abnormal situation and that the crew therefore had not practised this" had contributed to the crew not being able to jointly identify the problem in time to prevent an unrecoverable loss of control from developing. The Investigation took the view that the best generic way to reduce the risk of repetition of an event such as the investigated one would be to focus on "general methods" to resolve unpredictable situations rather than attempting "to anticipate all possible scenarios". It was considered that this approach would require "a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations". Such a system would be based on a series of universally prescribed "initial standard calls" to be used in the event of a sudden unexpected situation to foster "clear, precise and bidirectional communication between the pilots". It was further considered that whilst it was recognised that "this is already in place within some aircraft manufacturers' manuals and some operators [...] it is surprising that this is not a standard throughout the commercial air transport industry". A number of issues relating to the Swedish Search and Rescue function, including but not limited to liaison with ATC and delays in response, were also identified. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the accident was "insufficient operational prerequisites for the management of a failure in a redundant system". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: The absence of an effective system for communication in abnormal and emergency situations.. The flight instrument system provided insufficient guidance about malfunctions that occurred.. The initial manoeuvre that resulted in negative G-loads probably affected the pilots' ability to manage the situation in a rational manner.. It was also concluded in respect of Risk that "the fact that fault descriptions regarding aircraft and its components are reported in a less detailed manner might imply that the faults will not