the upset had begun, with the aircraft descending through about 24,000 feet and the recorded speed at 400 knots, the First Officer transmitted a MAYDAY call to ATC, which was acknowledged. However, it was considered by the Investigation that prior to this time, the airspeed and pitch attitude of the aircraft had already significantly exceeded the limits of the design flight envelope and that this "in combination with the spatial disorientation of the flight crew" was likely to have meant that "the possibilities to regain control of the aircraft were limited". The aircraft collided with terrain inverted one minute and twenty seconds after the first abnormal indications had appeared the Captain's PFD. The ground track of the descending aircraft derived from ATC sources is shown in the illustration below. It was found that the only plausible explanation of the erroneous display of pitch attitude on the Captain's PFD as recorded on the DFDR was an "internal malfunction" of IRU1 which, under normal switching, when abnormal data was first displayed and was not altered thereafter, would have been the sole source of the attitude indications on the Captain's PFD during the upset. However, neither the Investigation nor the IRU Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) were able to find any similar IRU malfunctions and the OEM "performed physical tests and software tests without being able to reproduce the scenario". In respect of the Bank Angle warnings which began and continued during the upset, it was noted that they are generated using both the pitch and yaw gyros which "means that, upon manoeuvring in several dimensions simultaneously, the roll and heading information will become erroneous if the pitch gyro provides erroneous information". A comparison of the aircraft actual pitch attitude during the upset which would have been correctly displayed on the other two indications of pitch attitude available to the crew but which there was no recorded reference to and the pitch attitude which would have been erroneously displayed on the Captain's PFD is shown in the second illustration below. The Investigation surmised that the onset of the abnormal indications was likely to have constituted a "surprise" for the Captain and that this when caused by unexpected changes "can affect or delay rational behaviour". In this context a definition of surprise as "the emotionally-based recognition of a difference in what was expected and what is actual" by ICAO was noted. The importance of using (correct) flight instrument indications when there is, as in this case, no external visual reference, was noted given that there was no evidence that either pilot realised that the Captain was attempting to control the aircraft using a single faulty display when the two other available attitude displays continued to show the actual pitch attitude. It was considered that the negative 'g' which occurred during the 'bunt' manoeuvre which resulted from the Captain's rapid initial pitch down is capable of causing an "inversion illusion" - the feeling of being upside down and that this may have led to the roll