be identified and corrected in an efficient way" and that "this can in turn lead to a flight safety issue as, for instance, intermittent faults cannot always be detected by general tests". A total of 14 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ICAO should ensure that a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations is implemented throughout the commercial air transport industry. [RL 2016:11 R1]. that the EASA should ensure that a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations is implemented throughout the commercial air transport industry. [RL 2016:11 R2]. that the EASA should ensure that the design criteria of PFD units are improved in such a way that pertinent cautions are not removed during unusual attitude or de-clutter modes. [RL 2016:11 R3]. that Transport Canada should ensure that a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations is implemented throughout the commercial air transport industry. [RL 2016:11 R4]. that Transport Canada should ensure that the design criteria of PFD units are improved in such a way that pertinent cautions are not removed during unusual attitude or de-clutter modes. [RL 2016:11 R5]. that the FAA should ensure that a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations is implemented throughout the commercial air transport industry. [RL 2016:11 R6]. that the FAA should ensure that the design criteria of PFD units are improved in such a way that pertinent cautions are not removed during unusual attitude or de-clutter modes. [RL 2016:11 R7]. that the Swedish Transport Agency should ensure that providers of air traffic control units guarantee procedures to enable an alerting message about a critical situation to be submitted immediately to the air rescue centre concerned. [RL 2016:11 R8]. that the Swedish Transport Agency should ensure that providers of air traffic control units train and exercise relevant personnel so that they can assist the air rescue centre in accordance with current regulations. [RL 2016:11 R9]. that the Swedish Transport Agency should ensure that the Maritime Administration secures that all crews maintaining preparedness for SAR missions in mountainous areas fulfil the requirements on capability to perform appropriate search tasks. [RL 2016:11 R10]. that the Swedish Maritime Administration should develop the coordination between the sea and air rescue coordination centre (JRCC) and concerned air traffic control units (including ATCC) so that air traffic control units’ staff becomes familiar with which facts and other information they may need to assist JRCC. [RL 2016:11 R11]. that the Swedish Maritime Administration should ensure that rescue commanders and assistant rescue commanders are given regular training and exercising in staff work with collaborators from other authorities responsible for rescue services and organisations in JRCC. [RL 2016:11