An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK). The aircraft was fitted with a DFDR and a CVR which were both recovered and all their recorded data was successfully downloaded despite their having sustained significant external damage at impact. However, the process of validating the DFDR data led to the finding that four of those which would have been potentially useful - pitch angle, roll angle, magnetic heading and ground speed - "were not compatible with the aircraft's actual movement". The four parameters concerned were all derived from the No 1 IRU which was the source of indications on the Captain's PFD. Pitch angle was recalculated using TAS, altitude and angle of attack, the latter used in place of bank angle which meant that "there might be an error of a few degrees in case of large bank angles". It was a noted that the 42 year-old Captain, who was PF for the accident flight, had a total of 3,365 total flying hours of which 2,208 hours were on CRJ variants - 1,569 hours on the CRJ200 and 639 hours on the CRJ 900 (all as First Officer with a previous employer). He had received his basic flight training in Spain and had been promoted to Captain after qualifying for his ATPL in March 2014 with the required skill test for the licence being conducted on the accident aircraft type. The 33 year-old First Officer, had a total of 3,232 total flying hours including 1,064 hours on type. He had received his basic flight training in France and had gained earlier experience on the BAe ATP aircraft with the same operator. All communication between the two pilots recorded on the CVR, both operational and private, was in English. No evidence was found that that either pilot had received any basic training in aerobatic flight. It was established that the flight had been uneventful until the crew were in the process of completing the approach briefing whilst level at FL330 shortly before they expected to begin the descent to Tromso. The evidence available indicated that the Captain's PFD suddenly began to indicate a sharp increase in pitch angle despite the fact that the aircraft remained in level flight and the AP simultaneously disconnected automatically. The indications of pitch attitude on both the First Officer's PFD and the Standby Artificial Horizon continued to display the 1° pitch up normal for the cruise. Within 3 seconds, the control column was pushed forward and the pitch trim began to be adjusted from the left control column switch. Two seconds later, the recorded pitch angle exceeded 30° down. The sudden change of pitch created negative 'g' loading and 7/8 seconds later, 'Bank Angle' EGPWS Warnings were annunciated and the Captain began asking for "help" from the First Officer who had not previously spoken. Soon afterwards, Vmo and Mmo were simultaneously exceeded followed after six seconds by Md, the Maximum Design Diving speed - M0.91 - being exceeded too. Thirty seconds after