Various BAC levels have been used to define when someone has consumed too much alcohol and therefore is unfit for some activity. For example, a BAC of 0.08 (0.08 grams of alcohol per 100 ml of blood) is used in all 50 of the United States to define a level of intoxication at which it is illegal to drive a car. Many other countries define even lower BAC limits for drivers. Most countries and airlines have a bottle to throttle rule specifying how much time must elapse from the last drink until a pilot flies. The typical value is 8 hours, although some rules specify 10 or 12 hours. There are also BAC limits for flying, which typically are zero (0.00) or 0.02. An important point for a pilot to note is that alcohol can be impairing even after your BAC returns to zero. Anyone who has ever experienced a hangover can tell you that. Thus, while a nice cocktail and glass of wine at dinner before a noon departure the next day is probably fine, more extensive drinking can significantly increase safety risk even if your BAC is zero when you get to the cockpit. All of the available scientific evidence shows conclusively that any alcohol use causes impairment with the nature of the effects being dose dependant. At BACs below 0.03, euphoria and some impairment of judgement are evident. As BAC increases above 0.03, functions such as divided attention, choice reaction time, visual perception, tracking and steering, eye movement control, standing steadiness, emergency responses, coordination and information processing judgment have been shown to be significantly impaired. Above a BAC of about 0.05, lack of coordination and problems with gross motor control occur. Although sleep is promoted by alcohol because of its sedative effect, it can also actually impair sleep quality and even cause insomnia. Alcohol, when consumed in excess amounts, has a wide range of short- and long-term ill effects on an individual's health. Alcohol causes inflammation of the stomach, pancreas, and intestines, which impairs the digestion of food and absorption into blood. Moreover, acetaldehyde (the oxidation product of alcohol) can interfere with the activation of vitamins. Alcohol has a high caloric value; hence it can lead to weight gain when consumed in large quantities. It also causes low blood-sugar levels and dehydration, leading to an increase in appetite. Caffeine is a stimulant that is contained in many beverages, foods and OTC drugs. The use of caffeine can prevent falling asleep, but it does not necessarily improve performance. The performance of a person who is not significantly fatigued but may be bored or otherwise drowsy from lack of stimulation, can possibly benefit from the stimulant effects of caffeine. On the other hand, a grossly fatigued individual may be kept awake by large dose of caffeine but will still exhibit impaired performance. Pilots can effectively use caffeine from coffee or tea on long-range flights if they time its intake appropriately. Advice on when to schedule caffeine intake can be