quite visible and others being more distant in time and place from the actual accident. It is important to realize, that in such a system, the consequences of an error typically depend more on factors other than the apparent gravity of the error itself. In other words, it is usually wrong to think that a big catastrophe must have been preceded by an equally serious error. More commonly it is the number of errors and the capability of the system to contain the errors that determine the outcomes. Error (lapse): Setting the flaps correctly for takeoff is forgotten. Factors influencing the consequences: Aircraft type and performance. Actual takeoff weight. Runway length and obstructions ahead. Functioning of the takeoff configuration warning.. Error (mistake): Navigation error. Factors influencing the consequences: Other aircraft nearby. High terrain nearby. Functioning of the Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS). Warnings from Air Traffic Control (ATC). Functioning of the Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System (EGPWS).. As these examples portray, the very same error can have completely different consequences, depending on the factors involved. Some error types tend to have more serious consequences than others: Slips are usually easy to detect quickly and do not have immediate serious consequences due to built-in system protections.. Lapses may be more difficult to detect and therefore may also be more likely to have consequences.. Mistakes are even more dangerous, because the person committing the mistake believes that he or she is doing the correct thing and thus carries on with the action often despite a growing number of signs that things are not going right.. Violations are similar to mistakes but with an increased potential to deviate to an abnormal type of operation with an associated increase in risk. Many violations are tempting because often they bring benefits without any readily apparent drawbacks. The embedded dangers may not be obvious, and people have few chances to learn to appreciate them because violations are forbidden and thus a taboo subject. For example, the violator usually assumes the remainder of the system to be nominal (i.e., no other errors or violations). Ironically, Line Operations Safety Audit (Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA)) data have shown that a violation almost doubles the chances of committing a further error or violation during the remainder of the flight.. One common false assumption is that errors and violations are limited to incidents and accidents. Recent data from flight operations monitoring programs (e.g., LOSA) indicate that errors and violations are quite common. According to a University of Texas LOSA database, in approximately 60% of the studied flights at least one error or violation was observed, the average being 1.5 errors per flight. A quarter of the errors and violations were mismanaged or had consequences (an undesired aircraft state or an additional error). The study also indicated that a third of the errors were detected and corrected by the flight crew, 4% were detected but made worse, and more than 60% of errors remained undetected. These data underline the