factors are particularly important in view of the biases and heuristics[2] that can distort the diagnostic process. Strategic factors determine the difficulty of the situation in terms of multiple goals, some of which are often partly in conflict. Usually, some goals are obvious and official, while it is possible that others are hidden, personal or even unconscious. Strategic factors become most visible in decision-making situations.. Following a system failure, the flight crew hesitates between: landing at the nearest airport that has a short runway and limited landing aids, and,. continuing to the original destination that is also the airline’s base with maintenance facilities and a good runway. Safety, operational and passenger comfort goals all mix together.. The pilots may have their own emotional preference for continuing to the base because that means getting home. There may also be fear of sanction by management if the flight crew lands the aircraft at an unplanned destination “without real need.” It is clear that while some strategic factors originate from the flight crew, many of them are imposed by the organization and external agents. Obviously, the organization should try to ensure that serious goal conflicts are avoided or when they do arise that safety is not compromised. A significant proportion of mistakes is caused by incorrect situation diagnosis, which is a particularly problematic task for human cognition. Such diagnosis is mainly due to the biases and heuristics used by human cognition in an attempt to process rapidly large amounts of information. Expectation bias helps to fill in the blanks in communications and understand incomplete messages, but it can also make the person hear what he or she expects to hear instead of what was actually said. Expectation bias is difficult to counteract. It is important to stress the importance of readbacks and to really listen.. Availability heuristic helps to collect information rapidly, but puts more emphasis on the most easily available information sources rather than the most reliable and relevant sources. Availability heuristic can be counteracted through good design of instruments, procedures and training that prompt the flight crew to focus on the contextually most relevant information sources while also underscoring the limitations of these sources.. Confirmation bias helps create a hypothetical diagnosis about the situation rapidly, but the hypothesis is based only on a subset of available information and may lead to fixation, where an incorrect diagnosis is maintained despite an increasing quantity of counter-evidence. This bias underlines the value of “fresh eyes” making an independent diagnosis..