After agreement between the Norwegian AIB (AIBN) and the Finnish Safety Investigation Authority (SIAF), conduct of an Investigation was delegated to the SAIF. Relevant data from the DFDR were successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation. Relevant data on the CVR was found to have been overwritten because it had not been stopped. It was noted that the 43 year-old Captain had 8873 hours total flying experience and had been type rated on the E190 since December 2007. The 30 year old First Officer had 2672 hours total flying experience and had also been type rated on the E190 since 2007. The prevailing weather and pavement surface conditions at Oslo had been benign and not a factor in the sequence of events. It was established that with the Captain as PF, the aircraft had been taxied in accordance with its clearance - which included a line-up and takeoff clearance - from the de-icing area to the departure runway. During the approximately two minutes which this took, the Engine Start, Taxi and Line-up Checklists were required to be completed (the first of these because of the remote de-icing action). There was no FDR evidence to support the completion of the first of these as claimed by the crew but the last item on the Line Up Checklist had been completed before the aircraft entered the runway near its full length - see the diagram below. It was noted that "there are five items on this checklist and while three of them were being done, the head of the co-pilot was down in the cockpit" and that "the same applied to the Captain during the completion of four checklist items". In the absence of the overwritten CVR recording, it was observed that it was "impossible to determine when the checklist itself was read". Radar and FDR data showed that without stopping, the aircraft entered the runway, crossed the centreline, aligned with the runway on top of the left runway edge lights and "commenced a rolling take-off......with a slow acceleration". According to recorded surface radar data, it took approximately five seconds to reach the runway centreline once on the runway and then a further 14 seconds to make it to the left edge of the runway and line up in the direction of the runway. It was found that "the take-off run had continued over the left runway edge lights until the fourth light fixture, at which point it became apparent to the Captain that the aircraft was not on the runway centre line". The Investigation was unable to establish how the Captain had recognised this but both pilots reported hearing a "clunk" at almost the same time as the gradual track correction towards the runway centreline had begun. They stated that they "felt that the sound resembled the sound of the nose gear travelling over a recessed centreline light fixture". The pilots reported that after take-off, they had "concluded that they might have collided with runway edge lights” and two minutes after