departure had reported their suspicions to Oslo APP to which they had changed. Approximately half an hour later, Stockholm ACC advised the pilots that runway edge lights had been found damaged. Once TWR were aware, the runway was closed and an inspection was commenced but prior to this, a Boeing 737 had landed on the debris-contaminated section and another aircraft had taken off from the runway, although it had commenced its take-off beyond the area in which broken light debris was subsequently found. The runway was closed for approximately 25 minutes for inspection and debris removal. After this had been completed, with the finding that three edge lights has been destroyed by impact with the aircraft landing gear and remains from them, including substantial pieces of broken glass, had been "strewn across the concrete" surface of the runway, the Finnair flight was informed of the broken runway edge lights. Only debris from one of the damaged lights was kept for the use of the Investigation. Damage to the inner left main gear tyre attributable to runway light debris was discovered on arrival at Helsinki during a post-landing inspection carried out jointly by the flight crew and maintenance personnel. Similar damage to the right nose gear tyre and damage to the engine was not discovered until later, when the aircraft had been towed to a maintenance hangar in preparation for the wheel change on the main landing gear. The right engine was found to have sustained sufficient damage to its fan blades from ingested light debris to require removal for repair and was replaced. It was noted that this engine damage was only detected during "an extra inspection conducted by an experienced shift supervisor". It was noted that the AMM only requires a visual inspection of engine compressor and turbine parts once every 600 flight hours and otherwise depends on the (outdoor) pre-flight external inspection carried out by pilots. It was considered that the weather and lighting conditions under which such inspections are often performed would inevitably sometimes impact on its thoroughness. One of the damaged fan blades had a 25 mm long crack which, had it remained undetected, "would probably have grown on the following flights" and may well have "resulted in the fan blade failure and major damage to the engine". The Investigation noted that the crew cross check that the correct runway has been identified is, of necessity, done before entry and therefore does not necessarily support the achievement of correct alignment on that runway after that entry. Whilst primarily seeking to understand how the pilots involved had lost situational awareness when others in compatible situations did not, the Investigation also looked at the way ATC communications were handled prior to the take-off and concluded that the combined taxi, line-up and take-off clearance given was inappropriate and that "the take-off clearance should only have been issued when the aircraft was approaching the holding position". It was also considered possible that the issue of the combined clearance, together with