what was observed to be the rapid rate of speech used to deliver it (which was in excess of 200 words per minute compared to the ICAO Recommendation for a maximum of 100 words per minute) "may have created a feeling of haste" for the pilots even if they did not consciously realise this. The Investigation also noted the possible contributory effect of the fact that at the time of the incident, all runway markings in Norway were yellow rather than the normal white, which resulted in less contrast when seen against the concrete that made up the runway pavement in the threshold area where the crew had lost their way. It was also noted that the entry to runway 01L followed by the aircraft had been from an angled - rather than a 'standard' 90º - taxiway and that there was an opportunity to re-word the applicable 'Hotspot' text to match that used for a comparable case at an intersection further along the runway. The consequences of the event in terms of the contamination of the runway by debris were considered. It was noted that the instructions for dealing with foreign object debris at Oslo "instructed all regular workers at the airport to remove or mark and report any foreign object debris" but that they did not "provide for documenting the location of the debris or the items themselves, nor for preserving the debris for the purpose of possible investigation". This situation was in line with Norwegian Aviation Regulations. It was also noted that "according to information from Oslo ATC, air traffic control is not required to inform other traffic of foreign object debris on the part of the movement area which is being used”. The content of the 2010 Australian Transportation Safety Board (ATSB) Report 'Factors influencing misaligned take-off occurrences at night' was noted by the Investigation as applicable to a number of the issues in the investigated event. It was concluded that the Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was that the flight crew mistook the left runway edge lights for runway centreline lights while lining up. This resulted in a misaligned take-off over the elevated runway edge lights as well as damage to the runway lights and the aircraft itself. A Contributory Factor was identified as "Inadequate Crew Resource Management" Three Possible Contributing Factors were identified as: darkness. the special characteristics of the taxiways, the runway and the runway shoulder areas. unsatisfactory radio phraseology and air traffic control clearances as well as the rapid rate of speech which may have caused subconscious haste on the part of the flight crew. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated event during the course of the Investigation was noted as follows: The content of the maintenance Service Check After the Investigation Commission called attention to the fact that maintenance personnel only perform a visual check of engines once every 600 flight hours, Finnair revised its 48 hour-interval Service Check to add a visual engine check.. After