the Investigation Commission called attention to the fact that maintenance personnel only perform a visual check of engines once every 600 flight hours, Finnair revised its 48 hour-interval Service Check to add a visual engine check. Operations manuals and checklists After both this event and the Serious Incident that occurred to a Finnair flight in Hong Kong on 26 Nov 2010, Finnair revised its fleet-wide instructions on confirmation of the correct runway.. After both this event and the Serious Incident that occurred to a Finnair flight in Hong Kong on 26 Nov 2010, Finnair revised its fleet-wide instructions on confirmation of the correct runway. Issue of taxi and take-off clearances After the Investigation Commission drew attention to the fact that Avinor had not implemented Accident Investigation Board Norway's (AIBN) recommendation that take-off clearances should not be issued until the air traffic controller has verified that the aircraft has passed a point where the only remaining possibility for departure is on the intended runway, AIBN advised its intention to implement a new three phase clearance procedure. First, the aircraft is cleared to the holding position. Second, when the aircraft is either approaching the holding point or stops at it, it is cleared to line up. Third, the take-off clearance is only issued after the aircraft has passed the holding point.. After the Investigation Commission drew attention to the fact that Avinor had not implemented Accident Investigation Board Norway's (AIBN) recommendation that take-off clearances should not be issued until the air traffic controller has verified that the aircraft has passed a point where the only remaining possibility for departure is on the intended runway, AIBN advised its intention to implement a new three phase clearance procedure. First, the aircraft is cleared to the holding position. Second, when the aircraft is either approaching the holding point or stops at it, it is cleared to line up. Third, the take-off clearance is only issued after the aircraft has passed the holding point. Six Safety Recommendations were made upon the completion of the Investigation as follows: that Finnair include the verification of the correct runway as a separate item with minimum dissimilarity between different aircraft types' checklists. Guidelines for the verification of the correct take-off position are also needed.. that Finnair establish a procedure which prevents the flight crew from lining up before they are completely ready for take-off.. that Avinor instruct air traffic controllers to use the rate of speech specified by the ICAO as well as complete radio call signs.. that Avinor equalises the texts for Hot Spot 2 and Hot Spot 3 concerning the reduced visibility caused by angled taxiways.. that Avinor establish a procedure for informing pilots and/or operators of foreign object debris found in the movement area used by their aircraft.. that Avinor and/or CAA Norway draft an instruction for documenting and retrieving foreign object debris found in the movement area.. The Investigation also made a number of "Suggestions" based on its findings: that Finnair in conjunction with their simulator