TAWS equipment is classified as Class A or Class B according to the degree of sophistication of the system. In essence, Class A systems are required for all but the smallest commercial air transport aircraft, while Class B systems are required by larger General Aviation (GA) aircraft and recommended for smaller commercial or GA aircraft. Full details of regulatory requirements are given later in this article. TAWS equipment must provide the following functions: A Forward Looking Terrain Avoidance (FLTA) function. The FLTA function looks ahead of the aircraft along and below its lateral and vertical flight path and provides suitable alerts if a potential CFIT threat exists.. A Premature Descent Alert (PDA) function. The DA function of the TAWS uses the aircraft’s current position and flight path information as determined from a suitable navigation source and airport database to determine if the aircraft is hazardously below the normal (typically 3 degree) approach path for the nearest runway as defined by the alerting algorithm.. An appropriate visual and aural discrete signal for both caution and warning alerts.. Class A TAWS equipment must provide terrain information to be presented on a display system.. Class A TAWS equipment must provide indications of imminent contact with the ground for the following conditions: Excessive Rates of Descent Excessive Closure Rate to Terrain. Negative Climb Rate or Altitude Loss After Take-off Flight Into Terrain When Not in Landing Configuration Excessive downward deviation from an Instrument Landing System (ILS) glideslope, Localizer Performance and Vertical Guidance (LPV), or Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Landing System (GLS) glidepath. Voice callout “Five Hundred” when the airplane descends to 500 feet above the terrain or nearest runway elevation.. Excessive Rates of Descent. Excessive Closure Rate to Terrain.. Negative Climb Rate or Altitude Loss After Take-off. Flight Into Terrain When Not in Landing Configuration. Excessive downward deviation from an Instrument Landing System (ILS) glideslope, Localizer Performance and Vertical Guidance (LPV), or Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) Landing System (GLS) glidepath.. Voice callout “Five Hundred” when the airplane descends to 500 feet above the terrain or nearest runway elevation.. Class B equipment must provide indications of imminent contact with the ground during the following aircraft operations: Excessive Rates of Descent Negative Climb Rate or Altitude Loss After Takeoff A voice callout “Five Hundred” when the airplane descends to 500 feet above the nearest runway elevation.. Excessive Rates of Descent. Negative Climb Rate or Altitude Loss After Takeoff. A voice callout “Five Hundred” when the airplane descends to 500 feet above the nearest runway elevation.. The manufacturer may provide other functions in addition to the above.