Fatigue results in part from a decrease in the stock of carbohydrates (glucose) in the body. There are few studies about the specific relationship between nutrition status and the physical performance level of a pilot during a long-haul flight. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to conclude that eating habits and their impact on nutrition can be related to pilot performance and safety. The energy expenditure of a pilot during a long-haul flight can be estimated at 200 kilocalories per hour (kcal/h). Since the stock of carbohydrates in a typical human provides a storehouse of about 2,500 kcal, the desired glucose blood concentration (glycemia) can be maintained for approximately 8-10 hours between two meals for a man strictly at rest. However, even light physical or mental effort increases the body’s need for glucose. Thus, even for a nominal workload of 150 kcal/h the stored glycemia begins to be used up in four to five hours without eating, resulting in decreased cognitive performance and fatigue. Based on this simple example, it is reasonable to conclude that food intake is necessary after three or four hours of flight. In addition to maintaining a sufficient stock of glucose, mental performance must also be maintained by an appropriate nutritional approach and timing. For a normally alert and rested person, the intake of fast (sweets) or slow (potatoes, cereal) release carbohydrates leads to a decreased level of alertness 30 to 60 minutes after intake. Thus, taking carbohydrates, while favorable to physical performance, can lead to a decreased level of cognitive performance. By contrast, a meal rich in proteins (meat, fish, eggs, milk derivatives) seems to improve the cognitive performance of those who are fatigued. These considerations of nutritional physiology lead to the following principles to follow when flying long-haul flights: The crew should begin a long-haul flight with a high stockpile of energy from a meal consumed sufficiently long before the flight that it will not induce any drowsiness. The optimal intake is about 800 kcal one hour before the flight that includes 50% slow release carbohydrates, 30% fats and 20% proteins. If the flight will last more than three hours, food intake should be scheduled during the flight. The energy bars often taken by athletes are not an appropriate substitute for more balanced food intake because they are too rich in carbohydrates.. It is also important to drink water during the flight to avoid any decrease in performance and vigilance due to dehydration.. After the flight, it is important to eat a meal to recover a good level of performance and alertness.. Some typical menus that will help you follow these principles are shown below. Before a Flight: During a Flight: After a Flight: Dinner the day before the flight: "spaghetti party" with 100-150 g of pasta (or potatoes) with white meat (chicken, veal or fish). A cream-based dessert. Just before the flight (at any time of the day or the night): easily digestible foods rich in calories such as eggs, cheese, white meat, buttered bread,