same drugs may be used as sedatives. Alcohol is included in this drug family. Insomnia, anxiety. Poor sleep quality Daytime sleepiness Fatigue Risk of dependence. Daytime sleepiness Fatigue Risk of dependence Anti-allergy and decongestive drugs These drugs include antihistamines and nasal decongestant pills and sprays. Many are sold OTC.. These drugs include antihistamines and nasal decongestant pills and sprays. Many are sold OTC. Nose and ear infections Skin or oronasal allergy. Skin or oronasal allergy Sleepines Vision trouble Postural trouble Vertigo. Vision trouble Postural trouble Vertigo Anti-flu “cocktails” These are often combinations of antihistamines, decongestants, cough suppressant and pain relief medications sold OTC and widely advertised.. These are often combinations of antihistamines, decongestants, cough suppressant and pain relief medications sold OTC and widely advertised. Colds Influenza Mild nose, ear or throat infections. Influenza Mild nose, ear or throat infections Sleepiness Fatigue Vertigo Vision trouble Digestive trouble Bowel irritations Dry mouth. Fatigue Vertigo Vision trouble Digestive trouble Bowel irritations Dry mouth Anti-coughing (antitussive) drugs As prescription drugs, these can contain codeine and some antihistamines. OTC versions without codeine are also available. As prescription drugs, these can contain codeine and some antihistamines. OTC versions without codeine are also available Cough. Sleepiness Fatigue Digestive trouble. Fatigue Digestive trouble Muscle relaxant drugs Muscle relaxants help relax muscles, ease pain, and reduce stiffness.. Muscle relaxants help relax muscles, ease pain, and reduce stiffness. Injury (e.g., sport trauma), back pain, neck tension, muscle tension. Sleepiness "Drunk" feeling Fatigue. "Drunk" feeling Fatigue Analgesics (anti-pain drugs) An analgesic (colloquially known as a “painkiller”) is any member of a diverse group of prescription and OTC drugs used to relieve pain. They include paracetamol (acetaminophen), the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates (aspirin), narcotic drugs such as morphine, synthetic drugs with narcotic properties such as tramadol, and various others.. An analgesic (colloquially known as a “painkiller”) is any member of a diverse group of prescription and OTC drugs used to relieve pain. They include paracetamol (acetaminophen), the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates (aspirin), narcotic drugs such as morphine, synthetic drugs with narcotic properties such as tramadol, and various others. Pain. Sleepiness Digestive trouble Risk of dependence. Digestive trouble Risk of dependence Anti-inflammatory drugs There are a variety of anti-inflammatory drugs including the NSAIDs (discussed above), anabolic steroids and corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone). Anabolic steroids have been used by athletes to build body mass and improve performance.. There are a variety of anti-inflammatory drugs including the NSAIDs (discussed above), anabolic steroids and corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone). Anabolic steroids have been used by athletes to build body mass and improve performance. Oronasal infections, persistent coughs, asthma, tendonitis, vertebral pain. Vertigo Sleepiness (occasionally) Hyperactivity Severe withdrawal reactions. Sleepiness (occasionally) Hyperactivity Severe withdrawal reactions Anti-headache drugs Some relatively new prescription drugs are available to treat or prevent migraine headaches. These include Topiramate (brand name Topamax) and Fiorinal, a combination analgesic medication consisting of aspirin, the barbiturate butalbital and caffeine.. Some relatively new prescription drugs are available to treat or prevent migraine