headaches. These include Topiramate (brand name Topamax) and Fiorinal, a combination analgesic medication consisting of aspirin, the barbiturate butalbital and caffeine. Occasional severe headache Frequent migraine. Frequent migraine Cognitive deficiency (particularly word-finding difficulty) Sleepiness Lethargy Impairment of fine motor skills Vision abnormality and transient or permanent vision loss Fatigue Dizziness Insomnia Anxiety Depression Digestive trouble Dependency. Sleepiness Lethargy Impairment of fine motor skills Vision abnormality and transient or permanent vision loss Fatigue Dizziness Insomnia Anxiety Depression Digestive trouble Dependency Antihypertensive drugs A class of drugs that are used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). There are many classes of antihypertensives, which—by varying means—lower blood pressure to reduce the risk of stroke, coronary heart disease and the likelihood of dementia, heart failure and mortality from cardiovascular disease.. A class of drugs that are used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). There are many classes of antihypertensives, which—by varying means—lower blood pressure to reduce the risk of stroke, coronary heart disease and the likelihood of dementia, heart failure and mortality from cardiovascular disease. High arterial blood pressure. Effects vary by drug class but include: Fatigue Sleepiness Decreased tolerance to accelerations Headache Dizziness Confusion Dry mouth Fainting, seizure or convulsions (rare). Fatigue Sleepiness Decreased tolerance to accelerations Headache Dizziness Confusion Dry mouth Fainting, seizure or convulsions (rare) Anti-diarrhea drugs OTC medicines such as Immodium® and prescription drugs such as Lomotil®, which act to stop diarrhea and thereby reduce the chance of dehydration.. OTC medicines such as Immodium® and prescription drugs such as Lomotil®, which act to stop diarrhea and thereby reduce the chance of dehydration. Diarrhea. Fatigue Sleepiness Vertigo. Sleepiness Vertigo Stomach ulcer/GERD drugs Many OTC and prescription drugs are directed at reducing stomach acid to help cure heartburn caused by ulcers or Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD).. Many OTC and prescription drugs are directed at reducing stomach acid to help cure heartburn caused by ulcers or Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD). Ulcer, GERD. Headaches (occasionally) Vertigo. Vertigo Anti-nausea drugs There are numerous drugs both OTC (e.g., Dramamine®, Bonine ®) and prescription (e.g., Antivert®) that reduce nausea from motion sickness or illnesses such as middle ear infections. Pilot trainees may be particularly interested in these drugs if they develop symptoms as they adapt to flight conditions.. There are numerous drugs both OTC (e.g., Dramamine®, Bonine ®) and prescription (e.g., Antivert®) that reduce nausea from motion sickness or illnesses such as middle ear infections. Pilot trainees may be particularly interested in these drugs if they develop symptoms as they adapt to flight conditions. Motion sickness and middle ear disorders. Decreased visual acuity Decreased glare resistance Blurred vision Sleepiness Headache Dry mouth. Decreased glare resistance Blurred vision Sleepiness Headache Dry mouth Anti-malaria drugs Antimalarial drugs are designed to prevent or cure malaria. Some antimalarial agents, particularly chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, are also used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus associated arthritis. There are many prescription anti-malaria drugs currently on the market.. Antimalarial drugs are designed to prevent or cure malaria. Some antimalarial agents, particularly chloroquine and