today and their possible adverse effects. It must also be remembered that taking medications in combination or with alcohol can change both the nature and intensity of the deleterious effects. Remember that all medications are potentially dangerous and that you should not fly after intake of a drug unless the flight surgeon has prescribed it or checked its efficacy and tolerability. Many drugs, although illegal to consume or possess, are nevertheless widely used. Other drugs that have legitimate medical uses can be abused if not taken as prescribed by a doctor or taken for non-medical purposes. People seek a “high” or escape from reality by abusing substances such as: Cannabis (marijuana) - not illegal everywhere. Psilocybin mushrooms. Opium. Heroin - illegal in most countries. Cocaine. Morphine. Methamphetamine (meth).. Almost all illicit drug use leads to some level of impairment that is detrimental to safe flight. Illicit drug use is not only dangerous but also can ruin a flying career. As a pilot, you should never use illicit drugs. Contrary to popular belief, alcohol acts as a depressant not a stimulant. What is often mistaken for mood elevation from alcohol (e.g., loud speech, aggressive behaviour) is actually a result of its disinhibiting effects. As one drinks, alcohol first affects judgement and removes inhibitions and then degrades psychomotor performance. Blood alcohol concentration (BAC) is the measure typically used to indicate a person’s degree of impairment. BAC is the weight of alcohol in grams per 100 ml of blood. The time for a person to reach a peak BAC after consuming alcohol varies depending on the rate of absorption of the alcohol into the bloodstream. This absorption rate can be influenced by body build and size, age, gender (females tend to be affected more than males), whether food has been taken with the alcohol and the type of drink. On average, alcohol is eliminated from the body at the rate of about one standard drink (a BAC of about 0.03) per hour. However, the elimination rate of alcohol can vary greatly by individual depending on factors such as gender, body mass and drinking frequency. Various BAC levels have been used to define when someone has consumed too much alcohol and therefore is unfit for some activity. For example, a BAC of 0.08 (0.08 grams of alcohol per 100 ml of blood) is used in all 50 of the United States to define a level of intoxication at which it is illegal to drive a car. Many other countries define even lower BAC limits for drivers. Most countries and airlines have a bottle to throttle rule specifying how much time must elapse from the last drink until a pilot flies. The typical value is 8 hours, although some rules specify 10 or 12 hours. There are also BAC limits for flying, which typically are zero (0.00) or 0.02. An important point for a pilot to note is that alcohol can be impairing even after your BAC returns to zero. Anyone who has ever experienced