hydroxychloroquine, are also used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus associated arthritis. There are many prescription anti-malaria drugs currently on the market. Prevention or treatment of malaria. Psychiatric disorders Convulsions Visual problems Fatigue Vertigo Nausea Diarrhea. Convulsions Visual problems Fatigue Vertigo Nausea Diarrhea Melatonin Melatonin is a hormone found in all living creatures from algae to humans. Melatonin can be found in the general health supplement market.. Melatonin is a hormone found in all living creatures from algae to humans. Melatonin can be found in the general health supplement market. Jet lag (While widely promoted as a “cure” for jet lag, a definitive medical study of this use and its safety has yet to be completed). (While widely promoted as a “cure” for jet lag, a definitive medical study of this use and its safety has yet to be completed) Sleepiness Inflammation in people with nocturnal asthma Loss of balance. Inflammation in people with nocturnal asthma Loss of balance Anti-anxiety drugs The anti-anxiety or anxiolytic drugs include the benzodiazepines, which are prescribed for short-term relief of severe and disabling anxiety. Common benzodiazepines include lorazepam (Ativan®), clonazepam (Klonopin®), alprazolam (Xanax®), and diazepam (Valium®). Non-benzodiazepines and barbiturates are also in this group.. The anti-anxiety or anxiolytic drugs include the benzodiazepines, which are prescribed for short-term relief of severe and disabling anxiety. Common benzodiazepines include lorazepam (Ativan®), clonazepam (Klonopin®), alprazolam (Xanax®), and diazepam (Valium®). Non-benzodiazepines and barbiturates are also in this group. Anxiety, stress. Sleepiness Fatigue Impaired memory Cognitive difficulties Impaired judgement Disorientation and vertigo Loss of coordination. Fatigue Impaired memory Cognitive difficulties Impaired judgement Disorientation and vertigo Loss of coordination Anti-depression drugs An antidepressant, is a psychiatric medication or other substance (nutrient or herb) used for alleviating mild or severe depression. These medications are now among the drugs most commonly prescribed by psychiatrists and general practitioners, and their effectiveness and adverse effects are the subject of many studies and competing claims. Depression by itself and the unwanted effects of these drugs are incompatible with safe flight.. An antidepressant, is a psychiatric medication or other substance (nutrient or herb) used for alleviating mild or severe depression. These medications are now among the drugs most commonly prescribed by psychiatrists and general practitioners, and their effectiveness and adverse effects are the subject of many studies and competing claims. Depression by itself and the unwanted effects of these drugs are incompatible with safe flight. Depression Smoking cessation. Smoking cessation Sleepiness Fatigue Headaches, tremor Impaired memory Cognitive difficulty Nausea Diarrhea. Fatigue Headaches, tremor Impaired memory Cognitive difficulty Nausea Diarrhea Antibiotics An antibiotic is a chemical compound that inhibits or abolishes the growth of microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi or protozoans.. An antibiotic is a chemical compound that inhibits or abolishes the growth of microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi or protozoans. Bacterial infections. Sometimes vertigo and “drunk” feeling Fever Nausea Allergic reaction Diarrhea. Fever Nausea Allergic reaction Diarrhea The information in the table above is just a summary to indicate the wide range of medications used