An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that a three man pushback crew had been used and that only the safety of the tug driver had been in question as the aircraft right hand six-bladed propeller struck the tug cab. The tug driver reported that he had felt the front of the tug lift, which caused him to lose the ability to steer it and the aircraft then seemed to push forward, the tug jack-knifed and the aircraft moved towards the tug and the right propeller. The driver did not remember how he escaped from the vehicle and, although physically uninjured, later stated that he was suffering from post-traumatic stress. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data indicated that the No 2 engine had stabilised at 15% torque after start and remained at that level until the impact with the tug. The No 1 engine stabilised at 10% after start and remained at that level until it was shutdown after the impact. Normally the torque is set at 7 to 8% after start by positioning the engine power levers to the marked ‘Minimum Torque’ position and checking that it has been achieved.. The three previous engines starts earlier in the day by this crew were all found to have been accompanied by excessive torque settings, in contrast with the flights by the aircraft the previous day with a different crew where all post-start torques corresponded to the required minimum torque position. Several witnesses to the pushback had commented that engine noise seemed much higher than usual. The investigation established that post-event physical evidence “confirmed eye witness reports that jack-knifing had occurred, with the aircraft rotating the tug to the right until the tow bar lay along the front bumper, at right angles to the tug. The tow bar eye end was therefore overstressed in bending rather than tension or compression. In this condition the shear pin was not loaded. The leverage produced by this configuration caused the tow bar weld to fail after a small number of high stress cycles, leaving the aircraft free to accelerate past the tug, striking it with the No 2 engine and propeller.”