CL30, Subang Malaysia, 2019On 18 March 2019, a Bombardier Challenger 300 had just touched down at Subang when it collided with an unseen and apparently unlit vehicle destroying it and critically injuring its occupant. Significant left wing leading edge damage was then found. The destroyed vehicle and another one had been cleared onto the runway by ATC for routine runway maintenance purposes by a single controller who then failed to tell another colleague taking over that the runway was occupied. Use of single controller position manning was non-standard and airside vehicle and aircraft communications were routinely using different communication channels preventing situational awareness. B744 / Vehicle, Luxembourg Airport, Luxembourg 2010On 21 January 2010, a Cargolux Boeing 747-400F was in collision with an unoccupied van whilst about to touch down on runway 24 at Luxembourg airport in thick fog following a Cat 3b ILS approach. It was subsequently established that a maintenance crew and their vehicle had earlier been cleared to enter the active runway but their presence had then been overlooked. Comprehensive safety recommendations to rectify deficiencies in both ATC procedures and prevailing ATC practices were made by the Investigation. AT75 / B739, Medan Indonesia, 2017On 3 August 2017, a Boeing 737-900ER landing at Medan was in wing-to-wing collision as it touched down with an ATR 72-500 which had entered the same runway to depart at an intermediate point. Substantial damage was caused but both aircraft could be taxied clear. The Investigation concluded that the ATR 72 had entered the runway at an opposite direction without clearance after its incomplete readback had gone unchallenged by ATC. Controllers appeared not to have realised that a collision had occurred despite warnings of runway debris and the runway was not closed until other aircraft also reported debris. FA50 / Vehicle, Moscow Vnukovo Russia, 2014On 20 October 2014 a Dassault Falcon 50 taking off at night from Moscow Vnukovo collided with a snow plough which had entered the same runway without clearance shortly after rotation. Control was lost and all occupants died when it was destroyed by impact forces and post crash fire. The uninjured snow plough driver was subsequently discovered to be under the influence of alcohol. The Investigation found that the A-SMGCS effective for over a year prior to the collision had not been properly configured nor had controllers been adequately trained on its use, especially its conflict alerting functions. DC93 / B722, Madrid Spain, 1983On 7 December 1983, a Boeing 727-200 taking off from Madrid in thick fog collided at high speed with a Douglas DC-9 which had not followed its departure taxi clearance to the beginning of the same runway. The DC-9 crew did not advise ATC of their uncertain location until asked for their position after non-receipt of an expected position report. The Investigation concluded that flight deck coordination on the DC-9 had been deficient and noted that gross error checks using the aircraft compasses had not been conducted. The airport was without any surface movement radar. MD82 /