or nonexistent and noted that two other recent runway incursions had been deemed unrelated to airport operations so that no risk review was carried out. CRJ2 / Vehicles, Montréal Canada, 2019On 2 February 2019, a Bombardier CRJ200 narrowly avoided collision with part of a convoy of snowplough vehicles which entered the landing runway at Montreal without clearance less than 10 seconds before touchdown and begun to position on the centreline. The Investigation found that despite the prompt initiation of a go-around on sighting the vehicles, the aircraft was likely to have cleared them by less than 100 feet. A number of opportunities for improved ground vehicle movement procedures were identified and the incursion was seen as indicative of a general need to more effectively address this risk at Canadian airports. Vehicle / UNKN, Singapore Changi, 2013On 4 April 2013, during a brief daytime runway closure for inspection purposes, a vehicle entered the runway without ATC awareness and was still there when the runway was re-opened and the first landing clearance was issued. TWR control subsequently observed the vehicle on the runway visually but, when they were unable to make contact with it, instructed the aircraft on final approach to go around when it was just under 1nm from touchdown. It was discovered that the vehicle involved had been in broken contact with another nearby aerodrome because the wrong radio frequency had been selected. Vehicle / B738, Brisbane Australia, 2006On 21 April 2006, a Boeing 737-800 cleared to take off from Brisbane began to do so whilst a vehicle was crossing the same runway in accordance with an ATC clearance issued on a different frequency. The aircraft crew saw the vehicle as they accelerated but decided that it would be clear by the time they reached its position. The vehicle driver reported that he was still within the runway strip when the aircraft passed. Since the occurrence, the adoption at Brisbane of the ICAO recommended procedure of using one frequency for all runway occupancy is being “actively considered”. Vehicles / B737, Toronto Canada, 2008On 29 July 2008, a Boeing 737-700 taking off from Toronto in accordance with its TWR clearance was about a third of the way down the runway when three vehicles, which had previously been cleared to enter the same runway by a GND controller were seen. The aircraft became airborne approximately 760 metres from the vehicles. B733 / vehicle, Amsterdam Netherlands, 2010On 18 December 2010, the ATC Runway Controller responsible for runway 24 at Amsterdam gave a daylight take off clearance in normal visibility to a Norwegian Boeing 737-300 whilst a bird control vehicle which they had earlier given clearance to enter the runway was still on it. The departing aircraft overflew the vehicle without noticing it. The subsequent investigation highlighted significant differences between the procedures for active runway access at Amsterdam and corresponding international practice as well as finding that integrated safety investigation and overall safety management at the airport were systemically ineffective. ...further results On 8