facilities that were inoperative during the event: [...]"Aerodrome lights were lit in compliance with the specified night luminous intensity based on the weather condition of that night. However, because runway renovation work was under way in the Airport at that time, the following aerodrome lights related to Runway A were inoperative, and aeronautical information had been issued. Runway center line light (RCLL). Runway touchdown zone light (RTZL). Stop bar light (STBL). Runway guard light (RGL). Taxiway center line light (TWCL). The Airport has a stop bar system (comprised of STBL, RGL, RCLL, control console, etc.) showing the holding point for taxiing aircraft. However, it was not the condition to be able to operate the stop bar system at the time of the serious incident, due to the suspended use of lights (3) to (5) above."[...] Further, the report specifies some differences in the phraseologies adopted by the Civil Aviation Bureau of Japan and NAV Canada, concerning lining-up on the runway. Also, it lists the conditions under which the operation of stop bar lights is obligatory. Some notes are given on the reliability of the Tower Display Subsystem (TDS): [...]"The ARTS-F [automated radar terminal system - a system to display ATC information, such as flight number, altitude and ground speed] of the Airport has TDS within the control tower, allowing for easy recognition of aircraft on the ground within the airport. However, the system also has weak points, such as that some areas could not be surveyed due to reasons such as being hidden behind a building, that ghost targets may appear due to unnecessary reflection of radio waves, and that the performance deterioration of ASDE [Airport Surface Detection Equipment] is unavoidable during rainfall. Therefore, controllers are frequently required to manually input the aircraft data such as flight numbers for departure targets. Thus, it is difficult to say that TDS can surely display all targets of the aircraft on the ground with data on such aircraft."[..] Section four of the report gives the probable cause: [...]"It is presumed that this serious incident occurred as follows: The flight crewmembers of the departure aircraft (Aircraft-A) who was instructed from the air traffic controller to hold short of the runway, read back incorrectly after mishearing the instruction as to enter the runway; and the controller also misidentifying the read-back and not confirming it; accordingly the departure aircraft kept entering into the runway; this made the arrival aircraft (Aircraft-B), which already received a landing clearance from the controller, attempt to land on the same runway as a result." Section five of the report contains the measures that were either planned or implemented after the event: In Canada, the ATC phraseology concerning instruction to enter runway before take-off was changed to conform with the recommendations of International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO);. Civil Aviation Bureau of Japan (CABJ) instructed all ATC facilities once again to bring to the attention of all controllers the importance of read-back and prompt correction. In addition, CABJ made an inspection at Kansai