The following is an extract from Aircraft Serious Incident Investigation Report (AI2009-02), published by Japan Transport Safety Board (Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB)) "08m:36s The Tower sought confirmation from Aircraft-A [Air Canada Boeing 767] on whether it was ready for departure. 08m:40s Aircraft-A replied, “That’s affirmative.” Around 08m:40s Aircraft-A stopped short of the runway holding position markings on Taxiway A1, and NWA69 [a flight that was on short final, inbound to land before Aircraft B], which was just before touchdown, passed by. 08m:43s The Tower instructed Aircraft-A, “Roger that. Hold short of runway 24L.” The position of Aircraft-B [Japan Airlines B767] was about 6.5nm away from the 24L threshold at this point. 08m:46s Aircraft-A replied to the Tower, “To position 24L.”" The Report includes the following reconstruction of the event : There were three pilots in the cockpit of aircraft A: the captain, the co-pilot and a Cruise Relief Pilot They all provided similar description of the event. Here is part of the statement of the captain: [...] "One aircraft had just landed [NWA69] and another one aircraft was approximately 4 nm on final. There were no lighted stop bars at the hold point and air traffic did not seem heavy. The Tower gave us clearance as “Air Canada 036, to line up and wait runway 24L.” The line up clearance was unconditional. The landing aircraft was clearing the runway. The flight lined up and after waiting for about 1 minute 30 seconds, Aircraft-B inquired if they had landing clearance, so we flashed our lights. The Tower then cleared Aircraft-B to make a go-around. We were instructed to vacate 24L via Taxiway A3. Once clear, the Tower inquired if we had received clearance to enter the runway, we responded, “Absolutely affirmative” (received clearance)."[...] Extract of the statement of the Tower controller is given below: [...]"When NWA69 landed, I asked Aircraft-A whether they were ready, and the aircraft replied they were ready. However, considering the facts that Aircraft-A taxied slowly, did not contact the Tower early and its movement was slow because of the long-distance flight, and that it would take time for the landed NWA69 to vacate the runway, I decided not to let Aircraft-A depart before the landing of Aircraft-B. I instructed Aircraft-A to “Hold short of runway.” Although the read-back from Aircraft-A was not clear at the time, I heard “hold” before “position 24L,” so I made judgments that the aircraft would hold short (of runway), and issued Aircraft-B landing clearance. I instructed NWA69 to contact the Ground. Aircraft-B said, “Confirm, cleared to land?” so I checked NWA69 and other aircraft on the Tower Display Subsystem (hereinafter referred to as “TDS”), and replied “cleared to land.” I thought the confirmation of clearance was just another confirmation of the issuance of clearance. When […] I looked at the side of 24L, I noticed that Aircraft-A had entered the runway and I instructed Aircraft-B to make a go-around." According to the information, provided in the report, there were some ground