that a replacement windscreen had been installed during the night prior the flight, and that the procedure had been approved by the Shift Maintenance Manager. However, 84 of the 90 windscreen retention bolts were 0.026 inches (0.66 mm) too small in diameter, while the remaining six were 0.1 inches (2.5 mm) too short. The left windscreen was blown out under effects of the cabin pressure when it overcame the retention of the smaller securing bolts. In the Engineering Factors section, the Report states: a. During the fitment of the windscreen [...] the Shift Maintenance Manager was confronted with certain situations which made his job more difficult: Incorrect bolts, A221-7D had been used in the previous installation;. Insufficient stock of A211-7D bolts, incorrect but demonstrably adequate existed in the carousel in the bay stores at the Eastern Apron.. Nevertheless, problems of this type are not unusual and cannot be used to explain the subsequent chain of events which led to the loss of the windscreen. b. A number of procedures were ignored and some poor trade practices followed [...] c. Non conformity with British Airways standards was also demonstrated [...] d. Use of unsuitable equipment took place [...] The following Causal Factors to the accident are identified by the Report: A safety critical task, not identified as a “Vital Point”, was undertaken by one individual who also carried total responsibility for the quality achieved and the installation was not tested until the aircraft was airborne on a passenger carrying flight.. The Shift Maintenance Manager’s potential to achieve quality in the windscreen fitting process was eroded by his inadequate care, poor trade practices, failure to adhere to company standards and use of unsuitable equipment, which were judged symptomatic of a longer term failure by him to observe promulgated procedures.. The British Airways local management, Product Samples and Quality Audits had not detected the existence of inadequate standards employed by the Shift Maintenance Manager because they did not monitor directly the working practices of Shift Maintenance Managers.. The Report's recommendations, beginning on page 55, also address institutional and organisational issues (see Further Reading).