fire suppression systems for all class D cargo compartments. (A-97-56). that the Federal Aviation Administration should specify, in air carrier operations master minimum equipment lists, that the cockpit-cabin portion of the service interphone system is required to be operating before an airplane can be dispatched. (A-97-57). that the Federal Aviation Administration should issue guidance to air carrier pilots about the need to don oxygen masks and smoke goggles at the first indication of a possible in-flight smoke or fire emergency. (A-97-58). that the Federal Aviation Administration should establish a performance standard for the rapid donning of smoke goggles; then ensure that all air carriers meet this standard through improved smoke goggle equipment, improved flight crew training, or both. (A-97-59). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that the smoke goggles currently approved for use by the flight crews of transport category aircraft be packaged in such a way that they can be easily opened by the flight crew. (A-97-60). that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the cockpit emergency vision technology and take action as appropriate. (A-97-61). that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate and support appropriate research, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration research program, to develop technologies and methods for enhancing passenger respiratory protection from toxic atmospheres that result from in-flight and post-crash fires involving transport-category airplanes. (A-97-62). that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the usefulness and effectiveness of the Douglas DC-9 procedures involving the partial opening of cabin doors and similar procedures adopted by some operators of other transport-category airplanes for evacuating cabin smoke or fumes and, based on that evaluation, determine whether these or other procedures should be included in all manufacturers’ airplane flight manuals and air carrier operating manuals. (A-97-63). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require airplane manufacturers to amend company maintenance manuals for airplanes that use chemical oxygen generators to indicate that generators that have exceeded their service life should not be transported unless they have been actuated and their oxidizer core has been depleted. (A-97-64). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that routine work cards used during maintenance of Part 121 aircraft (a) provide, for those work cards that call for the removal of any component containing hazardous materials, instructions for disposal of the hazardous materials or a direct reference to the maintenance manual provision containing those instructions and (b) include an inspector’s signature block on any work card that calls for handling a component containing hazardous materials. (A-97-65). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require manufacturers to affix a warning label to chemical oxygen generators to effectively communicate the dangers posed by unexpended generators and to communicate that unexpended generators are hazardous materials; then require that aircraft manufacturers instruct all operators of aircraft using chemical oxygen generators of the need to verify the presence of (or affix) such labels on chemical oxygen generators currently in their possession. (A-97-66). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require all air carriers to develop and implement programs to ensure that aircraft components