An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The wreckage was located and, eventually, a substantial part of it was recovered. The 11-parameter FDR and the CVR were also recovered and successfully downloaded. It was established that the first indication to the flight crew that there may be a problem had occurred approximately six minutes after take off from runway 09L at Miami, when an unidentified sound recorded on the CVR area microphone channel prompted the Captain to query aloud what it was. Simultaneously, FDR data recorded an anomaly in which recorded altitude and airspeed varied in a way which would be consistent with a sudden increase in static pressure of about 0.5 psi. Within twelve seconds of this, the Captain was recorded announcing a loss of electrical systems and after a further ten seconds, voices in the passenger cabin could be heard shouting "fire, fire, fire". ATC were advised of the need to return to Miami due to smoke in the cabin and began giving appropriate radar vectors and clearing descent to 7000 feet. Less than four minutes after the occurrence of the unidentified sound - approximately ten minutes after take off - the aircraft impacted the ground in a near vertical attitude approximately 17 miles north west of Miami. A 3-D plot of the flight trajectory is shown in the diagram below. The highest altitude recorded on the FDR was 10,879 feet amsl, and this occurred some 30 seconds after the indications that something abnormal had occurred - the unidentified noise. Analysis of all the available evidence pointed to a fire originating in the forward underfloor (Class 'D') hold and that its specific origin was one or more of the chemical oxygen generators which the load and trim sheet confirmed had been loaded into that hold as part of a quantity of "COMAT" (company-owned material) in addition to baggage and mail. Documentation for this COMAT listed two main wheels fitted with tyres, one nose wheel fitted with a tyre and five boxes described as “Oxy Canisters -Empty". The contents of the boxes were chemical oxygen generators which had been removed from three MD82 aircraft recently acquired by ValuJet by maintenance contractor SabreTech under instructions issued by ValuJet. It was found that, although all the generators had exceeded their service life and were not re-usable, there was no evidence that any of them had been activated before being transported, or that any had been fitted with safety caps (which it was considered would have prevented activation) or that any of them bore warning notices which might have led to those handling them asking questions about how they should be shipped. AMM procedures were found to be valid but the work cards supposedly based on them were deficient to the extent that they were considered to have contributed to the circumstances which made the accident possible. Reproduced from the Official Report Fire testing during the Investigation found that a main landing gear tyre at the