The Investigation noted that such a policy was known in the industry as a "recognition-only" or "will-not-carry" hazardous materials program and had been approved by the FAA's assigned operations inspector in accordance with prevailing procedures. No evidence was found that either relevant airworthiness issues with the aircraft or any actions that the flight crew could have taken had any bearing on the accident outcome. It was noted that although Class 'D' cargo compartments were designed to achieve suppression of any fire through oxygen starvation, previous experience including aircraft accidents had shown that some oxidisers were capable of generating sufficient oxygen to support combustion despite the reduced ventilation in such a compartment. The Investigation reviewed previous accidents and incidents relevant to the accident circumstances and concluded that "had the FAA responded to prior chemical oxygen generator fires and allocated sufficient resources and initiated programs to address the potential hazards of these generators, including issuing follow-up warnings and inspecting the shipping departments of aircraft maintenance facilities, the chemical oxygen generators might not have been placed on (the accident flight)". Considerable attention was also devoted to an examination of SabreTech's procedures and the oversight of its activities by both ValuJet and the FAA and to ValuJet’s own operational procedures and the FAA oversight of them. The Investigation noted that ValuJet was a rapidly growing operator which, having commenced operations with 2 DC9 aircraft less than 3 years earlier, had grown its fleet to 48 DC9s within two years and to 52 by the time of the accident. It was considered quite likely that "contrary to its authority, ValuJet’s practices before the accident might have included the shipment of hazardous aircraft equipment items aboard company airplanes". The Probable Causes of the accident, "which resulted from a fire in the airplane’s class 'D' cargo compartment that was initiated by the actuation of one or more oxygen generators being improperly carried as cargo", were formally determined to have been: the failure of SabreTech to properly prepare, package, and identify unexpended chemical oxygen generators before presenting them to ValuJet for carriage.. the failure of ValuJet to properly oversee its contract maintenance program to ensure compliance with maintenance, maintenance training, and hazardous materials requirements and practices.. the failure of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to require smoke detection and fire suppression systems in class D cargo compartments.. Contributory Factors were determined to have been: the failure of the FAA to adequately monitor ValuJet’s heavy maintenance programs and responsibilities including ValuJet’s oversight of its contractors and SabreTech’s repair station certificate.. the failure of the FAA to adequately respond to prior chemical oxygen generator fires with programs to address the potential hazards.. ValuJet’s failure to ensure that both ValuJet and contract maintenance facility employees were aware of the carrier’s "no-carry" hazardous materials policy and had received appropriate hazardous materials training.. A total of 27 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should expedite final rulemaking to require smoke detection and