same inflation to the one carried in the hold ruptured 16 minutes after the activation of an oxygen generator placed in a similar relative position when the fire had destroyed nine of the twelve sidewall plies of the tyre. Since main wheels were reported to have been loaded just forward of the forward hold door, they would have been just above the position of the left hand side static ports which are the source of/input to the altitude and speed data recorded on the FDR. It was therefore concluded that the unidentified sound on the CVR, noticed by the crew and coincident with the identified FDR data anomaly, had probably been caused by the rupture of an inflated tyre in the forward cargo compartment after it had been partially burnt through by the fire. It was apparent that the oxygen-fed fire had propagated rapidly and based on FDR evidence of continuing degradation of the flight controls and damage to cabin floorboards in the area of the flight controls, it was concluded that the eventual loss of control was "most likely the result of flight control failure from the extreme heat and structural collapse". However although there was no evidence to indicate that any significant level of smoke had entered the fight deck, the possibility that the pilots had been incapacitated by smoke or heat during the last seven seconds of the flight could not be discounted. Because the hold where the fire occurred was a Class 'D' cargo compartment and was not equipped nor required to be equipped with a smoke detection system, the crew had no way of detecting any threat to continued flight until smoke and fumes reached the passenger cabin. And since this hold was not fitted, nor required to be fitted, with a fire suppression system, there was no way to extinguish or even limit the spread of what was an oxygen-fed fire. It was considered that "one or more of the oxygen generators likely were actuated at some point after the loading process began, but possibly as late as during the airplane's takeoff roll". It was noted that at the time of the accident, the ValuJet Operations Manual stated that the carrier would "not engage in transportation of hazardous materials" but quoted 49 CFR section 175.10, as listing "the allowable exceptions which are required for support of ValuJet’s operations and certain items which are exempted partially or completely from the Hazardous Material Regulations". However, chemical oxygen generators, other than those provided by a carrier for medical use by a passenger, were not included in that list. Also at the time of the accident, the FAA-approved ValuJet Station Operations Manual stated that the carrier would "not engage in transportation of hazardous materials" and that "prompt recognition and refusal of such materials is essential to the safety of our passengers and employees". In case of any uncertainty about a cargo on-load, this Manual required that the Station call 'Flight Control' where relevant Dangerous Goods documentation was held.