that are hazardous (other than chemical oxygen generators) are properly identified and that effective procedures are established to safely handle those components after they are removed from aircraft. (A-97-67). that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate and enhance its oversight techniques to more effectively identify and address improper maintenance activities, especially false entries. (A-97-68). that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the adequacy of current industry practice and, if warranted, require that Part 121 air carriers and Part 145 repair facilities performing maintenance for air carriers develop and implement a system requiring items delivered to shipping and receiving and stores areas of the facility to be properly identified and classified as hazardous or non hazardous, and procedures for tracking the handling and disposition of hazardous materials. (A-97-69). that the Federal Aviation Administration should include, in its development and approval of air carrier maintenance procedures and programs, explicit consideration of human factors issues, including training, procedures development, redundancy, supervision, and the work environment, to improve the performance of personnel and their adherence to procedures. (A-97-70). that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the issue of personnel fatigue in aviation maintenance; then establish duty time limitations consistent with the current state of scientific knowledge for personnel who perform maintenance on air carrier aircraft. (A-97-71). that the Federal Aviation Administration should issue guidance to air carriers on procedures for transporting hazardous aircraft components consistent with Research and Special Programs Administration requirements for the transportation of air carrier company materials; then require principal operations inspectors to review and amend, as necessary, air carrier manuals to ensure that air carrier procedures are consistent with this guidance. (A-97-72). that the Federal Aviation Administration should require air carriers to ensure that maintenance facility personnel, including mechanics, shipping, receiving, and stores personnel, at air carrier-operated or subcontractor facilities, are provided initial and recurrent training in hazardous materials recognition, and in proper labelling, packaging, and shipment procedures with respect to the specific items of hazardous materials that are handled by the air carrier’s maintenance functions. (A-97-73). that the Federal Aviation Administration should ensure that Part 121 air carriers’ maintenance functions receive the same level of Federal Aviation Administration surveillance, regardless of whether those functions are performed in house or by a contract maintenance facility. (A-97-74). that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the volume and nature of the work requirements of principal maintenance inspectors assigned to Part 145 repair stations that perform maintenance for Part 121 air carriers, and ensure that these inspectors have adequate time and resources to perform surveillance. (A-97-75). that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop, in cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service and the Air Transport Association, programs to educate passengers, shippers and postal customers about the dangers of transporting undeclared hazardous materials aboard aircraft and about the need to properly identify and package hazardous materials before offering them for air transportation. The programs should focus on passenger baggage, air cargo, and mail offered by U.S. Postal Service customers. (A-97-76). that the Federal Aviation Administration