should instruct principal operations inspectors to review their air carriers’ procedures for manifesting passengers, including lap children, and ensure that those procedures result in a retrievable record of each passenger’s name. (A-97-77). that the Research and Special Programs Administration should develop records for all approvals previously issued by the Bureau of Explosives and transferred to the Research and Special Programs Administration and ensure all records, including designs, testing, and packaging requirements are available to inspectors to help them determine that products transported under those approvals can be done safely and in accordance with the requirements of its approval. (A-97-78). that the U.S. Postal Service should develop, in cooperation with the Federal Aviation Administration and the Air Transport Association, programs to educate passengers, shippers and postal customers about the dangers of transporting undeclared hazardous materials aboard aircraft and about the need to properly identify and package hazardous materials before offering them for air transportation. The programs should focus on passenger baggage, air cargo, and mail offered by U.S. Postal Service customers. (A-97-79). that the U.S. Postal Service should develop a program for U.S. Postal Service employees to help them identify undeclared hazardous materials being offered for transportation. (A-97-80). that the U.S. Postal Service should continue to seek civil enforcement authority when undeclared hazardous materials shipments are identified in transportation. (A-97-81). that the Air Transport Association should develop, in cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service and the Federal Aviation Administration, programs to educate passengers, shippers and postal customers about the dangers of transporting undeclared hazardous materials aboard aircraft and about the need to properly identify and package hazardous materials before offering them for air transportation. The programs should focus on passenger baggage, air cargo, and mail offered by U.S. Postal Service customers. (A-97-82). The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the NTSB on 19 August 1997. Accidents & Serious Incidents involving Dangerous Goods which Resulted in a Fire B739, Paris CDG France, 2019On 27 October 2019, an under-floor hold fire warning was annunciated in the flight deck of a Boeing 737-900 which had been pushed back at Paris CDG and was about to begin taxiing. Since there were no signs of fire in the passenger cabin or during an emergency services external inspection, a non-emergency disembarkation of all occupants was made. The hold concerned was then opened and fire damage sourced to the overheated lithium battery in a passenger wheelchair was discovered. The Investigation identified a number of weaknesses in both the applicable loading procedures and compliance with the ones in place. B744, en-route, East China Sea, 2011On 28 July 2011, 50 minutes after take off from Incheon, the crew of an Asiana Boeing 747-400F declared an emergency advising a main deck fire and an intention to divert to Jeju. The effects of the rapidly escalating fire eventually made it impossible to retain control and the aircraft crashed into the sea. The Investigation concluded that the origin of the fire was two adjacent pallets towards the rear of the main