Lack of coordination – a coordination should have been made but the transferring controller either forgot or did not identify the need to do it. Examples: The controller did not identify the need of a coordination – e.g. a top sector was just opened and an aircraft from the lower sector requested to climb. The controller (who was in control of the whole airspace just a while ago) cleared the aircraft into the upper sector without coordination. The controller knew they should initiate a coordination at an earlier stage but forgot about that e.g. because they were too busy. The controller knew they were supposed to make a coordination but decided not to as the situation appeared to be safe (while it was not) – e.g. the controller scanned the other sector's traffic and did not identify any threats. A conflicting aircraft was not spotted due to its colour representation (e.g. dark grey label on a black screen). The controllers did not have time to perform a coordination due to high workload. As a result, both sectors initiated uncoordinated conflict solving actions that resulted in the creation of a new conflict.. The controller did not identify the need of a coordination – e.g. a top sector was just opened and an aircraft from the lower sector requested to climb. The controller (who was in control of the whole airspace just a while ago) cleared the aircraft into the upper sector without coordination.. The controller knew they should initiate a coordination at an earlier stage but forgot about that e.g. because they were too busy.. The controller knew they were supposed to make a coordination but decided not to as the situation appeared to be safe (while it was not) – e.g. the controller scanned the other sector's traffic and did not identify any threats. A conflicting aircraft was not spotted due to its colour representation (e.g. dark grey label on a black screen).. The controllers did not have time to perform a coordination due to high workload. As a result, both sectors initiated uncoordinated conflict solving actions that resulted in the creation of a new conflict.. Failure to correctly apply Standing Agreements or procedures – a standard procedure laid down in a manual or an agreement was not followed. Examples: The transferring controller did not notice the A380 catching up with the B733 and transferred them both at the same level. Shortly afterwards the separation minimum was breached and the accepting controller was unable to react due to the poor radio coverage in the area. The two controllers vectored the aircraft on their side too close to the boundary. While each aircraft remained within the respective controller's airspace, the separation minimum was breached. A controller was supposed to transfer two aircraft at different levels (as prescribed in the letter of agreement because the transfer-of-control points were too close to each other) but for some reason did not. A non-RVSM (civil) aircraft was transferred between FL 290 and FL 410. Shortly