when Latvia was part of the Soviet Union (when) pilots would often avoid occurrence reporting because they could have been punished for doing so”. It was noted that “even though punishment is no longer a part of the airline’s procedures, it has been challenging to mitigate the fears of especially the older pilots”. The Investigation also examined the context of the investigated accident in respect of the process by which it had been awarded. On request from the City of Savonlinna, the Finnish Transport Agency decided that a scheduled air service linking Savonlinna with Helsinki should be the subject of a Public Service Obligation (PSO) for the period from January 2018 to December 2020. Accordingly a public tender competition which complied with Article 17 of EU Regulation on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community was held and the award to Maavoima was subsequently made solely on the basis that they had submitted the lowest price tender. The tender process did not stipulate any conditions for safe operations because, whilst the applicable EU Regulation did not specifically prohibit setting additional terms, “the Finnish Transport Agency had a strong suspicion that the EU would interpret any safety-related extra conditions as a restriction of competition”. The Agency also noted that historically, competition for public tenders such as the Savonlinna one “has been so fierce that the air carriers that lose public tenders have routinely appealed the contract awards” through the courts which has “resulted in protracted stalemates” and lengthy appeal processes. This experience was stated to have “made the Finnish Transport Agency very sensitive about making absolutely certain that the competitive tendering criteria unquestionably met the EU Regulations” with the consequence that “safety, in reality, has not been a criterion in competitive bidding”. The finding that both the CVR and FDR had been dependent on magnetic tape as a recording medium and the quality of recording had in both cases been compromised by the condition of the magnetic tapes was of concern to the Investigation. In the case of the CVR, it was noted that the EASA had prohibited the use of CVRs that use magnetic tape as a recording medium with effect from 1 January 2019 so that the recorder installed in accident aircraft was non-compliant. In the case of the FDR, it was noted that after investigating a 2017 UK Serious Incident, the UK AAIB had recommended to the EASA that they “should set an end date to prohibit the use of flight data recorders that use magnetic tape as a recording medium, to ensure compliance with ICAO Annex 6 from that date”. However, the EASA response to this had been that it “would not be justified because, by 1 January 2019, the proportion of aeroplanes fitted with a magnetic tape FDR was estimated to be close to zero” and stated that “replacing the FDRs that use magnetic tape would most probably be allocated a low priority”. A previous similar accident: the Investigation noted that a