positioning flight arrived on time but was instructed to begin holding at VALGU until the additional runway clearance had been completed. The resulting estimated runway friction measurements in thirds in the landing direction (12) were 0.29 (medium to poor), 0.22 (poor) and 0.23 (poor) but using the permitted discretion afforded to the person inspecting the runway to use their judgement to determine the estimated runway friction to be one level worse than indicated by the measured values, the first third of the runway was also reported as having ‘poor’ estimated friction. A 37 metre cleared width out of the 45 metre declared width of the runway between snowbanks which were 40 cm high and four metres inside of the runway edge lights was also notified with that cleared width stated to be completely covered with a 4 mm layer of dry snow. This information was passed to the inbound flight and, when subsequently cleared, it then established on the runway 12 ILS for a flap 20 approach. The surface wind was passed as from 220° degrees at 5 knots which represented a small crosswind component from the right. The required visual reference was acquired prior to DA. FDR data showed that the approach had been stable until reaching the runway threshold. However, following the initiation of the landing flare, the aircraft floated close to the surface for 6/7 seconds before touching down at a speed of 109 knots near the end of the TDZ and on the left side of the runway rather than the (obscured) centreline. Almost immediately, the left main landing gear hit the left snowbank on the uncleared runway margin and then when the nose gear touched the runway, the left main gear became momentarily airborne again as the right main gear touched the ground followed by the left main gear. The aircraft began to track away from the runway centreline and after approximately 100 metres, all wheels were no longer on the runway cleared width. An attempt to regain it was not successful and resulted in the aircraft skidding sideways till outside the cleared runway width. The left main gear then impacted the much higher snowbank outside the full runway width which caused the aircraft to turn more sharply to the left. The left engine then stalled when snow packed its air intake and the right main gear destroyed a runway edge light. The aircraft finally came to a stop in snow half a metre deep having made a 110° left turn relative to the intended direction of landing. Damage to the aircraft included to the propellers, the nose landing gear assembly and the fuselage which was dented and cracked in various locations. Most of this damage occurred when the aircraft ran into the packed snowbank when the propellers flung snow and pieces of ice at the fuselage. It was noted that “investigation of the flight crew’s observations, decision-making and multi-crew cooperation” had been significantly hindered by the absence of CVR data. However, it was concluded