that having been awake since the early hours of the morning, the influence of circadian rhythms was likely to have meant, particularly in the case of the Captain, that the pilots would not have been “as alert as possible at the time of the occurrence”. Visual judgement of aircraft position relative to a landing runway just prior to touchdown at night with sideways-blowing snow in the beam of the taxi and landing lights may have created an illusion of sideways motion which is known to be capable of taking a pilot’s attention away from the runway edge lights and increasing the chances of an unnecessary corrective control input which may lead to a touch down at the side of the runway as occurred in this case. It was also noted that the pilots would have been aware that the delay awaiting runway clearance and fiction measurements when there was only 20 minutes between their planned arrival time and the scheduled departure time of the service flight to Helsinki would have already delayed the departure. It was considered likely that overall effects of some or all of these factors would have “increased the pilots’ cognitive stress during the landing, which was already challenging in itself”. According to the ‘General’ volume of the aircraft operator’s OM, the OM-A, the crosswind limits given in the aircraft type-specific OM-B must be followed during landing. However, it was found that the OM-A also states that if the estimated runway friction is poor, as was the case, then crosswind landings are prohibited. It was observed that “if the estimated runway friction is poor, the OM-A overriding restriction makes it very difficult to comply with the OM-B crosswind limits”.. The landing and taxiing lights were selected for the final approach and landing when there was light snowfall, whereas the aircraft operator’s OM-A and OM-B both contained a caution that using lights during heavy snowfall may degrade visibility and cause sensory illusions during landing.. The Investigation noted that the aircraft operator involved had previously been subject to a number of independently-conducted Serious Incident Investigations in both Finland and adjacent Scandinavian countries. These included a runway excursion on landing at Trollhättan, Sweden in 2018, a dangerous approach to Mariehamn, Finland in 2012 and a risk of ground collision at Helsinki in 2011. It was decided to examine the operational safety performance of the aircraft operator in some detail and it was found that it had a persistent history of “shortcomings in flight safety” despite considerable attention from the Latvian CAA. This body stated that “the greatest threats to RAF-AVIA’s flight safety included shortcomings in pilot skills and decision making and shortcomings in CRM as well as insufficient support by the airline’s management and shortcomings in supportive procedures regarding flight operations”. It also found that although RAF-AVIA’s documentation included an EASA-compliant SMS, this had little in common with the operational reality. The almost complete absence of any meaningful safety reporting culture or safety performance tracking was attributed to “the time