An Investigation was carried out by the Finnish Safety Investigation Authority (SIAF). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and downloaded by the UK AAIB. The FDR data were incomplete and the recording was of poor quality on account of the extremely poor and worn condition of the recorder’s magnetic tape but useful data were eventually extracted. The CVR download did yield data but only from flights prior to the accident flight. When the flight deck was inspected after the accident, it was found that the CVR CB had not been tripped although it was accepted that it was possible that it was in a different position during the flight. It was noted that “the lack of cockpit voice recordings significantly hampered the investigation of the sequence of events”. Voice recordings of all communications from and to the AFISO were also provided. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain of the aircraft, who had been PF for the flight had a total of approximately 20,000 hours flying experience since 1982 of which 746 were on type. He had first flown the Saab 340 in the 1990s but then not again until joining RAF-AVIA eighteen months prior to the accident, prior to which he had been an Airbus A320 pilot for approximately ten years. The 34 year-old First Officer had a total 1,057 hours flying experience, all but 220 hours of which were on type. The positioning flight involved was taking place so that an aircraft would be available to operate the first flight of the year on the Public Service Obligation (PSO) air service from Savonlinna to Helsinki - there had been no service during the Christmas and New Year holidays. This flight was scheduled to depart at 0600 and the 1 hour 45 minute from Riga was due to arrive at 0540. The Latvian aircraft operator, RAF-AVIA, was providing the service on the route as a subcontractor to the company which had been successful in the tendering process which had taken place in late 2017, Maavoima. This Company was a ground handling and logistics company, not an aircraft operator, and “pursuant to EU practices, (it) relied on the fact that Air Operator Certificates and Operating Licences ensure that the (contracted) air operator acts in a safe manner”. It was also noted that “once flight operations commenced, Maavoima supervised the on-time performance of flight schedules (but) their safety management system did not have any procedures or obligation for assessing the airline’s operating safety”. The prevailing weather conditions were normal for winter. The snow clearance team at Savonlinna airport began runway clearance a little over two hours prior to the scheduled departure time of the flight to Helsinki. The runway was confirmed free of ice but there was packed snow from previous clearance work at the edges and new snow was falling throughout the clearance process. After initial clearance was completed, friction was measured but found to be not good enough with further clearance work required. The inbound