Intervention strategies vary with the Level of Threat and are initially intended to defuse the situation and prevent an escalation in the threat level. To be effective, all personnel involved in the prevention chain described above should be trained in areas such as: Communication skills/customer service skills.. Conflict management skills/ verbal social skills.. Team skills.. Dealing with persons under the influence of drugs/alcohol/suffering from mental health issues.. If the problem is detected on the ground and cannot be resolved to the full satisfaction of the Operator nominated responsible person(s), carriage should be denied or, if the threat level warrants, intervention by security or police personnel should occur. In addition to the aforementioned areas of training, Cabin Crew should also be instructed in the following: How to limit service (e.g. when/how to stop serving alcohol).. Physical breakaway and controlling skills.. Restraint device training.. Restrained passenger welfare.. At threat level 1 or 2, Cabin Crew should make unruly or disruptive passengers aware of the consequences of their actions and the type of measures that could be taken if their behavior does not change. This information can be conveyed verbally or by means of a pre-printed warning card, and should include notification that the passenger will not be served further alcohol. The message conveyed should call for the person to desist or suffer the consequences of being refused return carriage or of having the incident reported to the authorities and face the possibility of arrest and prosecution leading to a possible fine or imprisonment. Crew members should continue to attempt to defuse a critical situation until it becomes clear that there is no way to resolve it verbally. Utilisation of restraining devices should only be considered when all conciliatory approaches have been exhausted. Once restraints have been used, they should remain on the passenger for the duration of the flight. Operators provide specific guidance, beyond the scope of this article, to their crew to assist them in making the decision to physically intervene in more serious situations. In these cases, it is common for the Cabin Crew to enlist the support of travelling law enforcement personnel, or other able bodied passengers, to assist in restraining an unruly passenger. If restraint is used, other security protocols such as flight deck lockdown, diversion and law enforcement involvement, once on the ground, are also likely to occur. In all cases, the incident should be fully documented and witness statements taken.