interrupted journey. An initial examination of the aircraft found that the titanium fan hub of the number 4 engine had separated into at least three parts as a result of the progression of a fatigue crack originating from within the hub near to one of the fan blade slots. The central fragment of the hub had remained attached to the LP (low pressure) shaft and the other had been ejected, one upwards and the other downwards and the remaining HP part of the engine was locked solid. Collision between the liberated fan rotor fragments and the fixed parts of the engine had resulted in the destruction of the forward part of the engine casing and the separation of the air inlet which had both fallen to the ground. It was apparent that some of the debris from the front of the engine had struck the right wing and the adjacent airframe structure but had caused only superficial damage. It was found that the failed engine had been manufactured in 2009 and installed on the aircraft in 2013. At the time of failure, it had completed 30,769 hours and 3,534 cycles since build. The design and manufacture of the engine fan was the responsibility of Pratt and Whitney (P & W) and comprised a fan hub and blades. After removal of the remains of the damaged engine, it was flown to an approved workshop in the UK for examination in the presence of BEA Investigators. It was confirmed on disassembly that only the LP fan (i.e. the compressor) had been damaged and all the damage was confirmed as being consistent with failure of the fan hub and its separation from the engine. An annotated cross section of a GP7270 engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the (hollow) fan blades and the fan hub were made from the titanium alloy Ti-6-4 which included 5.5 to 6.75 % by weight of Aluminium and 3.5 to 4.5 % by weight of Vanadium. The fan hub was forged from a large billet of this alloy. Examination of the fracture surfaces on the remaining central conical part of the fan hub using a scanning electron microscope showed that they were “characteristic of sudden failure due to overload”. There was no evidence that a bird strike had occurred or any other evidence as to the cause of the failure. Examination of the computers which controlled the operation of the failed engine showed that no operating anomaly had been detected prior to the sudden failure and this absence of any fault prior to the failure was considered to be indicative of the suddenness of the failure. As the factual findings of the Investigation in relation to the fan hub failure became increasingly apparent, the engine manufacturer Engine Alliance, began publishing a number of SBs and ASBs (Alert Service Bulletin) relating to in service inspection of the GP7270 fan hub, beginning with one-time inspection and later repetitive inspection. These initially required visual inspections and later