SOP requiring it, had returned to assist the operating crew, then went to the upper deck to assess the damage and take more photographs, noting impact damage to the right wing leading edge slats and minor vibration in its trailing edge flaps. These pictures showed that the front of the number 4 engine had disappeared and just the central part of its fan hub was still attached to the low pressure shaft. The damaged engine after the accident flight - a piece of ejected fan blade can be seen embedded in the Outlet Guide Vanes (OGVs). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Having begun to address the situation by applying the operator’s standard FOR-DEC decision making process, the Captain noticed that maintaining FL370 was being accompanied by a steady decrease in indicated airspeed - almost 20 knots over 90 seconds - decided to progressively descend until it was possible to achieve a constant speed in level flight. With the FMS-calculated engine out drift-down level being FL346, he reported having been “surprised” that not until FL290 with MCT (maximum continuous thrust) set was it possible. He then decided to descend to and stay at FL 270 to slightly reduce the thrust required to remain in level flight. It was subsequently observed during the Investigation that the documentation available to the crew did not include a reminder that the FMS-calculated drift-down level assumes a failed engine that is windmilling, a condition that, as in this case, is not necessarily achievable. Around five minutes after the descent from FL370, ATC detected the unexpected descent and sent a CPDLC message asking if there was a problem at about the same as receiving a relayed MAYDAY message which had transmitted shortly after the engine failure. A CDPLC reply was sent to confirm the MAYDAY status and a few minutes later, VHF communications became possible and it was decided, after consulting Company Operations Control, that the flight would divert to Goose Bay and a direct track was obtained from ATC. The remainder of the flight was completed without further event with an RNAV GNSS approach to Goose Bay runway 26 flown and a landing there almost two hours after the engine failure. Taxiing to the allocated parking position was delayed when it was necessary to stop several times so that the airport services could collect debris which had fallen onto the runway during the landing and engine shutdown did not occur for a further 40 minutes. The 497 passengers were not able to leave the airport because the airport immigration system could not handle such a large number and in any event neither could the accommodation available at Goose Bay. Some passengers were able to go into the airside part of the airport terminal and were later all served a meal on the aircraft. An alternative routing to Los Angeles was arranged and, 16 hours after arriving at Goose Bay, the last passenger left the disabled aircraft at 0500 local time the following morning to resume their