also Eddy Current Inspection (ECI) of the slot bottoms of the fan hub. The FAA, as certification authority for the engine, then issued ADs based on the ASBs. However, it was not until the eventual finding of an ejected piece of the engine 4 fan hub under the ice in southern Greenland some 21 months after the accident that the cause of its failure could be determined. Laboratory analysis of this piece of the fan hub found that the failure had originated in a micro texture region (otherwise referred to as a macro zone) of the subsurface of a blade slot bottom under the blade root. It had been triggered by “cold dwell fatigue” in the titanium alloy from which the fan hub had been manufactured. A consequent crack had then increased over a period of several years in service until sudden and total failure of the hub resulted. This finding completely invalidated the previously-considered most likely origin of hub failure. The predicted life for the hub was 15,000 cycles, compared to the 1,650 cycles it had accumulated at the time of failure and was neither anticipated nor prevented by an operational or maintenance action. The inspections which were integral to the hub manufacturing process had not revealed any anomaly and it was concluded that as specified, they could not be guaranteed to do so. The macro-zone in which the crack had been initiated was found to have been “an order of magnitude larger and more intense than the average micro texture region observed by the manufacturer”, both elsewhere within the failed hub and in other hubs manufactured from the same billet. The risk of cold dwell fatigue being introduced at manufacture was not recognised during either the engine certification process or in the engine design process and at the time the hub was designed and certificated, “it was accepted by the scientific community, the industry and the certification authorities that Ti-6-4 was not sensitive to the cold dwell fatigue phenomenon”. This meant that macro-zones, which were already known to be “inherent to the manufacturing process of Ti-6-4 forged parts”, were not associated with the also-known increased risk of crack-initiation due to cold-dwell fatigue in such macro-zones. It was noted by the Investigation that despite in-depth research into cold dwell fatigue in certain alloys used in aerospace and other manufacturing, “the mechanisms at the origin of the initiation of a cold dwell fatigue crack were still not completely understood at the time of the accident and are still not understood today”. The findings of the Investigation made it clear that “a lack of knowledge of both the activation envelope of the cold dwell fatigue phenomenon on Ti-6-4 and the conditions conducive to the appearance of intense macro-zones meant that a cold dwell fatigue crack was initiated at a stress level lower than that accepted up until now by only taking into consideration pure fatigue, and at a significantly lower number of cycles”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the