Following delegation by the Danish AIB, an Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Data was successfully downloaded from the CVR and FDR, although as the former had continued to record after the event, relevant data was thereby overwritten. This was found to have been a result of the absence of any on-board aircraft operator documentation which properly described how the flight crew could stop the CVR recording after an event such as the one under investigation. A definitive determination of the cause of the engine failure could not be made until recovery of specific ejected debris had been achieved, which in itself turned out to be a long and very complex operation which did not lead to the location and recovery of the required fan hub remains from beneath the ice until July 2019. Extraction of the fan hub part which enabled the cause of failure to be identified. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the flight crew consisted of a Captain and two First Officers, one of the latter being designated as a Relief First Officer. The 60 year-old Captain had a total of 19,568 flying hours of which 15,260 hours were as Captain and of those 3,249 were on type. He had been type rated on the A380 since the delivery of the aircraft involved to Air France in 2011. The 45 year-old First Officer had a total of 8,549 flying hours of which 796 hours were on type and had been type rated on the A380 the year prior to the accident. The 42 year-old Relief First Officer had a total of 8,811 flying hours of which 260 hours were on type and had been type rated on the A380 earlier in 2017. When the flight was around 100 nm east of the coast of Greenland with the Relief First Officer as PF, and had already step-climbed to FL370, CDPLC contact was made with Oceanic ATC and clearance to climb further to FL380 was obtained. Almost immediately following the increase in thrust required to accomplish this climb - from 98% to 107% N1 - had been set, an explosion suddenly occurred and asymmetric thrust attributable to malfunction of the number 4 engine became evident accompanied by severe airframe vibration. ‘ENG 4 STALL’ and ‘ENG 4 FAIL’ ECAM messages were annunciated simultaneously. The Captain announced that he was taking over as PF and engaged AP1. He then set the number 4 engine thrust lever to flight idle and an automatic engine shutdown followed. The Relief First Officer then followed this by selecting the number 4 engine Master and Fire switches to off. The damaged engine could not be seen from the flight deck or on the image from the external camera on the leading edge of the vertical stabiliser but one of the cabin crew brought a photograph of it taken by a passenger to the fight deck. The First Officer who, in the absence of any