that an emergency evacuation was not necessary and buses were used to transport passengers to the terminal. It was found that once the DC-9 had landed, the TWR controller had attempted to pass a taxi clearance which would keep the aircraft clear of runway 26L which it would need to cross en route to the terminal in order to ensure it did not conflict with the take-off clearance he was intending to give to an Atlantic Southeast Embraer Bandeirante waiting at the threshold of runway 26L. However, he had encountered difficulties in getting this acknowledged and had become temporarily distracted just as the separation between the King Air and the 727 was continuing to reduce. It was found that the TWR controller had only been in position for about 4 minutes when the collision occurred, having relieved the TWR Supervisor. The TWR radar monitor had been set to "a range of 18 to 20 miles" and there was a clear view of all traffic under TWR and GND control when seated. It was found that the only external lighting being displayed by the King Air at the time of the collision had been its navigation lights. Given the prevailing runway lighting environment, it was concluded that this would have made it difficult for the 727 crew to see the King Air as it neared the right hand edge of the runway in preparation for a north-side exit to the General Aviation Apron. It was noted that it was permissible for general aviation pilots to "turn off the anti collision light system in the interest of safety if it proves distracting" and that in this respect, no distinction was made between rotating anti collision beacons and strobe lights. In the particular case of the King Air, it was noted that with wing tip strobe lights, engine nacelles and propellers all close to the pilot's position, reflections in the cloud which had probably been encountered during the inbound flight may well have been distracting and that "the pilot would most likely have turned off these lights" as a result. No factors relating to the licensing and operational alertness of any of the pilots or controllers involved relevant to the occurrence of the collision were identified by the Investigation. It was also determined that all relevant ATC equipment had been fully operational and that the prevailing weather conditions had not contributed to the accident. However, prevailing (and generic) ATC instructions were noted as requiring that that controllers must "separate an arriving aircraft from another aircraft using the same runway by ensuring that the arriving aircraft does not cross the landing threshold until […] the other aircraft has landed and taxied off the runway". More generally, it was noted that the Investigation had found that the collision had involved "the same controller-related factors" as those found to be causal in many previous high speed ground collisions and in events which had almost led to ground collisions. It was noted that “these factors are human