performance-related and are being addressed in a number of different actions, including FAA and industry efforts to increase awareness of the magnitude and nature of the human performance problem, improved training and technological solutions that may reduce the workload, and a fail-safe redundancy for the human performance of air traffic controllers". FAA work already underway to improve timely ATC detection and response to collision risk scenarios by the deployment of new alerting systems was noted but whilst this was welcomed, it was considered that these initiatives were both long term and "intended for a limited number of high-density air carrier airports". The NTSB therefore considered that the FAA should expedite its efforts to "fund, support and implement an operational system analogous to the airborne conflict alert system to prevent runway incursion incidents at all U.S. certificated airports". The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The Eastern flight crew had three opportunities to learn about preceding landing traffic by listening to the tower frequencies; however, the time between transmissions, the large number of transmissions, and the required duties in the cockpit would have limited the utility of that information.. Airspeed reduction transmissions to N44UE by the radar monitor controller were insufficient to achieve the required 4 miles separation from the preceding airplane, CO 9687, on the final approach and at the threshold.. The absence of appropriate airspeed reduction instructions to EA 111 by the Atlanta approach north final and the radar monitor controllers led to a speed differential that resulted in a loss of the separation between EA 111 and N44UE.. The traffic volume at the time of the accident presented an average controller workload, but the local controller was distracted with radio difficulties (misunderstood instructions) when communicating with CO 9687.. The local controller's distraction by communication difficulties with CO 9687 was prompted by his perceived need to clear runway 26 left for another airplane inbound with a hydraulic emergency and the possibility of a runway incursion from CO 9687 during taxiing. The controller was inattentive to the more immediate task of monitoring the separation of traffic landing on runway 26 right.. It was determined that the Probable Causes of the Accident were: the failure of the Federal Aviation Administration to provide air traffic control procedures that adequately take into consideration human performance factors such as those which resulted in the failure of the north local (TWR) controller to detect the developing conflict between N44UE and EA 111.. the failure of the North Local (TWR) Controller to ensure the separation of arriving aircraft which were using the same runway.. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: the failure of the North Local (TWR) Controller to follow the prescribed procedure of issuing appropriate traffic information to EA 111.. failure of the North Final (APP) Controller and the Radar Monitor Controller to issue timely speed reductions to maintain adequate separation between aircraft on final approach.. Five Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation