issue traffic information to the succeeding airplane". However, no such information was issued to the 727 and FDR data showed that it had passed the OM at 165 KCAS and FDR and CVR data showed that as the Captain made a 1,000 feet callout, the speed was 149.5 KCAS and then stabilised at 145 KCAS ten seconds later, which corresponded to the calculated Vref of 134 KIAS. Once past the FAF, the King Air ground speed had progressively reduced to around 100 knots, which was considered to indicate reasonable proximity to what was calculated to have been the appropriate Vref at the aircraft's landing weight. The evidence available showed that despite the fact that both the King Air and the 727 complied with all ATC speed control instructions, "radar data indicate that the distance between the airplanes continued to decrease" and "the last radar data about 1 mile prior to the collision point indicated 1.2 miles between the two airplanes". As the King Air decelerated after touchdown, it was found to have moved to the right hand side of the runway as it approached taxiway 'D', the primary exit to the general aviation apron, which was about 1,160 metres beyond the 26R landing threshold. The 727 crew reported that their aircraft had touched down approximately 350 metres from the threshold after which "the spoilers were manually deployed and the nose of the airplane was lowered to the runway".Then, "as the Captain reached for the thrust reversers, another airplane was seen for the first time on the right side of the runway ahead of them […] when their landing lights illuminated it". The 727 CVR data was noted to include "two exclamations about 3 seconds prior to the sound of impact". The 727 Captain responded to the sighting by immediately steering his aircraft to the left but there was insufficient time to avoid a collision and "the right wing of the 727 struck the tail cone and structure of the King Air, separating the horizontal and vertical stabilizers from the fuselage and shearing the top of the fuselage/cockpit from the airplane". The King Air was destroyed and "came to rest at the turnoff for taxiway "D" with the engines still running". There was no post-impact fire. After the impact, the 727 Captain steered the aircraft back towards the centre of the runway to complete deceleration and the aircraft then exited the runway onto RET 'B3' and stopped. Following a transmission from the 727 that they had just hit another aircraft on the runway, the TWR controller instructed a following aircraft which had also been cleared to land on 26R to go around. The RFFS were alerted and attended both aircraft. The 727 crew noted that the contents of one of the hydraulics was low and one of the passengers "reported a loss of some type of fluid from the right wing" and in response, the No. 3 engine was shut down followed subsequently by engines 1 and 2. The Captain decided