An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The FDR and CVR from the 727 were removed and successfully replayed but the King Air did not have either type of recorder installed and this was not a regulatory requirement. Recorded ATC radar and communications data was available and enabled the separation of the two aircraft to be seen in relation to ATC instructions and the response of the crews to them. Visibility was good and controllers in the TWR could clearly see all relevant aircraft whether on approach or on the ground. The Investigation found that radar vectors had been issued to three inbound aircraft to establish the landing sequence for runway 26R immediately prior to the collision. The first of these was a Continental Airlines DC-9 operating under call sign CO 9687 which was followed by the King Air and the 727, which subsequently collided. At this time, simultaneous ILS approaches were underway on runways 26R and 27L and take-offs were underway on runway 26L. At the time of the accident, access to runway 26L and clearance for take-off from it were the responsibility of the same TWR controller as was handling arrivals on runway 26R - the "North Local Controller". The ATC system in use involved inbound aircraft established on the ILS LOC being observed on radar by a controller occupying a "monitor" position in the ACC. The duties of the controller in this position were noted as being "to ensure separation between aircraft and to ensure aircraft do not enter the no transgression zone (between the runways)". The controller in this position was able to "override the tower controller and issue instructions to inbound flights". Recorded ATC communications showed that immediately after the King Air had established initial contact with TWR, the radar monitor controller had, using the TWR frequency, asked the aircraft for its current airspeed and, on receipt of the response "175" had instructed a reduction to 160. Less than minute later, the 727 with its Captain as PF and which had, after being initially instructed to maintain 180 KIAS to the OM and then told as it approached that position only to "decrease to final approach speed", checked in with TWR. Soon afterwards, the monitor controller instructed the King Air to reduce to 150 and then 140. A landing clearance from TWR for the DC-9 was issued followed 7 seconds later by a similar (unconditional) clearance for the King Air. 42 seconds later with the 727 just 2.75 miles behind the King Air and separation slowly reducing, the TWR controller advised that it was "in sight" and cleared it to land. It was noted that the procedures in place at the time stated that "landing clearance to a succeeding airplane in a landing sequence need not be withheld if the controller can observe the position of the airplane and determine that prescribed runway separation will exist when the airplane crosses the landing threshold" and also "requires the controller to