expect a late landing clearance” in response to their “½ nm to go” call was considered to have “confirmed in the minds of the crew that the controller was fully aware of the position of both aircraft”. It was noted that with a relatively low cloud base such as prevailed prior to and at the time of the investigated event – even though still in excess of requiring LVPs to be in force - a TWR controller gains less information by looking out of the window than in clear conditions. Consequently, both the OJTI and the trainee controller needed to rely more on information presented on the various screens. However, it was found that “the design of the screens is such that there is not a good view of them from any position other than the controller’s position” (see the illustration below). For this reason, an OJTI usually uses a higher chair for the explicit purpose of being able to see all the screen information available to the trainee and if such a chair is not available, then an OJTI “may need to be more active in changing positions to see the information they need to effectively monitor the trainee controller”. It was found that only one of these higher chairs was provided in the TWR control room and that at the time of the investigated event, both TWR and GND positions were occupied by trainees overseen by OJTIs with the only available high chair being used by the GND position OJTI. It was established that in the first instance, the trainee controller had not recognised the implications of his failure to turn off the stop bar lights when clearing the A320 to line up and although he had issued an “expect late landing clearance” to the 737, he had not also qualified his A320 line up clearance with “be ready immediate” or given his A320 take off clearance as cleared “immediate” takeoff. Had he done both, or even one of these, it is likely that the Training Captain in command of the A320 would have responded in a way that would have reduced the delay getting airborne. It was concluded that at the time of the loss of separation, “the trainee controller was still relying on techniques more suited for use in better weather conditions (and was) also using a rule-based strategy which checked the gap was sufficient as the preceding aircraft touched down”. The trainee did not appear to have made any use of the approach radar display showing approach traffic and its groundspeed and was not effectively monitoring aircraft speeds or the size of the gap between them. It was also concluded that he may well have had little or no on-the-job experience of the RIMCAS conflict alerting system. He certainly did not become aware of the rapidly reducing gap between the two aircraft until he saw the 737 emerging from the cloud and the RIMCAS stage 2 Alert began to sound and had little time to