A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. There was a delay in the mandatory reporting of the event direct to both the AAIB as a Serious Incident and to the UK CAA as an MOR which meant that relevant data from both CVRs were overwritten. However all relevant radar and other ATC recorded data and airport CCTV data were available. It was noted that the 737 flight was a line check flight with a trainee Captain occupying the left seat, a Training Captain acting as PF occupying the right seat and a second Training Captain acting as the Check Captain for the trainee occupying the supernumerary crew seat. The 42 year-old Captain in command and acting as PF had a total of 6,800 flying hours which included 6,650 hours on type. All three pilots were familiar with the 737 and with operations into and out of Edinburgh and the trainee Captain undergoing his Final Line Check had recently joined the operator with previous command experience. The A320 crew consisted of a 37 year-old Training Captain occupying the left seat and supervising a trainee First Officer acting as PF who had recently joined the operator “from flight school” and had since completed “around 70 hours flying in the A320 with the operator”. To qualify as such, the OJTI (on-the-job training instructor) responsible for the TWR position had recently completed the required 5-day “practical instructional techniques” course and so was still “relatively inexperienced in that role”. It was established that APP radar had vectored the inbound 737 to the ILS and once established asked them to maintain “at least” 160 knots to 4nm from touchdown rather than issuing the more usual instruction to fly “at” 160 knots to that position. At 8.8nm from touchdown, the flight was transferred to TWR. With the 737 6nm from touchdown and making a groundspeed of 181 knots, the trainee TWR controller cleared the departing A320 to line up on runway 06 but forgot to extinguish the illuminated stop bar at the runway holding point so the crew could not proceed. Another exchange on the TWR frequency which had immediately followed acknowledgment of the line up clearance prevented the crew alerting the controller to this oversight but once it had finished, the A320 Captain transmitted “stop bar” and it was then extinguished. This resulted in a half-minute delay to the A320 beginning to taxi onto the runway. After a further half minute, with the A320 still at 90° to the runway centreline, it was given take off clearance and the 737, at this point at 3nm from touchdown, was advised to expect a late landing clearance. With a cloud base of 300 feet, the 737 was not yet visible to either the TWR or the departing A320. Once lined up, the A320 stopped for around 20 seconds before beginning its takeoff roll with the 737 just over ½ nm from touchdown. Almost immediately, the 737 crew, who now had the A320 in sight having