react to the situation given his limited capacity to recognise and deal with the deteriorating separation. In particular, he had “little or no experience of instructing a go-around” and this “inexperience, together with the short time period available to act after becoming fully aware of what was happening resulted in an inability to recover the situation”. It was considered to be of considerable significance that the OJTI had also missed the developing situation and he also only became aware of its seriousness when the 737 became visible and the RIMCAS Stage 2 alert began to sound. He reported having been “startled by the suddenness of the situation” and that this “caused a further delay in his reaction”. However, although he could see out of the window that both aircraft were close, he was at this late stage less concerned about any further gap closure than with the risk which would follow from instructing the 737 to go around when it was too late to stop the A320 taking off since this would result in a potentially unsafe proximity as both aircraft disappeared into cloud where they could not be visually separated. Having taken over the position, he therefore made the decision to allow the 737 to land. It was observed that an earlier intervention could have allowed a safe go around by the 737 by keeping the A320 on the ground. Overall, the evidence was considered to show that more effective support for the trainee by the OJTI could have avoided the situation developing in the way it did. Until a late stage in the developing loss of separation, the OJTI, who had gained five months experience since qualifying as a instructor had taken the view that as their (ab initio) trainee was over halfway through their training to qualify as a TWR controller and had generally been performing satisfactorily, he had “judged the trainee to be […] at the point where less OJTI input was needed”. This was within the general guidance for the trainee’s level of experience at the time which was that “in medium traffic/medium complexity conditions ‘minimal’ support is expected”. ‘Minimal’ was defined as meaning “minor support where necessary such as making reference to complex problems or asking the trainee to develop a course of action in time”. Only in “high traffic or high complexity conditions” would “some” support be expected. The background to the poor controller performance in the investigated event was noted as being a changeover of ANSP at Edinburgh which had taken place 4½ months prior to its occurrence and had led to the need for a sustained period of controller training due to a significant exit of previously employed controllers. It was found that in the 15 months leading up to the change of ANSP, a total of eight controllers with previous experience elsewhere were recruited and trained at Edinburgh by the previous ANSP and a further five ab-initio controllers had been recruited by the new ANSP but had not begun their