emerged from cloud, called TWR to remind the controller than they were only ½ nm from touchdown without a landing clearance. The OJTI reacted by taking control of the position from the trainee. Prior to the A320 beginning its takeoff roll, the RIMCAS stage 1 Alert (issued 30 seconds prior to a predicted collision and visual only) had already been activated at the TWR position and the stage 2 Alert (issued 15 seconds prior to a predicted collision and both aural and visual) had been activated as the 737 had been told to continue approach when at ½ nm from touchdown. Minimum separation between the two aircraft - 875 metres - occurred when the 737 was 6 seconds from touchdown and passing 40 feet agl overhead the runway and the A320 was accelerating through 148 KCAS on its takeoff roll. One second after the A320 got airborne, the 737 was cleared to land and it touched down one second after this. It was noted that since the two aircraft had not been on the runway at the same time, there was no actual runway incursion. However, “separation had been significantly eroded” and had breached the UK Manaul of Air Traffic Services (MATS) Part 1 general requirement that “a landing aircraft shall not be permitted to cross the beginning of the runway on its final approach until a preceding aircraft, departing from the same runway, is airborne” unless specific local procedures have been approved. No such specific procedures had been approved for Edinburgh. The Investigation sought to examine how the conflict had been able to develop when the applicable minimum separation requirements of the Edinburgh MATS Part 2 for a landing aircraft following a departure from the same runway specified that an aircraft on approach must be at least 6nm from the runway to continue an approach, a requirement which had been met prior to the loss of separation developing. Local practice in respect of this minimum separation appeared to be ensuring that the take off clearance has been issued by the time the approaching aircraft has reached 3nm from touchdown. Interviews with the flight crew of both aircraft involved indicated that the A320 crew had no reason to suppose that their takeoff clearance required an immediate departure and that with a supervised First Officer trainee as PF, the time taken to line up and then to beginning rolling was entirely commensurate with the very low experience of the trainee. These interviews also showed that the experienced 737 crew had complied in a reasonable manner with the APP radar controller’s request for them to continue at or above 160 KIAS until 4nm whilst still performing a stabilised approach. There was no evidence that an observed Line Check which was being performed on the sector had affected the way the aircraft was operated and its crew were unaware of the departing traffic until seeing it on emerging from the overcast base at 300 feet aal. The trainee controller’s response of “continue and