training until after the changeover. This degree of training was unusual for the Unit - 13 new controllers trained within 18 months compared to the historic norm of “around one new controller a year”. This amount of training also required the new ANSP to upgrade a significant number of their newly re-qualified controllers as OJTIs, including some who had “little or no previous experience” in training ab-initio controllers. It was also found that despite the use of pre-session training briefings to be conducted by OJTIs during the one week OJTI qualification course, at Edinburgh “there was no expectation that this would occur, and no time was set aside for it”. It was considered that despite the small size of the Unit, such a pre-session brief would have served to clarify expectations for a session and allowed OJTIs to proactively assess the trainee’s experience level relative to the prevailing operational conditions and review the appropriate ways to make use of the information available. It was also found that there was no quick reference summary of the significant content on the reporting forms used by OJTIs at Edinburgh to record trainee progress relative to the challenges they had dealt with and also that the individual completed reporting forms, although often quite detailed, “rarely included details of the weather conditions experienced”. This was considered to “make it hard for OJTIs to quickly get an impression of a trainee controller’s recent experience and performance” to help decide what the emphasis for each session should be. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: A succession of short delays to the departure of the A320 and the higher than normal approach speed of the 737 led to the rapid closure of the gap between the two aircraft. The loss of spacing went unnoticed by both the trainee controller and the OJTI until the 737 came out of cloud, which was just before the crew prompted them by calling at ½ nm. At this point the OJTI made the decision that it was safer to land the 737 than risk having two aircraft that he could not separate visually close to each other in cloud above the airport. The crew of the A320 were completely unaware of the developing situation as they could not see the 737 nor had the trainee controller instructed them either to be ‘ready immediate’ or cleared them for an ‘immediate takeoff’. The crew of the 737 were confident in the TWR controller and were not initially concerned that they had not received a landing clearance. They were used to operations at London Gatwick where traffic levels are significantly greater than at Edinburgh. They became concerned enough to prompt the controller at ½ nm but the reply only served to reinforce their confidence that the controller was on top of the situation. As a result, they decided not to perform a go-around and continued to land once clearance was given. This led to a loss of separation between the aircraft