Remotely piloted aircraft (RPA)— ICAO explains this term in Annex 2, Rules of the Air, as: “An unmanned aircraft which is piloted from a remote pilot station: expected to be integrated into the air traffic management system equally as manned aircraft [and,] real-time piloting control is provided by a licensed remote pilot.”. expected to be integrated into the air traffic management system equally as manned aircraft [and,]. real-time piloting control is provided by a licensed remote pilot.”. Remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) — ICAO defines this term in ICAO Cir 328, Unmanned Aircraft Systems, as “An aircraft where the flying pilot is not on board the aircraft. (Note: This is a subcategory of unmanned aircraft.)”. Remotely-piloted aircraft system (RPAS) — ICAO defines this term in ICAO Cir 328 as “A set of configurable elements consisting of a remotely-piloted aircraft, its associated remote pilot station(s), the required command and control links and any other system elements as may be required, at any point during flight operation.”. Unmanned aircraft (UA) — ICAO explains this term on The ICAO UAS Toolkit website as “Any aircraft intended to be flown without a pilot on board is an unmanned aircraft. They can be remotely and fully controlled from another place (ground, another aircraft, space) or pre-programmed to conduct its flight without intervention.”. Unmanned aircraft system — ICAO defines this term in ICAO Cir 328 as “An aircraft and its associated elements, which are operated with no pilot on board.”. In practical terms, a small RPAS can be visualized as having these configurable elements and characteristics: An RPA;. Human-operated remote pilot station(s) usually located on the ground or on a ship, but which may be aboard another airborne platform;. A command and control system — sometimes called a communication, command and control system — that includes data links and other system elements (e.g., instruments and transponders on satellites and/or terrestrial cable networks) that connect the remote pilot station(s) to the RPA.. Below are links to other glossaries and explanations of terms related to RPAS: Unmanned Aircraft Systems, ICAO Cir 328, pp. ix and x, ICAO, 2011.. “Acronyms and Glossary of Key Terms,” Appendix E, Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) at Airports: A Primer, pp. 70–81, National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, 2015. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.. “Frequently Used Terms,” The ICAO UAS Toolkit website, accessed March 28, 2019..