This article introduces several enhancements to SKYbrary’s compilation of articles and source references that primarily discuss remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPA/RPAS), a subset of the broader term unmanned aircraft system (UA/UAS) favored by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The term drone serves as an informal, popular and generic substitute for an RPA or a UA. Most of the information in SKYbrary pertains to small RPAS because many civilian aviation industry stakeholders are involved in the integration of small RPAS or drones — unlike larger RPAS — into national airspace systems any may have some responsibility for addressing small-RPAS operational safety issues likely to impact manned aviation. The stakeholders primarily comprise the world’s national aviation authorities (NAAs, including the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)); air navigation service providers (ANSPs, including EUROCONTROL); airlines; RPAS manufacturers and suppliers; and small RPAS operators. In contrast, the larger RPASs — whether operated by/for government research, military/intelligence or corporate missions — share similar histories, levels of advancement and strong track records in safety. Their mature level of integration into controlled, uncontrolled and restricted airspace at any altitude means that accidents involving large RPAs rarely affect national airspace systems. Therefore, improving safety performance of larger RPAS temporarily may receive lower priority among these stakeholders. Priorities change over time among these stakeholders. One “snapshot” of such priorities by a U.S. research team said in 2017: “Associated with the proliferation of civil applications for sUAS [small UAS] is a paradigm shift from single-UAS visual operations in restricted airspace to multi-UAS beyond visual line of sight operations with increasing use of autonomous systems and operations under increasing levels of urban development and airspace usage. … This is challenging for sUAS operations due to insufficient mishap (accident and incident) reporting for sUAS and the rapid growth of new sUAS applications (or use cases) that have not yet been implemented.”