Until recent years, the general public — including many pilots of manned aircraft and air traffic controllers — tended to regard all operators and pilots of small RPAs as potential threats. During the introduction of small UAS aircraft affordable to worldwide mass markets, even the organized groups of self-regulated, model-aircraft enthusiasts — long respected for safely flying their aircraft “by the book” (i.e., only VLOS operation and no violations of voluntarily accepted limitations) — temporarily fell under suspicion. In 2018, government officials and safety researchers speaking at U.S. conferences offered reasons why typical operators and pilots of small RPAs had begun to gain greater public acceptance — as well as acceptance among manned-aviation professionals. Rare exceptions, such as cases of near-midair collisions and collisions involving pilots of RPAs (at fault) and manned aircraft, still harm the reputation of the RPAS segment of aviation Experts attribute growing acceptance to pilot certificates (licences) reflecting prescribed training, privileges and limitations — and to progress in building a robust RPAS safety culture. As a result, many professional pilots of manned aircraft in the United States, for example, have qualified for separate certificates (licences) to also exercise the privileges of small-RPA pilots. All now share accountability for operating and maintaining registered RPA, for flying strictly according to the regulatory regime and applying official safety guidance. In Europe, the evolution of small RPAS has been similar to that of the United States and other nations, although details of risk mitigations through regulatory oversight and safety guidance differed in some respects. The article cited the United Kingdom, where even the smallest RPAS — originally operated commercially under a permit or an exemption granted by the Civil Aviation Authority (U.K. CAA) — rapidly came under a regulatory regime that required RPAS operator training and standardised competency certification for the pilot based on the specific RPA. These are the Basic National UAS Certificate (BNUC) or the Basic National UAS Certificate for Small Unmanned Aircraft (BNUC-S). Training organisations approved by the U.K. CAA issue these documents and countries outside the United Kingdom adopted the same certification system in the absence of their own comparable alternative. Looking forward a few more years, one research team in the Netherlands warns that small RPAS still deserve very close attention to “how risk control is distributed between the pilot and the automated functions of drones.” The researchers see this as an RPAS version of performance-based classification of manned-aircraft capabilities. Some attempts to apply hazard-analysis methods and risk assessment methods to RPA operations have been based on probabilistic and deterministic approaches like those used for manned aircraft operations. In 2016, they reported that some threats to RPAS safety, from a technical analysis perspective, have not fit neatly into existing standardized paradigms of commercial manned aviation and manned general aviation. They theorized that significant reasons include: