The principal operational safety issues raised during the evolution of small RPAS have revolved around: The risk and potential consequences of a Mid-Air Collision with another RA or a manned aircraft — For example, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) said the FAA has acknowledged that “the pilot of the small UAS, who is physically separated from it during flight, may not have the ability to see manned aircraft in the air in time to prevent a mid-air collision;”. The risk of Loss of Control of an RA — For example, the GAO said the FAA has acknowledged that “the pilot of the small UAS could lose control of it due to a failure of the communications link between the small UAS and the pilot’s handset for controlling the UAS;”. The risk of intentional misuse of an RPA — This could be use as a weapon for terrorism or as a tool to invade personal/corporate privacy or to commit crimes; and,. Whether the mission of the RPAS operator involves certain classifications of flights — Military/government, commercial, leisure/recreational and hobby purposes each have unique risk profiles.. Disparate factors like these have led to inconsistent priorities among states as they strive independently to achieve their own “most appropriate balance.” This sometimes adversely affects effort in writing and promulgating safety-focused regulatory requirements versus effort issuing safety guidance — which often succeeds or fails based on RPAS operators’ and RA pilots’ voluntary acceptance and implementation. In some cases, NAAs prohibit RPAS operations as the default response to the ambitions of this aviation-industry segment. At another extreme, NAAs can oversimplify their rules based on the intended use of RPAS or on the classification of an RPAS operator, pending NAA officials’ completion of a comprehensive risk-based approach. EUROCONTROL also has found that harmonising state regulations to cover the full range of RPAS-aircraft sizes initially appeared to highly desirable, but the current arbitrary split among categories is based on RPAS-aircraft weight. This differentiation — aircraft weight of “below 150 kg” versus aircraft weight of “150 kg or more” — serves to distinguish between the regulatory competence (i.e., jurisdiction) of a national aviation authority (NAA) versus that of EASA regulatory competence. EUROCONTROL sees this as an arbitrary distinction unsupported by evidence, and a distinction not necessarily significant for the safety issues raised by RPAS operations. In particular, the third-party risks of RPAS operation are not necessarily proportional to either the weight or size of the RPA. As to key RPAS operational safety issues for operators and pilots, the FAA and EASA have made similar inroads working with their small-RPAS communities to instill a strong RPAS safety culture and pilot professionalism. They expect remote pilots to see themselves as the safety counterparts of airline pilots. They also encourage airline pilots and air traffic controllers to respect and to regard every RPAS pilot-in-command as a fellow professional who influences the overall safety of the national airspace system.