The Portuguese Air and Rail Accident Investigation Agency (GPIAAF) was notified of the event by the BEA Morocco, which delegated the conduct of the necessary Accident Investigation to Portugal. It was noted that the GPIAAF only became “formally aware” of the accident when it “received a brief description of the event and the actions taken by the Operator with the aircraft ferried to Cascais and subsequent contact with the manufacturer”. The FDR and CVR were both removed from the aircraft but useful data could only be downloaded from the FDR as relevant CVR data had been overwritten. It was found that the 47 year-old Training Captain had a total of 5,734 flying hours which included 2,956 hours on type. He had held an ATPL for 4 years and had been employed by the airline as a direct entry Captain in October 2016. It was noted that at that time, he had been permitted to act as an aircraft commander after just 3 supervised flights which, along with most other elements of the Company induction process, was not in compliance with that process. It was observed that “direct commander entry, within a short time interval, does not promote the correct understanding of procedural information, operator policies and culture to commanders, who in return, cannot actively contribute to spread the message to the new co-pilots arriving at the operator”. It was the Captain’s first flight with the trainee First Officer but he was aware from her training file of her continuing difficulties in manual handling of the aircraft. The 33 year-old trainee First Officer who had been PF for the accident flight, had a total of 269 flying hours which included 47 hours on type and, having been employed by the operator four months earlier, was in her first job as a professional pilot. She had been signed off the day prior to the accident by the Operator’s Safety Manager as able to continue training without a safety pilot after completing 26 line training sectors. An ILS approach to the 3,200 metre-long runway 27 at Fez was being flown in relatively benign weather conditions - the ATIS gave surface wind velocity of 350°/8 knots in CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) conditions. The approach proceeded normally until the AP was disconnected at 1300 feet aal but thereafter the achieved vertical flight path became somewhat erratic compared to the ILS GS and the PAPI and the airspeed varied both above and below the calculated VAPP. The Captain made two “Speed” calls but took no other action as the approach continued to be unstable. As the aircraft passed DA, the aircraft was on the ILS GS and descending at 800 fpm at VAPP + 7 knots with 25% torque set. This rate of descent continued to 80 feet agl and at 50 feet agl, the flare was commenced with the torque at 3% and the pitch angle increased to 6.4°. At 20 feet agl, the PM applied back pressure to his control column whilst the