control of the ATR72 fleet operation.. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally determined as “the flight crew performance during the landing manoeuvre, namely with poor aircraft energy management while performing an unstable approach". Four Contributory Factors were also identified in respect of the crew performance during the landing in Fez: The Captain’s non-compliance with the discontinued approach procedure.. The Captain not performing the appropriate flight supervision techniques and the proper aircraft recovery from an unsafe condition during the unstable approach.. The line training process and the consequent authorisation for the trainee First Officer to fly as PF without a safety pilot present given her known difficulties in controlling the aircraft during landing.. The absence of any explicit definition of stabilised approach criteria by the Operator.. Two further Contributory Factors were also identified in respect of the crew decision process to make the return flight to Lisbon: An organisational culture with inadequate or non-existent procedures and individual-centred decision-making (on the flight deck) without effective implementation of the CRM philosophy.. The lack of oversight of the Operator by the National Civil Aviation Authority in respect of its compliance with certification regulations and non adoption of SARPs.. Safety Action: It was noted that during the course of the Investigation, White Airways had taken, in conjunction with its contract provider TAP, “actions to ensure that TAP ground service providers operate in accordance with approved and distributed procedures, including the specificities of aircraft type used at each line station”. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation and are reproduced below preceded by the following statement which introduced them: The operator management system did not prepare or protect the fast-growing operation that was experienced with the introduction of the ATR fleet operating for TAP Express. This coincided with a period in the aviation industry with the highest demand for pilots that caused high rotation and significant shortage of pilots in the operator. As business pressure increased, the organization's vulnerabilities were exposed. The lack of documented or adequate procedures for the size of the operation is the first example of an organisation with misfit growth. The relevant operational safety aspects identified in this report regarding not only the hard landing event, but especially how the consequences have been managed, show systemic failures in the operator safety management system and in the oversight process by ANAC, as certifying authority. Due to the wide range of safety issues addressed, there was a need to concentrate and group the respective safety recommendations on the operator and the National Aviation Authority. that White Airways reviews the operation manual by customising and detailing the specific technical aspects of each fleet, as an example, but not limited to, the stabilised approach criteria definition in the OMB. [2019-09]. that White Airways reviews its crew training criteria and procedures as defined in Part-ORO.FC.145, including the correct definition and approval of FSTD devices and aircraft type. Regarding training, it should also review the CRM training as defined in PartORO.FC.215 and