First Officer continued to hold almost the same pressure on hers. Neither pilot added any power to reduce the rate of descent and a first touchdown occurred 350 metres past the threshold at a recorded +2.88g with a tail strike. A momentary bounce was followed by a second touchdown at +1.4g and after a second momentary bounce the final touchdown followed and the landing roll and taxi in continued without further event. The Investigation’s examination of the aircraft found that readily visible damage to the rear fuselage was evident to both the tailskid assembly and the underside of the rear fuselage. This was subsequently found to have resulted in “permanent deformation of the fuselage between frames 35 and 38”. Deformation of frame 39 next to stringer 21RH, superficial damage to frame 36 between stringers 21LH and 21RH was also found as was the fact that the rivets of frame 39 had been sheared off between stringers 20RH and 21RH. Since the airport authorities at Fez were unaware of the fuselage/runway impact at the time, no precautionary runway inspection was carried out, although when it eventually was, it was reported that no evidence of such damage was found. Once the passengers had disembarked, the Captain walked to the rear of the passenger cabin in order to carry out the required external pre flight inspection and when nearing the main exit observed a ceiling panel near to the SCCM station which had detached during the hard landing and refitted it in the presence of the cabin crew “without commenting or explaining what (had) happened during the landing”. He then completed his inspection - in his own words - “without detecting any anomalies in the aircraft”. The Captain stated that he had subsequently attempted to access the ‘g’ loadings recorded on the airplane condition monitoring system (ACMS) during the landing but had been unable to do so. He therefore made no defect entry in the Aircraft Technical Log either at Fez (where there was no contracted engineering support) or on arrival in Lisbon on what was the final flight of the day. At no time prior to or after the flight back to Lisbon did the Captain make any attempt to contact any company flight operations or engineering personnel to report the hard landing. The context for the Accident and its aftermath was analysed in depth and the following were some of the (summarised) issues looked at in relation to White Airways’ operation of their ATR 72-600 fleet: All pilot simulator training was outsourced to one of three external Authorized Training Organisations and provided on simulators configured as the -500 variant of the ATR 72 rather than the -600 version. However, the regulatory requirement for differences training before operating the -600 version after simulator training on the -500 was found to have been ignored.. The Operator’s actual ratio of crews per aircraft at the time of the accident had been rather less than the planned 5 for the fleet of 8 aircraft in