flight deck if ground contact occurs and the maximum permitted fuselage angle limit is exceeded but if the skid is fully compressed, two fibreglass sacrificial elements at its base are worn away. Such wear will result in the red witness marks (see the illustration below) no longer being visible which “indicates that the fuselage has been under over-stress”. Any pre flight inspection after a landing known to have been hard and involving a touchdown at a potentially excessive fuselage angle could reasonably be expected to pay particular attention to inspection of the tail skid and its witness marks.. In general, it was observed that during the Investigation, “it was not possible to collect evidence of effective operator supervision of […] the three main vectors: training, operations manuals and procedures and especially the operator’s safety management system”.. Formally documented Findings included, but were not limited to, the following: The event flight training of the First Officer as PF, while complying with the established number of flights by law, was not effective and sufficient to provide the necessary knowledge for the decision-making process and effective aircraft control capabilities.. The Training Captain’s actions and statements indicated that his knowledge and understanding of the aircraft systems were not adequate. His aeronautical decision making during the approach and flare suggests that he may not have considered the PF’s knowledge and the stage of her training on the event flight. He also did not demonstrate effective CRM practices and tools within the cockpit and between the cockpit and the cabin.. The Operator lacked flight crew in numbers and with the necessary skills for the size of the operation.. The mitigation measures put in place by the Operator’s training department regarding integration into the operation of inexperienced pilots were not effective.. The operator did not demonstrate effectiveness in the internal communication process of specific alerts or operation procedures.. Stabilised approach criteria are not defined in the customised Operator Manuals.. The Investigation identified weaknesses in the oversight of the Operator by the National Civil Aviation Authority in the following respects: the approval of the operating manuals when without specific operational criteria, for example but not limited to, stable approach criteria, training as defined in the OM-D, including assessment of the simulator service provider, effective CRM implementation on the operator, criteria and validations of their instructors, supervising the operation of the ATR72 fleet, notably through operational performance indicators such as the number of reports and their mitigation actions by the safety management system, the operator's risk assessment control of the ATR72 fleet operation.. the approval of the operating manuals when without specific operational criteria, for example but not limited to, stable approach criteria,. training as defined in the OM-D, including assessment of the simulator service provider,. effective CRM implementation on the operator, criteria and validations of their instructors,. supervising the operation of the ATR72 fleet, notably through operational performance indicators such as the number of reports and their mitigation actions by the safety management system,. the operator's risk assessment