service even if First Officers’ still in training were included, thereby placing pressure on reliable service delivery of the contracted TAP Express flights and providing a situation where a trainee pilot was as useful in the short term as a qualified one provided a supernumerary qualified safety pilot was not considered necessary. In particular, “the Operator’s pilot shortage, particularly in terms of qualified First Officers, may have conditioned the trainee First Officer’s release for continued line training without a safety pilot on board, even though she continued to reveal aircraft handling difficulties during landing phase”.. Although the Operator’s OPM Part A contained a requirement for all approaches to be stabilised with a go around to be flown if the specified ‘gates’ at 1000 feet agl in IMC or 500 feet agl in VMC were not met in a stabilised condition, there was “no reference to a stable approach policy or criteria, nor does it include any instruction on when the go-around should be performed”.. The applicable OPM Part B for use by the ATR 72 fleet “is not specific to fleet or aircraft type”. It “primarily consists of tables with references to the different OEMs’ documentation for the Boeing, Airbus and ATR types in the operator’s fleet (and) does not include any procedures per se but rather provides references to other documents”, mainly the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) and AFM. There are also “indications that the operator's crews must follow the published operating procedures in the ATR FCTM”. It was observed that such a regime “is not a particularly effective means of creating robust and standardised SOPs, which have been assessed according to the specific requirements of the operation and adopted as the operator’s own, to foster a greater sense of ownership, acceptance and adherence by crew”.. The tail strike was inevitable when the main landing gear was fully depressed during the first touchdown with the aircraft pitch angle at that time exceeding that at which this will occur (5.94°).. Despite regulatory audits of the Operator’s process for the supervision of crew training returning “a positive result”, the multiple deficiencies in this process found during the Investigation showed that “these control measures were not effective” nor were others also mandated under applicable regulatory requirements.. Although the Training Captain involved in this event stated that there was nothing he could have done to prevent the damaging landing, the evidence indicated otherwise and his insistence that “if the trainee First Officer was unable to land the aircraft, he could do it without any problems […] suggested an overconfident behaviour leading to an attitude of invulnerability”.. The Operator “did not demonstrate a structured approach to monitoring operational safety performance (or) to validating the effectiveness of safety risk controls” in relation to continued airworthiness and in general, there were no risk assessment processes which effectively addressed a poor occurrence reporting culture within a systemically deficient safety culture.. The tail skid system on the aircraft type involved does not trigger an alert in the