Because the accident had occurred to an aircraft operated by the South African CAA, a formal request in accordance with the corresponding provisions of Annex 13 was made to the Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) to perform the necessary Investigation rather than have it performed by the South African CAA Accident and Incident Investigation Division (AIID). This request was accepted and a formal agreement was made on 25 January 2021 under which the Ethiopian AAIB would complete an Investigation and submit the final draft report to the AIID for comment. When the two parties are agreed, the final report would be publicly released by the South African AIID. The FDR was recovered in an externally damaged state but, whilst some relevant data was successfully downloaded from it by the French BEA, only 7 of the 16 parameters for which recording was mandatory under the State Civil Aviation Regulations (CARs) were found to have been recorded. The aircraft did not have a CVR installed and was not required to have one. It was noted that the 49 year-old Captain, who was the Chief Pilot of the Flight Inspection Unit and simultaneously a CAA Operations Officer, had a total of 5,215 hours flying experience including 1,315 hours on type of which 15 hours had been recorded during the previous 90 days as the only hours flown on any aircraft type. He had previously completed approximately 20 hours of flight calibration work at George. On examination of the record of the Captain’s six monthly proficiency checks, it was found that his last Pilot Proficiency Check (PPC) was on 31 May 2019 and was therefore valid only until 30 November 2019 indicating that it had therefore “expired before the accident”. However, it was seen that he had attended the ‘FlightSafety Textron Aviation Training’ in San Antonio USA on 8 November 2019. Whilst there, he had completed training on PPC items which had included a corresponding certificate confirming this but without any endorsement that he had reached the necessary performance standard in those items for issue of a PPC. No such certificate was provided and it was found that instead “the current training document submitted by the South African CAA showed that the Captain had conducted a PPC 08 Nov 2019 which would expire on 07 May 2020”. The 33 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,061 hours flying experience of which 265 hours were on type. She had previously completed 2 hours of flight calibration work at George and, paired with the same Captain, had completed approximately 200 hours of flight calibration duties comprised of 58 VOR and 50 ILS calibrations. It was noted that prior to departing on the accident flight, the aircraft, with the Flight Inspection Unit Inspector who was tasked with operating the calibration equipment on board, had positioned from Port Elizabeth and had requested clearance to carry out a calibration flight approach for the ‘GRV’ VOR at George but had not received it because of prevailing poor weather conditions.