turned towards the runway 11 threshold after completing the first 17 DME arc track. The ILS 17 nm arc flight calibration check. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A detailed examination of the available flight data following a sudden right turn as the aircraft was about to reach 4000 feet QNH led to the conclusion that it was indicative of a loss of control and a rapid descent from which a recovery climb was being attempted at impact. Available webcam images at the time confirmed that the peaks of the mountains northwest of the airport were in cloud at the time. There was no evidence from FDR data of any windshear. No evidence that the Captain had completed a UPRT exercise in the simulator during his most recent training session was found and it was considered that this fact had the potential to have been significant. It was also an explicit requirement that all Flight Inspection Operations must be conducted under VFR. An examination of maintenance documentation found that the aircraft was not being maintained in accordance with CAA regulations although this was particularly with reference to the FDR and no evidence suggesting that lack of airworthiness had contributed to the accident scenario was found. Irregularities were found in respect of the Flight Inspection Unit’s approval as an Electronic Service Organisation (ESO) which was a CAA regulatory requirement for any provider of flight calibration services. In 2019, the ESO approval was found to have lapsed whilst calibration work continued and even when held was invalidated by the absence of an employed or contracted “compliance officer” as required under the corresponding part of the CARs. Since there was no CVR record and the TAWS unit was not found, it was not possible to establish whether relevant TAWS annunciations had occurred. The Probable Cause of the Accident was documented in narrative form as follows: The crew lost control of the aircraft which resulted in significant loss of altitude; as they attempted to recover, they collided with the mountain. According to the official weather report, there was significant cloud cover below 1500 feet above ground level at the time of the accident as recorded in the METARs with mountain tops, including those which the aircraft ground track passed over were obscured as seen on the airport webcam. From the limited FDR reading the aircraft attitude drastically changed into an unusual attitude when approaching the mountainous area which indicated that, most probably, the pilot had entered into an unusual attitude during transition from VFR to IFR flight without preparation. The accident flight plan was VFR. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The presence of low cloud at about 1500 feet below above ground and mountain tops obscured mountains by cloud.. The incapability of the crew to recover from an unusual attitude; lack of effective supervision of flight operations and disregard of relevant requirements of the Civil Aviation Regulations by the Flight Inspection Unit (as the aircraft operator).. Overbanked and steep dive manoeuvre and