As a result, it was decided to land and refuel the aircraft before commencing the calibration of the runway 11 ILS instead. The First Officer requested start for an ILS calibration flight climbing to 3000 feet QNH and advised an endurance of 4 hours 30 minutes which was approved. A subsequent request was made to intercept the 250° radial from the on-aerodrome ‘GRV’ VOR by turning right after a runway 11 takeoff and climbing to 3000 feet QNH to join the 17 DME clockwise arc and then follow this until reaching the 330° radial from the same VOR climbing to 4000 feet QNH (see the illustration below). This request was approved. The aircraft was subsequently airborne at 1042 local time with the Captain acting as PF. The radar recording indicated that it had thereafter followed the approved route. The George METAR timed shortly after the takeoff gave the aerodrome surface visibility as greater than 10km and the lowest cloud there as BKN (broken) at 2400 feet aal, about 1000 feet below the intended climb to the northwest of the airport to 4000 feet QNH. The ground track of the accident flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Eight minutes after takeoff, the aircraft commenced a right turn onto the 17 DME arc and appeared to level off at 3,900 feet QNH but after about half a minute FDR data showed a wing drop without a further heading change occurring and a rapid descent of 1500 feet occurred within approximately 9 seconds during which a MAYDAY call was received. At 2,400 feet QNH, the aircraft appeared to have been beginning a recovery from the dive and three seconds prior to impact - now below higher terrain in the vicinity leading to loss of the radar target - the 32.5° nose down pitch was reduced to 17.5° at which attitude impact occurred. ATC contact calls received no response and a DETRESFA was declared. No ELT signal was received but a search and rescue operation was immediately commenced by the emergency helicopter on standby which located the accident site after about an hour. The crash site, spread over a 270 metre radius circle, was in the Outeniqua Mountains northwest of the town of Friemersheim at an elevation of 2,192 feet. It was immediately evident that the aircraft had been destroyed on impact having approached the gently-rising slope of an east-west ridge from the south at a relatively shallow angle. FDR data was subsequently found to indicate that the last recorded airspeed was 286 knots. Neither the ELT nor the TAWS installed on the accident aircraft were recovered. The initial part of the ILS calibration task was to fly 35° on either side of the runway centre line while maintaining a 17 nm DME arc at a height of 2000 feet agl or obstacle plus 1000 feet (see the illustration below). Therefore the position of the aircraft at the time control appeared to have been lost was about the point where the aircraft would have