the aircraft despite the indicated achievement of the required take off EPR, was recognised by either pilot.. eight seconds after the V1 call at 137 KIAS and two seconds after the V2 call at 144 KIAS, the stick shaker activated and about 30 seconds after becoming airborne, in a significantly nose up attitude, the aircraft stalled and struck a busy road bridge situated about 1400 metres from the upwind end of the take off runway before continuing in a more level attitude into the ice covered river below. The various impacts led to the complete destruction of the aircraft.. the FDR readout showed that the actual EPR required for take off, although indicated, was considerably more than was indicated, but since this was never appreciated by the crew, the considerable amount of additional thrust available was never applied.. Six occupied cars and a truck on the bridge were hit and a significant part of the bridge superstructure was torn away. The probably flight path was plotted as straight ahead with a slight turn to the left once stalled. Since no evidence that the airworthiness of the aircraft had been a factor in the accident, the investigation focused on the ways in which the prevailing adverse weather conditions and the flight crew response to them could have had an effect on what happened. Each aspect was considered separately to establish the extent of any contribution which it may have made. Ground De/Anti Icing. This was provided as part of a line maintenance contract between Air Florida and American Airlines. It was found that there had been little communication between the two carriers about de icing and it was clear that American Airlines maintenance personnel had only limited familiarity with the 737 aircraft which was not operated by their own Airline. The solitary Air Florida maintenance representative at the airport was found to have received only limited orientation training and that his duties and responsibilities were poorly defined. It was concluded that there should have been more complete discussions between Air Florida and American so that their respective responsibilities were fully understood. It was noted that the de/anti icing treatment given to the accident aircraft was not consistent with American Airlines’ own procedures for the prevailing ambient temperature and must be regarded as having been deficient. The fact that the de icing had commenced over an hour before the aircraft took off was also noted. However, it was concluded that, in the absence of sufficient data on the effectiveness of specific de/anti-icing procedures combined with the extended exposure to continual precipitation before takeoff, it was impossible to be sure that the de/anti-icing procedures used on the aircraft were a causal factor in the accident. Take off commenced with frozen deposits on the wings. It was clear from the investigation that the flight crew had been aware when they began their take off roll that there were visible frozen deposits on the wings. The Investigation was concerned that, despite the flight training received