frozen contaminant through the pre takeoff use of a ground-operable wing thermal anti-ice system, or (2) an increased stall airspeed margin at liftoff which will provide adequate pitch and roll control to counter the effects of undetected leading edge contaminants by modification of takeoff flaps configuration and/or increased takeoff airspeed schedules. [A-82-83]. Amend Air Traffic Control coordination procedures and practices to require that terminal and en route facilities provide the Central Flow Control Facility (CFCF) with current and accurate information regarding congestion and that CFCF act on that information in a positive manner to minimize airport saturation and extensive traffic delays. Review implementation of prescribed gate-hold procedures and require their use wherever possible. [A-82-84]. Issue a General Notice to terminal area Air Traffic Control facilities to emphasize to controllers that the separation criteria set forth in FAA Air Traffic Control Handbook 7110.65C which require a minimum of 2 miles separation do not permit deviation based upon the anticipated acceleration differences between landing and departing traffic. [A-82-85]. Evaluate the criteria and current practices of Air Traffic Control facilities regarding the declaration and reporting of operational errors to ensure that all such errors are reported and are investigated. [A-82-86]. Provide for essential equipment and increased personnel training to improve the water rescue capabilities at the Washington National Airport in all anticipated weather conditions, and provide necessary funding for surrounding communities and jurisdictions which will be called on to support the airport's rescue response. [A-82-87]. Survey all certificated airports having approach and departure flight paths over water and evaluate the adequacy of their water rescue plans, facilities, and equipment according to the guidance contained in Advisory Circular 150/5210-13 and make recommendations for improvement as necessary to appropriate airport authorities. [A-82-88]. Amend 14 CFR 139.55 to require adequate water rescue capabilities at airports having approach and departure flightpaths over water which are compatible with the range of weather conditions which can be expected. [A-82-89]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved for release by the NTSB on 10 August 1982, just under seven months after the accident had occurred.