carrier ground control personnel alerting them to the increased potential for aircraft icing during long delays before takeoff and when aircraft operate in proximity to each other during ground operations in inclement weather, and encouraging procedural changes where possible so that the controllers implement the gate-hold provisions of the Facilities Operations and Administration Manual 7210.3F, paragraph 1232. [A-82-10]. Document the effect of engine inlet pressure probe blockage on engine instrument readings and require that such information be added to approved aircraft flight manuals. [A-82-11]. Amend Advisory Circulars 91-13c, “Cold Weather Operation of Aircraft”, and 91-51, "Airplane De-ice and Anti-Ice Systems”, to discuss in detail the effects and hazards associated with engine inlet pressure probe icing. [A-82-12]. Revise the air traffic control procedures with respect to aircraft taxiing for takeoff, holding in line for takeoff, and taking off to provide for increased ground separation between aircraft whenever freezing weather conditions and attendant aircraft icing problems exist. [A-82-13]. Expand the training curricula for air traffic controllers and trainees to assure that instruction includes the hazards associated with structural and engine icing of aircraft. [A-82-14]. Immediately disseminate the contents of this safety recommendation letter to foreign operators involved in cold weather operations. [A-82-15]. A further 11 Safety Recommendations were issued in a letter to the FAA dated 11 August 1982: Inspectors to emphasize to air carrier maintenance departments that proper maintenance of ground support equipment may be critical to flight operations and the importance of adhering to maintenance practices recommended by the manufacturers of such equipment. [A-82-79]. Issue a Maintenance Alert Bulletin to require Principal Maintenance Inspectors to review contract agreements between an air carrier operating into a facility at which another air carrier or maintenance contractor is providing maintenance services to assure that the responsibilities of both parties and key personnel are clearly defined and that the contractor providing the maintenance is thoroughly familiar with the maintenance of the type of aircraft involved. [A-82-80]. Issue an Operations Alert Bulletin to require Principal Operations Inspectors to require that air carrier training programs adequately cover the effects of aircraft leading edge contamination on aerodynamic performance, particularly as it affects the relationship between airspeed and angle of attack and those functions whose activation is dependent on the angle of attack, such as stall warning systems and autothrottle speed command systems. [A-82-81]. Require revision of the B-737 Approved Flight Manual to add "anti-ice" to the normal taxi and takeoff checklist. Review the checklists for all air carrier aircraft to ensure that all action items required for a successful takeoff are included on the appropriate checklist. Special consideration should be given to items whose functions may be affected by environmental conditions subject to change during ground delay periods. [A-82-82]. Issue an Airworthiness Directive to implement the necessary airplane modifications and/or changes in operational procedures for B-737 aircraft takeoff operations during weather or runway conditions conducive to the formation of leading edge frost, snow, or ice contamination to require either: (1) that the leading edge is free of