An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and successful download accomplished. It was found that the Captain had just four years jet experience, all gained at Air Florida, of which two years had been in command. The First Officer had two years commercial flying experience, all at Air Florida, after USAF service. The First Officer had been designated as PF. Take off weight was 46400kg. The flight sequence was reconstructed as follows: the outside air temperature had been -4°C. After a two hour period of heavy snow, this was recorded as reducing to ‘moderate snow’ at 1525 and, apart from the interval between 1540 and 1553 for which light snow was recorded, remained so. An accumulation of wet snow was observed on the aircraft prior to the commencement of de icing.. due to a change of operative mid way through, ground de/anti icing had been carried out by two different operatives. The left side of the aircraft was done first using a single stage application of a heated mixture of glycol and water with a 30/40% glycol concentration based on the actual air temperature. The right side was then done by a different operative and, based on an incorrect assumption that the temperature was -2°C, used hot water to de ice followed by a ‘finish coat’ of a heated solution of water and 20/30% glycol. Contrary to documented Air Florida procedures, neither engine inlet blanks nor pitot / static covers were installed during de/anti icing, although other evidence did not suggest this was a significant omission in respect of the accident outcome. The de/anti icing operation had commenced at about 1450 and was complete by 1510.. at 1525, the attached tug tried and failed to push the aircraft back off stand. Both engines were then started and operated in reverse thrust for between 30 and 90 seconds to no better effect and the engines were shut down with the reversers deployed. Another tug successfully completed the push back ten minutes later.. the aircraft had joined the queue for departure behind a DC-9 and appeared to have been manoeuvred to expose both sides of the aircraft to the jet efflux from that aircraft as a means to removing wet snow. There was some discussion about the difference in engine EPRs which was attributed to whether the engine was taking in efflux or ambient air.. just before 1600, take off was commenced from runway 36 with an Runway Visual Range (RVR) of 640 metres in moderate snow and vertical visibility of 200 feet having received an instruction from ATC not to delay because of landing traffic at 2.5 miles.. during the take off roll, the First Office made a number of comments about a discrepancy between the left and right engine EPRs but the commander did not appear to have been concerned. There was no clear evidence that the abnormally slow acceleration rate of