of airframe snow or ice contamination which degraded lift and increased drag and the lower than normal thrust set by reference to the erroneous EPR indications. Either condition alone should not have prevented continued flight.. Continuation of flight should have been possible immediately after stick shaker activation if appropriate pitch control had been used and maximum available thrust had been added. While the flight crew did add appropriate pitch control, they did not add thrust in line in time to prevent impact.. Runway distance reference markers would have provided the flight crew (with) invaluable assistance in evaluating the acceleration rate of the aircraft and making a go / no go decision.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as: “The flight crew's failure to use engine anti-ice during ground operation and takeoff, their decision to take off with snow/ice on the airfoil surfaces of the aircraft, and the captain's failure to reject the takeoff during the early stage when his attention was called to anomalous engine instrument readings.” It was additionally concluded that: “Contributing to the accident were the prolonged ground delay between de-icing and the receipt of ATC takeoff clearance during which the airplane was exposed to continual precipitation, the known inherent pitch up characteristics of the B737 aircraft when the leading edge is contaminated with even small amounts of snow or ice, and the limited experience of the flight crew in jet transport winter operations.” The following 10 Safety Recommendations were issued to the FAA “as a result of this accident and several others involving operations in snow and ice conditions” in a letter dated 28 January 1982, just 15 days after the accident: Immediately notify all air carrier operators of the potential hazard associated with engine inlet pressure probe icing, and require that they provide flight crews with information on how to recognize this hazard and requiring that flight crews cross-check all engine instruments during the application of takeoff power. [A-82-6]. Immediately review the pre-departure de icing procedures used by all air carrier operators engaged in cold weather operations and the information provided to flight crews to emphasize the inability of de icing fluid to protect against re-icing resulting from precipitation following de icing. [A-82-7]. Immediately review the information provided by air carrier operators to flight crews engaged in cold weather operations to ensure comprehensive coverage of all aspects of such operations, including the effects of a runway contaminated by snow or slush on takeoff, and methods to be used to obtain maximum effectiveness of engine anti-ice during ground operations and takeoffs. [A-82-8]. Immediately require flight crews to visually inspect wing surfaces before takeoff if snow or freezing precipitation is in progress and the time elapsed since either de icing or the last confirmation that surfaces were clear exceeds 20 minutes to ensure compliance with 14 CFR 121.629(b) which prohibits takeoff if frost, snow or ice is adhering to the wings or control surfaces. [A-82-9]. Immediately issue a General Notice to all FAA tower and air