and advisory material provided to pilots stressing the importance of ‘clean’ wings for take off and FAA regulations specifically prohibiting takeoff with frost, snow or ice on the wings or control surfaces, some pilots appear not to fully understand or appreciate the extent to which even a small amount of contaminant can degrade aerodynamic performance. It was considered that the accident circumstances had served to confirm wider evidence that pilots might be influenced by such factors as anticipated further delays, observations of other departing aircraft and even personal encounters with airframe icing during the cruise which might lead them to believe that some wing contamination is acceptable. Failure to select engine anti ice on. The Investigation found that the most significant factor in this accident was the failure of the flight crew to use engine anti-ice during ground operation and for take off. Because of this, the engine inlet pressure probe became blocked with ice, causing a significant error in the EPR reading displayed in the flight deck, as a result of which take off was attempted with an actual thrust setting which was too low. It was considered that, even if selection of engine anti ice had not occurred until just before take off rather than after start as per the checklist prompt, "had the crew turned it on at that time, the accident probably would have been averted”. It was considered that an experienced professional flight crew operating in adverse weather conditions such as prevailed for the accident take off would be expected to have routinely double checked all critical items related to safe operations, such as pitot/static heaters and engine anti-ice, regardless of their inclusion on checklists. Known vulnerability of aircraft type to un-commanded pitch up if wing leading edges are contaminated with frozen deposits. It was noted that operators of Boeing 737 aircraft have reported a number of aircraft pitch up or roll off incidents immediately after takeoff in weather conditions conducive to the formation of ice or frost on the wing leading edges. The investigation found that the evidence indicates that the accident aircraft did experience an un-commanded pitch up at rotation for take off which was not or could not be immediately corrected so that the aircraft became airborne in a high pitch attitude. This, combined with low thrust and high drag, was together considered to have inhibited acceleration to a safe airspeed. ATC issues. ATC control of departure delays at a time when adverse weather conditions were a major constraint on runway occupancy in general and specifically on departure rates was considered. It was concluded that take off delays could have been reduced and that the system for supporting controllers in achieving this was deficient. Although not directly related to the circumstances of the accident, it was noted that the aircraft approaching runway 36 as the accident aircraft began its take off roll, an Eastern Airlines Boeing 727, was found to have landed whilst the departing aircraft was still on the runway having