received its landing clearance when ‘over the lights’ only a few seconds after 737 began to move. This was identified as a significant violation of the prevailing requirements for separation since the applicable requirements were that, under IFR, controllers must separate a departing aircraft from an aircraft on final approach by a minimum of 2 miles if separation will increase to a minimum of 3 miles within 1 minute after takeoff. This requirement is intended to ensure safe separation if the aircraft on approach executes a missed approach. However, the violation was of far more concern because both the TWR controller on duty at the time of the accident and the Head of TWR ATC stated at the Board Public Hearing after the accident that the applicable criteria are widely interpreted to allow for the "accordion effect" of landing deceleration and takeoff acceleration whereas both controller training manuals and controller tests clearly indicate that no such allowance is intended. The Investigation was additionally concerned that no operational error had been filed in respect of the violation and that the number of such errors is used as a means to monitor ATC system safety which by this criterion has shown a marked improvement which may be false. The Investigation also documented a range of concerns at deficiencies in the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services capabilities of Washington National Airport and noted the “extensive improvements which have been made” in the six months following the accident. The formal statement of 37 Findings of the Investigation included the following: The flight crew did not use engine anti-ice during ground operation or take off.. The engine inlet pressure probe on both engines became blocked with ice before the initiation of take off.. The flight crew was aware of the adherence of snow or ice to the wings while on the ground awaiting take off clearance.. The crew attempted to de-ice the aircraft by intentionally positioning it near the exhaust of the aircraft ahead in line. This was contrary to flight manual guidance and may have contributed to the adherence of ice on the wing leading edges and to the blocking of the engines’ inlet pressure probes.. Engine thrust actually produced by each engine during take off was equivalent to an EPR of 1.70 which was about 3750 pounds net thrust per engine less than that which would have been produced at the (required) takeoff EPR of 2.04.. Although the First Officer expressed concern that something was “not right” to the Captain four times during the take off, the Captain took no action to reject the take off.. Snow and / or ice contamination on the wing leading edges produced a nose up pitching moment as the aircraft was rotated for lift off.. The aircraft stall warning stick shaker activated almost immediately after lift off and continued until impact.. The aircraft encountered stall buffet and descended to impact at a high angle of attack.. The aircraft could not sustain flight because of the combined effects