the course of the Investigation: The FMS data entry error and its subsequent non-detection. The failure to detect a significantly lower acceleration than normal during the takeoff roll until a late stage and the failure to respond once it was apparent. The delay in recognising the reason for the almost imperceptible rate of climb which followed lift off very near to the end of the runway.. The FMS data entry error and its subsequent non-detection.. The failure to detect a significantly lower acceleration than normal during the takeoff roll until a late stage and the failure to respond once it was apparent.. The delay in recognising the reason for the almost imperceptible rate of climb which followed lift off very near to the end of the runway.. It was found that after previous events in which incorrect OAT figures had been entered into the FMC prior to takeoff, Boeing had issued an FCOM Bulletin which highlighted the fact that “an incorrect reduced thrust target may result in slower acceleration to V1, which may invalidate the takeoff performance calculations and/or result in decreased obstacle clearance margins after liftoff” and the specific need for flight crews to verify the OAT entry on the N1 LIMIT page. It was also found that the most recently updated FMC software version would, subject to a required update of the Common Display System (CDS), have provided an automated crosscheck between the OAT entered by the crew and the OAT detected by an external sensor. This optional update had not been installed in the aircraft under investigation whereas if it had been, it would have precluded the possibility of data entry errors like the one made. It was noted that a considerable number of previous investigations by the AAIB and other State Investigation Agencies had involved events attributable to a range of data entry errors which had gone undetected and then led to the use of incorrect FMC-calculated takeoff thrust settings. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the following: The low takeoff thrust meant that the takeoff was abnormal in terms of: low acceleration distance along the runway to achieve V1 and Vr low rotation rate low climb rate marginal ability of the aircraft to stop during an RTO from V1 inability of the aircraft to continue the takeoff following an engine failure at V1 without increased thrust.. low acceleration. distance along the runway to achieve V1 and Vr. low rotation rate. low climb rate. marginal ability of the aircraft to stop during an RTO from V1. inability of the aircraft to continue the takeoff following an engine failure at V1 without increased thrust.. Once the aircraft began its takeoff run with insufficient thrust, the risk controls in place did not alert the crew to act to recover the situation because, in general: Pilots are unlikely to recognise that actual acceleration is below a threshold value for a particular runway. The use of autothrust de-couples pilots from the thrust levers. Pilots