found that significant impact damage had occurred to the light, which had also acquired a pattern of black rubber deposits corresponding to the tread on the tyres fitted to the aircraft involved. Examination of the EGPWS memory found that no Mode 3 Alerts had been generated during the shallow initial climb, which had occurred over ground that sloped away from the runway elevation. This confirmed that the aircraft had not descended by more than 50 feet before reaching 500 feet agl.. In the absence of any FDR, QAR or CVR flight data, the Investigation carried out a complex integration of radar and ADS-B data in order to reconstruct the initial climb profile achieved by the aircraft and was able to create the illustrations below.. From the vertical profile illustration, it can be seen that when 500 metres beyond the end of the runway, the aircraft had only climbed to approximately 40 feet aal, when 900 metres beyond the end of the runway, it was only approximately 120 feet aal and when 1500 metres beyond the end of the runway it was only approximately 220 feet aal. BITE history for the A/T showed that not until the aircraft had reached approximately 800 feet aal over 2 nm from the end of the runway had the crew manually advanced the thrust levers to an N1 greater than the 81.5% used for takeoff. It was apparent that it had been only “the benign nature of the runway clearway and terrain elevation beyond and the lack of obstacles in the climb-out path, which allowed the aircraft to climb away without further collision after it struck the runway light”. Boeing calculations indicated that had an engine failed once the aircraft reached V1, it would have been unable to climb if the takeoff had been continued unless the thrust set had been increased on the remaining engine. It was also calculated that had the crew immediately rejected the takeoff at V1 for any reason, the aircraft would have overrun the end of the runway at a speed of 5 knots. However, if the regulatory criteria for rejected takeoffs used in take off performance calculations, which allow for a two second delay to allow for the decision to initiate a rejected takeoff and discount any use of reverse thrust had been used, the aircraft would have crossed the end of the runway at a speed of approximately 80 knots. It was therefore concluded that had an engine failed at V1, “the most likely outcome would have been either a runway overrun or an attempted takeoff leading to ground impact” with either possibility being an extremely serious event with “the potential to cause significant loss of life”.. Had the crew been alerted to the abnormally low acceleration while still at low speed, the takeoff could have been rejected and the aircraft brought to a halt well before the end of the runway.. A number of human factors failures which had been identified during the event were reviewed during