are disposed only to reduce thrust to idle during takeoff (in the case of an RTO). Pilots remove their hands from the thrust levers at V1. Pilots do not have to increase thrust during a takeoff in the event of an engine failure.. Pilots are unlikely to recognise that actual acceleration is below a threshold value for a particular runway.. The use of autothrust de-couples pilots from the thrust levers.. Pilots are disposed only to reduce thrust to idle during takeoff (in the case of an RTO).. Pilots remove their hands from the thrust levers at V1.. Pilots do not have to increase thrust during a takeoff in the event of an engine failure.. Safety margins built into take off distance required calculations, which cater for normal variations in operational performance, are rendered unreliable or ineffective when there is a data entry error because of the random (and possibly gross) nature of the effect.. The investigated Serious Incident was attributed to three Causal Factors as follows: An incorrect OAT was entered into the FMC, which caused the FMC to calculate an N1 setting for takeoff which was significantly below that required for the aircraft weight and environmental conditions.. The incorrect OAT was not identified subsequently by the operating crew.. The abnormal acceleration during the takeoff run was not identified until the aircraft was rapidly approaching the end of the runway, and no action was taken to either reject the takeoff or increase engine thrust.. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: The aircraft’s FMC did not have the capability to alert the flight crew to the fact that they had entered the incorrect OAT into the FMC, although this capability existed in a later FMC software standard available at the time.. The Electronic Flight Bags did not display N1 on their performance application (some applications do), which meant that the crew could not verify the FMC-calculated N1 against an independently-calculated value.. The crew were unlikely to detect the abnormally low acceleration because of normal limitations in human performance.. Safety Action taken in response to the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included, but not been limited to, the following: Sunwing Airlines began upgrading the FMCs and CDUs installed in their Boeing 737 aircraft so that the available OAT alerting function would be added. They also updated their EFB software so that it would display the computed N1 and amended their SOPs to add a crosscheck of this figure as displayed on the two pilots’ EFBs.. The UK CAA amended MATS Part 1 to require that senior aerodrome air traffic controllers must notify the AAIB by telephone as part of their initial reporting actions following an aircraft accident or serious incident and also added a similar requirement to the UK Flight Information Service Officer Manual, CAP797.. A total of four Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration mandate the use of Flight Management Computer OPS software revision