An Investigation was commenced by the UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) after it became aware of the event three days later, by which time relevant data on both the FDR and CVR were found to have been overwritten. It was also found that neither of the two QARs installed on the aircraft were functioning and reconstruction of the circumstances was reliant on time consuming analysis of other data from a range of sources which included the A/T BITE system, the EGPWS memory, EFB data, radar and ADS-B data and airport CCTV recordings. Some data from the Aircraft Condition Monitoring System (ACMS) of use to the Investigation were automatically transmitted via ACARS to the aircraft operator, but when its PCMCIA Card was subsequently removed, it was apparent that data storage had not been programmed. Although the Canadian aircraft operator did eventually report the event to Canada’s TSB, they did not report it directly to the UK AAIB and the aircraft commander failed to report it at all to either the UK or Canadian Investigation agencies. It was noted that both of these parties, as well as the airline for whom the flight was being operated and the aerodrome authority, “had a legal duty to report the event to the AAIB”. It was noted that Belfast ATC, which, it was considered, should have been sufficiently aware of the event to know that it was likely to be considered a Serious Incident, had merely raised an out of office hours UK CAA MOR in accordance with their corresponding procedures. It was noted that the 38-year-old aircraft Captain, who was acting as PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 8,234 flying hours of which 2,817 hours were on type. The 45-year-old First Officer had a total of 4,423 flying hours of which 1,219 hours were on type. Both pilots held Canadian licences and had been off duty the day before the flight under investigation, which was their first of the day. They had been employed by the aircraft operator for five and two years, respectively. During the pre-flight preparations, each pilot independently completed weight and balance and performance calculations on their respective EFBs for a departure from runway 07 entering at taxiway ‘D’, which gave a 2654 metre TORA. After crosschecking, these calculations were entered into the FMC. However, at an undetermined point, a figure of -47°C was entered into the FMC as the OAT without either pilot noticing and since this parameter is used in the FMC calculation of the required takeoff thrust setting, a much lower thrust setting than that appropriate was calculated by the FMS. This calculated rated thrust was then further reduced in accordance with normal procedures by entering a (correctly-calculated) assumed temperature of 47°C. During pushback, the ground crew saw an area of excessive tyre wear on one of the NLG tyres and it was decided to return the aircraft to its gate and change both NLG tyres. Whilst this was happening, the First Officer re-calculated