the takeoff performance data which, after being crosschecked by the Captain, was entered into the FMC by the First Officer using 48°C as the (correctly updated) assumed temperature for the intended reduced thrust takeoff. However, an incorrect value of -52°C was then entered to replace the previously-entered (and also incorrect) value of -47°C as the OAT, again without either pilot noticing. The FMC then used this information to calculate and display a required takeoff thrust setting of 81.5% N1 whereas the EFB calculations made independently by both pilots prior to FMS data input had produced a required N1 of 92.7%. This EFB-calculated figure was not displayed to the pilots at the time, but was established by accessing the two EFBs used during the Investigation. Nine minutes after the first pushback, the flight was again pushed back and taxied to the runway and, having received a corresponding clearance, began its takeoff on runway 07 from the taxiway ‘D’ intersection. The pilots stated that at around 120 / 130 KIAS (the V1 was 144 KIAS), they had realised that the aircraft was not accelerating normally but had continued with the engine thrust unchanged and had reached Vr approximately 300 metres before the end of the 2654 metre-long runway and become airborne immediately prior to its end. Multiple witnesses, including the TWR controller, reported that the aircraft “took a significant time to lift off before climbing at a very low rate”. The controller reported having decided to “allow the pilots some time” rather than immediately transfer the flight to the radar frequency, which was usual practice as he had been “sure they had a problem they were dealing with and that they would call him if they needed anything”. However, when there was no such call, he proceeded with the transfer. The crew checked in as instructed and were subsequently cleared en route without indicating to any ATC unit that there had been anything abnormal about their takeoff or initial climb out. A message recommending an inspection of the aircraft on arrival at its destination was passed to the aircraft operator who subsequently reported that no damage had been found as a result of such an inspection. Continued concern at what had been seen resulted in the TWR controller suggesting, after a discussion with an airport fireman who had also witnessed the takeoff, that the airport operator should carry out a runway inspection. This found that one of the runway 25 supplementary approach lihts located within the stopway 29 metres beyond the end of the TORA and 36cm high was lying on the ground with substantial damage evident. It was initially assumed by airport staff that the light had been blown over by jet blast, something which had previously been seen at the same airport after takeoffs by much larger aircraft - although in this case usually near the beginning of the runway behind the point where an aircraft had commenced its takeoff roll. However, a subsequent closer examination by the Investigation team