respect of arrivals on both runways and departures on runway 23 and had therefore received a stage 1 (visual only) alert 23 seconds before the conflict and a stage 2 (aural and visual) alert 2 seconds before the conflict. The pilots of the E190 had acquired the airport visually at approximately 7nm out and saw the preceding aircraft vacate the runway when they had approximately 5nm to run. Operator SOPs including the requirement to maintain a sterile flight deck environment were followed. It was established that the first air traffic control go around instruction had been masked by a concurrent Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) automated callout of "two hundred" and the crew did not hear it. As the aircraft reached approximately 120 feet agl, the crew heard part of a radio transmission containing the words “go around” but after communicating between themselves, they "decided that the call could not have been for them". The Investigation concluded that the rapid commencement of the controllers transmission after pressing 'transmit' and the poor pronunciation of the aircraft call sign prefix led to the latter being absent from the received transmission. It was considered that a go-around transmission in the absence of other supporting cues such as the sight of an obstacle had meant that "the communication was insufficient to challenge the flight crew’s mental model of the situation, or their expectation of an uneventful landing". It was established that the aircraft had cleared the van by approximately 35 feet before touching down on Runway 24R, approximately 1500 feet past the displaced threshold. It was noted that fatigue had not been a factor and that both pilots were experienced and had carried out many go arounds both on ATC instructions and otherwise although all of these had been "at least partially anticipated". The limited response of the crew to the two go around calls given that neither had see the van ahead despite the fact that it should, in theory , have remained visible from their flight deck until approximately 55 feet agl, was attributed by the Investigation to a process described in the "Recognition-primed Decision Making (RPD)" model that seeks to "explain how people make quick, effective decisions when faced with complex situations". The subject is discussed in the Investigation Report. In respect of the detection of clipped ATC transmissions at the point of receipt, it was noted that the type of voice recording equipment in use at Toronto ATC recorded very marginally more speech than would be received by an aircraft crew. Whilst this would not normally be a significant matter, in this case it had contributed to what could have been a potentially erroneous understanding of what would have been heard if not recognised. Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigation was documented as including a reiteration by the Airport Operator of an existing prohibition on "leaving vehicles idling and (not secure) on the airside" and action by them to ensure vehicle beacons were operative and effective,