was to shut down the left engine, he had made a cabin PA ordering an evacuation and had activated the emergency evacuation signal switch. The crew then completed the remainder of the Checklist and vacated the flight deck into the cabin where “a lot of smoke” was evident – the Captain subsequently described not being able to see further than “about 2 feet” in front of him. They were met by the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) who informed them that all passengers and all the other cabin crew were already off the aircraft and the three of them then left the aircraft too, the Captain last. Once outside, it was quickly apparent to the crew that ignition of fuel leaking from the damaged right engine and pooling under the wing once the aircraft had stopped, was leading to rapid development of the fire. The RFFS arrived at about this time and began extinguishing the fire. Some debris from the right engine and wing was found on the runway where the engine had failed. Most of the engine’s second stage High Pressure Turbine (HPT) disc, which had disintegrated and had been the source of the failure, was found in four pieces one of which (a 26 kg section labelled ‘A’ in the illustration of the recovered disc fragments below), had passed though the inboard section of the right wing, over the fuselage and into a UPS warehouse facility 895 metres south of the engine failure position. The origin of the initial fatigue fracture was found by visual laboratory examination of the fragments which identified a discoloured (heat-tinted) area on the disc surfaces separating fragment A and fragment B. This disc had failed after 10,984 cycles out of a life limit of 15,000 cycles. Metallurgical examination of the fractured nickel-based alloy surfaces then revealed “multiple subsurface micro-structural discontinuities with multiple cracks initiating along the boundary of the discontinuities”. These dark grey-coloured discontinuities were observed to be elongated in the direction of the grain structure pattern produced during forging. Multiple cracks had started along the edges of the discontinuities and then grown in both directions. Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of the fracture surface showed crack propagation had been “consistent with crack growth by low-cycle fatigue, followed by a transition to cyclic tensile crack growth and then tensile overstress”. Such material weakness was characterised as a “stealth anomaly”. The main fragments of the HPT Stage 2 Disc viewed from the front. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the industry standard techniques for detecting material weakness such as that which eventually resulted in the disintegration of the disc have, for many years, been dependent on Ultrasonic Inspections and that the undetected fault in the material used to manufacture the disc which failed was the first known case involving this alloy. Once the engine was in service, it was noted that the inspection interval and methods prescribed for routine maintenance had not been effective as a means to risk management. This