alloy rotating engine components. [A-18-3]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require subsurface in-service inspection techniques, such as ultrasonic inspections, for critical high-energy, life-limited rotating parts for all engines. [A-18-4]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should revise Advisory Circular (AC) 20-128A, “Design Considerations for Minimising Hazards Caused by Uncontained Turbine Engine and Auxiliary Power Unit Rotor Failure,” based on an analysis of uncontained engine failure data since the time that the AC was issued, to minimise hazards to an airplane and its occupants if an uncontained engine failure were to occur. The revised AC should include modifications to the accepted design precautions for fuel tanks given the fires that have occurred after uncontained engine failures. [A-18-5]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should, when approving the operating procedures of a 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 air carrier, require operators to develop and/or revise emergency checklist procedures for an engine fire on the ground to expeditiously address the fire hazard without unnecessarily delaying an evacuation. [A-18-6]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop and issue guidance to all air carriers that conduct passenger-carrying operations under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 regarding (1) discussing this accident during recurrent flight attendant training to emphasise the importance of effectively assessing door and overwing exits during an unusual or emergency situation and (2) providing techniques for identifying conditions that would preclude opening exits, including an operating engine. [A-18-7]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the training programs of all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 operators and make changes as necessary to ensure that the programs provide flight attendants and flight crews with training aids and hands-on emergency scenarios that account for the different interphone systems that air carriers operate. [A-18-8]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should conduct research to (1) measure and evaluate the effects of carry-on baggage on passenger deplaning times and safety during an emergency evacuation and (2) identify effective countermeasures to reduce any determined risks, and implement the countermeasures. [A-18-9]. that Boeing should work with operators as required to develop and/or revise emergency checklist procedures for an engine fire on the ground to expeditiously address the fire hazard without unnecessarily delaying an evacuation. [A-18-10]. that American Airlines should, for all airplanes operated, review existing engine fire checklists and make changes as necessary to ensure that the procedures would expeditiously address engine fires occurring on the ground without unnecessarily delaying an evacuation. [A-18-11]. Two Previously Issued Safety Recommendations were also formally re-iterated: that the Federal Aviation Administration should revise Advisory Circular 120-48 ‘Communication and Coordination Between Flight Crewmembers and Flight Attendants’ to update guidance and training provided to flight and cabin crews regarding communications during emergency and unusual situations to reflect current industry knowledge based on research and lessons learned from relevant accidents and incidents over the last 20 years. [A-09-27]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop best practices related to evacuation communication, coordination, and decision-making during emergencies through the establishment of an industry working group