on the right hand side develop during the deceleration following an obvious major engine failure on the right hand side. Many had begun moving across the cabin and away from the centre of the cabin whilst the aircraft was still moving. Three of the cabin crew reported having had difficulties using their interphone/PA handsets because they were of a different (newer) design to others on the airline’s 767 fleet, the change having occurred in 2003. A crew training issue was found in this respect as the accident aircraft had the new model interphone installed but although the two cabin crew training simulators used each had a different interphone model installed, only the older equipment was functional, the newer type being a non-functioning mockup. The guidance on the initiation of an evacuation by cabin crew was found to include the statement that it is “critical” for the Captain to be updated if cabin conditions warrant an evacuation because those in the flight deck may be unaware of life- threatening situations such as excessive smoke and/or fire and also that “if the aircraft is on the taxiway and time permits, notify the flight deck prior to initiating the evacuation.” It was noted that those cabin crew who had “attempted communication using the interphone system were unsuccessful in reaching the flight crew”. It was also found that the cabin crew manual required that, on aircraft so equipped, an ‘evacuation signalling system’ located at all cabin crew stations should be activated if an evacuation was being commenced and would provide an aural and a visual alert in the flight deck. The accident aircraft was so equipped but none of the cabin crew did this and the Investigation was unable to establish why. The fact that one of the cabin crew at the left overwing exits had permitted their use when it should have been obvious that the continued operation of the left engine even at idle thrust represented an ‘unsafe condition’ was noted as having been contrary to specific direction in the evacuation guidance for cabin crew contained in the ‘Flight Service Inflight Manual’. This requires a prior check that both the exit and escape route are safe to use. Since the delay in shutting down the engine on the side which most of the evacuation was going to have to take place was an important factor in delaying the evacuation and had been contributory to passenger pressure on cabin crew to let them off as well as to the single directly-consequent serious passenger injury, flight crew actions once the aircraft was stopped and the procedures on which these actions were predicated were reviewed. The flight crew priority was the 16-step Engine Fire Checklist. Because the (light) surface wind had been a crosswind, the smoke was not blowing towards the flight deck and the crew “could not readily see the amount of smoke coming from the right engine” since it was confirmed that the First Officer would have been unable to see the right