engine and most of the right wing through the right-side window from his seat. The pilots were therefore “unaware of the severity of the fire (or that) that the cabin was beginning to fill with smoke”. The Engine Fire Checklist was designed for both the in-flight and on-ground case, and the Captain reported having recognised that “continuing the engine fire checklist would not be appropriate because the airplane was on the ground” he had then called for the Evacuation Checklist, which had nine steps, about 4 seconds after first seeing external smoke. The Evacuation Checklist was required to be called by the First Officer, performed by the Captain and cross checked by the First Officer. Following setting or confirming that the Parking Brake was set, the second and third steps were required to depressurise the aircraft which the Captain reported “took a long time, even though the airplane had not yet been in flight”. There was no obvious reason for such a delay since “at this point, the exits would have been opened, so the cabin would have already been depressurised”. Shutdown of both engines using the fuel cut off was the fourth step - although in this case, the right engine had already been shut down as part of the Engine Fire Checklist. The Investigation concluded that the Captain’s decision to perform the Engine Fire Checklist first was “appropriate given his training, the information provided by ATC, and the fire warnings” but noted that “the design of the Engine Fire Checklist delayed initiating the Evacuation Checklist” and thereby the shutdown of the left engine and giving of an order to evacuate from the fight deck. It was observed that a risk of unnecessary delay in beginning an emergency evacuation because of an engine fire on the ground could be removed if there were separate Engine Fire Checklists for use in flight and on the ground. It was noted that various evacuation-related crew communications issues had been identified in two previous accidents investigated by the NTSB with both being the subject of corresponding Safety Recommendations to the FAA, in one case with intended action still pending and another with no action taken. The former was the 2015 landing overrun by a Delta Airlines MD88 at LaGuardia and the latter the engine fire-caused evacuation of an American Airlines MD82 at Lambert St, Louis in 2007. This latter Investigation recommended in 2009 that the FAA should revise AC 120-48 ‘Communication and Coordination Between Flight Crewmembers and Flight Attendants’ which still has not been revised since its issue in 1988. It was also noted that at the time of completion of this Investigation, there were two other ongoing NTSB-investigated accidents involving engine fires in which emergency evacuation had also begun prior to engine shutdown, the Boeing 777-200 rejected takeoff at Las Vegas in 2015 and the Boeing 767-200 taxiing out for takeoff at Fort Lauderdale also in 2015. The Investigation noted that the FAA’s original 1988 version of AC 20-128 “Design Considerations for