An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the NTSB. DFDR and CVR data was successfully downloaded and was of assistance to the Investigation. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain had accumulated about 17,400 total flying hours including about 4,000 hours on type and 1,500 hours were in command to which he had been upgraded about 2½ years prior to the accident. He had originally obtained his Boeing 757/767 type rating in 1995 when a pilot with TWA and had after that flown DC9 variants, particularly the MD80, and had continued to do so with American Airlines when it absorbed TWA in 2001. The 57 year old First Officer had accumulated about 22,000 total flying hours which included about 1,600 hours on type. It was established that the Captain had been acting as PF for the takeoff from runway 28R which was commenced from the runway’s intersection with taxiway N5. This was approximately 990 metres from the start of the runway and provided a TORA of approximately 2,970 metres. Spool up of the engines was normal as was the takeoff until 11 seconds after the routine ’80 knots’ call at which point a large “bang” was recorded on the CVR, the FDR recorded acceleration suddenly diminishing and both pilots reported having felt the aircraft “drift to the right”. Within less than 2 seconds, the FDR recorded the thrust levers being set to flight idle. One second later, the autobrakes, which had been set to the ‘RTO’ position, activated followed after a further 2 seconds by the auto speedbrakes at which time the airspeed peaked at 134 KCAS which was equivalent to the calculated V1 for the takeoff. The First Officer advised ATC that the aircraft would be stopping on the runway and the controller responded with “roger roger fire” which was the first indication the pilots had that a fire had begun. Almost immediately an EICAS Warning ‘ENG FIRE R’ was annunciated with the aircraft decelerating through 35 knots. The CVR recorded the Captain calling for the Engine Fire Checklist (which commenced with five memory items) 20.6 seconds after the CVR had recorded the ‘bang’ sound. Six seconds later, the aircraft came to a stop 26.4 seconds after the right engine failure, about 800 metres along the runway from where it had occurred. Once stopped, the Captain reported that he had immediately smelled smoke. Whilst the fire drill for the right engine was being run, the left engine remained at idle. Thirty five seconds after the aircraft had come to a stop, the Captain called for the Evacuation Checklist. The second and third steps in this Checklist involve depressurising the aircraft which the Captain subsequently stated took “a long time”. He also stated that whilst this Checklist was being run, he could hear a “commotion” on the other side of the flight deck door and realised that the cabin crew had begun an evacuation. He added that after completing the fourth step in the Evacuation Checklist, which