was because the in-service inspections were only aimed at the detection of surface and near-surface cracks rather than sub surface cracks of the type which led to the failure. The Investigation could find no evidence that, once the evacuation was complete, the cabin crew had carried out a count of all evacuees as specified in the Company Boeing 767 Operations Manual and no evidence that the Captain fulfilled his responsibility to ensure that at least one crew member remained with the passengers. It was concluded that “even though this situation did not result in any adverse outcomes […] (members of the flight and cabin crew) did not coordinate in an optimal manner once the passengers were evacuated”. The only serious injury during the evacuation was to a passenger who was one of those who left the aircraft by one of the left side overwing exits. He subsequently stated that on reaching the ground after using the left overwing exit slide “he stood up to get away from the airplane and was blown over by the jet blast coming from the back of the left engine”. He added that “as he stood up again and ran to a grass strip next to the runway, he felt pain in his back”. At the time the jet blast was encountered, the left engine was running at idle thrust. As part of a detailed analysis of the evacuation, the Investigation sought to establish why the left engine was still running and how an exit near to an operating engine came to be in use. The eight emergency exits consisted of doors on both sides at the front and rear and two adjacent overwing exits on each side at the centre, each pair feeding the same evacuation slide leading rearwards off the wing. The seven cabin crew were located next to all but one of these exits, the exception was one of the right side overwing exits. The cabin crew began the evacuation as soon as the aircraft stopped, with the first exit, (2L) being opened by one of the cabin crew 10 seconds after the aircraft stopped and the adjacent 3L exit being opened by a passenger at about the same time. The front exits 1L and 1R were opened 18 and 22 seconds after the aircraft stopped and finally exit 4L was opened 38 seconds after the stop. There was no record of evacuation from exit 1R but the first passenger out on the left hand side was recorded using the left hand overwing evacuation slide 15 seconds prior to left engine shutdown - and spool-down took a further 10 seconds. The 4L evacuation slide was initially deployed 23 seconds prior to left engine shutdown but although it remained attached, it was (correctly) not used until it returned to its normal position after the left engine was shut down. Cabin crew at the centre and rear cabin positions all reported that passengers had been keen to evacuate without delay after seeing the fire