The following events are included to demonstrate how RFFS and EMS units responded aerodrome events and to provide details of on-site problems. The NTSB’s final accident report said that the cabin crew and deadheading pilots completed their evacuation of all other aircraft occupants before fire entered the cabin and before ARFF vehicles arrived about five minutes after the crash. The report said, “Once outside the airplane, crewmembers and passengers with less serious or no injuries assisted others up a hill to ARFF station #4. When they reached ARFF station #4, the airplane occupants were triaged and received medical treatment as needed from ARFF emergency medical technicians and on-airport paramedics. The more seriously injured individuals were transported to local hospitals by ambulance, while others were transported to the terminal area by bus.” The NTSB’s final accident report said, “According to standard protocol for an Alert 3 accident, Lubbock Fire Department units also responded and were dispatched at 0441:10. The response included the battalion chief and engine from Station 2 (which is about 3.2 miles from LBB and staffed with personnel who are all ARFF-certified firefighters with airport access badges); an engine from Station 5 (about 7 miles from LBB); and an engine, truck and HAZMAT team from Station 4 (about 7 miles from LBB). … The captain sustained serious injuries, and the first officer sustained minor injuries. “As directed [by the protocol for arriving mutual aid fire trucks and mutual aid ambulances], one engine from Station 2 responded to Gate 48, which is an electronically controlled gate operated by a drive chain. The engine team was unable to enter the airport property at Gate 48 because the gate had ice in its operating mechanism and would not open. The Station 2 engine then drove to the ARFF station to proceed from that point. “All other responding Lubbock Fire Department units were informed that the wreckage was closest to the FedEx hangar and were rerouted to respond to that site. A FedEx employee who opened the gate near the FedEx hangar for the Station 2 team, Station 5 engine, and emergency medical service (EMS) personnel informed them that the pilots were at the hangar; the EMS units proceeded to the hangar. … The first Lubbock Fire Department unit arrived on site at 0457:27. At that time, the ARFF units had contained the fire, with the exception of a few deep-seated cargo fires inside the airplane. “The Lubbock Station 2 battalion chief assumed incident command and informed the ARFF captain that the flight crew was at the FedEx hangar. The ARFF captain stopped the search for survivors, and ARFF personnel resumed their fire suppression activities. The Station 2 battalion chief and ARFF personnel indicated that the ATCT [air traffic control tower] controller later called and stated that a pilot was walking around on the ramp looking for assistance, and a second search for survivors was initiated. ARFF personnel determined that both pilots were being transported to a local hospital, and the emphasis on