This article introduces some of the issues and methods involved in preparing for emergency medical responses to aircraft-related accidents and serious incidents at aerodromes. The operation of medical clinics inside aerodromes — which may provide urgent health care and assistance to passengers, aircraft crewmembers and airport workers in other situations — and the involvement of health and medical entities such as hospitals are not considered or only briefly mentioned. Current practices and experiences of typical emergency medical services (EMS) and aerodrome Rescue and Fire Fighting Services (RFFS) (also known as aircraft rescue and fire fighting [ARFF] in the United States) are referenced only as generic case-study examples. Preparations and practices in other countries may vary. In its regulatory requirements for development of airport emergency plans (AEPs) at aerodromes that meet defined criteria, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) lists “emergency medical services” as one of 37 stakeholder entities (called AEP planning team members) expected to participate in the plan development and implementation process. A key concept of EMS-response preparations involves mutual aid agreements, which are documents that state how EMS responders from different jurisdictions (town, city, county, state, federal) and separate organisations (private companies, volunteer fire departments, military services, etc.) will commit their resources in predefined circumstances. The agreements may cover each partner’s inventory of equipment, the number and qualifications of on-duty and on-call personnel, access to RFFS training for structural firefighters, compatible radio-communication capability, and following orders of the on-site RFFS incident commander at the aerodrome, among other arrangements. A typical emergency medical response at a U.S. aerodrome to an aircraft-related accident or serious incident involves immediate dispatch of ambulances with emergency medical technicians (EMTs)/paramedics in close communication with ARFF and police. Aerodrome management then rapidly activates and staffs its emergency operations centre (EOC). The ambulance crews on duty typically depart from permanent airside fire stations, fire stations close to the aerodrome and, if necessary, from other fire stations, hospitals and private ambulance companies under the established protocols for mutual aid. At the site of the event, ambulance crews follow orders from an RFFS/ARFF incident commander responsible for overall safety and effectiveness of the first-responder activities. The incident commander also may order response by helicopter EMS crews from airports, hospitals, other bases of operation or in-flight diversion. RFFS firefighters’ primary mission is saving lives immediately after an aircraft crash by protecting egress paths for evacuees and extricating occupants who are trapped, injured or otherwise unable to exit with crew assistance. Many also are cross-trained and certified, as noted, to various qualification levels as EMTs or paramedics (terminology varies). The second-priority mission of RFFS/ARFF is fire control and suppression, and in some circumstances, they may participate in activities such as finding evacuees, triage (assessment) of casualties and temporarily providing first-responder emergency medical care pending transport from the site by ambulance or EMS helicopter to an appropriate medical facility.