AFM charts allow calculation of the MTOW that meets the minimum regulatory climb gradient. These charts take into consideration the runway characteristics of slope and contamination and the prevailing atmospheric conditions of wind, temperature and pressure altitude. However, unless the departure path is also assessed for obstacles, obstacle clearance and safety of flight is not assured. Obstacles may be natural, such as hills or trees, or man-made, such as buildings, towers, light standards and power lines. If an obstacle penetrates the obstacle identification surface of the required regulatory gradient, the departure aircraft must either turn to avoid it or the gradient must be increased to provide the minimum required obstacle clearance. In either case, a reduction of MTOW will be necessary. Note that it is possible that Emergency Turn and SID routings will partially or completely overlap. It is a commercial imperative to maximize payload capability without compromising safety. Emergency Turns are intended to achieve that goal. Whenever possible, escape routings will avoid turning as turns result in a loss of climb capability and necessitate a reduction in weight. If turns are required, turns below 1000' AGL will be avoided unless there is no other alternative. If a low turn is required, the minimum height above ground for turn initiation is the greater of 50' or one half of the wing span of the aircraft. The maximum allowable bank angle below 400' AGL is 15 degrees. Procedures must also be designed to ensure that the 3rd climb segment (level acceleration / flap retraction) can be safely completed and thrust/power reduced to maximum continuous prior to the regulated time limit for takeoff thrust. Some airlines have performance engineers on staff to conduct runway analysis and produce Emergency Turn data for their company. Other Companies utilize third-party providers to generate the required information. In both cases, for any specific runway, crews will be provided with an escape routing, a minimum acceleration altitude and the means to calculate the MTOW. Calculations will take the existing atmospheric conditions and any runway contamination into consideration. The calculation medium might be paper charts or an Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) for crew use or a TLR (Takeoff / Landing Report) generated by the dispatcher.