Of the many different designs of INS, each with different performance characteristics, there are two main categories used in aircraft: stabilised platform and strap-down. Three accelerometers are mounted on a platform and orientated (usually) north/south, east/west, and up/down. This platform is driven by gyros (two or three) to always maintain its alignment with these axes regardless of any movement of the aircraft. Analogue feeds can be taken directly from the accelerometers and gyros that are in direct proportion to acceleration, and changes in velocity and direction. Stabilised platforms have some disadvantages. The main design issue is “Gimbal Lock”. Gyros are usually mounted in three gimbals on bearings; this allows the aircraft (and gimbals) to rotate around the gyros without moving the platform. However, when two of the three gimbals align, and are effectively operating around the same axis, they can become locked together and be directly affected by movement around the remaining third axis. The solution is to complicate the system further by adding a fourth motorised gimbal, which is continuously driven to avoid alignment with the other three. Because of the mechanical assembly and many moving parts, stabilised platform INS suffer from wear and tear, and friction causes the output to “drift” over time. Compensation for drift requires complex bearing assemblies and special lubricants. Maintenance of stabilised platform INS is complex, costly and time-consuming. Ring Laser Gyros and accelerometers are attached rigidly, or “strapped down”, to the frame of the aircraft i.e. as the aircraft moves, so does the INS platform - exactly. Three gyroscopes sense the rate of roll, pitch, and yaw; and three accelerometers detect accelerations along each aircraft axis. It integrates them to get the orientation, then mathematically calculates the acceleration the north/south, east/west and up/down axes, as a gimballed system would. With few moving parts strap-down systems are easier to maintain and more reliable over time. They do require more accurate gyroscopes and greater computing power. However, the advantages of reduced cost, size, weight and reliability make these systems the preferred choice of INS for aircraft.