Runway End Safety Area. The Investigation noted that the “typical landing flare time” described in the Boeing 737NG FCTM was four to eight seconds and that the FDR readout indicated an actual flare duration of about 10 seconds. Examination of the rate of deceleration once the aircraft was on the runway found that it had been less than would have been expected on a wet-smooth surface but better than would have been expected on a surface contaminated by standing water. No evidence of hydroplaning having occurred was found. It was concluded that “the factual evidence indicates that the airplane/ runway stopping performance interaction” for the accident landing was essentially consistent with what American Airlines documentation described as “Fair/Medium braking action”, whereas the crew assumed that Wet/Good braking action was appropriate. The Investigation examined the runway markings and lighting and concluded that all those on runway 12 “met the standards for runway lighting and markings of ICAO Annex 14”. It was established from the AIPs that although “information on standing water ….is transmitted by ATS to landing and departing aircraft…no facilities exist for (its) measurement”. It was found that “ATC runway surface condition reporting did not fully conform to the ICAO Recommendations” and that there was no formal agreement in place between the airport operator and ATS which required the former to keep the latter informed of current runway conditions, which was contrary to ICAO Annex 11 and ICAO Annex 14. It was also noted that neither ATC, the airport operator or American Airlines used the recommended ICAO terminology for describing water on the runway. The prevailing weather conditions were reviewed. It was concluded that the rain falling at the time of the accident landing had been ‘heavy’ and noted that although the crew had been aware of this, at no time were they advised of this by ATC. The wind velocity in the half hour before the accident had been consistently from 320° at 10-15 knots and the wind reading had been passed to the aircraft by APP and then by TWR on five occasions in the final 20 minutes. It was considered that the temporary absence of the approach lights for runway 12, which had been communicated in a Notice To Airmen provided to the crew prior to the flight, “may have reduced depth perception cues for the Captain during the final stages of the approach” although it was observed that these were lead-in lights to assist pilots in acquiring and lining up with the runway during the final stages of an approach when transitioning to visual flight. It was noted that TDZ lighting (not provided on the accident runway) is not an ICAO standard for a Cat 1 Precision Approach runway and that reflective painted markings, which were also not provided for the accident runway, are an ICAO Recommended Practice rather than a Standard. It was noted that on initial contact with APP, the crew had been advised to “expect an ILS runway 12” and advised that the