taxiway D to the 30 threshold.. completion of a full friction assessment of the runway to determine compliance with established friction maintenance standards and deviation from the findings of the last friction assessment (2004).. that the NMIA should add additional runway designation signs at every runway holding point.. that the NMIA should consider revising current PAPI configuration to the ICAO standard (PAPI 4L) by removing the additional 4 boxes on the right side of 12 and 30.. that the NMIA should, in respect of the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services: develop detailed training lesson plans for required training subjects of initial and recurrent training. consider acquisition of a simple SCBA bottle refill system for aerodrome use. acquire powered rescue saw(s) for aerodrome use. enhance existing training procedures used for aircraft familiarisation…to include acquisition of current training aids for each commercial service aircraft currently using the airport.. develop detailed training lesson plans for required training subjects of initial and recurrent training.. consider acquisition of a simple SCBA bottle refill system for aerodrome use.. acquire powered rescue saw(s) for aerodrome use.. enhance existing training procedures used for aircraft familiarisation…to include acquisition of current training aids for each commercial service aircraft currently using the airport.. that the NMIA should consider undertaking a review of all declared runway distance figures published in the Jamaica AIP to accommodate the fact that there is no existing runway strip or runway end safety area at either runway end.. that the NMIA should, in respect of the runway strip and RESA (as provided): remove existing debris and vegetation from the existing drains in the runway strip between taxiway D to E and verify that these drains are operational and that they are tied into the drain system and box-culvert under the aerodrome conduct periodic surveys of the runway strip and the RESA (as provided) to determine safety issues and correct found deficiencies on a more frequent basis remove all current deviations (objects not required) from the runway strip feather the existing localiser base to grade (sic). remove existing debris and vegetation from the existing drains in the runway strip between taxiway D to E and verify that these drains are operational and that they are tied into the drain system and box-culvert under the aerodrome. conduct periodic surveys of the runway strip and the RESA (as provided) to determine safety issues and correct found deficiencies on a more frequent basis. remove all current deviations (objects not required) from the runway strip. feather the existing localiser base to grade (sic). that the NMIA should institute a specific maintenance/calibration periodicity and a periodic maintenance schedule to service the PAPIs.. that all aircraft manufactured after 2002 should be equipped with CVRs capable of recording 120 minutes to enhance the usefulness of the CVR for accident/incident investigation.. that the FAA should amend one or both of the conflicting statements in AC91-79, Appendix 4, 10 b. (2), “If a runway is contaminated or not dry, that runway is considered wet and in