An Investigation was carried out by the Jamaican Civil Aviation Authority (JCAA) in accordance with the principles of ICAO Annex 13. The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and successfully downloaded to provide relevant data. It was noted that although the FDR recorded 1176 parameters, these did not include spoiler deployment or wheel speed. Use was also made of data from the Non Volatile Memory of some flight deck equipment. Overall, the evidence available led the Investigation to conclude that there had been “no mechanical aspect of the aircraft that contributed to the accident”. An initial ‘News Release’ summarising some of the early factual findings was issued on 6 January 2010. Thereafter there were no further reports from the JCAA until the Investigation was complete. However, on 7 December 2011, the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB), based on access to the findings of the Investigation up to that point, issued four new Safety Recommendations to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and re-iterated one previously made to the FAA in 2007 but still open. These are reproduced at the end of this article from where the NTSB letter which explains the reasons for them may be accessed. The JCAA Investigation (which provides the basis for what is presented in this article) noted that although there had been no post crash fire, “conditions were ideal for combustion, that is electrical sparks, spilt fuel, fuel fumes, hot mechanical parts etc.” and concluded that the prevailing heavy rain had probably reduced the risk of such a fire. The first ARFF unit had arrived within 3 minutes but had not actively assisted in the evacuation. However, all six crew members had been uninjured and had been able to provide the necessary assistance to passengers to evacuate the aircraft. It was established that the aircraft commander had been designated as PF for the sector and that both crew had considerable aircraft type and destination experience. The PF had briefed for the offset ILS Cat 1 approach to land on runway 12 knowing that there was likely to be a significant tailwind component and that the aircraft would be close to MLW. The Investigation noted that the offset ILS LOC intercepted the extended runway centreline at 0.75 nm from the threshold of the runway at an ILS GS height of 280 feet a.r.t.e. Flap 30 and Autobrake 2 were specified (the latter was subsequently changed to Autobrake 3 during final approach). It was noted that the recommended American Airlines SOPs for braking in the prevailing conditions was either “MAX autobrake or manual braking” and the recommended flap setting for tailwind landings was 40. The aircraft was fitted with a HUD on the left side pilot position only which was used for the approach. The crew had agreed that this would be preferable to breaking off to follow the available circle-to-land procedure to runway 30 because of concerns about the chances of remaining visual -the minima for this were 1140