control”, the Investigation considered that a number of factors which had been shown to have been possible contributors to the accident indicated “weakness” in some parts of it. These were identified as: The use by AA dispatch in Miami of a Field Report for Kingston which included an unmeasured “measurement” of water depth was contrary to company procedures.. The failure of the AA331 flight crew to follow some prescribed and recommended operating procedures.. The lack of a clear AA definition of the term “Wet” in runway condition reporting.. The lack of understanding by AA flight training staff of the hazards of tail wind landing.. The lack of AA flight crew training on the hazards of tail wind landing.. It was considered that “factors such as these should have been corrected during training, Line Checks, internal audits or FAA Inspections”. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident findings was noted to have included the following: American Airlines made a series of changes to the content of Volume 1 of the 737 Operations Manual. These included changes to the sections on standard callouts, deviation callouts, stabilised approach requirements and go arounds. The latter involved changes to go around requirements which included but were not limited to go around after touchdown / rejected landing. The maximum tailwind component for landing was also reduced to 10 knots pending a general ‘safety risk assessment’ of the use of the 15 knot limit which was in place at the time of the accident.. The Airports Authority Jamaica has included provision of a RESA in their runway extension project.. Boeing have indicated their intention to revise the 737 Aircraft Maintenance Manual to reduce the chances of the installation error which caused the malfunction to the L1 evacuation slide from recurring.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was that “the aircraft touched down 4,100 feet beyond the threshold and could not be stopped on the remaining runway”. It was additionally determined that Contributory Factors were the flight crew’s decision to land on a wet runway in a 14 knot tailwind. reduced situational awareness. failure to conduct a go-around after the aircraft floated longer than usual. A large number of implied or explicit Safety Recommendations were made by the Investigation under the general heading of “Safety Action Required”. Most but not all of these were assigned to specific recipients either explicitly or implicitly. In the order published, they were as follows: [Note that the abbreviation ‘NMIA’ refers to the Kingston Airport Operator, ‘Norman Manley International Airport Limited’ and that the JCAA provides ATS in Jamaican airspace] that Operators of Transport Category Aircraft should be required to conduct landing performance assessments before every landing, based on a standardized methodology involving approved performance data, actual arrival conditions, a means of correlating the airplane’s braking ability with runway surface conditions using the most conservative interpretation available, and incorporating a minimum safety margin of 15 per cent.. that the FAA should make the guidance provided in FAA