AC 91-79 ‘Runway Overrun Prevention’ that “if there is rain actively falling on the runway, standing water should be assumed” mandatory for the operation of Transport Category Aircraft, such that when active moderate to heavy rain is falling on the runway, the runway surface condition shall be considered to be in a Wet/Poor or Contaminated state for the purposes of landing performance assessments, that is, water depth more than 1/8 inch.. that the FAA should ensure that the guidance related to runway surface descriptors in AC 91-79 and SAFO 06012 is unambiguous and compatible, so that operators and flight crews have ready access to consistent FAA guidance regarding runway surface condition definitions and their proper use in FAA acceptable landing distance assessments.. that although there was no ICAO requirement at the time of the accident for tailwind landing training, the FAA should make such training and the hazards involved a mandatory part of Transport Category Aircraft flight and ground training programs.. that Operators of Transport Category Aircraft should include in their Standard Operating Procedures a requirement that either pilot, whether acting as pilot flying or pilot monitoring, should be required to call for go-around if he/she sees that the aircraft will not land in the touchdown zone, and that the other pilot will follow through with the go around procedure without question or hesitation.. that the landing of Transport Category Aircraft in tailwind conditions on contaminated runways and on runways where heavy rain is actively falling should be firmly discouraged.. that Operators of Transport Category Aircraft should: caution their flight crews against conducting tailwind landings on wet (not contaminated) runways, when an alternative and suitable into-wind runway is available. inform their flight crews of the hazards related to tailwind landings on wet (not contaminated) runways when the aircraft is at or near its maximum landing weight.. caution their flight crews against conducting tailwind landings on wet (not contaminated) runways, when an alternative and suitable into-wind runway is available.. inform their flight crews of the hazards related to tailwind landings on wet (not contaminated) runways when the aircraft is at or near its maximum landing weight.. that Air Operators should ensure their flight crews follow the company’s recommended procedures for landing on wet or contaminated runways.. that Flight Crews of Transport Category Aircraft should assume the runway is contaminated when heavy rain is actively falling on the runway of intended landing and complete a landing performance assessment based on contaminated runway surface performance data.. that the NMIA should install a Runway End Safety Area which meets the standards of ICAO Annex 14 for a Code 4D precision approach runway and/or an Engineered Materials Arrestor Systems Engineered Materials Arresting System of an appropriate length for the airport's design aircraft.. that ICAO should amend its guidance for runway condition inspection and reporting procedures to include a description of the recommended training for airport operations personnel carrying out these procedures. The training syllabus should cover the criteria for conducting routine and non-routine inspections and