SAFO 06012, item 4. Definitions, “i. A wet runway is one that is neither dry nor contaminated” which although both FAA guidance material are inconsistent.. that a cancelled NOTAM should not just ‘disappear’ but a notification of cancellation should be issued .. that ATIS transmissions should be recorded as the record might be necessary for occurrence investigation.. that the JCAA ATS should be required to fully align the content of the JCAA ATS Operations Manual with the provisions of ICAO Doc 4444.. that the JCAA ATS Operations Manual and the NMIA Operations Manual should be amended to include the ICAO definitions for reporting water on the runway.. The Final Report was published on 2 May 2014. The four Safety Recommendations issued to the FAA by the NTSB on 7 December 2011 as a result of this accident and referred to earlier were as follows: that the FAA should require principal operations inspectors to review flight crew training programs and manuals to ensure training in tailwind landings is (1) provided during initial and recurrent simulator training; (2) to the extent possible, conducted at the maximum tailwind component certified for the aircraft on which pilots are being trained; and (3) conducted with an emphasis on the importance of landing within the touchdown zone, being prepared to execute a go-around, with either pilot calling for it if at any point landing within the touchdown zone becomes unfeasible, and the related benefits of using maximum flap extension in tailwind conditions. [A-11-92]. that the FAA should revise Advisory Circular 91-79, “Runway Overrun Prevention”, to include a discussion of the risks associated with tailwind landings, including tailwind landings on wet or contaminated runways as related to runway overrun prevention. [A-11-93]. that the FAA should, once Advisory Circular 91-79, “Runway Overrun Prevention”, has been revised, require principal operations inspectors to review airline training programs and manuals to ensure they incorporate the revised guidelines concerning tailwind landings. [A-11-94]. that the FAA should require principal operations inspectors to ensure that the information contained in Safety Alert for Operators 06012 is disseminated to 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91 subpart K instructors, check airmen, and aircrew program designees and they make pilots aware of this guidance during recurrent training. [A-11-95]. At the same time as issuing the above recommendation, the NTSB also reiterated the following recommendation made to the FAA in 2007 and reclassified it “Open - Unacceptable Response”: that the FAA should require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91 subpart K operators to accomplish arrival landing distance assessments before every landing based on a standardized methodology involving approved performance data, actual arrival conditions, a means of correlating the airplane’s braking ability with runway surface conditions using the most conservative interpretation available, and including a minimum safety margin of 15 percent. [A-07-61]. The context for these NTSB actions can be found in the letter in which they are contained.