feet agl and 3.7 km. Although both pilots were qualified for GPS approaches, neither had been aware that there was an RNAV (GPS) approach to runway 30 with an MDH of 373 feet. A special weather observation made three minutes after the accident gave 320°/11 knots, 2200 metres in heavy rain showers, FEW Cb at 1600 feet aal, SCT at 3000 feet aal and BKN at 10,000 feet aal. A coupled ILS approach was flown and configuration for landing was complete by the time the aircraft was 3 miles from touchdown. ATC gave landing clearance and advised of heavy rain and that the runway was “wet”. The AP was disconnected with just under 2 miles to run but the A/T was left engaged. It was noted that although concurrent A/T disconnection was not required in the FAA-approved American Airlines Operations Manual, the Boeing 737 NG Flight Crew Training Manual recommends that, other than during takeoff and climb, the A/T “should be used only when the autopilot is engaged in CMD”. As the aircraft crossed the runway threshold in heavy rain at approximately 70 feet agl, aircraft pitch was increasing. The A/T was disconnected almost immediately after this and the aircraft then floated with a zero rate of descent until thrust was selected to flight idle when the aircraft was some 1130 metres along the 2716 metre-long runway. Initial runway contact at 5 knots above the applicable Flap 30 Reference Speed (Vref) of 148 KIAS with a corresponding ground speed of 162 knots then occurred from which the aircraft bounced once before finally settling on the runway 1310 metres from the landing threshold with just over half the runway remaining. Autobrake 3 pressure (500 psi) was recorded from shortly after the final touchdown until manual braking began. Full reverse thrust was achieved with just over 1000 metres to go before the end of the runway and maximum manual brake pressure (3000 psi) was reached with just over 600 metres to go. The aircraft departed the paved surface at a ground speed of 62 knots and then passed through the chain link airport perimeter fence, crossed a public road some 12 feet below runway level and finally stopped on the shoreline. No warning of impending impact was given and there was no crew ‘brace, brace’ PA. However, the cabin crew ordered evacuation almost immediately after the aircraft had come to a stop. It was found that the evacuation slide at the L1 door malfunctioned - this was subsequently attributed to an installation error - and that some parts of the aircraft emergency lighting system had malfunctioned. However, neither of these had had a material effect on the evacuation. The final impact led to the aircraft fuselage breaking into three pieces, the detachment/collapse of the main landing gear, the detachment of the right engine and the rupturing of the right wing fuel tanks which resulted in fuel leaking onto the beach sand. It was noted that neither end of the runway had a