this would have amounted to a ‘black hole effect’ to which “the following night visual illusion factors and depth perception impediments may contributed:” The landing was conducted in the hours of darkness, with visibility as low as 2200 metres in heavy rain to a runway with the sea at both ends thereby creating large unlit areas.. The absence of TDZ and runway centre line lighting and the absence of reflective material in the runway marking paint would have led to most of the light from the aircraft landing lights being reflected away from the runway surface and away from the aircraft instead of back to the cockpit. There would also have been a halo effect caused by the diffusion of light by water when viewing runway edge lights through a wet windshield.. Forward visibility may have been impeded by the heavy rain on the windshield, and the rapid movement of the windshield wipers.. There was no clear far-visual horizon for lateral and vertical reference due to the absence of lights beyond the runway and the reduced visibility in the rain.. An impression that the aircraft was lower than it actually was because of its higher groundspeed, caused by the tailwind, would have resulted in the runway lights going by faster, and may have induced premature pitch up inputs to flare for landing.. The Investigation concluded that the situational awareness of both members of the flight crew had been “incomplete”. They “did not make themselves familiar with all the available information before departure” or “give any consideration to the expected landing conditions at Kingston before departing from Miami, nor is there any evidence that they had any concerns about the runway conditions or braking action at Kingston until just before landing”. It was also considered that the decision-making process of the flight crew during the flight was narrowly focussed. There was a “lack of discussion about the worsening conditions and the lack of any further discussion about a possible go-around” with the only significant concern being that the tail wind component remained within the landing limit of 15 knots or less. In fact “the controllers appeared more concerned with the tailwind conditions than was the flight crew”. It was noted that the 30 minute CVR recording included “no discussion or extra briefing about the hazards of the tailwind landing”. It was concluded that greater awareness of the potential hazards inherent in a landing on runway 12 in the prevailing conditions might have led them not to attempt the landing and “the accident might have been avoided”. Overall, it appeared to the Investigation that: “as the flight crew continued the approach, their situational awareness was diminishing as the situation changed and they were embarking on a difficult and hazardous landing without any concerns. The plan upon which they were acting was inadequate, and did not include consideration of the American Airlines recommended techniques for a tailwind landing on a wet runway” In considering the American Airlines system for delivering “management and operational