provide guidance on reporting the results of those inspections. The guidance above should include criteria for determining the frequency for performing special runway surface condition inspections when there is, or has been, heavy rainfall on the active runway.. that the NMIA should, pending the publication by ICAO of the recommended guidance material, conduct regular inspections of the runway surface during or following inclement weather, prior to aircraft landings, and should report runway standing water coverage as a percentage of runway covered to the aerodrome control tower for inclusion in ATC voice advisories and/or the ATIS.. that the NMIA and JCAA ATS should conclude an agreement which details the responsibilities and procedures each organisation will follow for runway surface condition inspection and reporting.. that the NMIA should replace the present runway surface guidance markings as soon as practicable using retro-reflective glass bead paint markings.. although it is not an ICAO standard, safety would be enhanced if the NMIA installed reflective distance-to-go markers for the last 4,000 feet of each runway at Kingston.. that the NMIA should install touch down zone lighting and centreline lighting on runways 12 and 30.. that the emergency equipment stowage compartments in the passenger cabin should be relocated to a position which allows easier access in emergency conditions and/or the doors to those compartments should be made of a softer cover.. that American Airlines should ensure that the proposed revision to the Boeing 737 Maintenance Manual regarding installation of the slide pack is followed in the company’s maintenance procedures.. that American Airlines should ensure that its FAA-approved manuals for the Boeing 737 reflect the instruction on the matching of AP and A/T use contained in the Boeing 737 NG Flight Crew Training Manual, page 1.34, which states: Autothrottle use is recommended during takeoff and climb in either automatic or manual flight. During all other phases of flight, auto throttle use is recommended only when the autopilot is engaged in CMD.. that Boeing should design an emergency cabin lighting system for the B738 aircraft which will continue to operate when there are breaks in the fuselage after an accident.. that American Airlines should develop a means of verifying the field reports of runway surface conditions reports sent by its outstations.. that American Airlines should immediately instruct their flight crews that if they use an “advance analysis” technique to assess landing performance, they should take all factors into account, including runway surface condition, recommended aircraft configuration, and use of recommended deceleration techniques. If the flight crews do not use an “advance analysis”, they should be instructed to perform, when required, the Landing Performance Assessment prescribed in Company Bulletin 737-07 prior to landing.. that American Airlines should immediately ensure that their flight crews understand that a runway described as “wet” by ATC in overseas locations does not necessarily signify that the runway surface is in a condition equivalent to (that assumed by) the American Airlines Landing Data Card “Wet/Good”.. that American Airlines should instruct all their flight crews that in