the absence of a runway condition report when rain is actively falling on a runway, standing water should be assumed, as per FAA AC 91-79.. that the JCAA should ensure that the ATS Operations Manual clearly defines the circumstances under which Air Traffic controllers should inform Aerodrome Authorities of conditions associated with inclement weather, so that the Aerodrome Authorities conduct runway surface inspections and provide the results of these inspections to ATS units.. that the JCAA should ensure that Air Traffic Controller ab initio, advanced and recurrent training includes sensitization to the hazards of Aerodrome and ATS operations which are amplified by the presence of inclement weather.. that the JCAA should have a consistent system of QA Audits.. that the JCAA ATS should ensure that its Air Traffic Controllers undergo awareness training of performance based navigation procedures, including RNAV.. that the JCAA ATS should ensure that its Air Traffic controllers should have recurrent training and proficiency checks.. that Boeing should further investigate means of securing the overhead bins and PSUs in Boeing 737 aircraft with a view to modification which would avoid injuries to passengers in similar accidents.. that Boeing should further investigate the requirements for the Captain’s seat belt crotch bracket and introduce modifications to prevent failure of this in similar accidents.. that American Airlines should take action to prevent the use of uncertified replacement seat bottom cushions by flight crew.. that the NMIA implement transverse grooving of runway 12/30. that the NMIA should continue progress towards the goal of meeting the JCAA and Annex 14 requirement of full aerodrome certification.. that the JCAA and the NMIA should organise a coordinated training program for their staff on certification standards, conduct and development of a certification program and consider self-inspection/condition-reporting.. that the JCAA and the NMIA should develop and publish specific maintenance standards particularly on the subject of pavement and runway strip maintenance and provide detailed maintenance training to those responsible for self- inspections and for aerodrome maintenance.. that the NMIA should coordinate additional detail in the Airport Emergency Plan, particularly in the water rescue section of the plan.. that the NMIA should coordinate in respect of the runway 12/30 paved surface: a full runway assessment to determine current longitudinal slope, current transverse slope (along the full runway length) and the existing grade in first third of runway 30 (from approximately taxiway D to the 30 threshold). a hydrologic engineering assessment to determine water flow on the first third of runway 30 from approximately taxiway D to the 30 threshold. completion of a full friction assessment of the runway to determine compliance with established friction maintenance standards and deviation from the findings of the last friction assessment (2004).. a full runway assessment to determine current longitudinal slope, current transverse slope (along the full runway length) and the existing grade in first third of runway 30 (from approximately taxiway D to the 30 threshold).. a hydrologic engineering assessment to determine water flow on the first third of runway 30 from approximately