wind was 310°/10 knots and that they “might have to conduct a circling procedure for runway 30”. The crew immediately replied that “they could take a straight in ILS approach to runway 12. The option to conduct an RNAV (GPS) Runway 30 instrument approach to runway 30 was not suggested” by ATC and it was noted that based on the cloud being reported at the time as BKN at 1000 feet, the circling approach would not have been possible since the minimum for circling was 1150 feet agl. It was evident that the straight in RNAV (GPS) approach to runway 30 “would have offered a better option than the circle-to-land procedure” since it afforded an MDA of 373 feet agl and “the advantage of an into-wind landing”. It was noted that “all of the necessary elements for this flight to conduct the RNAV (GPS) Rwy 30 approach were available, except that the flight crew was not aware of it and the controller did not offer it as an option, which resulted in a continuing lack of awareness of it by the flight crew”. It was concluded that if the flight crew had used the RNAV (GPS) Runway 30 approach and landed on that runway, “the accident would probably have been avoided”. It was noted that the American Airlines B737 Operations Manual did not include a SOPs which allowed the First Officer acting as PM to call for a go-around, with the pilot flying (that is, the captain) being obliged to follow through. Instead, the Manual clearly indicated that “a Captain could disregard any First Officer’s call to go-around call.” The Investigation was not able to determine exactly what “the philosophy of American Airlines” was in respect of this subject, but it was concluded that First Officer acting as PM “might be reluctant to call for a go-around”. The Investigation noted that although the option to make a go around had been available until such time as reverse thrust was selected and that the Captain had reported during interview that he had briefly considered this “when the aircraft was on the runway and not decelerating as expected”, he had decided against it. In the light of this it was considered possible that, had the First Officer called for go-around between when the aircraft crossed the runway threshold and before the Captain selected reverse thrust, then “the accident might have been avoided”. However, this tentative conclusion was qualified by further remarks that the prevailing circumstances once the aircraft was on the ground , the engines were at flight idle and there was relatively little runway remaining might have collectively mitigated against a successful go around. In considering a possible explanation for the abnormal and inappropriate pitch up inputs made by the PF which were the primary cause of the long landing, it was considered that the lack of available depth perception cues could have made it difficult for the PF to reliably judge the position of the TDZ. The cumulative consequence of