cabin crew was still standing in the forward galley and about to take her seat and the sudden vertical disturbance to the aircraft flight path led to her falling too and hitting her head on a galley cart resulting in injury to her knees, back and neck. The flight crew were advised of the injuries by interphone and as “the turbulence had subsided”, the flight crew turned off the seat belt signs and first aid was administered. Within less than 2 minutes, the indicated speed had returned to normal and the AP was re-engaged. A landing at Canberra followed just over 20 minutes later with the member of cabin crew with the broken leg lying on the cabin floor. Both injured cabin crew were transported to hospital for treatment and one was admitted. There was no damage to the aircraft and no passengers or any of the other 5 cabin crew were injured. ATC were alerted to the turbulence experienced and advised that there had been no other reports of turbulence in the area. Qantas and the pilots involved advised the Investigation that it was “common practice” for its 737 flight crews to respond to an impending overspeed by applying rearward control column force to override the autopilot in order to de-clutch (but not disconnect) the AP and allow the pilot to temporarily reset the pitch manually by using “Control Wheel Steering - CWS”. However, after being appraised of the event under investigation, Boeing advised that they were considering making a revision to the 737 FCTM to add a preferred response to impending overspeed after having recognised that in some situations, A/T response would not be sufficient to prevent short term overspeeds. This procedure would involve leaving the AP engaged and slowly, partially and briefly selecting the speedbrakes to achieve the required reduction in airspeed before retracting them, again slowly, once below Vmo/Mmo. It was then found that Qantas 737 APs were progressively being modified under guidance from Boeing to remove the automatic reversion to CWS in response to column back pressure because of a concern that “flight crews may not recognise or correctly interpret the autoflight system automatic transition to the Control Wheel Steering mode”. A consequence of this modification, which had been actioned on the aircraft under investigation, had been to produce a sharper elevator response to permanent AP disengagement by control column movement than that which had characterised the previous temporary reversion to CWS since the latter had “provided a smoothed resistance as a function of the pitch rate”. Further review of the FDR data showed that the indicated airspeed had begun to increase after ‘Level Change’ FMS mode had been selected at the same time as the seat belt signs had been switched on - which had also coincided with the end of the 30 second period of “minor turbulence” which appeared to have been the reason they were selected on earlier than originally anticipated. It was noted that since the widely adopted and trained CWS