An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) with recorded flight data from the aircraft involved available. It was noted that the First Officer had been acting as PF for the incident sector. It was established that with the aircraft level at FL 310, ATC had cleared the aircraft to descend and asked the crew to maintain maximum speed and expect runway 17 at Canberra. Descent was commenced and instead of the standard descent speed of 280 KIAS, the speed was increased to 320 KIAS, twenty knots below Vmo. Soon after beginning this descent, a runway change to 35 was notified and passing FL 280, the cabin crew were advised over the PA to prepare for landing. This meant that it could be expected that the fasten seat belt signs would be switched on after a further ten minutes or so and that by this time all loose items in the cabin would need to have been secured. Approaching FL 230, just 5½ minutes after the “prepare for landing” PA had been given and with just “minor” turbulence evident, the seat belt signs were switched on and passengers and crew advised by PA to be seated with their seat belts fastened. It was noted that Qantas’ procedures required cabin crew members to be seated within one minute of such an announcement. At this time, one of the cabin crew was on her way back to the rear of the cabin and reported that “the turbulence was such that she needed to hold onto the overhead lockers as she walked along the aisle”. She reported reaching the rear galley, closing a stowage latch and securing a rubbish bin prior to securing herself in her crew seat. Then, about 30 seconds after the ‘fasten seat belt’ signs had been switched on, recorded data shows that the wind direction had changed by about 80° and approximately doubled the head wind component. This led to the indicated airspeed beginning to increase and in response the PF applied control column backpressure to avoid exceeding Vmo which, although not a documented Qantas response, was found to be a widely-used one amongst Qantas pilots on type. Almost immediately, the back pressure input was followed by an abrupt AP disconnection, upon which the aircraft nose suddenly dropped and was then increased with a maximum of +2.2g being recorded during the recovery. The Captain subsequently stated that as both pilots were checking the instrument approach for the new runway, they had heard the AP disconnect tone and had looked up and seen the airspeed continuing to increase towards Vmo prompting the First Officer’s manual pitch up. FDR data showed that indicated airspeed peaked at 339.5 KIAS within a second before the manually-commanded increase in pitch took effect. The member of cabin crew who was about to take her seat in the rear galley reported feeling the floor suddenly drop and then quickly come up again and she fell, breaking her leg. Another member of the