The event was investigated by the Danish AIB. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had not been a factor in the lead up to the accident. Flight recorders were not fitted (nor required) but useful data on track and groundspeed could be derived from the Non Volatile Memory Global Positioning System (GPS) readout. It was established that the standing crop in which the aircraft had crashed was approximately 3 metres tall and considered that this and the low forward speed had both served to render the impact survivable. The crash site is shown below: Rescue and Fire Fighting Services attendance at the crash site was delayed because TWR personnel were unable to remotely unlock the security gate through which they needed to pass and the vehicles responding did not have the key. They returned to the airport terminal and drove to the accident site via the public highway, not reaching the site until 7 minutes after the crash had occurred. Once there, it took over an hour to release the two occupants. It was noted that the pilot had been wearing only the lap part of the full harness whereas the passenger, who had been sitting in the other pilot seat, had been wearing a full harness. It was found that, following an earlier annunciation of low fuel quantity in both wing tanks, both engines had stopped with the aircraft fully configured for landing. Shortly thereafter, mishandling had resulted in an airspeed low enough to activate the stall protection system (SPS) at low altitude just as the aircraft had been about to cross the coast (see the diagram below) . It was considered that SPS activation and the nose down stick pusher in particular "might have provoked an instinctively opposite reaction by the pilot" in order to avoid ground impact and that the effect of the conflicting pilot/SPS commands "might have pushed the aircraft into a deeper stalled state" which finally led to the unrecoverable stall and the crash. It was established that the reason why both engines had stopped was because the pilot had mismanaged the fuel on board so that the main (wing) tanks ran dry whilst being fed from the wing tanks when there was still fuel remaining in the fuselage tank. It was noted that to allow this fuel to be fed to the engines, which was only possible from the respective wing tanks, the fuel transfer switches would need to have been open, whereas they were found in the closed position. Despite the presence of available fuel, the Investigation considered that "pre flight fuel planning had been inappropriate and inconsistent with" the regulations for the Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) flight plan filed. It was found that the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) for the aircraft type specified a minimum operating crew of two pilots and that it was so certified. It was also found that the aircraft registration was no longer valid, having been cancelled in 2012 on the grounds that no valid airworthiness