alerts. the EGPWS visual PULL UP warning on the PFD.. The monitoring performance of the First Officer was ineffective and he was oblivious to the rapidly unfolding unsafe situation.. It was considered by the Investigation that had a continuous ‘WHOOP WHOOP PULL UP’ hard EGPWS aural warning been annunciated simultaneously with the visual display of PULL UP on the PFD (and ideally with a flashing visual display of PULL UP on the PFD), it could have been effective in alerting the crew of the imminent danger and prompted a pull up and execution of a missed approach that may have prevented the accident. It was noted that the absence of an aural ‘PULL UP’ Warning on the aircraft involved (a 2005 built example of the type) was suggested by both Honeywell and Boeing as possibly because such a capability “might not be an option for older generation EGPWS”. Safety Actions taken by Air Niugini on its own initiative as a result of the accident and notified to the Investigation team included the following: On 23 October 2018, it advised that it had replaced the Boeing 737 on services to Chuuk and Pohnpei with Fokker28 aircraft and that Chuuk and Pohnpei airports had been re-categorised from CAT B to CAT X (CAT X being more restrictive).. On 11 April 2019, it further advised that the following flight operations and training changes had been introduced: Chuuk can only be nominated as a destination airport for arrival during daylight hours Tailwind component for landing in Chuuk reviewed and amendments made in the Air Niugini Boeing Route Guide Section 6 Fuel tankering policy had been reviewed and amendments made to the Air Niugini Boeing Route Guide Destination holding fuel requirements for airports with weather issues had been reviewed Aircraft with any open braking aid MELs shall not be operated into Chuuk More approach and landing exercises with a sudden loss of visibility and with approaches using flap 40 to a limiting runway had been added to the recurrent simulator training cycle The go-around policy as per Air Niugini SOP section 12.5 had been reviewed and amended Procedures to define categories of airports and the corresponding additional training requirements had been introduced The expiry of crew airport-specific qualifications now triggers an alert in the Air Niugini crew rostering system.. Chuuk can only be nominated as a destination airport for arrival during daylight hours. Tailwind component for landing in Chuuk reviewed and amendments made in the Air Niugini Boeing Route Guide Section 6. Fuel tankering policy had been reviewed and amendments made to the Air Niugini Boeing Route Guide. Destination holding fuel requirements for airports with weather issues had been reviewed. Aircraft with any open braking aid MELs shall not be operated into Chuuk. More approach and landing exercises with a sudden loss of visibility and with approaches using flap 40 to a limiting runway had been added to the recurrent simulator training cycle. The go-around policy as per Air Niugini SOP section 12.5 had been