Find out more about Just Culture. Just Culture Policy. Global Aviation Safety Network (GAIN) / Flight Safety Foundation Do You Have a Safety Culture?;. A Roadmap to a Just Culture: Enhancing the Safety Environment;. Safety Investigation and Justice -Stakes, Objectives, SMS issues, Just Culture. Others Prosecution of Your Crew Following an Incident in a Foreign Country: Are You Ready for This? Tim Brymer, Aviation & Aerospace Partner Clyde & Co LLP;. The criminalization of human error in aviation and healthcare: A review, by Sidney Dekker, Lund University. Flying in the Face of Criminalization, by Sofia Michaelides-Mateou, University of Nicosia and Andreas Mateou, Cyprus Airways. Just Culture - Assessing Safety Behaviours 'Best Practice', Austrocontrol, September 2017.. FAA AC 120-117: ‘Voluntary Disclosure Reporting Program for Apparent Violations of the Drug and Alcohol Testing Regulations’, December 2017. EU Safety Investigation Regulation and Just Culture. The Code for Crown Prosecutors. Dutch Documentation: Criminal Investigation and Prosecution of Occurrences in Civil Aviation. Open Reporting in Civil Aviation. Just Culture in EASA context- EASA standardisation inspection. The case law of the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation in the field of aviation accidents by Pietro Antonio Sirena, President of the 4th Penal Section of the Italian Supreme Court. EU Policy and Regulatory Approach, September 2012. Preserving Safety in Aviation: Just Culture and the Administration of Justice article by Roderick D. van Dam. Beginning to Get the benefit from Just Culture But Still Some Way to Go Article by Ian Weston. In the land of the blind, the one eyed man is king IFATCA, 2013. Just Culture in your pocket. Just Culture Achievements in Airlines Industry by Capt B. de Courville, AIRFRANCE. Feedback from Just Culture measurements Exercise. Affording to be transparent: Corporate Just Culture. The safety investigation and the investigation of the judicial authorities by Giovanni Battista Ferro, italian Public Prosecutor. Non-Invasive Neutral Approach (NINA) More effective Just Culture. Criminalization of Error Under the Various ICAO and EU Regulations, October 2018. Positive Just Culture for Modern Times Article by Florentino-Gregorio Ruiz Yamuza, Senior Judge..