The Air Accident Investigation Bureau of India classified the event as an Accident and delegated the conduct of the Investigation to the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau. Relevant data from both the CVR and FDR were downloaded and used to assist the Investigation and ATC radar recordings were also available. It was established that the Senior First Officer had been acting as PF and that it had been expected that descent into Mumbai might need to involve deviation around adverse convective weather. During descent on track from FL380 to FL150, the weather radar was seen to show isolated convective activity on the intended track and having reached FL150 about 86nm from destination, ATC were advised that a deviation would be needed to avoid this with the objective of remaining at least 10nm clear of the green edge of the area showing weather returns. This was approved at the commencement of the deviation and the seat belt signs were switched on as a precautionary measure. During the deviation, ATC twice asked the aircraft to resume a direct track to the next waypoint but this was declined because it would have compromised the weather avoidance objective. Eventually, clear of the weather returns, ATC approved a direct track to the next waypoint at FL 150. Shortly afterwards, some light to moderate turbulence occurred. Then, about 4½ minutes after the seat belt signs had been turned on, and "sensing that the ride was getting bumpier" the PF made an announcement over the PA requesting the cabin crew to be seated. FDR data showed that 5 seconds after this PA had finished, a single sudden brief period of severe turbulence occurred. A number of passengers and members of the cabin crew "were thrown up towards the cabin ceiling" - the cabin crew had not had sufficient time to ensure all the passengers were seated and secured or to get themselves seated. FDR data showed that the turbulence had lasted just over 2 minutes and that vertical acceleration had fluctuated between +1.77g and - 0.42g during that time. Some cabin trim was superficially damaged by bodily impact but there was no other damage to the aircraft and flight path control was maintained. Once the turbulence had ceased, the Flight Deck was informed of the occurrence of injuries and that some appeared to be relatively serious. The flight crew took the decision to arrange medical assistance on arrival through the airline's handling agent. They also decided not to inform ATC of the situation because it was "considered unnecessary" given that the aircraft was "almost on the final approach into Mumbai Airport and that ATC was already giving them a direct route to join final approach". This latter decision was noted as contrary to the airline requirement to "inform ATC of any significant event or serious incident". There was no further turbulence and the remainder of the flight was without further event. It was noted that both Airbus and Aircraft Operator procedures recommended that "all yellow, red and