magenta cells should be avoided by at least 20 nm" and that in addition, the Operator had further recommended avoidance of all adverse weather "by at least 10nm when flying below FL 230". The flight crew stated to the Investigation that "they had assessed from the weather radar display that the edge of the green cell was at least 10 nm from the edge of the yellow cell" so that by staying clear of the green edge of the weather by at least 10 nm, at least 20nm of separation from the nearest yellow edge had been achieved. The Investigation did not note the overall or aircraft type flying experience of the two pilots involved or the Captain's time in command and on type. Also, the meteorological situation at the time was not examined in detail but neither the nature of the FDR data nor the disposition of other traffic supported the possibility of a wake vortex origin for the turbulence. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as "most probably a case of encounter with clear air turbulence, given that there were no clouds in sight and no sign of adverse weather on the weather radar display when the severe turbulence was encountered". The remainder of the Investigation considered two safety issues related to the event: The failure of the flight crew to advise ATC of what happened in order to ensure that a direct routing would be maintained, which was considered inappropriate.. The extent to which "firm handholds" had been available throughout the aircraft passenger cabin to have helped those who might have been on their feet when the turbulence occurred to avoid injury. It was noted that applicable EASA (CS 25) design specifications included the requirement that "if the seat backs do not provide a firm handhold, there must be a handgrip or rail along each aisle to enable persons to steady themselves while using the aisles in moderately rough air" and that during the design approval process for this aircraft type, it had been assessed that seat backs would provide such a firm hold that no handgrip or rail had been incorporated along the aisles of the cabin. The Investigation identified a range of firm handhold options in the various classes of cabin although not all were seat backs or at a similar height above the cabin floor.. Safety Action was taken by the Operator to remind its flight crew of the importance of informing ATC of any emergency situations or injuries encountered in flight. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 27 May 2016. No Safety Recommendations were made.