of commercial air transport had not been detected by the State Civil Aviation Safety Directorate (DSAC) or the Air Transport Police unit (GTA) of the State Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC). It was concluded that this was because neither organisation proactively sought out relevant breaches of the clearly communicated applicable regulatory requirements. The consequence of this was a significantly increased risk to the safety of the flight involved of which the passengers were completely unaware. Six Contributory Factors which may have contributed to the accident outcome and its context were identified as follows: (1) In respect of the long landing and the Captain’s generally low level of experience: The absence of any experience at Courchevel mountain airport since obtaining his authorisation to operate there.. The absence of experience of landing at a mountain airport in an aircraft whose characteristics were very different to those of the Jodel D140.. Minimal experience of flying the Piper PA-46.. (2) In respect of both the pilot and the service provider company erroneously assessing the risks associated with this flight: The absence of any operational support for the pilot.. The service provider’s desire to show that they were able to carry out a commercial service with passengers.. (3) In respect of a passenger transport flight being carried out which did not comply with the commercial air transport requirements: The absence of oversight of this type of practice by the civil aviation authorities.. Two Safety Lessons were formally documented at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: Connecting aeroplane owners, pilots and passengers This occurrence illustrates that for passengers, marketed flights where aeroplane owners, pilots and passengers are put into contact with each other, might look like a commercial air transport flight. However, they may be carried out in a private capacity and not offer the same safety and insurance guarantees as commercial air transport. The companies or web platforms may not be aware of the risks relating to this type of operation. Pilots with little experience may accept even more readily to perform these flights as it would allow them to increase their number of flight hours and to start working in the passenger transport sector. However, this type of flight leads to substantial operational pressure for the pilot. Information for passengers Passengers must ensure, for all passenger commercial air transport flights, that a ticket is issued for the flight to be carried out. Before taking any actions, passengers can obtain information from the DGAC via a page on the Ministère de la Transition écologique website. This page gives, in particular, the list of all the French operators which hold an Air Operator Certificate. This source of information does not seem to be widely known and is little used by passengers. Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the French Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC) direct that supplementary training or experience criteria are required when using an aeroplane whose class, type or performance is significantly different from the class or