An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Relevant flight data was recovered from the aircraft’s avionics suite memory card and information concerning the conduct of the flight was available in statements by the two pilots on board and from videos taken by the passengers. The wider and somewhat complex circumstances under which the flight had been performed were established by widening the scope of the Investigation. The 23 year-old Captain was a self-employed pilot who held a CPL/IR obtained 2½ years earlier and had a total of 398 hours single pilot flying experience on single piston-engined aircraft which had been acquired mainly by undertaking glider towing or parachute drop flights. He had flown a total of 10½ hours in the three months preceding the accident under investigation. The specific training which he had required to obtain an authorisation to operate into the Courchevel mountain airport had been completed two months earlier in a Jodel D140 and had been paid for by the company for which he was to be contracted when required as a freelance pilot. It had consisted of 6 landings at Courchevel with a suitably qualified Instructor. He had taken his skill test on the Piper PA-46, which consisted of two visual circuits with an Instructor at Orléans Saint-Denis-de-l’Hôtel the day before the accident after being provided with a PA-46 AFM by the same company who had contracted him to operate the flight to Courchevel. This meant that he had only ever operated into Courchevel once before with an Instructor and not in a PA-46 or similar aircraft and had only previously flown a PA-46 for 25 minutes with an Instructor who was unfamiliar with flight into any mountain airport in any aircraft type. This latter instructor, aware that the Captain would be making a commercial flight to Courchevel the following day, had advised him to increase his approach speed there by 5 to 7 knots when operating the PA-46. The company for whom the pilot was working on the accident flight was paid per flight by the passengers and invoiced them for their flights on behalf of the separately contracted pilots and aircraft owners to whom they then paid some of the money received from the passengers. This company was called ‘Big Blank’ and was visibly presented as an Air France-KLM Group subsidiary (which it was) - its Chief Executive Officer was a pilot employed by Air France. This company received passengers’ flight payments via a bank account with the name “Big Blank c/o Air France/KLM”. For the purpose of advertising flight availability, it operated a website called ‘Bluewings’ which described this website (www.bluewings.aero) (in very small print) as “a platform for private flights, connecting aeroplane owners, pilots and passengers”. Courchevel mountain airport was the first destination to be offered on the Bluewings website. No tickets were issued to passengers, just invoices from Big Blank for the flights provided. The accident aircraft had been dry leased