from its owner by Big Blank for a period of one month subject to a maximum use of 15 hours. The recruitment of contracted pilots by the company was achieved by advertising on “specialised websites” and specifying that pilots had to have at least a CPL (Commercial Pilot License). Selected applicants were interviewed only to check their licences, ratings and site authorisations and no theoretical or practical selection process was followed. Although the Company “wanted the flights to be performed by two pilots”, there was no specified division of tasks for such flights and in the case of a two pilot flight, the pilots involved were expected to agree with each other on how to share the remuneration received for a flight. The accident flight Captain was aware that a ‘Safety Pilot’ would accompany him on the flight and had been informed that they would be a CPL holder. In fact, the 22 year-old “Safety Pilot” travelling on the accident flight was only a PPL (Private Pilot License) holder who had recently completed the requirements for the grant of a CPL in 2018 but had not yet been issued with such a licence. This pilot stated to the Investigation that he had been called by a friend who worked for Bluewings to offer the opportunity to act s ‘Safety Pilot’ on the planned flight. He added that he had “explained to the caller that he did not hold a site authorisation for Courchevel, a mountain rating or a PA-46 rating” and specified that he had accepted the offer for the pleasure of flying and had not been paid. He was told by Bluewings that his presence on the flight “was just to reassure the passengers”. Having been contacted by the Captain contracted to operate the flight the day before and informed how the flight was going to be conducted, he had taken no part in the pre-flight preparations and had boarded the aircraft at the same time as the passengers. Once in the right hand cockpit seat, he had carried out the takeoff checklists with the Captain and conducted radio communications on request, although as the destination neared, the Captain had “managed radio communications on his own”. He added that during the approach, he had read out the landing checklist for the Captain. It was noted that the passenger who organised the flight, who was aware of a recent PA-46 fatal accident which had no direct connection to either Big Blank or its contractors, had been explicitly re-assured by a Big Blank employee that the “two qualified pilots” who would be operating the flight “knew the Courchevel mountain airport procedures well”. When the passengers arrived at the departure airport for their flight already confident that “Bluewings was linked to Air France”, their observation that “the same clothes (white shirt and navy pullover) were worn by the pilots had further reinforced their belief that they were travelling with an airline”. Prior to the accident flight, the Captain carried out the pre-flight