inspection of the aircraft and uplifted fuel. He also called the Courchevel Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS) agent to obtain the latest weather and was informed that the runway was clear of snow and “suitable for the PA-46” and filed an IFR Flight Plan. He was the last to board the aircraft (after the passengers) and on doing so carried out a passenger safety briefing covering de-pressurisation and the use of the oxygen masks and the procedure for an emergency evacuation. The flight proceeded uneventfully and as they passed abeam Geneva, he cancelled the IFR flight plan and initially continued towards the Courchevel overhead to inspect the airport visually and noted that the wind appeared calm and the runway was damp with “a few patches of snow” visible. He also called the AFIS agent who advised that the surface wind was 240° 3 knots, the visibility greater than 10 km, the QNH 1018 and the air temperature -1 °C. He then joined final approach to runway 22, the only permitted landing direction because of the short upwardly inclined runway. Although the Captain subsequently stated that he “considered that the final approach was stabilised”, with the indicated speed being “around 92 knots”, recorded flight data indicated otherwise with considerable variations in power setting, airspeed and rate of descent indicating that it had been unstabilised. Apart from earlier variations and an eventually fairly constant rate of descent of around 800 fpm, the final 20 seconds of the approach were made with the power at idle before power was progressively increased as the initially upward sloping part of the 537 metre-long runway (see the illustration below) neared. The aircraft floated just above the runway for around ten seconds before power was returned to idle. After two seconds, touchdown then followed about 270 metres past the threshold - approximately half way along the inclined part of the runway - with the speed still a recorded 79 knots. Despite maximum braking, albeit with the Captain’s detection of locked wheels leading him to briefly release brake pedal pressure, it was then not possible to stop the aircraft before it reached the top of the incline and, after travelling over the 123 metres of level surface which followed, it overran the end of the runway and collided with a mound of snow previously cleared from the runway. The longitudinal profile of the Courchevel runway (altitudes are in feet amsl). [Reproduced from the Official Report] A retrospective weight and balance calculation for the flight found that the aircraft had been overloaded for takeoff and at its maximum allowable landing weight at touchdown. The fact that a mountain airport pilot authorisation, in this specific case for Courchevel, was generic and not linked to aircraft type was considered inappropriate and contributory to the accident. The illegal activity of Big Blank, the company which facilitated and was paid for the flight but held neither an AOC nor an operating permit and had consequently not taken on the responsibilities of a provider