The following factors should be considered by the controllers having aircraft with no or corrupt transponder reading within their area of responsibility: A total loss of transponder is often combined with radio communication loss (e.g. due to severe electrical system failure or the previous ATS unit not transferring the aircraft on the next frequency).. As mentioned before, different procedures apply based on the situation subtype (e.g. in case an intruder/unknown/military aircraft is involved). Wrong assumptions may lead to unpredictable results. It is therefore crucial that any uncertainties are clearly stated as such when communicating with other parties (ATS units, military authorities, etc.).. Ghost tracks (either primary or secondary) may distract the controller. If they happen frequently the controllers may consider a “real” track to be false or they may spend valuable time waiting to determine whether a track is “real” or a “ghost”.. Meteorological conditions affect the “see and avoid” barrier practiced by pilots. They also impact the pilots’ ability to see and recognize the traffic referred to in the traffic information broadcast made by the controller.. If vectoring to provide lateral separation is chosen, the controller should consider the possibility that the aircraft being vectored may lose visual contact with the aircraft experiencing transponder failure. Furthermore, if the situation deteriorates, i.e. positional information is also lost, there may be no way to determine the relative position of the aircraft.. A military aircraft (intruder) might consider vectoring of another aircraft towards or behind it as a sign of aggression; it is therefore essential to perform a correct situation assessment, as described in the previous section.. If using pilot’s report to confirm the level of an unknown aircraft the controller should consider the fact that this information depends on various factors and may be very far from the truth.. Communication loss may be a side effect of a total transponder failure.. The lost track tool may produce false alarms. If these happen often, the controllers might not be able to detect a “real” situation, especially in high density traffic. Therefore, careful examination of all lost track tool warnings is recommended as well as proper personnel training (given the fact that this tool is not supposed to activate often, it is likely that some controllers are not familiar enough with it)..