or issue instructions to the aircraft;. Strayed or lost aircraft, i.e. an aircraft that is generally not supposed to be there; this situation may develop into (or may already have become) an unusual or emergency situation;. Intruder or military aircraft (especially near or above international waters or areas with military conflicts); this situation may develop into e.g. air policing mission.. Clarification – if there is radio contact with the aircraft the controller should try to determine the failure type (mode A, C or S) together with the pilot, e.g. Verify the level of the aircraft; Instruct the pilot to reset the transponder code; Confirm or correct the Mode S flight ID.. Verify the level of the aircraft;. Instruct the pilot to reset the transponder code;. Confirm or correct the Mode S flight ID.. The controller should try to obtain additional information – from neighbouring ATS units or military units; although these should normally take the initiative and advise the downstream unit, the controller should consider the probability that the previous unit may have not noticed the situation;. Informing all concerned (next ATS sectors or units, military authorities, the supervisor, etc.) as described in local instructions helps them plan for the situation in advance.. Transponder validation procedures (e.g. level verification on initial contact) are helpful for discovering a transponder failure.. Lateral separation should be considered. This is especially true if no reliable information about the aircraft level can be obtained. In such cases usually the safest option is to consider the traffic with transponder failure to be at all levels and provide lateral separation.. Traffic information may be useful in some cases and will most likely make the flight crew spend extra effort on “see and avoid”, especially if there is no radio contact with the aircraft experiencing transponder failure. If used, the transponder failure and relevant details should be clearly stated (e.g. so that the pilots do not rely on TCAS readings in case of Mode C or total failure);. Estimates and position reports can be used for the provision of ATS to the aircraft experiencing transponder failure even if no surveillance information is available (application of procedural separation may be necessary)..