The advice given in this section is derived from experience, best practices and common sense. It is not intended to replace or supersede local instructions and procedures. The following actions usually help the controller to adequately handle a situation where an aircraft is experiencing a transponder failure: Quick discovery of the situation is essential. It gives more time to develop a plan and reduces the chance of an incident happening. Regular scanning – this is something a controller normally does; Lost track tool may be very helpful for the initial discovery; this feature is present under different names in different ATM systems but the common idea is to alert the controller that a correlated track has been lost. One of the possible reasons for this is transponder failure. Uncorrelated and primary tracks within (or about to enter) the area of responsibility should be carefully considered. Flight plan track tool (if available) may help controller identify a lost track and anticipate flight's current position. However, the precision is much lower, as this is a predicted position based on flight plan data.. Regular scanning – this is something a controller normally does;. Lost track tool may be very helpful for the initial discovery; this feature is present under different names in different ATM systems but the common idea is to alert the controller that a correlated track has been lost. One of the possible reasons for this is transponder failure.. Uncorrelated and primary tracks within (or about to enter) the area of responsibility should be carefully considered.. Flight plan track tool (if available) may help controller identify a lost track and anticipate flight's current position. However, the precision is much lower, as this is a predicted position based on flight plan data.. Assumptions should be avoided. Filling information gaps with something plausible may lead to unexpected results. All possible scenarios should be considered unless there is a reasonable certain information. Correct situation assessment is also very important. The controller should determine the subtype of the situation which is critical for choosing the correct following actions. A list of examples is given below: An (expected) aircraft with a transponder failure; this is a relatively routine situation compared to other options; An (expected) aircraft with a transponder failure and no radio contact (due to communication failure, improper handover, etc.) resulting in the controller being unable to obtain information from or issue instructions to the aircraft; Strayed or lost aircraft, i.e. an aircraft that is generally not supposed to be there; this situation may develop into (or may already have become) an unusual or emergency situation; Intruder or military aircraft (especially near or above international waters or areas with military conflicts); this situation may develop into e.g. air policing mission.. An (expected) aircraft with a transponder failure; this is a relatively routine situation compared to other options;. An (expected) aircraft with a transponder failure and no radio contact (due to communication failure, improper handover, etc.) resulting in the controller being unable to obtain information from