The ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPS) promulgated in several Annexes to the Chicago Convention require the implementation of a safety management system by the following aviation service provider organisations: Latest amendments to ICAO SARPS to include the requirement to implement a safety management system will be harmonised and extended to include in 2010 and 2013 respectively: As International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) SARPS are not directly applicable within national legislative and regulatory frameworks, States shall establish safety programmes and, as part of such programmes, ensure that operators/service providers implement a safety management system. In Europe, the implementation of safety management systems by air navigation service providers has been mandated by EUROCONTROL Safety Regulatory Requirements (ESARRs) which were transposed by the European Commission into Community law. Some sectors of the general aviation (GA) have also introduced SMS into their organisations, but the extension of SMS principles throughout GA presents specific problems, for which solutions have not yet been found. Because of the diverse relationships between the rulemaking bodies and the variety of aviation service provider organisations, it is of critical importance to standardise the SMS functions to the point that there is a common understanding of the meaning of SMS among all concerned organisations and authorities, both domestically and internationally. In this regard the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) stated its intention to translate the SMS related provisions in ICAO Annex 6 and EU-OPS 1.037 in the upcoming rulemaking proposals as they will be similar for aircraft operators, maintenance organisations, air navigation services providers and aerodrome operators. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) also supports the harmonised implementation of international standards, and is currently working to make U.S. aviation safety regulations consistent with ICAO standards and recommended practices. The FAA Advisory Circular No. 120-92B introduces the concept of SMS for Air Operators (airlines, air taxi operators, corporate flight departments, and pilot schools) and FAA A.C. No. 150/5200-37 provides guidance material for implementation of SMS in aerodrome operations.