From the review of this accident, it is clear that the crew: Faced significant stress and time pressure.. Did not have perfect situational awareness because noise and the inability to see the no. 2 engine prevented them from confirming any details of what had happened.. Followed the “operations golden rules” and concentrated on the tasks of aviate, navigate, communicate, manage without giving in to distraction.. Was disciplined throughout the event and practiced good airmanship.. Applied crew resource management (CRM) skills to achieve effective leadership and support, making use of all available resources.. Used excellent judgment and demonstrated effective decision making in accordance with known operational facts.. The crew was cool, calm and collected in its response to stress and time pressures despite the many physical and emotional stress factors that could have affected performance, including: Severe turbulence.. Marginal control of the aircraft that might have caused anxiety. The crew responded by focusing primarily on maintaining control of the aircraft despite almost losing control twice.. Uncertainty concerning what actually had happened and therefore how extreme the situation actually was.. Existence of multiple failures that greatly increased workload.. The short time frame within which the events occurred and the intensity of the activity required to return safely.. Persistent noise from alarms and warnings.. Despite these stress factors and pressures, the captain was able to maintain control of his emotions and transfer his positive attitude and confidence to the other crewmembers. The negative effects of the acute stress only appeared after landing, when the captain suffered a severe stomach ache for several hours. The crew’s situational awareness was incomplete as a consequence of limited information availability. They therefore focused on producing an accurate response to their situation rather than becoming fixated with determining the causes of their predicament. It is ironic that the crew’s lack of complete situational awareness of the seriousness of the aircraft failure may actually have protected them from developing excessive anxiety. The captain quickly realized that the aircraft was in significant danger and devoted his efforts to re-establishing and maintaining aircraft control. He delegated additional critical tasks clearly to the other crewmembers so that everyone had a full understanding of the duties they were to perform. Likewise, the FO focused on helping the captain by handling communications and assisting in the engine failure procedure rather than overanalyzing the causes of the situation. The crew never lost sight of the operations golden rules. In spite of many competing needs, they never permitted distraction to compromise the primary functions of aviate-navigate-communicate-manage that are fundamental to safe flight. The crew remained disciplined throughout the event. They remained calm, followed standard operating procedures (SOPs), did not cut corners and showed appropriate concern for others by warning ground personnel of the excessive brake and wheel temperatures. Good CRM was applied throughout, including: Ensuring that all appropriate resources, including the FEs traveling as passengers, were used.. Making sure that vital communications were not disrupted.. Delegation of tasks by the captain while coaching the entire crew