capability. Whilst recovery from an encounter with the phenomenon is always possible given sufficient height above terrain, if the condition occurs in sufficiently close proximity to terrain or to obstacles, it would present a very hazardous prospect. Occurrence of this phenomenon, which is nevertheless a natural state for any helicopter with effects which are intended to be contained by a combination of design and compliance with the type operating limitations, has been particularly associated with high mass, high speed, high torque and high density altitude. It was noted that the latter means that it will occur more easily when flying a heavily loaded helicopter in the mountains on a hot day, as was the case in the investigated accident. It was not considered that “any misjudgement (by the accident pilot) can be attributed to lack of knowledge or skill” but it was considered that there appeared to be “insufficient general knowledge in the helicopter community of the dangers associated with servo transparency”. The Investigation found that opinions on whether the servo transparency phenomenon should be or can be demonstrated / practiced in flight varied. Most Norwegian Operators of the accident type were found to provide theoretical classroom training but no in-flight practical demonstration. One of the reasons for this appeared to be the view that such demonstrations would involve operating outside of AFM limitations. It was noted, however, that in 2010, Eurocopter had issued training guidelines based on demonstration using the much less marked left bank case and that the accident pilot had been given practical training/demonstration. Although the Operator involved had not been the subject of regulatory concern, evidence that hazardous manoeuvring with passengers on board may previously have occurred in their operations was found and the Investigation came to the conclusion that “the same applies for most of the operators in this part of the industry”. In respect of the absence of a requirement for helicopters such as the one involved in the investigated event to carry a FDR, it was noted that such recorders not only provide a valuable data source to help establish what has happened in an air accident or incident, they can also facilitate improved safety in normal operations. It was considered that the difficulties encountered during this Investigation indicated “that it is time for the aviation authorities to require suitable recorders for lighter aircraft…..including light helicopters”. The overall Conclusion of the Investigation was that it was “likely that abrupt manoeuvring initiated a sequence where control of the helicopter was partly lost for a period, and that the height was insufficient for the commander to recover in time”. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator Airlift following the accident was noted to have the introduction of limits of 30º bank and 15º pitch when at heights below 500 feet agl with passengers on board. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the (Norwegian) Civil Aviation Authority, through its role as chair of the Committee for Helicopter Safety