An Investigation was carried out by the AIBN. No recorded flight data was available to assist the Investigation because the aircraft involved had not carried, nor been required to carry, an Flight Data Recorder (FDR). The Non Volatile Memory (NVM) of the Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver on board the helicopter was recovered and successfully accessed and was of some value in confirming the operation of the helicopter and corroborating eyewitness accounts of the final minutes of the flight. The NVM from the Digital Engine Control Unit (DECU) and the Vehicle and Engine Multifunction Display (VEMD) was also recovered but both had been rendered unreadable by fire damage. The weather conditions at the accident site at the time of the crash had been good with light winds and a surface temperature in the vicinity recorded as 23º C. The altitude of the site was in excess of 3500 feet amsl. Without recorded flight data, it was impossible to know with certainty what flight attitudes and loads the helicopter was subjected to, what airspeed it held and the exact flight path it followed in the turn preceding the crash. However, the Investigation was able to calculate the approximate forward speed at ground impact as 105 knots based on tracks at the accident site. It could also be deduced that the helicopter had hit the ground at a nearly flat pitch angle and with a bank angle of about 45° to the right. It was established that as the helicopter had started a descent to approach the intended landing site, it had been seen by witnesses to make a steep turn to the right. During that turn, control of the helicopter appeared to be lost with a continued high bank angle and steep descent being evident. Near to the eventual impact site, it had seemed to these witnesses as if control was about to be regained, but the helicopter had then impacted the ground hard about 500 metres short of the landing site and had immediately caught fire. It was noted that the extensive damage to the helicopter meant that meaningful examination of components was almost impossible. However, it was possible to establish that the helicopter had been structurally intact prior to ground impact with the engine producing power. No evidence was found of any significant airworthiness defects or of any irregularities in maintenance which could have contributed to the accident. It was assumed that the attached external cargo basket would have had produced only a small reduction in the overall performance of the helicopter. On the basis of descriptions of the observed flight path, the phenomenon of ‘servo transparency’ or ‘jack stall’ was identified as a possible cause of the sudden loss of control that had evidently occurred. It was noted that under certain conditions, usually abrupt manoeuvring, it is possible to encounter the most marked version of it during a right turn as being made by the accident helicopter. It results from the hydraulic system reaching the limit of its