Y with both accessed via a complex chicane system at each end. The effect of this redesign, which had produced the layout and taxi restrictions in place at the time of the collision, was to reduce the length of taxiway F1 to 20 metres. It also had the effect of reducing the distance prior to the beginning of F1 for an aircraft stopping clear of it when approaching from LINK 2 to less than that required to provide sufficient clearance for a 737-800 or a larger wingspan aircraft to pass behind when moving from LINK 2 to TWY A. It was noted that "visiting foreign pilots regularly sought additional routing information from ATC when taxiing within the vicinity of LINK 1/LINK 2" and that even pilots regularly using and therefore familiar with the LINK 1/LINK 2 taxiway system considered it "to be complex and that the designations are confusing compared to other airports". In respect of the taxiway design where the collision occurred, it was noted that previous (2012) AAIU Safety Recommendations which proposed that the Dublin Airport Authority should "review taxiway designation at Dublin Airport" and give "consideration (to) the alignment of taxiways F1 and F2" had, although accepted at the time, not been fully implemented. However, since progress in this regard was continuing, it was determined that no further recommendations in this specific respect were necessary. However, it was considered that a wider and general review of the whole taxiway system at the airport was required. It was noted that ICAO Annex 11 prescribes that an ATC Unit "shall issue clearances and information for the purpose of preventing collisions between aircraft under its control" and that ICAO Annex 14 states that "taxiways should be provided to permit the safe and expeditious surface movement of aircraft" and refers to the Aerodrome Design Manual (ICAO Doc 9157) which says that "taxiway routes should be as simple as possible in order to avoid pilot confusion and the need for complicated instructions". In this respect, it was noted that on 1 April 2015, whilst the current Investigation had been in progress, a further very similar ground collision had occurred at the same location at Dublin and that as a consequence of that separate Investigation, an Interim Safety Recommendation had been issued to the IAA as Safety Regulator to ensure that the existing Taxiing Restrictions specified for Dublin in the AIP "are restated". The case for "a critical review of the taxiing restrictions at Dublin Airport should be undertaken" with the aim of reducing their number and facilitating the simplification of taxi instructions. The question of how effective visual assessment of wingtip clearance from a pilot seat in the aircraft type involved was considered. It was found that this was only possible at all if the pilot concerned took up a seating position which would take their "visual attention away from the straight ahead view" and even then provided only a partially obstructed view. Further consideration of this matter focussed on depth perception.