It was concluded from reference to medical research that judgement of clearance is likely to be unreliable when the target of interest is greater than 10 metres away whereas the 737-800 wingtip is approximately 27 metres from the required flight deck viewing position. The following general position was taken in respect of the risk posed by visual assessment of wingtip clearance: "The Investigation is of the belief that for pilots operating winglet equipped aircraft and/or aircraft with large wingspan, it is not possible to accurately judge absolute distance between the wingtip and another object. Therefore, regardless of experience, there is a risk that in attempting to judge separation distance at close quarters to another object, a collision may occur. As such pilots should err on the side of caution and if doubt exists as to whether an aircraft can be passed safely, the flight crew should stop, advise ATC, and request alternative instructions if available." The attention previously given to the case for wingtip proximity aids by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) was noted as was the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) response to related Safety Recommendations which declined to act, which was followed by a similar response from European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). It was noted that at the time of the investigated event, there had not previously been a collision in the area of LINK 1/2 at Dublin although there had been 3 wingtip collisions involving commercial transport aircraft in Ireland since 1996 and 8 others involving Irish-registered aircraft operating abroad. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as "Insufficient wing-tip clearance achieved while manoeuvring in close proximity to another aircraft". Four Contributory Factors were identified as follows: Non-adherence to taxiing restrictions as specified in the AIP.. The general complexity of the LINK 1/LINK 2 taxiway system.. Difficulties associated with judging absolute distances beyond 10 metres.. The prevailing environmental conditions.. Safety Action following sight of a draft copy of the Investigation Report was noted as including the following: plans by the Dublin Airport Authority for "a revised taxiway designation system" and for "a realignment of taxiway F1 and F2".. action by the IAA as ANSP to introduce new procedures specific to local operators during the 90 minute dual runway operations period which would allow conditional clearances onto TWY A when an aircraft is on TWY F1 and for TWY A to be closed outside the dual runway operations period.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Ryanair Ltd should review the guidance material provided to flight crews regarding the difficulty associated with assessing wing tip clearance. [IRLD2015015]. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should, through the work programme of the ANC, assess the need for the provision of anti-collision aids to help pilots of large public transport aircraft determine wingtip clearance during ground manoeuvring. [IRLD2015016]. that the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) conduct a critical review of the taxiway system at Dublin Airport, to ensure that taxiway routes are as simple as possible in