towards TWY A, the left winglet struck the outer part of the right elevator of the other aircraft. The approximate position of both aircraft at and in the case of the moving aircraft the position where it stopped after the collision is shown on the second diagram below. The Captain of the second aircraft stated that he had seen the other aircraft parked ahead at F1 and had considered that there was sufficient separation from it to enable continued taxiing in accordance with the clearance given. He stated that whilst "monitoring the wingtip through the rear port cockpit window, which had rain droplets on it (although) it was not raining at the time, he "felt a jolt and said to his First Officer that he thought he had tipped the other aircraft" and therefore stopped the aircraft. When TWR cleared the aircraft to line up on runway 34, they were advised of the collision. It was recognised by the Investigation that "prevailing conditions of morning darkness, rain-drop covered cockpit windows and diffused high-level ramp lighting were not conducive for judgement of accurate absolute distance or separation at close quarters between two aircraft". The GND controller stated that when he had cleared the second aircraft along the F taxiways and onto LINK A to hold short of RWY 34, "He did so in the expectation that (the first aircraft) would not stop on TWY F1 and so (regarded) the clearance (as) both safe and efficient". However, he reported that he had been monitoring the movement of the first aircraft using the ASMGCS and "was confident that everything was operating smoothly". He added that prior to reconfirming the clearance to the second aircraft and transferring it to TWR, he had noted the first aircraft was still moving ahead. Subsequently, he heard the TWR controller saying that "there had been a collision on LINK 2 between two aircraft" and immediately realised which aircraft would have been involved. He noted that whilst "every effort was made to fully comply with" the extensive taxiing restrictions, when aircraft are queuing, "it is not possible to fully implement such restrictions without serious implications for traffic flow and efficiency". In respect of the use of ASMGCS, the Investigation noted that its returns "do not specifically ‘paint’ the extremities of the aircraft wings or wingtips, but rather display a circle (which is the aircraft transponder position) and primary radar returns in the form of a collection of boxes." In respect of AIP-promulgated taxiing restrictions, the Investigation noted that there were a total 16 based on different scenarios. One of these was identified as explicitly prohibiting aircraft movement from LINK 2/TWY F2 when aircraft travelling towards LINK 1/ TWY E1 were holding on TWY F1 which was the case at the time of the collision. The Investigation reviewed the history of the F1 taxiway which had until 2010 been a direct continuation of F2 but at that point had been moved to the west and joined by the parallel taxiway