An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. Both aircraft remained in their post impact positions until further movement was authorised by the Inspector in Charge. Both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) from both aircraft were removed and their data were successfully downloaded. Relevant ATC recordings, including that from the ASMGCS, were also available. It was noted that the 40 year-old Captain of the aircraft which was stationary at the time of the collision had 7,120 total flying hours including 6,310 hours on type and that the 51 year-old Captain of the aircraft which was moving at the time of the collision had 11,000 total flying hours including 7,000 hours on type. Both Captains were familiar with operations at Dublin. It was established that both aircraft had taxied towards their respective departure runways in (early morning) night conditions whilst surface visibility was being reported as 3000 metres in mist. The CVR record from both aircraft portrayed a sterile and unrushed environment on the flight decks of both aircraft. An audible "thump" could be clearly heard on the area microphone channel of the CVR from the moving aircraft but no such sound was recorded on that channel of the CVR from the stationary aircraft. The FDR for the former showed that the ground speed of the aircraft at the time of the impact had been approximately 5 knots. The FDR for the latter confirmed that the aircraft had been stationary with the park brake set at the time of impact. The impact caused extensive damage to the port winglet of the moving aircraft and to the starboard elevator of the stationary aircraft and both had to be replaced. Aircraft departures were being permitted on two runways, 28 and 34, which was a routine practice during the busy period between 0630L and 0800L subject to Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) and ASMGCS serviceability. All 34 departures were made from TWY A without a backtrack. The relevant part of the manoeuvring area is shown on the diagram below. The first aircraft was initially cleared by GND to taxi for a runway 28 departure via F5/LINK 5 to hold short of LINK 5 and then further cleared to TWY E1 via the F taxiways to hold short of both runways. The aircraft was subsequently instructed to monitor TWR frequency and, having begun to do so, was then stopped on LINK 2 just before entering TWY F1. Shortly afterwards, the second aircraft, with the Captain necessarily acting as PF because a steering tiller is only available on Ryanair aircraft at the left hand seat position, followed the first aircraft in sequence but was to depart from runway 34. It was cleared by GND to route via LINK 5 onto the F taxiways and onto TWY A to hold short of runway 34. As the aircraft was approaching LINK 2, GND instructed the aircraft to continue as cleared and monitor TWR. As the aircraft turned right onto LINK 2 and taxied