Lyman and Orlady[1] showed that fatigue was specifically implicated in 77 (3.8%) of 2,006 incidents reported by pilots to NASA’s Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). When their ASRS analysis was expanded to include all factors that could be directly or indirectly linked to fatigue, incidents potentially related to fatigue increased to 426 (21.2%). Major problems with statistics relating fatigue to accidents and incidents include the lack of a coherent definition of fatigue itself and the absence of a reliable and valid assessment tool to measure it retrospectively. Fatigue is generally difficult to investigate on a systematic basis and to code in databases. Therefore, any statistics related to fatigue and incidents/accidents are likely to be an underestimate and should be interpreted as such. Also, the outcomes of fatigue reported by pilots, such as the reduction of alertness and lack of concentration, are not unique to sleep loss and are therefore difficult to quantify in analysing accidents or incidents. While the actual extent of pilot fatigue is difficult to measure, its main causal factors can often be assessed as part of an incident or accident investigation. For example: work schedules can be analysed to evaluate potential circadian disturbances caused by night flights or jet lag; sleep loss due to morning or night flights can be determined, and cumulative duty time can be calculated. Table 1 shows various work schedule features that research has shown are related to circadian disturbances and/or sleep deprivation in the 7 to 15 days prior to an incident or accident. High number of time zones crossed (4 to 12) associated with high layover duration (3 local nights or more) Two or more successive transmeridian rotations in opposite directions Successive early morning flights (more than 2) Short nights off (finishing late and starting early) The causes of pilot fatigue for both LRF and SRF are primarily related to sleep quality, sleep loss and the disruption of Circadian Rhythms. Pilots report that night flights and jet lag are the most important factors that generate fatigue in LRF. A common example involves two successive night flights from Paris to New York and back. This duty generally involves 48 hours with a short layover of about 22 hours. In this case, the sleep taken soon after arrival corresponds to a normal sleep period. The poor quality and quantity of this sleep, together with the long period of wakefulness before departure, increases fatigue during the nocturnal return flight. The quality of your sleep is as important as the quantity. If you are constantly disrupted while sleeping, then the quality of your sleep will be very low, and you will feel as if you only slept for a short period of time even if you slept for many hours. Disruptions can come from environmental causes or from sleep disorders. Common environmental disturbances include noises, lighting and temperature. Sleep disorders can include sleep apnoea, restless leg syndrome or any other disorder that causes you to wake up, even for only a brief period. With most