of these conditions, you may be unaware that you awakened, but you will feel the effects. Another cause of fatigue is alcohol consumption. It is ironic that many people use alcohol as a sleep aid to help them relax and fall asleep. In fact, alcohol can have a profound negative effect on the quality of sleep leading to a fragmentation of sleep and substantial loss of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. This fragmentation and loss of deep, restful periods of REM sleep can lead to increased fatigue even after many hours of sleeping. It is also important to understand that when you are sleep-deprived and consume alcohol, you will have even greater performance and alertness impairment than would be produced by just the loss of sleep alone. In SRF, multi-leg flights and early wake-ups are the main causes of fatigue. Most pilots are not able to compensate for early wake-ups by falling asleep earlier. Instead, they usually lose about one hour of sleep. In addition, time constraints, high numbers of legs per day and consecutive work days increase fatigue resulting from SRF operations. Disruption of circadian rhythms is another cause of fatigue. A circadian rhythm is a cycle in the physiological processes of living beings typically lasting approximately 24 hours. These processes include sleep, body temperature and digestion and are linked to the light-dark cycle of the earth. Traveling north/south and, particularly, east/west can wreak havoc on your natural circadian rhythm and may lead to increased fatigue and sleep problems. Fatigue can manifest itself both physically and psychologically. Table 2 shows some of the major manifestations of fatigue. General feeling of tiredness Reduction in vigilance Growing and irresistible need to sleep Nodding off/inadvertent napping Lethargy Slowed reaction time Lack of concentration Periods of inattention Slow understanding Tendency to forget information and actions Bad mood Poor decisions Apathetic Pilots often describe different manifestations of fatigue depending on whether they are talking about themselves or relating how fatigue affects other crew-members. When considering themselves, pilots cite the manifestations of fatigue caused by sleep deprivation as reductions in alertness and attention and a lack of concentration. However, when considering other cockpit crew-members, they frequently focus on mental manifestations such as increased response times and small mistakes, as well as a reduction in social communications and poor message reception. This reaction is not surprising as most people do not like to believe that their performance is degraded but will readily point out when the performance of others has declined. Attitudes towards interpersonal conflicts and situational awareness are the non-technical skills most affected by fatigue. When pilots are tired, they generally perform poorly when interpersonal conflicts arise. This poor performance is usually a result of an inability to remain focused on the problem or situation at hand. Often pilots will not listen actively to the ideas and opinions of others, admit mistakes or identify and resolve conflicts. Loss of situational awareness is related to a lack of vigilance and a reduction in active monitoring, scanning