The following section outlines some basic strategies and defenses you can use to manage or avoid fatigue. Following these simple steps can help you avoid costly mistakes due to the physical or mental manifestations of fatigue during both LRF and SRF. There are some basic yet very important strategies that you can use to improve your sleep and reduce the chance of fatigue causing you problems. Try to do each of these as part of your normal routine: Sleep and wake-up around the same times every day as much as possible. Get into a standard pre-sleep routine by doing the same things every night before you go to sleep. Do not work, worry or exercise immediately before trying to go to sleep. Use the bedroom only for sleep. Do not ingest alcohol or caffeine before trying to go to sleep. Do not eat or drink too much within several hours of going to bed. If you cannot go to sleep in less than 30 minutes, get out of bed.. Episodes of reduced alertness are often associated with LRF. Use the following preflight and in-flight recommendations for the outbound and return flights to decrease the number of episodes of reduced alertness during long-range flight: During each 24-hour period, try to get as much sleep as you normally would at home during a 24-hour period. Use good sleep and nap management before the rotation as a function of (i) the timing of the flight and (ii) the planned in-flight rest times (when they are known and can be planned in advance, e.g., when flying as part of an augmented crew). (i) the timing of the flight and (ii) the planned in-flight rest times (when they are known and can be planned in advance, e.g., when flying as part of an augmented crew) If you are about to start working, do not nap for more than 45 minutes as it may take you more time than you have available to recover from the nap and become fully awake and functional. For flights as part of an augmented crew, modulate rest time according to the time-frame of the flight. For example, plan a longer rest period or divide your rest into two or three periods spread out over the course of the flight if the flight schedule is unfavourable for sleep.. Do not eat at the same time as the other crew-members. Instead, alternate the timing of meals. Manage in-flight activities to reduce monotony in the cockpit and to optimize in-flight rest.. One good way to ensure that at least one pilot is not suffering from fatigue is to alternate activity and rest between the flight crew-members. This is best accomplished by alternating passive and active vigilance phases every 20 to 40 minutes with formal handovers at the end of each period. Active vigilance phases are characterized by verbal exchanges, tasks related to flight management and varied motor activities associated with mental tasks, e.g., navigation and system management. Do not eat during an active