The following section outlines some basic strategies and defenses you can use to manage or avoid fatigue. Following these simple steps can help you avoid costly mistakes due to the physical or mental manifestations of fatigue during both LRF and SRF. There are some basic yet very important strategies that you can use to improve your sleep and reduce the chance of fatigue causing you problems. Try to do each of these as part of your normal routine: Episodes of reduced alertness are often associated with LRF. Use the following preflight and in-flight recommendations for the outbound and return flights to decrease the number of episodes of reduced alertness during long-range flight: (i) the timing of the flight and (ii) the planned in-flight rest times (when they are known and can be planned in advance, e.g., when flying as part of an augmented crew) One good way to ensure that at least one pilot is not suffering from fatigue is to alternate activity and rest between the flight crew-members. This is best accomplished by alternating passive and active vigilance phases every 20 to 40 minutes with formal handovers at the end of each period. Active vigilance phases are characterized by verbal exchanges, tasks related to flight management and varied motor activities associated with mental tasks, e.g., navigation and system management. Do not eat during an active vigilance phase. Passive vigilance phases are characterized by a lower level of direct supervision of the flight. Meals or snacks can be eaten, but preferably at the start of these phases. Activities not related to the flight are encouraged during passive vigilance phases, e.g., reading papers. During the night, or if you are sleep-deprived, it is recommended that you make use of the passive vigilance phases to take a nap of 20 to 40 minutes. The alternation between active and passive vigilance phases is most appropriate during quiet cruise periods. Remember to announce the end of each active-passive vigilance phase to your fellow crew-member(s) so that they will be sure to know which phase they are expected to be in. Your fatigue level in short-haul operations is affected by a combination of flight schedule and the number of legs you fly in a day. On the whole, morning flights induce more fatigue than afternoon flights or alternating morning and afternoon duties. Adhering to the following rules regarding duty-roster scheduling and work organization can help avoid SRF fatigue problems: