and variable and was assessed to have had minimal effect on the controllability of the aircraft. Once the aircraft had come to a stop, it was reported that the interior of the aircraft was in almost complete darkness. The Purser reported that as the landing continued, she had realised that something was wrong and had shouted commands to the passengers to “bend over and get your heads down” three times. There was no PA from the flight deck and the evacuation was initiated by passengers, one of whom opened the R1 door and the slide inflated. Several other passengers followed him but L1 door was jammed shut by a Galley Unit. The Purser followed the passengers out of the R1 door and once outside used her flashlight to guide passengers to an assembly area at the front of the aircraft. It was not possible to do a headcount as the large group in the assembly area was a mixture of passengers and emergency services personnel and it was not possible to distinguish between them in the darkness. By this time she reported that “several vehicles had arrived on the scene” but as none of them were ambulances, a seriously injured passenger she had located was “placed in the back of a pick-up truck”. In the rear cabin, efforts to open the L2 door were unsuccessful and it was suspected that this was attributable to lack of crew familiarity with the opening of exits when an aircraft is in an unusual attitude rather than any jamming or malfunction of the door. It then took two people to open the R2 door which was eventually opened with difficulty and only “five to ten” passengers were able to use this exit before its slide deflated. One of the cabin crew then jumped to the ground and got a passenger to help hold the slide out like a chute and about another ten passengers were able to use this door. The over-wing emergency exits functioned properly and were used by a majority of the passengers. The flight crew stated that due to the unexpected nature of the occurrence, they had been in no position to “alert the cabin crew or passengers about the impending disaster (and) had no opportunity to carry out any emergency drills”. The First Officer reported that after the impact he had removed his harness and got out of his seat. He used his flashlight to illuminate the flight deck which was completely dark. The door into the passenger cabin was ajar but as with the two flight deck side windows, it was jammed and exit into the cabin was also obstructed by the forward toilet door which was jammed open. Eventually, the First Officer managed to crawl into the cabin and RFFS personnel arrived and helped get the injured Captain out of the flight deck. The Investigation identified and reviewed various elements in the circumstances in which the accident occurred. These included the following: Wet Runway Landings - It was