may have accounted for the excessive thrust maintained by the Captain when over the runway which contributed to the aircraft floating down the runway.. Absence of ‘Distance to go’ markers - The lighting and marking of the runway met ICAO standards but at the time of the accident there were no distance-to-go markings. Whilst these are not an ICAO requirement, it was considered that had they been present, situational awareness of the pilots as to their position in relation to the end of the runway might have been enhanced.. Airport Categorisation - It was noted that whilst Caribbean Airlines has established special categories of airports, Georgetown Guyana is not one of them as it is considered by the airline to be similar to and typical of many island approaches over water.. The Probable Cause of the accident was formally documented as having been that “the aircraft touched down approximately 4700 feet beyond the runway threshold, some 2700 feet from the end of the runway, as a result of the Captain maintaining excess power during the flare, and upon touching down, failure to utilise the aircraft’s full deceleration capability, resulted in the aircraft overrunning the remaining runway and fracturing the fuselage”. Three Contributory Factors relating to the performance of the flight crew were identified as follows: Indecision as to the execution of a go-around.. Failure to execute a go-around after the aircraft floated some distance down the. Runway. Diminished situational awareness.. A total of 23 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Caribbean Airlines should ensure that the need to confirm with and operate within Standard Operating Procedures is emphasised during training.. that Caribbean Airlines pilots must be trained in accordance with the landing techniques detailed in the Boeing Operations Manual.. that Caribbean Airlines must train its pilots on the appropriate use of maximum reverse thrust, spoilers and maximum manual braking.. that Caribbean Airlines must emphasise the importance of decision making during initial and recurrent pilot training.. that Caribbean Airlines CRM training must be reviewed to address the roles of the pilot flying and the pilot monitoring especially in relation to the call for “GO AROUND” when it is observed that an aircraft does not touchdown in the touchdown area. The Operations Manual Part A, clearly outlines when a “go around” call must be made and although not applicable to this accident, the Company should consider emphasising that either flight crew member can make the “go around” call and the response to this must be immediate.. that Caribbean Airlines should conduct an analysis with their pilots to determine the extent of their understanding of go-around from flare to touchdown and when a go-around is mandatory.. that Caribbean Airlines must reinforce training with regard to recommended flap setting for wet runways.. that Caribbean Airlines must develop procedures for flight crew to check charts for landings on wet runways.. that Caribbean Airlines must provide proactive training in TEM and Visual Illusions Awareness.. that Caribbean Airlines should review