found that the Operator had issued explicit guidance for wet runway landings and that in such circumstances, flaps 40° should be used when landing on runways less than an 8,000 feet (2,438 metre) LDA. It was also reported that pilot recurrent training included go-arounds from below minima (baulked landings). However, the accident Captain “could not recollect the existence of these wet runway procedures or receiving any training in a go round after touchdown” which was taken as an indication that there might have been deficiencies in his recurrent training.. CRM on the Flight Deck - Whilst CVR data were found to show during most of the flight there had been good coordination between the two pilots with the Captain carrying out his duties professionally and all briefings completed in accordance with applicable Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), a lack of CRM became apparent as the runway threshold was crossed. The data available were considered to suggest that a temporary loss of situational awareness had affected both pilots with neither being aware of the position of the aircraft in relation to the remaining runway. It was also concluded that there was doubt as to whether either pilot had appreciated that the aircraft was floating as a result of the almost 60% N1 thrust setting maintained over the runway by the Captain. There was certainly “no indication from the CVR that the First Officer initiated any action that would have helped to alleviate the accident results”. It was particularly noted that the decision not to go around when the call had already been made and acknowledged was contrary to the Operator’s Operations Manual Part A which explicitly rules out changing one’s mind after declaring a go-around.. Absence of a RESA - Runway 06 at Georgetown has no RESA yet a RESA is a Standard required by ICAO Annex 14 and it was considered that the availability of one may have reduced the severity of the accident.. Limited lighting for approach and landing - Runway 06 at Georgetown has no approach lights, centreline lighting, or REILs and nothing from the fight crew interviews indicated that either pilot had perceived any difficulty with runway lighting or locating the runway. However, it was considered that this lack of lighting combined with the need to transition from an approach over dark jungle terrain to a lighted area may have been conducive to black hole illusion. Depth perception could have also have been affected by the slope of the runway and the fact that it was wet and would have been reflecting light.. PAPI beam below with instrument approach vertical profile - Although runway 06 is equipped with PAPIs, their beam projection was found to be 2.39º which did not coincide with the 3° vertical profile defined for the RNAV (GPS) procedure flown by the accident aircraft. It was considered that this shallow approach slope could have exacerbated the previously-identified risk of visual illusion due to the lack of approach lighting and the wet runway. In turn, this