the guidance provided by ICAO in Annex 6 to the ICAO Convention on Fatigue Risk Management Systems.. that Caribbean Airlines training for flight crew in the use of the (flight deck door) blow out panels to facilitate quick escape must be developed.. that Caribbean Airlines should review cabin crew training to ensure awareness of the correct procedures for use of emergency exits when aircraft are in an unusual attitude.. that Caribbean Airlines should consider placement of additional information on the (Passenger) Safety Briefing Card to include directions for the safest and easiest way to get off the aircraft wings and what to do after getting out of the aircraft. This should include a warning not to touch the engines cowlings in order to avoid burns.. that the Trinidad and Tobago CAA should carry out a full review of the Caribbean Airlines flight crew training program to ensure that it is in keeping with the Boeing program. Emphasis must be put on decision making, situational awareness and CRM and the Company will also benefit by placing greater emphasis on TEM.. that the Trinidad and Tobago CAA must, when reviewing Caribbean Airlines flight crew training programmes, ensure that the required flight and ground training is carried out and is properly documented.. that the Trinidad and Tobago CAA should review Caribbean Airlines cabin crew training to ensure it is in keeping with requirements of the Training Manual.. that the Trinidad and Tobago CAA should undertake a general review of Caribbean Airlines record keeping to ensure that documents are properly completed including sign off and dating.. that the Operator of Georgetown Airport should include the development of a RESA in accordance with ICAO Annex 14 in the planned extension of the runway and the installation of an Engineered Materials Arresting System (EMAS) should be considered.. that the Operator of Georgetown Airport should ensure that Approach, Touchdown Zone and Centreline lighting should be included as part of the runway extension plans.. that the Operator of Georgetown Airport should provide an easily identifiable area that is (available in the event of an aircraft accident or incident) to provide comfort to passengers who may be in distress and their relatives.. that the Operator of Georgetown Airport should arrange for an engineering assessment of the runway slope and provide notification for publication of same in the Guyana AIP.. that the Operator of Georgetown Airport must carry out an investigation to determine why there was no reaction (to the accident) from the Airport Security Service and implement training exercises to familiarise the service with its responsibility in keeping with the Airport Emergency Manual.. that the Guyana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) should consider the need for a Meteorological Officer to be stationed at a strategic location on the airport to provide local weather information.. Safety Action taken by the Georgetown Airport Operator prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included an adjustment to the PAPI beam projection on runway 06 to match the vertical profile of