An Investigation was carried out by the Guyana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) with technical assistance from the NTSB. Data relevant to the Investigation was obtained from both the FDR and CVR fitted to the aircraft. It was noted that the 52 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated a total of 16,600 flying hours of which 5,000 hours were on type. He had previously flown the MD83 and had been a pilot with BWI Airlines and its successor Caribbean Airlines for 25 years. The 23 year-old First Officer had 1,400 total flying hours of which 350 hours were on type. He had been with Caribbean Airlines for three years and had previously flown as a First Officer on the DHC8. It was established that the flight had begun in New York and had made a transit stop at Port of Spain, Trinidad where a complete crew change also occurred prior to departing on the one hour flight to Georgetown. FDR data indicated that the flight had been routine apart from a deviation around a thunderstorm cell as the aircraft began descent and positioning for an approach to runway 06 to which a clearance for an RNAV(GPS) approach was given. With about 5 nm to go to touchdown, flap 30 was selected and during the stabilised approach, the AP was disconnected when passing around 1,000 feet. After a further 45 seconds, the aircraft crossed the runway threshold at speed close to the applicable Vref of 149 KIAS. However, it then floated with excess thrust maintained and main gear touchdown on the wet surface did not occur until the aircraft was approximately 1,430 metres along the 2,270 metre-long runway. A few seconds before touchdown occurred, the CVR recorded the Captain calling a go-around and the First Officer acknowledging it but when, three seconds after main gear touchdown, the First Officer called “Max?”, the Captain quickly responded that he “had it” and thrust was not required. The First Officer was then recorded immediately calling autobrake disarmed and manual braking as automatic spoiler deployment followed. Thrust reversers were selected without delay but with just 610 metres to go until the end of the runway and only to a position between idle and detent 2. Manual brake pressure was only slowly increased and did not reach the maximum achievable pressure of 3000 psi until there was only 75 metres to go until the end of the runway. The prolonged float and delayed touchdown were attributed to the maintenance of excessive thrust when over the first quarter of the runway. As it continued down the runway, the aircraft began to slowly but progressively deviate left of the centreline. It subsequently departed the end of the runway, descended down a 20 foot high slope and broke through the chain link perimeter fence before it crossed a dirt track and came to a stop some 40 metres beyond the end of the runway. At the time of the landing, the wind was light