the achieved vertical flight path whereas “the tasks of the PF include monitoring the lateral and vertical navigation and should therefore not be left entirely to the PM”.. At no time during the approach was the current ground speed which is continuously available on both pilot NDs, considered.. The response to the EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning was contrary to the requirements of the company OM for a “maximum performance climb” to be made.. According to the company OM, a monitored approach would have been possible. Use of this option might have increased the Captain’s mental capacity and thereby made it easier to effectively monitor the approach.. The investigated event has shown that the four year attempt by the training department to correct the First Officer’s identified performance shortcomings through supporting measures “had not been successful”.. As a result of late changes to his roster, the Captain ended up with a day off in Prague prior to the day of the investigated event whereas he had been previously rostered for the same day off in Berlin and had arranged a private appointment there on that day. He had therefore decided to fly to Berlin and back in order to keep the appointment and had not got back to his hotel until late that evening. This had reduced his sleep to “barely more than 5 hours (which had) possibly led to a dip in performance due to tiredness” on the following day.. The Direct Cause of the Serious Incident was formally documented as “the crew’s poor monitoring of the vertical flight path, which led to the aircraft’s descent below the stipulated minimum altitude for a non-precision approach so that a safe clearance above obstacles was no longer guaranteed”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as: Deficient approach planning with regards to the vertical flight path.. Reduced performance of the pilot flying, probably due to tiredness.. The absence on the approach chart of a distance/altitude table which impeded the monitoring of the approach and systematically contributed to the serious incident.. . A Risk Factor was identified as “the procedure following an EGPWS Warning was not consistently applied”. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator and known to the Investigation included but was not limited to the introduction of an additional challenge and response call to the SOP which already covered stabilised instrument approaches at 1000 feet aal, the PF call being “ONE THOUSAND” and the available PM responses either “ON PROFILE” or “GO AROUND”. The requirements for the “ON PROFILE” response included that the vertical position of the aircraft was to be within +/-1 dot for all precision approaches or within +/-100 feet of the defined steps for all non-precision approaches. This new 1000 feet call did not apply to Visual or Circling approaches. The Final Report was approved by the STSB on 13 November 2018 and published on 31 December 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.