The event was only reported to the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB) as State of the Operator when its seriousness became apparent after the flight had been routinely processed through the operator’s OFDM scheme. The STSB then advised the Danish AIB who in turn delegated the conduct of the Investigation to Switzerland and the STSB Investigation was opened on 21 December 2015. Relevant data from both the CVR and FDR had been overwritten but QAR data equivalent to that on the FDR was available. It was noted that the Captain, an Italian citizen born 1971, had a total of 8,022 hours flying experience which included 170 hours on type and the First Officer, an Austrian citizen born 1977, had a total of 12,100 hours flying experience which included 1,180 hours on type. The Captain had begun his 5 sector day in Prague at 0535L that morning and had operated a return flight to Berlin followed by a second Prague-Berlin flight. He had then been paired with a new First Officer for the Berlin-Billund return flight. It was noted that both pilots had held various flight operations posts at the airline although it was not clarified whether either of them held such a post at the time of the investigated event. It was also noted that the First Officer had previously been employed as Captain, but since 2010 had “had a history of shortcomings in the areas of systematics, communication and compliance with SOPs (which) the training department tried to correct through discussions and additional training”. However, after a line check in 2013, it had been decided he should only operate as a First Officer and this was still the case at the time of the investigated event. It was established that the flight had been cleared for an ILS approach to runway 27 at Billund and was descending to 2000 feet QNH on a radar heading of 290° to intercept the LLZ. At 9.4 nm from touchdown, the aircraft was established on the LLZ with the AP engaged. Although it initially indicated on the GS at 8.5 nm, the indication then began to fluctuate between full scale fly up and on the glideslope. The aircraft began to climb at 1900 fpm and the AP was disconnected but when it was re-engaged again less than a minute later, the fluctuations started again and continued so the AP was again switched off. The problem was reported to ATC who asked if they wanted to abandon the approach to which the response was that they would continue “up to the LOM” and ATC subsequently gave a landing clearance. ATC advised that as far as they were aware the ILS signals were being transmitted normally and when the crew responded confirming continued significant GS fluctuations, ATC responded by advising that the current cloud base was 600 feet agl. It was noted that the LOM (outer marker) position shown on the Jeppesen ILS chart in use at 3.4 nm from the landing threshold was