1374 feet QNH. The attempted ILS approach without a useable display of the ILS GS signal continued past this and the descent continued below this height well before reaching it. Finally, still in IMC, the approach was discontinued with ½ nm still to go until reaching the LOM position with the lowest point reached being recorded as 663 feet aal. The crew advised ATC accordingly saying that they would be following the prescribed missed approach procedure (stop altitude 2000 feet). In fact, the aircraft continued climbing to 2600 feet QNH before subsequently descending back to 2000 feet. This led to a rapid speed increase and resulted in the limiting speeds for gear operation and flight with land flap set being exceeded by 5 knots and 4 knots respectively. It was decided to make a second approach using the LLZ only procedure for which a short briefing was conducted. This included the Captain saying that, in accordance with the table on the approach chart, an average rate of descent of 750 fpm was to be expected for a ground speed of 140 knots. Passing 10 nm and level at 3000 feet QNH, the aircraft was fully configured for the approach with the AP engaged and the crew decided to initiate the descent 1 nm before the point of descent shown on the procedure chart. At 9.4 nm, the VS mode was selected and (contrary to the 750 fpm rate of descent briefed earlier) an 800 fpm rate was selected. Only at this point did the Captain notice that the approach plate did not have an altitude descent table and only gave two altitudes, that for the LOM and that for the MDA (550 feet). He therefore asked the First Officer “to keep an eye on the vertical profile” so that he could concentrate on monitoring the autopilot. During the descent, the PM reported having tried to “calculate the reference altitude for the correct glide path for a specified distance” but had been unable to do this because there was no DME information on the approach chart. He did not tell the Captain this or that as a result he was not monitoring the vertical flight profile, whereas the PF assumed that he was “and was therefore not doing it himself”. The aircraft continued to descend below the prescribed vertical profile at an increasing rate and at 5.5 nm from the runway and therefore still with just over 2nm to go until reaching the LOM, where “not below 1300 feet” was a requirement of the procedure, the aircraft was already at 1240 feet QNH and the radio altimeter-sourced auto callout of “one thousand” sounded. This did not alert either pilot to the situation and the next radio altimeter sourced auto call “five hundred” sounded 31 seconds later. Seven seconds after this, an EGPWS ‘TERRAIN AHEAD PULL UP’ warning was activated and the Captain, subsequently stating that he “had been about to initiate a go around anyway” responded by doing just that instead