of immediately beginning the mandatory maximum rate climb required in response to any ‘PULL UP’ Warning. The lowest recorded height over the ground in IMC was 346 feet agl (see the illustration below). Overall, FDR data showed that the discontinued LLZ-only approach had been conducted at an almost constant vertical speed of 771 fpm and at a 4.2° angle of approach whilst maintaining approximately 140 KIAS and achieving an average ground speed of 103 knots. The crew decided to return to Berlin where they knew that a visual approach would be possible and this was achieved without further event and with no inaccurate indications during the ILS approach flown. On completion of the flight, they reported to their company that “they had to execute a go-around during the approach to Billund Airport due to receiving a false warning from the EGPWS” which was not interpreted as a potential Serious Incident requiring reporting action. The Investigation was unable to find any evidence to corroborate the occurrence of or technically explain the reported extreme and persistent fluctuations in the display of the ILS GS signal on the aircraft flight deck. In particular, after the flight back to Berlin had been completed, no error messages were found on the Maintenance Diagnostic Computer (MDC) or the aircraft status display. Also, no faults were otherwise reported with the Billund ILS signal transmissions - which during the discontinued ILS approach had already led the crew to say they suspected an aircraft rather than an ILS signal transmission fault. It was also observed that “a faulty glideslope indicator generally has no influence on a localiser approach and is thus of no significance to the course of this serious incident”. In relation to the crucial failure of the crew to notice or otherwise comply with the Jeppesen chart minimum altitude for crossing the LOM on a LLZ-only approach which, in the complete absence of any vertical flight path monitoring by either pilot, had led directly to the subsequent EGPWS warning, the Investigation noted that contrary to some other such charts, there was no table of recommended altitudes at given distances to go. The only information provided was a table showing the appropriate vertical speed for a given ground speed plus the corresponding time from the LOM to the MAP. However, had this limited information table been used correctly by the crew, who were aware of the significant headwind component for their approach, they would have been led to select a rate of descent nearer to 550 fpm than the 800 fpm they eventually used - and would have then expected another half minute or so until reaching the MAP after crossing the LOM. In a review of the “human and operational aspects” of the event, the observations made included: During both approaches, the stabilised approach criteria for 1000 feet aal were not met and the mandatory go around specified in the operator’s OM was ignored.. During the second approach, the PF relied completely on the PM to monitor