A Serious Incident Investigation was commenced by the Dutch Safety Board the same day. Relevant data was recovered from the 2 hour CVR of the 747 but that from the 787 was overwritten after it was not secured after collision contrary to the operators own procedures. A Boeing 787-9 departing in service from Gate F8 (see the illustrations below) was instructed to make a long pushback onto taxiway A16 so that an arriving aircraft could taxi onto it and since tug drivers have no direct communication with ATC, this instruction was passed to the tug as received. The result was that the aircraft was positioned approximately 20 metres beyond the pushback limit line on taxiway A16. The Boeing 747-400 was then cleared to push back from Gate E7 which required it to be pushed back onto taxiway A14. Since the GND controller realised that this pushback may bring the aircraft close to the 787 under the prevailing airport procedures, but had no means of communicating directly with tug driver moving aircraft, he transmitted a cautionary message to the 747 crew. However this message was partially blocked and when, as a consequence, no readback was received, the GND controller took no further action. Since the 747 crew had not received the message, they could not pass it on to the tug driver. The tug driver was therefore unaware that the 787 had been given a non standard pushback and although he was unable to determine if clearance might be compromised either before beginning the pushback or during it, he had no reason to expect otherwise. Gates in the area where the collision occurred (* indicates additional instructions apply). Standard pushback directions are blue-right & orange-left. F8/E7/A14/A16 are circled in red. The position of both aircraft following the collision (the pushback limit for the 787 is at the junction of taxiway centrelines ahead of the aircraft). [Reproduced from the Official Report] The “long pushback procedure” used at Amsterdam was not “an assessed and aligned procedure between the parties involved” and as result of its use, 787 separation margins were no longer assured. The reason for deviation from a standard pushback procedure was to allow an arriving aircraft to reach its gate without delay. It was observed that air traffic controllers’ deviating from standard procedures is (in general) a not uncommon practice and noted that this was also one of the findings of a more general report on air traffic safety at Amsterdam published in 2017. This concluded that although controllers’ “need some professional space to deviate from standard procedures” such deviation “can also lead to additional complexity without overseeing all consequences”. In this case, the GND controller’s clearance for the B787 to carry out a “long pushback” did not specify a specific position or point of reference, which left the positioning of the aircraft to the pushback truck driver. In accordance with procedures for the use of towbarless tugs such as the one involved, their operation did not require the involvement of