any personnel other than the tug driver. It was noted that although the Aircraft Handling Manual stated that additional ground staff may, on the request of the tug driver, be present as wing walkers or lookouts “to safeguard the rear movement of the aircraft and to ensure safe clearance to prevent collision”, the tug drivers involved “indicated that in practice this option is seldom used”. It was noted that whilst tug drivers were required to keep a listening watch on the relevant Apron Control radio frequency, they did not have access to the GND frequency on which all pushback clearances were issued. It was determined that the 787 pushback had been “a deviation from standard procedures” and that whilst such deviation was “not an uncommon practice for controllers at Amsterdam”, it could often lead to “increased complexity and consequent risk”. The GND controller realised that the intended long pushback may not result in sufficient clearance from the stationary 787 for it to be safely completed but their mitigation action of issuing a cautionary instruction to the 747 pilots was ineffective because it was not received and acknowledged by the crew and therefore not communicated to the tug driver carrying out the push back. It was noted that an ad hoc review of the event by representatives of KLM, the ANSP, the Airport Operator and the Dutch Airline Pilots Association in the context of the “Integrated Safety Management System” in place at the Airport had taken place. On its conclusion some nine months after the accident, this review had identified safety issues which it considered it had illustrated including the following: The clearance of a ‘long pushback’ is not an assessed and aligned procedure within and between the organisations involved;. There is no structured approach in the training of ground controllers for a non-standard pushback clearance;. The GND controller did not challenge the missing readback from the 747 crew;. The delegation of the assessment of safe separation on the apron by ATC GND Control to a pushback tug driver.. The main Conclusions of the Investigation were documented as follows: The assessment of the taxiway behind the aircraft and the issuance of conflict-free pushback clearances is the responsibility of Ground Control and cannot be delegated to a pushback truck driver. The use of standard pushback procedures with known obstacle clearances and separation margins is the main barrier to ensure sufficient separation in pushback operations. It is therefore essential that in case of deviations from the standard procedure, the risks are recognized and acted upon. Where choices can be made, safety should have priority over efficiency. This may imply that temporary traffic restrictions apply. Following the accident, the Air Traffic Control procedures have been amended to clarify the responsibilities of Ground Control and to include a specific position or reference for non-standard pushback clearances. Although this provides more clarity for both ground controller and pushback truck driver, the working practice of long pushback procedures whereby separation margins are not guaranteed, is still being