and monitoring measures in place which would have immediately revealed any deviation from the required quality of work. Ju-Air, in contrast lacked the means and tools to detect these safety issues. It can be concluded that pilots with a long history of safety-conscious environments can become undisciplined if effective management and monitoring measures are not in place. Improving the safety management system. There were numerous quality issues in respect of the maintenance of the aircraft operated by Ju-Air. Likewise, several examples proved that reports concerning safety-related incidents were not forwarded or processed in a manner that improved safety. This prevented or at least substantially reduced what could have been learnt from such incidents. Although Ju-Air had a formal safety management system in place, it was ineffective to a large extent. Performing incident and risk assessments. Ju-Air never analysed significant risks encountered during flight operations. As a result, operations regularly took place in such a way that a minor malfunction could have caused an accident. The accident under investigation is typical of this, not least because a frequently applied, high-risk procedure coupled with a natural, everyday framework condition had a fatal effect. Improving training for critical flight conditions. Ju-Air’s pilots had no experience of how the Ju-52 behaved in critical flight conditions with a normal passenger load. The Investigation formally determined that the Direct Cause of the Accident was “the fact that after losing control of the aircraft there was insufficient space to regain control, thus the aircraft collided with the terrain”. Two Direct Causal Factors leading to the accident were also identified as: The pilots operated the aircraft in a very high-risk manner by navigating it into a narrow valley at low altitude and with no possibility of an alternative flight path.. The pilots chose a dangerously low airspeed in regards to the flight path.. It was concluded that both these factors meant that the turbulence which was to be expected in such circumstances was able to lead not only to a short-term stall with loss of control but also to an irretrievable situation. Two Direct Contributory Factors were identified as: The pilots were accustomed to not complying with recognised rules for safe flight operations and taking high risks.. The aircraft involved in the accident was operated with a centre of gravity position that was beyond the rear limit. This situation facilitated the loss of control.. The Systemic Cause of the Accident was determined as: “The requirements for operating the aircraft in commercial air transport operations with regard to the legal basis applicable at the time of the accident were not met”. Five Systemic Contributory Factors were identified as: Due to Ju-Air’s inadequate working equipment, it was not possible to calculate the accurate mass and centre of gravity of its Ju-52 aircraft.. In particular, the Ju-Air pilots who were trained as Air Force pilots seemed to be accustomed to systematically failing to comply with generally recognised aviation rules and to taking high risks when flying the Ju-52 aircraft.. Ju-Air failed