incidents were also not detected by Ju-Air or the FOCA and, where they had been detected, were not addressed in a manner that enhanced safety. Improving the organisation of supervisory activities. Audits and inspections performed by the FOCA were not capable of providing a realistic overview of the actual operations or actual processes conducted by Ju-Air and in the maintenance companies. Supervision was largely formal and ineffective, particularly as there was a lack of a critical attitude within the FOCA and because the exchange of information between the technical inspectors was inadequate. Improving the level of expertise of the supervisory authority. The staff of the FOCA were often unable to identify the safety-related problems during audits and inspections of Ju-Air and its maintenance organisations. With regard to the supervision of technical aspects, a lack of technical and methodological expertise in such historic aircraft played a major role in this. This led to a certain dependence on the know-how of the staff employed by the maintenance organisations under supervision. With regard to supervision in the field of operations, the inspectors no doubt had the expertise, but acted in a way which was insufficiently critical towards Ju-Air’s pilots. As a result, the activities of these companies were not effectively supervised. Determining performance data for overhauled aircraft. Certain aspects of the accident aircraft’s performance and operating data were no longer accurate or were missing. It was, for example, no longer possible to achieve the documented performance for cruise flight, there was a lack of information on manoeuvring speed, and the performance after an engine failure was insufficiently documented. Reviewing and improving maintenance procedures. Several shortcomings were identified during examination of maintenance work on the Ju-Air JU-52s. This included in particular the documentation for performing major modifications and the management of spare parts. Such deficiencies represent a risk. Retraining flight crews. Ju-Air’s pilots exhibited a tendency towards systemic reckless violation of generally recognised aviation rules. Furthermore, their pilots were found to have insufficient up-to-date knowledge of basic flying principles such as the structure of airspace, flight preparations, calculation of the mass and centre of gravity and knowledge of aviation regulations. Improving crew resource management. Even with extensive experience, Ju-Air pilots frequently made basic errors such as airspace violations. Despite the fact that the aircraft were often flown by two experienced pilots of Captain rank, these mistakes were not avoided. Performance reviews were occasionally accepted without critical rigour and obvious mistakes were not identified or addressed with regard to corrective action to be taken. Such behaviour is evidence of considerable deficits in collaboration, especially among experienced pilots of equal rank. Improvement of management measures in flight operations. Pilots at the aircraft operator were often irresponsible in the way they dealt with the freedoms provided by the general operational framework conditions. Even experienced pilots who had worked at large airlines for long periods demonstrated this risky form of behaviour and violated basic safety rules. The companies for which they had previously worked all had effective management