focus of the FOCA inspections was the formal existence of the procedures specified in the OM” rather than any effective attempt to assess the actual implementation of these procedures. Based on the evidence gathered, it was considered that the FOCA had “acted as if they were unaware of the, at times, serious violations committed by Ju-Air’s flight crews, despite the fact that occasional reports to the FOCA would have given cause for more in-depth investigations”. The consequence of this had been that the FOCA had “not had a true picture of Ju-Air’s operations". It was also noted that “audits of FOCA carried out by the EASA in the years prior to the accident had revealed some of these shortcomings” including “insufficiently in-depth supervisory activities”. A comprehensive assessment of the available evidence in respect of the accident flight and its wider organisational context resulted in the formal documentation of a total of 14 Safety Deficits. These were as follows and are not listed in any order of significance in relation to the cause of the accident: Inspecting corrosion damage and defects in system components. Considerable corrosion damage was found on the spars, hinges, wing fittings and in the area of the cabin floor panel on the wreckage of the accident aircraft. Two of the three engines were equipped with remanufactured cam discs which exhibited defects. Due to the two other Ju-52 aircraft in Ju-Air’s fleet having the same year of manufacture, type of operation and operating hours, it must be expected that they have similar defects. Laying the foundations for effective, risk-based supervision. Implementation of legal requirements by both the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) and Ju-Air for operations with historic aircraft was primarily formal in nature. Many of the processes described in the manuals represented the operational requirements to a limited extent only. In particular, only partial provisions had been made for the relevant risks of VFR operations involving Annex II aircraft, as specified in European Regulation 216/2008 (equivalent to today’s Annex I aircraft, as specified in European Regulation 2018/1139). Overall, the regulation proved to be complex and not well adapted to the actual needs of flight operations. Regardless of the organisational form, the level of safety required for air operations involving passengers should be guaranteed. Issuing exemptions. At the time it was commissioned for use in civil aviation, the accident aircraft was categorised in accordance with legal requirements which had changed over time. As a result, the type classification was no longer correct at the time of the accident. Based on the original classification of the type, various requirements for approval were declared inapplicable by way of exemption. These decisions were not reviewed even in the case of major legislative amendments. Monitoring the operation of historic aircraft. On numerous occasions, Ju-Air’s pilots violated rules and took high risks during the operation of historic aircraft. This high-risk behaviour was not detected by Ju-Air or the FOCA due to a lack of effective management, monitoring and oversight. Numerous other safety-related