Robin DR400 so he arranged for his trainee to position the Robin to Locarno alone so that it could be used to fly both Ju-52 pilots back to the airfield at Lommis where the Robin was based, which was about half an hour’s drive from Dübendorf. On the morning of the following day, the Captain who would be acting as PM on the accident flight made three Ju-Air sightseeing flights in command from Dübendorf in another of the company’s Ju-52 aircraft. On all three of these flights, it was found that the aircraft had been flown significantly below 1,000 feet agl in mountainous areas on several occasions and that “the flight crew had disregarded essential principles for safe mountain flying”. In the early afternoon, the accident flight PF flew from Lommis to Dübendorf in the Robin with his trainee where they collected the accident flight PM and flew to Locarno, arriving with plenty of time to prepare for the northbound return flight. The flight departed from Locarno on time with an estimated 3 hours fuel endurance for the planned 1 hour 15 minute flight and, on the basis of excellent visibility and no significant low cloud, a low level scenic route back to Dübendorf was commenced. The illustration below shows the routes of both the previous day’s southbound flight and the northbound accident flight. Following a westerly takeoff, the aircraft turned left over Lake Maggiore and flew east over Bellinzona before turning onto a generally northerly track. In general, the aircraft proceeded at altitudes below those of the surrounding terrain, which was a routine feature of Ju-Air VFR flights in clear conditions. Contrary to regulations, it subsequently flew over a designated “countryside preservation quiet zone” at a heights of between 400 feet agl and 1,000 feet agl doing so “at times with a minimal lateral separation from terrain”. The southbound and northbound routes taken by the accident aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] After crossing the Alps Nadels, the flight continued through the Surselva region at an altitude of approximately 8,200 feet amsl before making a “relatively tight” left turn over Ilanz to resume a generally northerly track past the Crap Sogn Gion mountain and towards the basin southwest of Piz Segnas and the adjacent Segnespass (see the illustration below). Initially, the aircraft approached this basin on the left-hand (western) side of the valley whilst climbing to an altitude of 9,300 feet amsl. The pilots’ intention was to fly over the Segnespass with a similar limited vertical terrain clearance - 100 feet agl - to that used by the same two pilots when previously making a similar flight. The final stages of the accident flight path based on radar (blue) and other (red) data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The next two Illustrations show respectively the photogrammetrically reconstructed flight path and the ground track of the aircraft as it approached and entered the basin southwest of the Piz Segnas at position F5, where its altitude was approximately 9000 feet amsl,