just above the 8,625 feet amsl height of the Segnespass. It then climbed slightly as it flew past the Tschingelhörner mountain peaks on the west side of the basin, when (position F8) engine power was slightly reduced, the aircraft descended just over 250 feet at a rate incompatible with the power reduction alone whilst making a slight right turn so as to pass abeam the Martinsloch. A photogrammetrically reconstructed flight attitude at sample positions (the aircraft shown twice its actual size to make it easier to see) [Reproduced from the Official Report] The ground track as the flight approached and entered and the basin. [Reproduced from the Official Report] This manoeuvre afforded passengers a view of this unusual hole through the mountain. During this right turn, the angle of attack increased to approximately 15° and then further to 21° as the aircraft began a left turn (between positions F9 and F10) to begin aligning with the intended track across the Segnespass. At this point, the aircraft was flying approximately 410 feet above the elevation of the Segnespass. The view below was taken from the passenger cabin as the aircraft passed position F10 and shows the Martinsloch (red arrow). A still from a passenger video with the aircraft pitching up 11° but with a 20.6° angle of attack. (Reproduced from the Official Report) Immediately after the picture above taken at position F10, the aircraft entered a 1200 fpm descent lasting 4 seconds. After position F13, where the left bank had already reached 32.7°, it continued to increase steadily and did not decrease even in response to a significant aileron deflection to the right. The pitch attitude, already negative, continued towards a vertically down trajectory and, approximately a minute after entering the basin, terrain impact occurred at a speed estimated at 108 knots and the aircraft was destroyed and all occupants fatally injured. The evidence assembled on flight path and on aircraft control from its maximum altitude of 9,300 feet amsl as it tracked towards the basin southwest of the Piz Segnas intending to exit overhead the Segnespass (8,623 feet amsl) at its head was analysed. It was noted that approaching the basin at a true airspeed of approximately 97 knots represented an approximate 44% margin above the stalling speed. However, given that some ‘normal’ terrain-induced turbulence had already occurred earlier in the flight and it would be necessary to make a left turn in order to cross the pass, the higher stalling speed in the turn meant that the stall speed margin was inadequate. It was also noted that the lateral and vertical terrain clearances which were both minimal were likely to increase the chances of unfavourable windshear consequences for what was an underpowered aircraft for such low level mountain flying despite the absence of previous Ju-Air accidents due to flight in these circumstances. Taken together, these two factors were assessed as “representing a risky starting point for the continuation of the flight (which) did not then improve”. As the aircraft