An extremely comprehensive Investigation into the Accident was carried out by Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). In the absence of any flight recorders installed in the accident aircraft, establishing the aircraft flight path relied on the assembly and integrated use of eyewitness reports, photographic and video footage shot by both observers on ground and passengers within the aircraft. This information, in conjunction with GPS and radar position data was used to reconstruct the flight paths of both the accident flight and the one preceding it. In order to determine the positions of the aircraft in space, its attitude relative to the terrain and its speed relative to the ground, “complex photogrammetric evaluations were carried out” especially in respect of the few minutes of flight which culminated in loss of control. To enable this, the valley southwest of the accident site was surveyed using a 3D laser scanner and the resulting measurements incorporated into the 3D terrain model held by the Swiss Federal Office of Topography. A laser scan of one of the other Ju-Air Ju-52s was also taken and the available models were used, in conjunction with the processing of captured image data, to determine the position and attitude of the accident aircraft around the time control was lost. The acoustic signals from available video sources were also input to spectral analysis in order to produce sonograms representative of the rotational speeds of larger moving parts such as the propellers, pistons, gears and crankshafts. The frequencies and the individual rotational speeds of particular components and the sound signatures were examined to identify any abnormal noise that could be suggestive of a technical defect. This data source was also used to compare reference data containing the characteristic sound signatures of Ju-Air’s Ju 52 aircraft with recordings made during the accident flight both within the aircraft and from the ground with correction for the Doppler effect. It was “generally possible to identify each engine’s crankshaft rate, the blade rate of the propellers, and cylinder rate for all of their nine cylinders”. Since the aircraft had directly-driven fixed-pitch propellers, it was then possible to find the speed of each propeller and its corresponding engine at the known times of the relevant video recordings. A detailed review of the low level wind velocity which was likely to have existed in the area where control was eventually lost was also carried out in order to help establish how and why the loss of control had occurred and whether a recovery from it had been theoretically possible in the prevailing circumstances. Generally, it was established that the weather conditions within the Locarno-Dübendorf ‘corridor’ on the afternoon in question has been good provided that appropriate attention was paid to the ever present weather-related risks which low level mountain flying in the Swiss Alps could create. Although numerous irregularities relating to the airworthiness of the aircraft including its engines were found, it was determined that whilst these had represented risks to safe operations generally, they had not