to identify or prevent both the deficits and risks which occurred during operations and the frequent violation of rules by its flight crews.. Numerous incidents, including several serious incidents, were not reported to the competent bodies and authorities. This meant that they were unable to take measures to improve safety.. The FOCA failed to some extent to identify the numerous operational shortcomings and risks or to take effective corrective action.. Seven Other Risk Factors which “had no or no demonstrable effect on the occurrence of the accident, but which should nevertheless be eliminated in order to improve aviation safety” were also identified: The accident aircraft was in a poor technical condition.. The accident aircraft was no longer able to achieve the originally demonstrated flight performance.. The maintenance of Ju-Air’s aircraft was not organised in a manner that was conducive to the objective.. The training of Ju-Air pilots with regard to the specific requirements for flight operations and crew resource management was inadequate.. Ju-Air pilots had not been familiarised with all critical situations regarding the behaviour of the aircraft type in the event of a stall.. The FOCA failed to identify numerous technical shortcomings or to take corrective action.. The expertise of the individuals employed by Ju-Air, its maintenance providers and the FOCA was, in parts, insufficient.. Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation was noted as having included, but not been limited to, the following: Twelve days after the accident, the FOCA issued a number of requirements to the aircraft operator involved: it must equip its aircraft with a logger in order to monitor and evaluate its flight operations. except for during take-off and landing, flight must be made not below 1,000 feet agl above uninhabited areas and 2,000 feet agl above inhabited areas. all passengers must remain in their seats with their seat belts fastened throughout the entire flight. all flight and cabin crew must be given a refresher course on standard operating procedures and crew resource management.. it must equip its aircraft with a logger in order to monitor and evaluate its flight operations.. except for during take-off and landing, flight must be made not below 1,000 feet agl above uninhabited areas and 2,000 feet agl above inhabited areas.. all passengers must remain in their seats with their seat belts fastened throughout the entire flight.. all flight and cabin crew must be given a refresher course on standard operating procedures and crew resource management.. On 16 November 2018, the FOCA withdrew the C of A for the aircraft operator’s remaining two Ju-52 aircraft.. On 11 April 2019, the aircraft engine maintenance privileges of the organisation responsible for the Ju-Air Ju-52 fleet were withdrawn after an unsatisfactory audit.. On 15 October 2019, after Ju-Air continued to carry out aircraft maintenance following the suspension of its authorisation to do so as a result of a series of unsatisfactory audits during the first quarter of 2019, the FOCA imposed a fine.. On 24 June 2020, Ju-Air voluntarily returned its