was passing the Martinsloch, the initially encountered headwind component “steadily eased”. In this situation, it was concluded that “despite the relatively high density altitude and the poor condition of the engines”, there was still a limited reserve of power when the wind velocity began to change. However, because of the restrictive lateral and vertical terrain clearance accepted by the pilots for this part of the flight any wind-velocity or other difficulties affecting flight path control would mean that there was no alternative other than continuing to proceed over the Segnespass. It was observed that “one of the basic principles of flying in mountainous areas (is) that there must always be the option of an alternative flight path or to turn back”. It therefore followed that “the flight crew’s decision to dispense with these safety-related requirements created a very high-risk situation which did not permit any tolerance for further errors, faults or external influences” and concluded that “this type of piloting could be seen as a causal factor of the further course of the accident”. A reconstruction of the flight path and the prevailing wind conditions showed that the brief but rather rapid descent while flying past the Tschingelhörner mountain peaks had been attributable to downdraughts of between 400 and 1000 fpm. An extensive meteorological investigation was carried out and “proved that downdraughts of this kind were present in this area of the basin” and in any case “did not represent an abnormal phenomenon in the mountains”. At the time of the right turn made in this vicinity, the true airspeed of slightly less than 100 knots and an angle of attack increase to approximately 15° with engine power having been intentionally slightly reduced, the initial response was not to restore power but to increase pitch whilst the descent became increasingly steep. It was considered conceivable that because of preoccupation with the synchronising of the engines after the power reduction and the fact that the view from the flight deck had no obvious reference points would have “made it difficult to easily recognise the descent”, and the inappropriate increase in pitch may have been “made subconsciously”. The fact that the aircraft was operating marginally outside its flight envelope due to a loaded centre of gravity slightly beyond the rear limit could have contributed to the crew response and would in any event have made the aircraft more unstable around its pitch axis, a condition which therefore “represented a factor that directly contributed to the accident”. Analysis showed that after then entering a significant updraught, the fact that the aircraft quickly transitioned to a rate of descent of 1200 fpm which then continued to increase could not be attributed to a continuing downdraft. Rather, it was the fact that the near-to-stalling angle of attack had existed when the aircraft entered a relatively modest updraft (maximum 600 fpm) which had led to the stall. The vectors associated with a stall condition entered in the circumstances which it was deduced had prevailed was illustrated