been relevant to the specific causes of the accident under investigation. The remainder of the investigation effort was therefore focused on interpreting the assembled flight path evidence and on collecting contextual evidence in respect of the two pilots, the aircraft operator and the oversight of the Ju-Air operation by the State Safety Regulator the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA). Both pilots were of similar age, in their early sixties and acquainted as friends. They held ATPLs issued by the Swiss authorities which they had obtained on leaving the Swiss Air Force in the 1980s after 5/6 years as fixed wing fast jet pilots with instructor duties. During air force service, the older of the two pilots had been involved in a midair collision during a training exercise after which both pilots successfully ejected from their respective aircraft. He was subsequently found to have been responsible for the collision on the basis of a “lack of caution”. On gaining their civil licences, both pilots had joined Swissair as First Officers flying the DC9-81 and then the Airbus 310 for 14/15 years until promotion to command on the Airbus A320. After 10/12 years as A320 Captain, both transferred to long haul from where they both retired from Swissair three years prior to the accident. The pilot who had been Captain and PF on the accident flight had obtained his Ju-52 type rating five years prior to the accident and after 176 hours in type was upgraded to Captain. At the time of the accident, he had a total of 20,714 hours flying experience. This included 14,412 hours in command of which 121 hours were on type. During the two months prior to the accident flight, he had made 33 Ju-52 flights, all but 5 of them with the same co-Captain as on the accident flight. The pilot who had been acting as PM on the accident flight had a total of 19,751 hours flying experience. This total included 12,751 hours in command of which 710 hours were on type. During the two months prior to the accident flight, he had made 41 Ju-52 flights, of which 28 had been with the same co-Captain as on the accident flight. The two pilots were rostered to fly a Ju-Air tour group from Dübendorf to Locarno on the day before the accident and then to bring them back the following day. They agreed that the one who acted as PF on the outbound flight would act as PM on the return one. The flight attendant on both flights was also the tour group leader whilst the group were in the Locarno area. Both pilots had agreed to carry out the two flights on the proviso that Ju-Air would pay for their air transfer to northern Switzerland after the outbound flight and their return to Locarno the following day to operate the return flight. A couple of days prior to the outbound flight, the accident flight PF had begun some private pilot instructing on a