suspended Part-145 approval.. A total of eight Safety Recommendations were issued, each corresponding to a specific ‘Safety Deficit’ identified during the Investigation, as follows: In the Interim Report on the Investigation published on 20 November 2018: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA), in collaboration with the air operator, should take appropriate measures to ensure that (the other two Ju-52 aircraft operated by Ju-Air) are inspected for corrosion damage and defects in system components.[No 548]. In the Final Report of the Investigation: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that rules are adapted to air operations with passengers on aircraft referred to in Annex 1 of European Regulation 2018/1139 and that these effectively address the risks specific to such operations.[No 561]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should, until Safety Recommendation No. 561 has been implemented, ensure that the risks specific to the particular flight operations involving passengers on Annex 1 aircraft, as defined in European Regulation 2018/1139, are identified and effectively reduced with an effort suited to the complexity and scale of the respective operation.[No 562]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should, when granting exemptions for Annex 1 aircraft, as specified in European Regulation 2018/1139, take into account the risks specific to their relevant operation and periodically review the exemptions.[No 563]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should, together with organisations which operate historic aircraft primarily for the transport of passengers, define effective risk-based management and supervisory measures which are capable of identifying and correcting the specific problems with this type of operation at an early stage.[No 564]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should improve its organisation of audits and inspections in such a way as to improve the exchange of information within the authority, as well as to enable both critical analysis of the organisation concerned and the identification of relevant problem areas more effectively.[No 565]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should acquire the necessary technical and methodological expertise for the supervision of historic aircraft or make it available from an independent party. Furthermore, it should ensure that supervision is exercised in an effective manner. [No 566]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should require the air operator (involved) to determine the key performance data of its Ju 52/3m g4e aircraft following a major overhaul, and adapt the corresponding documents accordingly prior to the aircraft type being released to service. [No 567]. It was decided that in view of a number Safety Recommendations already made by other investigation agencies in response to the difficulty in investigating accidents in the absence of crash-protected recorded flight data and the planned changes to aviation law on the obligation to equip aircraft with such recorders, the STSB would refrain from making any further Safety Recommendations to achieve a similar goal. A total of seven ‘Safety Advice’ statements on specific areas of concern which were also each explicitly identified as ‘Safety Deficits’ during the