in the following diagram: The relative position of vectors when entering an updraught from a downdraught. Key to the above illustration: Blue - updraught; Yellow - aircraft movement relative to the updraught; Black - aircraft longitudinal axis; Black dashed line - horizontal plane; Green line - chord line; Purple angle - pitch angle; Red angle - flight path angle; Yellow angle - angle of attack. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the flight crew failed to use the available reserves of engine power to consistently achieve the design manoeuvre airspeed “which under the prevailing conditions was a true airspeed of 106 knots”. If, as in this case, the design manoeuvring speed cannot be achieved during horizontal flight, a possibility for an aircraft with a relatively large mass-to-power ratio, it will need to be achieved by descent which in turn requires a sufficiently generous altitude margin to be available, a particularly important, but ignored, consideration in this case. Had more clearance from terrain below been available, the response to the signs that a stall was imminent, which based on their aileron input were apparently recognised, would have been possible. With the prevailing minimal height above terrain and no other escape options, the aircraft was placed in an irrecoverable condition. The Investigation examined in depth the circumstances in which it had been possible for the absence of risk awareness in two experienced pilots to develop. These primarily focused on aircraft operator and the oversight of it by the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) as Safety Regulator. In both cases, systemic and long standing inadequacies were discovered which it was concluded had created conditions in which an accident like the one under investigation was highly likely to occur at some point in Ju-Air’s operations. Ju-Air was an integral part of the Association of the Friends of the Swiss Air Force (Verein der Freunde der Schweizerischen Luftwaffe) or VFL to which the FOCA issued all official authorisations and approvals. In the 10 years prior to the accident, its Ju-52 aircraft had carried out around 900 commercial flights each year which carried 13,000 paying passengers. At the time of the accident, the operation was being run by 8 employees supported by 96 volunteers. The latter included 27 pilots and 30 flight attendants who doubled as tour guides on trips such as the accident flight. The OM was based on that of a conventional airline adapted to a VFR-only operation. However, “a review of numerous flights and planning documents” found that many of its procedures “were merely formal and frequently not implemented by the flight crews during operations”. It was, for example, discovered that it was “common practice to not calculate the mass or centre of gravity, or to do so only partially” and operational flight plans were “generally not filled out correctly and not used in accordance with the requirements”. It was also found that the OM “did not contain any information for flying in the mountains”. It was also discovered