that the series of deficiencies in the way flight operations were conducted included a dysfunctional system of risk assessment with the specific risks of VFR flight or mountain flying never having been assessed. It was also found that despite the existence of an approved Safety Management System, more than 150 safety-related incidents were found in which “the statutory reporting obligation had not been fulfilled and that no in-depth analysis of the events was ever carried out internally”. These incidents were found to include ones in which “the experienced and highly qualified Ju-Air flight crews made mistakes relating to basic flying skills”. It was noted that although the FOCA had “identified these deficits in individual cases, their scope and systematic patterns remained undetected (and) no effective corrective action was requested”. Since the operator had not had the means to monitor risk in respect of its flights, the Investigation made such an evaluation. This was based on radar data for 216 flights carried out in the five months prior to the accident. Radar tracks were height-corrected for the prevailing pressure and temperature conditions and then analysed paying particularly attention to: Flight phases with no possibility of turning back or alternative flight path;. Low-level flights over plateaus at or above 8,200 feet amsl;. Approaching and flying over ridges at almost 90° to the ridge and close to the ground;. Flight over terrain when significantly below the recommended safety margin or the minimum required flight altitude prescribed for non-commercial VFR flights.. This exercise found that in just over a third of the flights analysed, “elementary principles of safe flight management in mountainous areas were significantly violated” with almost half of these flights involving situations which were considered to have “a very high potential risk”. It was noted that 16 of the operator’s 27 pilots had been initially trained as Air Force pilots and that it was these pilots who were the ones who were mainly “violating elementary safety rules”. It was concluded that the oversight of Ju-Air by the FOCA in respect of both flight operations and airworthiness had in many respects been ineffective and had failed to provide more than a “limited insight” into what was really going on at Ju-Air. It was considered particularly significant that after one of their very rare inspections of a passenger flight in a mountainous area, the inspector involved “did not fault the flight in any way” despite it being performed: significantly below the required safety margin of 1,000 feet agl on several occasions;. the essential principles for safe mountain flying being disregarded;. the choice of flight path clearly contradicting the guidelines for flights in the Alps published by the FOCA in the Swiss AIP VFR guide.. This was considered to “exemplify either a lack of critical judgement or a lack of critical attitude on the part of the inspectors towards the flying skills of Ju-Air’s experienced pilots, which led to obvious errors in flight operations not being rectified”. More broadly, it was found that “the main