health emergency, and thought needs to be given to the acceptable delay to passengers, crew and the affected aircraft that may be involved in such non-serious cases (a standard operating procedure should be developed jointly by stakeholders in the aviation sector, in coordination with the public/port health authority). Disinfection of aircraft after carriage of an infectious traveller. Note that many common disinfectants, such as products containing bleach, cannot be used on aircraft due to their corrosive properties (guidance is provided in WHO Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation in Aviation). Passenger tracing for close contacts - the passenger locator form is available from: ICAO: Public Health Passenger Locator Form WHO: Public Health Passenger Locator Form IATA: Public Health Passenger Locator Form. ICAO: Public Health Passenger Locator Form. WHO: Public Health Passenger Locator Form. IATA: Public Health Passenger Locator Form. Involvement of security personnel, in the event of a suspected bioterrorism event (a local procedure should be developed in collaboration with the relevant security agency). b. A local outbreak affecting aviation services due to non-availability of personnel Management of large numbers of travellers who rapidly wish to leave the outbreak area: departing aircraft are likely to be overbooked, whereas arriving aircraft may be relatively empty. Terminal buildings are likely to be overcrowded, filled with those wishing to depart and their relatives/friends, in itself posing a risk of spreading disease. Absence of airport staff, including air traffic controllers, pilots, security personnel etc. (due to illness, requirement to look after ill relatives or children whose schools are closed or fear of becoming infected if they attend work). The effect on flight safety of significant numbers of safety critical personnel being unavailable for work needs consideration. Lack of support services – ground transport, communications, IT, water, electricity etc. due to absence of staff. Such a situation may continue for weeks or more - business continuity plans need to specifically address public health emergencies, which have certain characteristics that are different from other crises that may be encountered (see business continuity guidelines from IATA and ACI). Provision of health and travel advice to travellers and potential travellers, and aviation workers. Passenger screening requirements. Further information and general guidelines are available on the ACI website