On 26 November 2008, a Boeing 777-200 powered by Rolls Royce RB211 Trent 800 series engines and being operated by Delta Air Lines on a scheduled passenger flight from Shanghai Pudong to Atlanta was in the cruise at FL390 in day Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) in the vicinity of Bozeman MT when there was an uncommanded thrust reduction or ‘rollback’ of the right engine. Prescribed drills were followed and a descent to FL310 was made after which normal thrust control was regained and the flight continued to the planned destination. None of the 263 occupants were injured. Investigation An investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) who were already aware of progress in the UK AAIB investigation of the British Airways Boeing 777 thrust loss accident at London Heathrow earlier in 2008 and of the similar engines fitted. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was available but Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten. The flight crew reported to the investigation that they had had some doubt about the applicability of the uncommanded engine rollback Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedure because they were more than 3 hours from the top of the descent and had not yet performed the required ‘Cold Fuel Operations’ procedure or recently operated either engine at a high thrust setting. However, they had followed it, retarding both thrust levers and descending with the reported successful outcome. It was established that the flight had not encountered any severe weather or abnormally low temperatures prior to the rollback event and the fuel had not reached a low enough temperature for it to freeze or solidify. All relevant systems on the aircraft were found to have been operating as designed and certified. The water content and chemical makeup of the fuel was also found to meet all international test standards. Based on flight crew statements and FDR data, the Investigation found that about 55 minutes before the engine rollback occurred, the right engine oil temperature began to increase relative to that of the left engine oil temperature with no corresponding thrust increase or other potential explanation. It was concluded that this period of elevated oil temperature occurred because the inlet face of the fuel-oil heat exchanger (FOHE) was partially obstructed by ice, resulting in the fuel flowing through a reduced number of tubes in the FOHE, which reduced its oil cooling efficiency both prior to and after the rollback. When the right engine fuel flow had returned to normal after the ice blockage cleared, the engine oil temperature had dropped, which was considered to indicate that the FOHE oil cooling effectiveness had been restored. The oil temperature excursion was considered to provide evidence that the FOHE had been partially restricted for about 55 minutes before the engine rollback and during it. Examination of the right engine HP fuel pump found evidence of cavitation, as previously found by the UK AAIB during the Heathrow Boeing 777 Investigation. Laboratory testing indicated that “fuel with normal amounts