issued Special Bulletin 1/2011 on 15 April 2011. It was noted that the function of the TLU, which is installed on the rudder rear quadrant shaft (see diagram below showing the rudder control system) is to reduce the range of available rudder deflection at airspeeds above 185 knots so as to limit the structural loads on the rudder. It was ascertained that two of the operator’s aircraft had recently experienced significant delays at the Edinburgh maintenance facility, “a situation which had caused frustration within the maintenance organisation, the operator and at group level”. It was also noted that another of the operator’s aircraft was planned in for maintenance immediately following the incident aircraft and “the management at the maintenance organisation considered that another delayed aircraft would have been viewed as a major failure on their part and would result in loss of revenue if the following aircraft could not be accommodated". The organisation’s Accountable Manager in post at the time of the event stated that these factors directly influenced his actions in deciding to personally ‘direct’ an that an unapproved action was an appropriate response to a fault found in the TLU at a late stage in the Check. The subsequent absence of effective oversight of required procedures to complete work on the TLU, during which a cam was re-fitted incorrectly, as well as the failure to carry out both functional checks and an operational test of the re-assembled TLU were also considered indicative of systemic organisational deficiency under commercial pressure as a context for the ‘simple’ maintenance error which was the direct cause of the in flight control difficulty. The fact that it was possible to mis-fit the cam involved was considered a factor but overall was not the main concern of the Investigation. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that: “The incident was caused by the incorrect fitment of a cam on the rudder TLU mechanism which was not detected by maintenance personnel. This resulted in rudder control restriction which caused the aircraft to enter an uncommanded roll to the left when the airspeed increased above 185 knots. The required independent inspection of the work and the operational test of the TLU system were not carried out. Commercial pressure was identified as the most significant factor which influenced the decision to perform unapproved and unrecorded maintenance on the TLU system. A contributory factor was the design of the TLU cams, which allowed them to be installed in the incorrect orientation.” A total of five Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation. Three of these were issued in Special Bulletin S1/2011 as a result of the initial findings of a maintenance error cause during the Investigation and two further ones at the conclusion of the Investigation: It is recommended that ATR immediately informs all operators of ATR aircraft equipped with a Travel Limitation Unit that it is possible to install the cams on the rear rudder quadrant shaft in the incorrect orientation. [2011-10]. It is recommended