A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the incident flight was the first one after completion of a scheduled base “2 year Check" at a Part 145 maintenance facility which was within the same beneficial ownership as the aircraft operator. It was found that the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was “of such poor quality that the data was unreliable and therefore unusable” but the QAR also fitted was downloaded successfully. Since the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had continued to run following the onset of problems, later recording had overwritten the initial part of the incident. It was noted that First Officer had been acting as PF for the incident flight and that the aircraft commander had accumulated the majority of his total flying experience on the ATR72. It was established that the aircraft had appeared to respond normally to flying control inputs by the PF until the aircraft reached FL230 and speed reached 185 Indicated Airspeed. At this point, the crew felt the aircraft roll to the left by 5° to 10° and noticed that the slip ball was indicating fully right. The PF disengaged the AP and applied right rudder in an attempt to correct the sideslip and right aileron to correct the roll. He subsequently stated that the rudder pedals had felt unusually ‘spongy’ and that the aircraft had not responded to the rudder inputs made. Right bank of 15° to 20° was required to maintain a constant heading. Soon after regaining directional control, it was reported that a “FLT CTL” annunciation had appeared on the CAP (Crew Alert Panel) together with a “FLT CTL” fault light illumination on the overhead panel which indicated a fault with the rudder Travel Limitation Unit (TLU). In view of the control problems the aircraft commander requested radar vectors from ATC for a return to Edinburgh and subsequently declared a ‘PAN’. As there appeared to be very little control authority to make right turns, ATC were asked to give left turns only. The applicable QRH drill for a TLU abnormality was completed and a descent made at 180 KIAS in VMC onto an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to Runway 24 for a full flap landing. After 41 minutes airborne, touchdown was made just to the left of the runway centreline and the aircraft commander took control, applying reverse pitch. The aircraft had touched down on the right main wheel first and during deceleration, it diverged further to the left despite application of full right rudder until reducing speed allowed tiller steering input. The aircraft was then taxied clear of the runway and back to the engineering facility. A visual inspection of the TLU found that one of the cams on the rudder rear quadrant shaft had been incorrectly installed, such that it was misaligned with the other cam. The maintenance organisation immediately suspended the approvals of the engineers concerned pending further investigation. Once the error context had been assessed, the AAIB