Enhancing air traffic controller's situational awareness. VDFs have been used for this purpose for decades. Even as a standalone tool, they provide an idea of the position of the aircraft. If integrated with surveillance equipment, they may indicate which target on the screen made the last transmission. In the early days of radar, when plan position indicators were used, a strobe of light flashed from the centre of the radar display in the direction of the target representing the transmitting aircraft. Modern systems utilize arrays of VDFs that can indicate the approximate location on the situational display (e.g. by drawing a circle around the calculated position). While this would not uniquely identify an aircaft in a busy environment, it would draw the controller's attention to a small portion of the airspace where only a few aircraft are present as opposed to forcing them to scan the entire screen. This is particularly helpful in congested airspaces where aircraft with similar callsigns (e.g. several flights from the same operator) are present at the same time.. Navigational assistance. The pilot would request a bearing information from the ground station and will be provided with a QDM (magnetic bearing to) or QDR (magnetic bearing from). This will help them determine their position and direction of movement (more than one call on the frequency may be necessary). True bearings are also available, but are used less frequently.. Homing. The pilot requests a series of QDMs to home to a VDF station. These requests are normally at intervals of about one minute during the initial stages of the homing, increasing in frequency as the VDF is approached.. VDF approach. This is a type of instrument, non-precision approach. Information about aerodromes for which VDF approaches are established is published in national AIPs. An example of such aerodrome is Cranfield (EGTC).. Unauthorized use of ATC frequency. Law enforcement agencies can use VDF equipment to locate the source of the unauthorized transmissions..