From the perspectives of EUROCONTROL and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), UTM initiatives may warrant treatment as “new entrants” because they expand the list of reasons why flight rules need to be changed to accommodate low-level RPAS/UAS operations. In a November 2018 discussion document titled UAS ATM Flight Rules, Edition 1.1, the agencies said, “At present, due to absence of flight rules for VLOS [UAS flights with visual line of sight] and BVLOS and their coexistence with manned aviation, it is not possible to safely integrate drones at altitudes below the lowest VFR [visual flight rules] altitude. The only way forward in this stepped approach is either through segregation of airspace or through the use of procedures where, in principal, drones remain clear of manned aircraft." “As one of the principal objectives of flight rules is to ensure the safety of aircraft, crew, passengers and cargo through effective understanding and execution of responsibilities, a major problem that arises from the introduction of UAS into the airspace is the definition of priorities and rights of way, taking into account the vastly different speeds and capacities of different aircraft. … If and when every drone in a UTM environment is cooperative at all times, a potentially more efficient set of right-of-way rules than the current Standard European Rules of the Air (SERA) requirements permit could be developed, particularly for high-density environments. … UTM is key to the effective application of UAS Flight Rules and should also be part of the gathering and sharing of traffic situation data.” The UTM environment has been specifically mentioned as a driver of flight rules revisions. The agencies explained, “When commercial [UAS] operations commence in 2019, initial procedures must be established that exclude other traffic from the paths these drones will take, and perhaps require certain equipage to enable people’s awareness of these types of operation. Once this is done, the UTM environment must be treated. In the end, full cooperation between BVLOS and other traffic will be necessary. However, although outside the city or in low-density areas, the cooperative parts of flight rules might work perfectly, this might not be the case in urban areas with a large amount of interference.”