As a controller, expect: Pilots, if aware prior landing of the brake problem, to request: the longest runway available; the widest runway available whenever directional control problems on the ground are anticipated; to execute holding procedures for thorough approach briefing and procedure review as well as to burn fuel and minimise weight; to divert to alternate aerodrome if any condition such as poor braking action, runway contamination or adverse weather is present at the destination aerodrome or if any other conditions exist that could result in higher ground speed on touchdown or are unfavorable for taxi; to divert to alternate aerodrome depending on availability of maintenance personnel and respective technical facilities should the airplane need repair.. the longest runway available;. the widest runway available whenever directional control problems on the ground are anticipated;. to execute holding procedures for thorough approach briefing and procedure review as well as to burn fuel and minimise weight;. to divert to alternate aerodrome if any condition such as poor braking action, runway contamination or adverse weather is present at the destination aerodrome or if any other conditions exist that could result in higher ground speed on touchdown or are unfavorable for taxi;. to divert to alternate aerodrome depending on availability of maintenance personnel and respective technical facilities should the airplane need repair.. Aircraft overrunning runway threshold at far end (stop end);. Aircraft swerving off of the runway;. Tyre burst[1] and associated damage to the aircraft - inform the aircraft crew and the airport fire rescue services if a burst tyre was observed;. Blocked runway after landing - plan ahead regarding pending departures and arrivals, possibly sequencing them for other runways if available.. Best practice embedded in the ASSIST principle could be followed (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time): A - acknowledge the emergency, inform the crew if fire/smoke is observed from the undercarriage area;. S - separate the aircraft and if necessary prioritise it for landing, allow long final if requested, keep the active runway clear of departures, arrivals and vehicles;. S - silence the non-urgent calls (as required) and use separate frequency where possible;. I - inform the airport emergency fire rescue services and all concerned parties according to local procedures; as tower controller expect airport authorities to execute their emergency plan; inform the supervisor and other sectors/units concerned;. S - support the flight by providing any information requested and necessary such as type of approach, runway length and aerodrome details, etc.. T - provide time for the crew to assess the situation, don’t press with non urgent matters.. When informed about possible/actual brake problems for aircraft inbound to land, be ready to: Inform pilot about runway length and condition;. When aircraft on final do not allow poor positioning for the approach, monitor carefully alignment, height, speed, distance from touchdown;. Keep safety strip clear;. Advise pilots of EMAS, if available. Plan ahead the pending traffic, consider assigning priority to the arrivals if