Under the ICAO Technical Instructions, lithium batteries shipped as cargo attract standard dangerous goods status. Specific packaging requirements and maximum quantity per package apply according to classification. The classifications are: UN3480 Lithium ion batteries (including Li-ion polymer batteries). UN3481 Lithium ion batteries contained in equipment or packed with equipment (including Li-ion polymer batteries). UN3090 Lithium metal batteries (including lithium alloy batteries). UN3091 Lithium metal batteries contained in equipment, or packed with equipment (including lithium alloy batteries). A Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) issued by the FAA on 8 October 2010 summarises the recent research that shows that lithium metal (non-rechargeable) and lithium-ion (rechargeable) batteries are highly flammable and capable of igniting during air transport. Ignition of lithium metal batteries can be caused when a battery short circuits, is overcharged, is heated to extreme temperatures, is mishandled (including being crushed or dropped), or is otherwise defective. (Around one in 10,000,000 is acknowledged to be potentially defective during manufacture.) Once a cell is induced into thermal runaway, either by internal failure or by external means such as heating, over-discharge or physical damage, it generates sufficient heat to cause adjacent cells to go into thermal runaway. The result of thermal runaway in a lithium metal cell is a more severe event as compared to a lithium-ion cell in thermal runaway. The lithium metal cell releases a flammable electrolyte mixed with molten lithium metal, accompanied by a large pressure pulse. The combination of flammable electrolyte and the molten lithium metal can result in an explosive mixture. Halon 1301, the suppression agent found in Class C cargo compartments, is ineffective in controlling a lithium metal cell fire. Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) 16004, issued by the FAA on 06 May 2016 informs the operators of the new Dangerous Goods/Hazardous Materials requirements contained in ICAO Technical Instructions (TI) for the shipment of lithium batteries. This SAFO also encourages operators to notify their customers who offer lithium battery cargo shipments of these changes. For shipments subject to the ICAO Technical Instructions, the following provisions, which are applicable to both cargo transporters and operators, became effective on April 1, 2016: Shipments of UN 3480 Lithium Ion Batteries, including lithium ion polymer batteries, are FORBIDDEN from transport as cargo on passenger aircraft. These shipments must now have the “Cargo Aircraft Only” label in addition to existing hazard communication requirements.. Shipments of UN 3480 Lithium Ion Batteries, including lithium ion polymer batteries “must be offered for transport at a state of charge not exceeding 30 percent of their rated capacity. Cells and/or batteries at a state of charge greater than 30 percent of their rated capacity may only be shipped internationally with the approval of the State of Origin and the State of the Operator under the written conditions established by those authorities”.. Shippers of UN 3480 Lithium Ion Batteries, including lithium ion polymer batteries, and UN 3090 Lithium Metal Batteries, including lithium alloy batteries, under ICAO’s “Section II” provisions (for Packing Instruction (PI) PI 965 and PI 968) are