The operational consequences at an aerodrome that is experiencing lake effect snow can be significant. Delays and de-icing are certainties and diversions are likely as normal airfield operations can be severely impaired. Operators should anticipate and plan for the following: De-icing. Due to the heavy snowfall, ground de-icing will be required, even during a quick turn-around. Aerodrome de-icing services might be overwhelmed, due to the high demand, resulting in departure delays.. Contaminated Surfaces. Ramps, taxiways and runway surfaces are all likely to have some contamination present. Performance calculations for both takeoff and landing must consider the consequences of the runway contamination.. Snow Clearing Operations. Simultaneous snow clearing and aircraft operations will be in progress which can result in delays. Additional vigilance on the part of all personnel is required.. Longer Turn-around Times. Aircraft servicing operations such as towing, pushback, loading, refuelling and water/lavatory servicing will all be impeded by the snow. Delays can be expected.. Runway Closures. Temporary runway closures will be required for snow clearing. At aerodromes with multiple runways, operations may be shifted back and forth between runways to facilitate snow clearing. Under extreme snowfall conditions, limitations in snow removal capacity may result in the loss of one or more runways and, ultimately, in the closure of the aerodrome.. Reduced Visibility. Visibility will be reduced in snow and blowing snow. Low Visibility Procedures (LVP) may be in effect.. Reduced Aerodrome Capacity. All of the previously mentioned factors can result in a capacity reduction for both inbound and outbound flights.. Delays and Diversion Potential. Diversion potential is significant as any fuel beyond reserve fuel requirements may be exhausted due to arrival delays.. Increased Fuel Requirements. Ground delays for departing aircraft and holding, approach and ground delays for arrivals will all contribute to an increase in fuel consumption..