Having chosen an aircraft and the direction of turn, the controller needs to determine the extent of the heading change. The track crossing angle is crucial at this stage as it determines: The increase of separation after vectoring (expressed e.g. in miles per 10 degrees).. The separation reduction between the crossing point and the CPA.. The general impact of the crossing angle is as follows: Right Angle (Crossing Tracks) allows the "1 in 60 rule" to be used. Accute Angles (Same Tracks) lead to: Less separation reduction after the crossing point (as opposed to other options) Less separation gained by vectoring (as opposed to other options). The situation may require 20-30 degree turns (or more). If the wind is unfavourable, an even greater turn may be necessary. The "1 in 60 rule" is no longer working, because both aircraft's distances from the crossing point are reduced by pretty much the same amount of miles, which effectively results in little or no separation gain. Issuing a larger vector essentially transforms the situation from a "same tracks" to a "crossing tracks".. Less separation reduction after the crossing point (as opposed to other options). Less separation gained by vectoring (as opposed to other options). The situation may require 20-30 degree turns (or more). If the wind is unfavourable, an even greater turn may be necessary. The "1 in 60 rule" is no longer working, because both aircraft's distances from the crossing point are reduced by pretty much the same amount of miles, which effectively results in little or no separation gain. Issuing a larger vector essentially transforms the situation from a "same tracks" to a "crossing tracks".. Obtuse Angles (Reciprocal Tracks) lead to: Greater separation reduction after the crossing point More separation gained by vectoring. A mild turn of 5 or 10 degrees is often enough to reach the desired separation.. Greater separation reduction after the crossing point. More separation gained by vectoring. A mild turn of 5 or 10 degrees is often enough to reach the desired separation..