The following is an extract from the official incident Report published by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN): “[…] The change of runway, the strong tail wind and the shortened approach path resulted in the aircraft becoming high on the approach profile. […]As the Commander doubted that the AP [autopilot] in AUTO mode could capture the GP, he disconnected both AP’s and the Auto Throttle (AT) with the thumb-switches in order to manually capture the GP from above. The aircraft was flown manually the remainder of the approach, and the throttles were also operated manually until TOGA was initiated. Shortly there after, the Commander noticed that raw data information of the ILS on his ADI and HSI were lost. No flag warnings were observed. The Commander reduced the rate of descent because of the uncertainty. The raw data signals on his instrument panel appeared and disappeared again. The First Officer was informed, but on his instruments all indications were normal. The crew did not consider a change of controls at this time. At an altitude of approx. 580 ft AAL (Flight Data Recorder (FDR) radio altimeter reading) the Commander decided that he discontinued the unstabilized approach and initiated a missed approach. […] He announced his decision to the First Officer and started a “Go-Around” (GA). The status of the flight was as follows: The aircraft was above the GP, and the SOPs calls for the GA altitude to be set when stabilized on GP, therefore the GA altitude was not set on the MCP. Flaps were not in landing configuration, because landing Check List was not completed. The Commander’s instrument panel indicated intermittent ILS failures of raw data without any flag warnings. The lowest altitude AAL indicated on the FDR was approx 460 ft. […] When the go-around manoeuvre was started by the use of the auto go-around system, the speed was 182 kt. Upon initiating the go-around, the A/T automatically engaged and increased the thrust to the EPR (Engine Pressure Ratio) limit. The flight director pitch initially targeted a pitch attitude of 15o. The airspeed reached a maximum of 198 kt before it started to decrease. Because of the aircrafts proximity to the MCP selected altitude of 2 500 ft when the go-around was started; the AFDS transitioned to Altitude Capture almost immediately after a positive rate of climb was achieved. At time 09:49:19 UTC the aircraft climbed rapidly through the MCP altitude of 2 500 ft, The FD continued to give commands targeting the MCP selected altitude. The A/T changed from go-around mode to targeting the MCP selected speed (150 kt). The maximum aircraft pitch (21 degrees) was reached. The thrust remained near maximum because the Commander held the throttles forward. The speed was decelerating and quickly dropped below MCP speed. The pitch flight director continued to give command to lead the pilot back to the MCP altitude. […] the aircraft reached a peak altitude of 2895 ft (FDR QNH corrected altitude) and the speed had decreased to