137 kt. (The reference speed for flaps 20 degrees is 131 kt.) Nose down was applied manually by the control column. The First Officer called for “bug up” (for the flap up manoeuvring speed) to set the airspeed indicator, and the Commander pushed on the Flight Level Change Switch (FLCH) button to break the flight director altitude lock on. The speed selected on MCP was changed from 150 kt to 210 kt. During the next seconds, a full nose down input on the control column was made manually. The aircraft pitched over to an attitude of approx. -30 degrees, and for a period of approx. 5 seconds the FDR indicates negative g-values with a maximum load factor of -0.6 g. The control column was briefly returned to near neutral, and then another abrupt large nose down column input was made. The aircraft pitched over rapidly with the speed increasing excessively. The FDR data show that the Ground Proximity Warning System (GWPS) aural warning of “Pull up” was activated. The aircraft was now in a steep dive and rapidly descending. During the dive the flight director pitch bar gave pitch up commands relative to the pitch attitude. The A/T reduced the trust from 98% N1 to 45% N1. […] the aircraft pitch attitude had peaked at -49 degrees and was beginning to increase positively. At this time the First Officer called out “PULL UP!” - “PULL UP!”. The GPWS aural warnings of “TERRAIN” and then “TOO LOW TERRAIN” were activated. Both pilots were active at the control columns and a maximum “up” input was made. A split between left and right elevator was indicated at this time. It appears the split occurred due to both pilots being active at the controls. The pilots did not register the aural warnings. During the dive the airspeed increased to 251 kt and the lowest altitude in the recovery was 321 ft radio altitude with a peaked load factor of +3.59 g’s. The recovery continued with the aircraft pitch attitude increasing to about 40 degrees, and a positive rate of climb was established.[…]” The second approach and the subsequent landing were uneventful. The Report further states: The importance of crew cooperation is imperative. In this case, AAIB/N is of the opinion there was a complete breakdown of crew management and a lack of interaction at an early stage. When the confusion started, the combination of one pilot manually operating the controls partly in opposition to the automatic throttle movement made this “upset” understandable. This can be referred to as an “automation trap”. When “bug-up” is selected to target speed, this command gets cancelled by selection of “Flight Level Change” or by altitude capture. The speed then becomes “present speed”. This caused the aircraft to act differently than the pilots had anticipated. This resulted in confusion and was probably a factor in causing the incident to occur. In the opinion of AIBN it is not satisfactory that a seemingly properly trained and qualified airline crew should