on Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) or direct from ATC. Following the overrun the surface friction of the accident runway was tested and found to be above minimum required levels but in some cases by only small margins. It was noted that the Aircraft Maintenance Schedule (AMS) applicable to the accident aircraft recommended that "during the autumn-winter season (typically from 1 November to 30 April of the next year) at least 8 of the (16) main gear tyres (should) have a tread pattern in which the 3 middle groove tracks have no less than 1-mm depth of tread remaining". However, it was found that this AMS did not include a similar minimum tread depth for the main tyres when the aircraft was operated during the spring-summer season (May to October). The Investigation found that all 16 main gear tyres were worn to or below the tyre tread wear indicators and that 8 of them showed evidence of reverted rubber aquaplaning, usually indicative of a locked wheel when anti skid systems fail or are overridden. Corresponding marking of the runway surface was also found. An inspection of the aircraft braking system found that, as configured, "when the antiskid protection function signalled a brake pressure release to an outboard wheel pair, the pressure was being released to the inboard wheel pair" and conversely "when the brake pressure release was signalled to the inboard wheel pair, the pressure was released to the outboard wheel pair". It was established that although the hydraulic pressure supply lines to both inboard and outboard brakes had been installed at build in accordance with the aircraft manufacturer's design assembly chart, they were actually cross connected so that the inboard brakes were connected to the hydraulic pressure supply line for the outboard brakes and vice versa. The effect of this would have been that during operation of the antiskid, the overall effective braking capability would have been reduced since brake pressure would be released at wheels with effective braking but maintained to ones tending to cease rotation. This would account for the observed evidence of reverted rubber 'aquaplaning' on what had been a runway surface without any standing water on which such an effect would not have been expected. It was noted that the aircraft had completed only 45 landings since new, so that the braking system cross connection was highly likely to have existed - undetected - since the manufacture of the aircraft. It was noted that, like runways at many other Canadian airports used by large transport aircraft, runway 11/29 at St. John's did not have a Runway End Safety Area, nor was this required by regulation but it did have a 60 metre unpaved runway end strip. It was also noted that none of the runways at St. John's had grooved surfaces, nor were such surfaces a regulatory requirement. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors were as follows: The occurrence aircraft landed with a tail wind that exceeded the