An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the aircraft Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), the CB for the latter having been tripped by the crew once the aircraft had come to a stop. It was established that, prior to the approach, the crew had copied ATIS 'H' which had given the weather as W/V 170°/3 knots, visibility 1½ sm in mist and ceiling overcast at 300 feet agl. They had decided that with an ELW of 140 tonnes and noting that runway 11 was the longest available runway, an ILS approach to that runway would be made. AFM data was used to calculate a required landing distance of 1240 metres (including a stopping distance of 825 metres) and an approach speed of 130 KIAS, increased to 135 KIAS "to account for turbulence and icing". After visual acquisition of the runway an instant wind check of 260° / 5 knots was passed by TWR and, prior to crossing the threshold at 59 feet agl at 136 KCAS, the crew noted the runway was bare and wet with no standing water. However, the aircraft then floated before touching down at 118 KCAS over 1000 metres beyond the threshold then bouncing to a final main gear touchdown halfway along the runway at 113 KCAS. Recorded data showed that maximum reverse on engines 1 and 4 had been quickly selected after the final touchdown followed by the ground spoilers. Subsequently, with the speed recorded as 63 KCAS and the aircraft just 348 metres from the end of the runway, reverse thrust on engines 1 and 4 was briefly reduced to 50% before being increased to maximum again and maximum reverse thrust on engines 2 and 3 added. An estimated 2 seconds after this, the aircraft departed the end of the runway at 40 knots damaging five threshold lights. However, the crew had manoeuvred the aircraft to the right of the extended centreline to avoid the multiple rows of approach lights and none of these were hit. The aircraft came to rest on the Runway 11 localiser service road about 50 feet from the localiser antenna, on a heading of approximately 064°M some 195 metres beyond the end of the runway (see the illustration below). It was found that the aircraft commander had been PF for the approach and landing and that both he and the First Officer were experienced on the aircraft type, although neither had been to St John's "in almost a year" and it was the commander's first landing on runway 11. FDR data was found to indicate that "the average tail wind component during the 15 seconds prior to initial touchdown was 12.95 knots" - in excess of the AFM maximum 10 knot tailwind component for landing. It was noted the same information was available on the MFD, but that Operator SOPs for landing and take off limitation purposes was to rely on wind velocity communicated