The flight crew involved did not report the event to KLM at all and it was only discovered during the routine OFDM process and an internal investigation only began six weeks after the event had occurred following its inclusion in a monthly FDM report. When questioned during this investigation, the crew claimed to have been unaware that anything reportable had occurred despite the fact that the takeoff involved had occurred in good daylight visibility. Once the operator had informed the Gabinete de Prevenção e Investigação de Acidentes com Aeronaves e de Acidentes Ferroviários (GPIAAF) of the event on 29 April, almost two months after it had occurred, an event evaluation process was followed with the assistance of the operator. This led to the conclusion that there had been “a high probability of an accident occurring”. However, given the repetitive nature of similar events at Lisbon involving both KLM and other operators and continuing work at the airport to mitigate the risk involved to the extent possible, only a “limited” Annex 13 Serious Incident Investigation was carried out. No information was recorded as to the experience of the two pilots involved except that they both “had some experience of operating to Lisbon” having done so 21 times in the Captain’s case and 12 times in the First Officer’s case. However, the Captain was the PF for the flight. The scheduled departure from the gate at Lisbon was delayed by half an hour because of the extended time required to check the boarding documentation of the 126 passengers in accordance with Covid 19 public health requirements in force. The same flight crew had operated the previous flight from Amsterdam to Lisbon. During the extended turnround, both pilots used their EFBs to calculate the required takeoff performance data. This involved entering takeoff data into the on-board LINTOP (Lido Integrated Takeoff Performance tool) system. Both pilots selecting the S1 intersection of runway 21 (see the illustration below) on the basis of the expected relatively low takeoff weight. Since this intersection was not recognised as a valid take-off point, the message “INTERSECTION DATA NOT AVAILABLE” resulted. Based on the available information including that contained in the operator’s internal investigation into the event, it was established that the crew had then re-inserted the takeoff position as ‘S’ omitting the suffix ‘1’ which led the system to calculate performance using this position, which was marked on the operator’s aerodrome chart as located at the beginning of the runway and was equivalent to intersection S4. On receipt of the load sheet, the crew had to re-enter takeoff performance data in the LINTOP system since the TOM on the load sheet exceeded that used for the earlier calculation. The take-off point entered was not changed and the takeoff speeds and assumed temperature then entered into the FMS represented those for use of the full length of runway 21 for takeoff. The Lisbon aerodrome chart marked with the start of takeoff positions intended, actual and assumed. [Reproduced from the Official