Report] The aircraft subsequently taxied to intersection U5 in accordance with its ATC clearance and commenced takeoff from there when cleared. Main landing gear lift-off subsequently occurred with “approximately 284 metres of runway remaining” and the aircraft crossed the upwind runway threshold at between 45 and 70 feet agl. When later questioned by the operator after failing to file a safety report after the event, both pilots claimed that they had not noticed anything unusual about either the performance of the aircraft or anything else abnormal during the take-off roll. Both stated that fatigue had not been a factor in their performance. It was considered appropriate to call the attention of all aircraft operators using Lisbon Airport and their corresponding State Safety Regulators to the risks involved in the performance of takeoffs from runway 21 from intersections with a TORA1 value shorter than planned. It was considered appropriate to emphasise to all aircraft operators the widespread concern about takeoff performance determination, which depends on the compliance with properly detailed cross checking of independently performed calculations. Safety Action taken by KLM as a result of this event was noted as having included changes to the ‘LINTOP’ performance tool designators for Lisbon, one of which ensures that a takeoff data request for the non-existent intersection ‘S’ will no longer result in the output of any performance data. The Investigation was also advised that KLM intended to introduce a better performance data calculation tool which would provide an illustration which will clearly show the runway and runway intersection on which a takeoff performance calculation is based. The Investigation noted that a number of previous almost identical events had been subject to independently conducted Serious Incident investigations including the following: A KLM Boeing 737-800 takeoff on 3 December 2015 investigated by the Dutch Safety Board after delegation by the GPIAAF (Final Report available here). Easyjet A320 takeoffs on 24 April 2019 and 7 May 2019 investigated by the UK AAIB after delegation by the GPIAAF (Final Report available here). An Easyjet A320 takeoff on 16 September 2019 investigated by the UK AAIB after delegation by the GPIAAF. It was noted that all these events illustrated similar crew confusion in relation to the nomenclature of the S1 taxiway and S4 holding point and demonstrate that the tools, procedures and technology used for takeoff performance calculation are not always able to detect and alert the crew to the risks associated with possible errors in the selection of aircraft performance parameters. In respect of the UK AAIB investigation into the Easyjet event which occurred on 24 April 2019, it was noted that a Safety Recommendation to the airport operator to discontinue the use of the nomenclature 'Positions' which had been found to be a contributing factor to the event was issued on 9 January 2020. It was noted that almost 18 months later, this Recommendation was still “currently being implemented” with the airport operator foreseeing publication of the changes in August 2021. It was noted more generally