the audit noted that "certain hazards still exist with regard to inconsistent signage and instructions to pilots by Apron Control" in respect of de-icing pad F and a re-analysis of the arrangements there was required to be submitted not later than the end of April 2014. It was noted that extant instructions to Apron Control on the use of taxiways 'E' and 'F' when runway 34 was in use for landings included the general guidance that landing traffic clearing the runway at E5 should "generally be directed as quickly as possible onto TWY F in order to keep TWY E clear for landing aircrafts which vacate runway 34 via TWY E4, E5 or B". It was also noted that there was a lack of consistency and uniformity in respect of the depiction of taxiway designations around de-icing pad F on both plans and drawings and on the various charts which flight crew may be using. It was explicitly recognised that for chart providers, the current State AIPs guidelines "are inadequate and represent room for ambiguity". It was also explicitly recognised that since taxiway F was not continuously designated and de-icing lane F1 was not mentioned as part of the clearance, the southbound taxi clearance issued to the aircraft in this case "was unclear" and therefore contributed to the occurrence of the serious incident. The Investigation considered the Captain's repeated initial use of high power settings exceeding 80% N1 to try and get the aircraft back onto the paved surface after the excursion and concluded that his actions in this respect "were not appropriate to the situation and subject to risk". It was also noted that the wet surface of the taxiways, de-icing lanes and the de-icing pad "led to reflections which hindered recognition of the edge of the asphalt". The fact that the centre line lights of all three de-icing lanes F1, F2 and F3 were simultaneously and identically illuminated was considered unhelpful as was the fact that neither taxiway F nor de-icing lanes F1, F2 and F3 had blue edge lights. The Investigation determined that the Cause of the Serious Incident was that "the flight crew did not follow the green centre line lights (and) subsequently the aircraft left the hard surface and came to a standstill in the adjacent soft ground". The following Contributory Factors were also identified: The taxi clearance contained no information regarding which de-icing-lane to follow when crossing the de-icing pad.. The de-icing lanes were not equipped with taxiway edge lights.. It was noted that no Safety Action had been taken by any party involved as a result of the event. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA), in cooperation with those responsible for operations at Zurich Airport, should take appropriate measures so that crews can follow the prescribed taxiways using clear and consistent instructions and designations. [No. 485]. The Final Report was completed on 9 February 2015, approved by the