An Investigation was commenced by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) which was subsequently replaced by the new Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB) during the course of the work. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from both the FDR and CVR. Both pilots were generally familiar with Zurich and had accumulated the majority of their total flying experience on the Boeing 737 type. Because the aircraft only has a nosewheel steering tiller at the left pilot seat, the Captain was obliged to control the aircraft when taxiing even though the First Officer had been designated as PF for the flight. It was established that, after a normal landing on runway 34, the crew had checked in with 'Zurich Apron' on transfer from TWR whilst moving slowly at the intersection of taxiway E3 and taxiway E (see the diagram below). They had then received and correctly acknowledged an instruction to "taxi via Foxtrot and Charlie to stand Echo two six." The aircraft moved onto taxiway F, following the taxiway signs and continued past de-icing lanes F1 and F2 maintaining an appropriate speed of appropriately 10 knots. The Captain subsequently stated that he had seen the mound of earth south of the de-icing pad at the same time as the aircraft passed the centre line lights for de-icing lane F2. Since he had not been sure whether this would restrict the taxi clearance, he decided to turn right and cross De-Icing Pad F in order to join taxiway F to the south of it, unaware of the areas of grass between the de-icing lanes. As the nose landing gear left the paved surface, it sank into the grassed soft ground between de-icing lanes F2 and F3 and the de-icing pad paved area. The Apron Controller, realising that the aircraft was no longer moving, queried the situation with the crew. Initially, a tug was dispatched but eventually, it became obvious that the aircraft would not be able to be moved until its weight had been materially reduced and so the engines were shut down. Arrangements were made to disembark the passengers to buses and transfer their hold baggage to other vehicles but the buses did not arrive until an hour after the excursion had occurred. It was noted that at the time of excursion, construction work which had temporarily created large mounds of earth up to 12 metres high was in progress to create a new "Echo North" parking area between de-icing pad F and dock E (midfield terminal). It was these which the Captain had reported seeing as he had approached de-icing lane F3. It was noted that an Airport Authority Safety Assessment in respect of the change of designation of taxiway F to F1 only whilst it was passing though the de-icing pad carried out in 2011 had concluded that the risk of confusion was "tolerable". Although the arrangement was endorsed during a subsequent audit by the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA), their July 2013 Report on