The procedures used must be: Constant monitoring and repetitive cross-checking are vital to the identification and management of FMS data entry errors. Unfortunately humans are not especially good at either function, being prone to boredom, complacency, distraction and fatigue. Where alternative technological solutions are not available it is essential that pilots recognize both the need for accurate monitoring and cross-checking and the inherent human weaknesses in these functions. Training must help them to build strategies to counter this threat, like periodically swapping tasks between entering and cross-checking data, developing gross error checks and rules of thumb, building a mental picture of the ‘normal’ parameters for each phase of flight and recognizing the onset of symptoms of fatigue, stress and illness. Pilot training and procedures must encourage them to plan ahead both strategically for the entire flight (or duty) and tactically for the current and next phases of the flight. Decisions should not be rushed unduly but pilots must also recognize when the time for discussion and consideration has passed and a decision has to be made. They must be prepared to differentiate when necessary between safety critical operational time pressure and commercial time pressure, and respond accordingly. Operators need to be aware of the potential threat of organizational time pressure, whether it is actual or perceived. Cockpit workload rises and falls with and during phases of flight, and pilots’ training and procedures should encourage and enable them to utilize the periods of lower workload for routine tasks like reviewing the FMS, while confining activity to essential operational tasks during periods of higher workload. Significant workload management threats are distractions and interruptions, frequently from external sources such as the radio or cockpit visits. Whilst operational communications are unavoidable, strict adherence to sterile cockpit procedures during the critical phases of flight can reduce the threat and hence the risk of error. Collaborative training and procedures for pilots, cabin crew and ground staff can help to manage interruptions, especially common during the busy pre-flight phase. Fatigue is a major threat to individual workload capacity and an effective fatigue risk management system (FRMS) can help manage and mitigate the impact of fatigue. Another significant workload management factor in FMS data entry errors is the allocation of FMS and autopilot/flight director systems selections to each pilot. Whilst parked at the gate the pilots can safely work together on the data entry and cross-checking processes but once the aircraft is in motion it is essential that one pilot is always primarily engaged with managing the aircraft. At critical phases of flight or periods of high aircraft management workload it may not be appropriate for either pilot to be involved with FMS programing at all. In the pre-flight phase it makes sense for the pilot nominated to ‘fly’ the aircraft (generally known as the pilot flying) to enter the majority of the data and especially the flight plan, while the other pilot (variously referred to as pilot monitoring, pilot not flying or non-handling pilot) performs the monitoring