Flight crew employed by aircraft operators are trained to deliver safety, efficiency and comfort during line operations. Their training is focused on developing and sustaining the necessary knowledge, flight management and aircraft handling skills to conduct normal operations and to safely deal with the unexpected problems which may arise from malfunctions, weather challenges, the actions of others or the consequences of their own unintended actions. The various types of airworthiness function or check flights which an operator may need or elect to conduct vary considerably in their degree of complexity. However, unlike many test flights carried out by specially trained test pilots, these are carried out following a normal technical 'Release to Service' recorded in the Aircraft Technical Log. Operators may conduct function or check flights: As the first flight after significant scheduled or unscheduled maintenance including repainting. To allow engineers to examine the nature of a recorded defect prior to rectification. To validate the operational status of an aircraft before acceptance from or return to a lessor for contractural reasons.. Only the third category of flight listed above is normally a formal requirement, and is certainly a sufficiently challenging task to require discrete recognition in provisions of the operator's Safety Management System (SMS). It is likely to involve a check schedule which entails operation of various aircraft systems in intentionally degraded states where the potential consequences and responses need to be fully appreciated. The other two cases mainly involve being prepared for the unexpected whilst operating the aircraft normally and are usually carried out on the basis that they are good operational practice. Whilst they are not like normal line operations, most operators will be content to authorise selected check/training captains, or sometimes experienced line captains, to command such flights. However, the operator’s SMS must also recognise and address these other variations from line operations and determine whether any specific process for crew selection and initial and recurrent training is required.