the Hahn Air crew had twice read back ATC instructions which were both contrary to the RA and represented missed opportunities to advise ATC of its annunciation. Having been appraised of that fact, ATC would have immediately recognised that the RA would take priority over any ATC instructions. It was also noted that, even in respect of their incorrect acceptance of the ATC descent instruction, the accepted descent had been continued below the cleared level anyway. Since the severity of the investigated conflict had been entirely the result of the Hahn Air crew ignoring a TCAS RA in favour of an opposite-sense ATC vertical clearance, EUROCONTROL ACAS Bulletin No 5, which describes how a similar crew error had led to the 2002 Überlingen mid air collision, an accident of which Hahn Air management were explicitly aware, was included in the Investigation Report as Annex 1. It was concluded that the ICAO AIRPROX Risk Category of the encounter had been ‘A’ - a high risk of collision. The Cause of the investigated serious incident was determined as: “The fact that air traffic control gave clearance to an aircraft which led to a hazardous convergence with another aircraft. The fact that one of the flight crews then followed the resolution advisories of the traffic alert and collision avoidance systems (TCAS) only initially and instead followed the instructions of air traffic control meant that the convergence involved had a high risk of collision.” Causal Factors were identified as: The air traffic controller entered the flight level prescribed for this flight as a clearance into the air traffic control system, but gave a different clearance to descend by radio.. None of the five air traffic controllers who were involved in managing the aircraft concerned noticed the discrepancy between the descent clearance in the system and the altitude transmitted by radio.. The crew of the aircraft followed the instructions of air traffic control instead of continuing to follow the diverging resolution advisory of the TCAS.. Circumstantial Factors which made the conflict more likely were found to be: An Air Force exercise led to an increased workload and a more difficult overview for civil air traffic control.. The use of a non-standard phraseology by air traffic control.. Systemic Contributory Factors were found to be: Air traffic control had no technical safety net at their disposal which would have been able to detect the working error of an air traffic controller at an early stage.. Working processes in air traffic control which made it difficult to detect working errors favoured by routine.. No related Safety Action taken during the Investigation was notified to the SAIB but it was noted that, as part of an Investigation into a Serious Incident also involving controller error which had occurred some three months earlier, A320 / A320, Zurich Switzerland, 2011 it had been established that the procedures for dealing with employees involved in accidents and serious incidents “exhibited safety-critical defects” to the extent that a corresponding Safety Recommendation had been issued