conflicting traffic on their TCAS displays at an early stage, neither aircraft crew reported having acquired the other aircraft visually at any point. The initial occurrence of an RA had been declared by the A319 to Zurich but not by the Raytheon 390 to Geneva. However, the Geneva controller, after giving the aircraft the instruction to descend rather than climb, subsequently realised that a co-ordinated TCAS RA must be in progress and, six seconds before minimum separation and with the aircraft by now descending at a high rate and in the opposite direction to the displayed RA, instructed the aircraft to “follow TCAS, opposite traffic one mile, follow TCAS”. It was found that although both aircraft were equipped with correctly functioning Mode ‘S’ transponders which transmitted aircraft data which included the selected flight level to ground radar, “for technical reasons this data cannot currently be used by Swiss air traffic control to compare the altitude clearance entered in the air traffic control system with those entered in the aircraft system and trigger an alert in the event of any discrepancy”. It was also noted that the STCA systems at the Geneva and Zurich ACCs were set up to trigger alerts on different criteria, hence the detected conflict had been annunciated 7 seconds later at the Geneva ACC. The Investigation concluded that the German Wings A319 crew had been “able to adopt and implement the patterns of behaviour required by TCAS immediately” and had “followed the TCAS resolution advisories without delay and to the required extent”. It was deduced thereby that they had been “appropriately skilled and trained”. In the case of the Hahn Air Raytheon 319 crew, it was noted that the two pilots were both qualified to act as commander or co pilot and both “performed management functions within the company”. These functions included responsibility for the content of the Operations Manual Part ‘A’ which contains all generic operating procedures including TCAS use. In respect of this responsibility, the Investigation concluded that “it can certainly be assumed that at the time of the hazardous convergence the flight crew members were at least mentally aware of (key features of the required response to a TCAS RA in the Operations Manual)”. These stated unambiguously that: "Pilots shall follow the RA even if there is a conflict between the RA and an ATC instruction to manoeuvre”. "Pilots shall not manoeuvre in the opposite sense of an RA”. However, it was apparent that the crew had “not (been) able to access this knowledge and convert it into appropriate actions”. It was concluded that “the reason for this inability cannot lie in a moment of surprise or inadequate mental preparation, because these simple response patterns are designed precisely to allow them to be invoked reliably and in good time following the surprise.” Instead, it was considered that the crew had been “not sufficiently familiar with dealing with TCAS (activation)”. It was also noted that although during the time when a TCAS RA was active,