In adverse weather scenarios, reduction of available airspace is to be expected in both lateral and vertical dimensions. In some countries, attempts to prevent hail by active intervention and the corresponding activation of danger areas may further reduce the volume of available airspace. Depending on the scale and position of the adverse weather, some sector entry and/or exit points may not be usable and normally discrete entry and exit traffic flows may be merged over one single sector entry/exit point. It may not be possible to apply normal procedures which are included in Letters of Agreement (LoA) between adjacent ATC units, such as flight level allocation schemes for transfer of control and this will impose an increased burden in respect of verbal coordination between the ATC units concerned. Speed control as a means to achieve separation can be ineffective during weather avoidance because of uncertainty on likely aircraft future track. This means of separation is also likely to be more difficult to apply because most aircraft types are subject to Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) limitations which impose a speed limit (Va) for the maximum deflection of any primary flight control which cause pilots to consider proactively reducing speed if they consider that maintaining aircraft control might require such inputs. It is also usual for aircraft to have a recommended maximum "rough air" speed (Vra) for all flight in significant turbulence in order to reduce the effect of turbulence on passenger comfort. The opportunities for radar vectoring may be constrained in the presence of significant areas of convective instability. A pilot would be likely to reject any instruction that would take their aircraft into close proximity with any CB cloud. Also, while ground weather radar systems have a greater range than most on-board equipment, even if weather radar display is available to controllers, it often presents a rather old “picture” compared to on-board weather radar data. All of this means that pilots are usually in the best position to determine the most suitable avoiding action. Unfortunately, pilots will sometimes commence avoiding action without obtaining ATC clearance or even advising of their action at the point of commencement. Such action represents a potentially significant safety threat, especially in congested airspace and is contrary to most aircraft operator SOPs and may sometimes occur when a decision to deviate around adverse weather has been delayed beyond the point where the majority of pilots would have acted.