An Investigation was carried out by the Norwegian Accident Investigation Board (AIBN). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was successfully downloaded to assist the Investigation. It was found that about 25 seconds after passing the departure decision point at 25 feet and climbing to 3000 feet, the commander acting as PF reported that abnormal forces in the cyclic stick had become evident and annunciations of low oil level in the left hydraulic system and hydraulics to the AP had occurred. Flying conditions during departure were described as having been "demanding" during both lift-off from the deck with crosswind, turbulence and precipitation in darkness and subsequently when entering Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). Whilst continuing on track to the planned destination, Emergency Checklist action was taken but the After Take Off checklist was not executed because it was considered that "the best option was to leave the landing gear in down and locked position (since later) failures in the hydraulic system could have led to difficulties when trying to extend the landing gear". Due to the en route weather conditions and those at Kristiansund, it was decided that landing on one of the offshore installations along the route, the Åsgard B platform, was appropriate. The crew obtained information on the prevailing conditions there, which included a significant wave height of 5 to 7 metres, deck movement to a maximum of 3 to 4 metres at a rate of 0.5 metres / second and wind from the northwest at 30 to 35 knots gusting in excess of 50 knots. The subsequent touch down was normal and in the correct position on the helideck but as the crew began after landing checks, the helicopter suddenly started moving forward. It was not clear to them whether the helicopter was sliding on a slippery surface or whether the brakes had failed. The commander re-checked that the parking brake was set and both crew also tried the brake pedals but the movement continued and the edge of the deck got closer. Both engines were shut down - the rotor brake was not effective and so the main rotor speed wound down by itself - but the helicopter was still moving and an evacuation of the passengers was ordered. The commander had wanted chocks inserted against the main wheels but with helideck communication on COM1 in accordance with normal procedure and loss of electrical power to this radio following engine shutdown, a radio call to this effect could not be made. Hand signals were given to the helideck crew and he also opened the cockpit door and shouted to them. Although the anti-collision light was still on, the Helideck Landing Officer waiting on the deck access stairs case then moved quickly to place chocks against the right main wheel and the helicopter came to a stop. The helicopter was then secured to the deck and the blades strapped. It quickly became obvious that there was a leak from an elbow union in the hydraulic supply line to the left