main landing gear brake unit - the union had separated and there was a pool of oil on the deck. The Operator initiated a fleet check but found no other evidence of the same fault. The failed union was sent to the component manufacturer Safran Messier-Bugatti-Dowty, for examination. The month after the occurrence, a preliminary report was received which noted that previous manufacturing process problems with the same union had resulted in a design modification and that the failed unit was a pre-mod component. As a result of the occurrence, Eurocopter made a series of revisions to the Emergency Procedures contained in the Rotorcraft Flight Manuals for SA330, AS332 and EC225 helicopters for various faults in the left hydraulic system including the addition of the following: a requirement for the crew to check the hydraulic accumulator pressure in order to verify the status of the hydraulic system.. the statement that "if the pressure of the ancillary accumulator drops below 120 bars, consider that wheel and rotor braking is lost.”. These changes were made mandatory for all SA 330J, AS 332C, AS 332C1, AS 332L, AS 332L1, AS 332L2 and EC 225LP helicopters by an EASA EAD 2012-0059-E issued on 5 April 2012 with compliance required "within 10 flight hours, or before next flight to a helideck or elevated heliport, whichever occurs first after the 6 April 2012". On 14 November 2012, Eurocopter issued SB EC225-32-002 which contained a procedure for checking the brake units on all such helicopters. The Investigation noted that although both EASA CS 29.735 and the corresponding FAA Part 29 certification specifications in respect of the design of helicopter wheel brakes require that they must be controllable by the pilot, usable during power-off landings and able to counteract both any normal unbalanced torque when starting or stopping the rotor and enable a parked position to be sustained on a 10° slope on a dry, smooth pavement, there is no redundancy requirement. This was identified as contrasting with such a requirement in the CS 25/FAR 25 requirements for the certification of fixed wing aircraft brake systems and it was therefore noted that "there may be other helicopter types that are vulnerable to wheel brake system faults". In Conclusion, it was considered that: The problem with insufficient fastening of compression rings on elbow unions was resolved by Helikopterservice's ” Maintenance Alert Notice” and EC Service Bulletin EC225-32-002.. Application of the collective combined with the cyclic stick would probably have resulted in improved control of the helicopter's movements after landing.. Due to the fact that the certification specifications for helicopters do not contain requirements related to redundancy in wheel brake systems, it can be assumed that there is a risk of faults on brakes on other helicopter types with wheel landing gear as well. The helicopter operators should therefore consider training on landing on movable helidecks (floating installations/ships) with wheel brake fault for all helicopter types with wheel landing gear.. The Official Report was released on 6 May 2014. No