conflict had arisen because the trainee controller had created a conflict between the E195 and A320 by focusing only on what he considered was a potential conflict between the clearance he had given to the B350 with the one he had given to the A320. He had been “surprised” by the STCA and his failure to use the callsign he had intended to had delayed his attempt to intervene until after separation between the E195 and the A320 had been lost and the TCAS RAs were imminent. It was noted that the Instructor had been unaware of the potential conflict until the STCA appeared and attributed this to a combination of his confidence that his late stage trainee should be able to cope with the undemanding traffic situation, his somewhat obstructed view of the radar display from his seating position and the fact that the trainee routinely “speaks naturally with a low voice and keeps his instructions to aircraft short, shorter than usual for a controller”. The latter in particular meant that “the initiation of the problem - the instruction given to the A320 to turn to REMBA - was not heard by the Instructor”. It was established that “the closest point of approach between the two aircraft was estimated to be 400 feet vertically and 1.36 nm horizontally”. The Investigation documented the following comments on the findings of the Investigation: The last instruction given by the trainee controller - instructing the E195 to descend was correct and would have solved the problem. The TCAS RA activation which followed provided equally an effective solution.. The subsequently “excessive” reaction of the E195 to its TCAS RA was most probably due to the last instruction given by the controller to descend.. The instructions to pilots when faced with a RA specifically forbid a manoeuvre in the opposite sense to an RA, or maintaining a vertical rate in the opposite sense to an RA, which is not the case for an “excessive” reaction.. The crew of the A320 acknowledged their “delay” in taking action on the TCAS RA received and stated they had the other aircraft in sight. This apparent lack of reaction is most probably due also to the rapid succession of events.. For the given circumstances, this incident would not have resulted in an actual air collision.. The Cause of the investigated event was formally documented as "the trainee controller gave an instruction to the A320 to turn earlier than foreseen by the published (SID) route without taking the projected flight path of the ERJ195 into consideration (having) assumed that there would be enough separation". Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows, the one in bold type was additionally classified as a ‘Safety Issue’: The trainee controller declared he was a bit under stress and that he considered every shift as an examination. He was eager to show that he could be proactive.. The potential conflict was initially not noticed by the OJTI. The trainee was speaking with a rather