low voice and the OJTI did not have a separate radar screen. [Safety Issue]. The design of the departures from Antwerp to waypoint ‘GILOM’ and from Brussels to waypoint ‘REMBA’ involves converging tracks.. When the STCA activation occurred, the trainee still lacked situational awareness and thought that the A320 was much lower than the ERJ195 while in fact it was already above and initially gave the A320 a wrong instruction to stop climbing.. Five ‘Findings that increased risk’ were also identified as follows, the two in bold type were additionally classified as ‘Safety Issues’: The trainee stated that he was tired and had not slept very well.. There was a delay in giving the correct climb instructions to the A320. The OJTI knew what the solution was and informed the trainee controller but as he was a bit confused he didn’t react immediately.. Currently no rule or procedure exists for the configuration of a trainee with his OJTI about who has the responsibility or priority in case of situations requiring immediate action. [Safety Issue]. The crew of the A320 didn’t react adequately to the TCAS RA. However they declared that they had visual contact with the conflicting traffic.. Although the flight level is indicated on the radar display for each aircraft, the controller still sees a lateral 2-D view. No aids currently exist to show a 3D-situation and/or a vertical resolution to solve the conflict in case of a STCA. [Safety Issue]. Six ‘Other Findings’ were also formally documented as follows: That day the trainee controller started his shift at 08:45 local time and had a break 30 minutes before the incident, so it happened after approximately 3 hours and 40 minutes of working (breaks included).. The OJTI was duly qualified and experienced.. The trainee controller tried to resolve the converging SID tracks being followed by the traffic from Antwerp and Brussels by instructing the Antwerp SID traffic to turn left.. Only when an STCA was triggered did the supervising OJTI react.. The TCAS on both aircraft alerted the crews of a conflict risk.. At the time of the event, VMC prevailed so both crews had visual contact.. Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation as a result of it by ANSP Skeyes (Belgocontrol as rebranded in 2018) was noted as the modification of the Brussels ACC ‘APP’ section so that up to 3 OJTI/Trainee pairs can operate with both the OJTI and the trainee having access to their own sole-use radar display. One Safety Recommendation was made as follows: that Skeyes improves the STCA spatial presentation of aircraft in flight when a potential conflict is detected. [BE 2020-0001]. The ‘Issue Date’ of the Final Report of the Investigation was 1 September 2020 and it was released later the same month.