An Investigation was carried out by the Air Accident Investigation Unit (Belgium) - AAIU. The Investigation relied on recorded ATC data which included TCAS RA Mode ‘S’ downlink information from both aircraft. These data were used by EUROCONTROL to run a simulation of the event using their Interactive Collision Avoidance Simulator (INCAS) which provided valuable insights. DFDR and CVR data from the two aircraft involved were not sought. No flight crew details were recorded but the 30 year-old trainee controller, who had level 5 English Language certification, was working under the supervision of an experienced 52 year-old Instructor with a level 4 English Language certification. It was noted that the trainee controller had, since 2008, held a Latvian controller licence with ratings for Area Control and Approach Control at Riga ACC. He was on his fifth month of working under supervision at Brussels having had to repeat his 30-day Phase 2 training before commencing his Phase 3 training from which he would have been eligible for release as a qualified APP controller if, with 13 training days of this phase left, he had been assessed at the end of it to be sufficiently competent. It was therefore considered “imperative” that at this late stage of their training, a trainee must demonstrate the ability to “work alone or at least, to some degree, independent from his OJTI” (On-the-Job-Training Instructor). The trainee himself described his whole training period as having been “stressful”. It was found that the applicable working arrangements meant that the supervising OJTI ultimately responsible for the position occupied by the trainee was such that the instructor, seated behind and to one side of the trainee, was not able to see the disposition of traffic on the radar screen directly in front of the trainee. The E195 took off from runway 07R first on a CIV 7J SID and was followed two minutes later by the A320 on a SPI 5J SID. The tracks of these two SID did not cross although both involved right turns, the CIV 7J right turn being inside the SPI 5J one. Both aircraft were transferred to the Departure frequency where the controllers involved were in position. Already on frequency was a B350 which had departed Antwerp on a GILOM 2F SID and had been cleared to continue climbing to FL 150. The three SIDs involved and their initial tracking points are shown in the illustration below. The trainee detected a potential conflict between the B350 climbing out of Antwerp which he had cleared to FL 150 and the E195 which he had cleared to climb to FL 070. Shortly after re-clearing the E195 to FL 080, he instructed the B350, which was at that time almost overhead the BUN DVOR, direct to the REMBA waypoint. This track change put the B350 on course to cross the extended centreline of the Brussels departure runway 07R at around 14 nm. The controller then instructed the E195 to turn early towards the CIV DVOR and 40 seconds