other equipment carried (IMPORTANT: if the letter “Z” is used, specify in Item 18 the other equipment carried, preceded by COM/ and/or NAV/, as appropriate.) Surveillance (SSR) equipment Here insert one or two of the following letters to describe the serviceable SSR equipment carried: N - None A - Transponder – Mode A (code only indication) C - Transponder – Mode A and Mode C (code and altitude indication) E - Mode S, including aircraft identification, pressure-altitude and extended squitter (ADS-B) capability H - Mode S, including aircraft identification, pressure-altitude and enhanced surveillance capability I - Mode S, including aircraft identification, but no pressure-altitude capability L - Mode S, including aircraft identification, pressure-altitude, extended squitter (ADS-B) and enhanced surveillance capability X - Transponder – Mode S without both aircraft identification and pressure altitude transmission P - Transponder – Mode S, including pressure altitude transmission, but no aircraft identification transmission S - Transponder – Mode S, including both pressure-altitude and aircraft identification transmission. Other indicators are B1, B2, U1, U2, V1, V2, D1 and G1 (denoting various ADS-B and ADS-C equipment) but these are very unlikely to be used in general aviation. Examples: Aircraft with VHF only and no transponder - insert V/N. Aircraft with VHF,VOR,ADF,ILS,DME,HF,Mode A and C transponder – insert SDH/C. REMEMBER to add oblique stroke between COM/NAV equipment codes and SSR equipment code. The most frequent option for general aviation is: S/C DEPARTURE AERODROME AND TIME (1) Departure Aerodrome (maximum 4 characters) On an ICAO flight plan, use four character location indicators. Example: EDDS, EPKK, LZKZ. ICAO aerodrome designators are presented in ICAO Doc 7910. If no location indicator is specified, as is the case in water aerodromes or many of the land VFR aerodromes, insert “ZZZZ” and specify the full name of the aerodrome in Item 18 preceded by “DEP/”. Example: DEP/VERY NICE AIRPORT If the name of the departure point is not listed in any aeronautical publication, to indicate it in Item 18 use: - degrees and minutes of latitude and longitude. Example: DEP/5023N02214E - bearing and distance to a navigation point or navigational aid. Example: DEP/ABC180017 (which means bearing 180 degrees and distance 17 NM from ABC aid) (2) Departure Time (maximum 4 characters) Here indicate the hour and minutes in Co-ordinated Universal Time (UTC) your estimated off-block time. Do not use non-alphanumeric characters (+ . ; = , ) they will not be accepted or printed. CRUISING SPEED, ALTITUDE/LEVEL AND ROUTE This is the most complex item. It contains very important information from the point of view of ATS therefore a careful and correct completion of this field is required. Mistakes in this field may be an indirect reason for such hazardous occurrences as airspace infringement. In item 15 insert: a) the first cruising speed as described in (A) below, b) the first cruising level as described in (B) below, and c) the route description as described in (C) below. (A) Cruising Speed (maximum 5 characters) Insert the true airspeed for the first or