AIRCRAFT IDENTIFICATION (maximum 7 characters) This consists of the aircraft registration letters or the company designator followed by the flight number which are to be used by air traffic services for radiotelephony communication and coordination. This field can be filled in in one of the following ways: a) aircraft registration when: - in radiotelephony, the call sign to be used by the aircraft will consist of this identification alone (Example: DAGXC or N137DK) - preceded by the ICAO telephony designator for the aircraft operating agency (Example: SMALL-AIRLINE DAGXC) - the aircraft is not equipped with radio; b) operating agency and flight number: ACA123, KLM672, BAW74W, etc. c) tactical call sign (usually military): BRUNO12, SWIFT45, RED1, etc. The most frequent option for general aviation is: aircraft registration. FLIGHT RULES AND TYPE OF FLIGHT (2 characters) This item indicates both flight rules and type of flight. Flight rules are important due to different regulations, weather and separation minimums for IFR and VFR flights. Insert one of the following letters to denote the category of flight rules with which the pilot intends to comply. Options are: I for IFR V for VFR Y for IFR first, then VFR (this will indicate to ATS that during the flight a pilot will call for IFR flight cancellation) Z for VFR first, then IFR (this will indicate to ATS that during the flight a pilot will call for changing to IFR which will require ATC clearance from ATS) If “Y” or “Z” is used, specify, in the route section of the flight plan, the point(s) where a change in flight rules is planned. Similarly, where there is more than one change in the type of flight rules, the code to be used is to reflect the first rule, i.e., use “Z” for VFR/IFR/VFR. Then insert one of the following letters to denote the type of flight if required by the appropriate ATS authority. Options are: S for scheduled air service N for non-scheduled air service G for general aviation M for military X for other than the preceding categories The most frequent option for general aviation is: VG (assuming You will fly VFR general aviation flight) NUMBER AND TYPE OF AIRCRAFT AND WAKE TURBULENCE CATEGORY Insert number of aircraft, if more than one (1 or 2 characters) followed by type of aircraft (2 to 4 characters). The type of aircraft is indicated by the manufacturer’s designator. If no such designator has been assigned, or in the case of formation flights comprising more than one type, insert “ZZZZ” and specify the number(s) and type(s) of aircraft in Item 18 (see below) preceded by “TYP/” (up to 60 characters can be put, for example: TYP/3C182 2C172). ICAO aircraft type designators are presented in ICAO Doc 8643. Then add ICAO Wake Turbulence Category (1 character). Options are: /L – LIGHT, to indicate an aircraft type with a maximum certificated takeoff mass of 7000 kg (15 500 lbs) or less. /M – MEDIUM, to indicate an aircraft type with a