of 181 Vac because the negative wire voltage was above 19Vdc. Examination of the main excitation cable showed that the negative main excitation wire had been damaged by electrical arcing with the cable shielding which surrounded the both wires in the cable. It was not possible to be certain of the origin of the damage although it was certainly considered possible that damage or imperfection could have arisen during manufacture or installation at build. The same NVM data also showed that the Over Current protection for the No 1 VFG output had triggered correctly so that the consequences of the fault had been contained. It was concluded that the LPU damage was a consequence of excessive current flowing through them because they were exposed to a high voltage over a longer period than their lightning protection function requires. The No 1 VFG and the No 1 and No 6 GGPCUs were sent for examination by the respective OEMs and found serviceable. With this information assembled, the Investigation was able to explain the recurrence of the ECAM ELEC GEN 1 FAULT messages which had appeared twice during No 1 engine starts on the day of the investigated event and, as noted above, when high thrust was first set following the initial replacement of damaged components. They had been caused by the damaged No 1 VFG main excitation wire but because the troubleshooting and test procedures in place at the time had not required a full wiring continuity and insulation check, the root cause of the ECAM indication had not been found. On the subject of fire detection and suppression, it was concluded that: there was no fire detection or suppression system installed on the aircraft to detect fire in the vicinity of the feeder terminal block. there was no way for the cabin crew to access the damaged feeder terminal block in order to fight any fire there. the flow of the fire extinguishing agent which had been discharged from the toilet compartment could not reach a fire at the feeder terminal block. the fire that damaged the feeder terminal block had probably extinguished by itself - but it remains a concern that there is no sure way of detecting and extinguishing a fire in that area.. A number of Safety Actions consequent upon the findings of the Investigation were noted: The Operator completed an inspection of its A380 aircraft fleet for degradation of the Main Excitation Cable and found no similar wire degradation. Airbus issued an All-Operator Notice on 4 April 2011 “to disallow flight crew to reset the generator in the case of ELEC GEN 1(2)(3)(4) FAULT or ELEC APU GEN A(B) FAULT”. The OEM responsible for the Fast Over Voltage (FOV) protection logic in the Generator and Ground Power Control Units (GGPCU) installed on the aircraft has redesigned it so that it is triggered when the negative Main Excitation Wire voltage is higher than 95% of the positive Main Excitation Wire voltage. This new logic has been validated