The Incident occurred in international waters and the Investigation was conducted by the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau. It was determined that there was no DFDR information that was relevant to the Investigation and noted that the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) record of the period in which the incident occurred had been over-written. It was established that about 45 minutes before arriving in Singapore, an ECAM message was annunciated of smoke in toilet compartment LM35 situated on the left hand side of the forward main deck. At the same time, the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) had been in that compartment and he had heard a loud bang. The lights in the compartment had gone out and an “electrical burning smell” was apparent. The Flight Crew were informed and when smoke was seen coming from the base of the wall panel under the compartment basin, the SCCM positioned a fire extinguisher under the basin pointing in the direction of the smoke and discharged it. It was stated that within about 10 minutes, the smoke and smell of burning had cleared. The compartment door was left open for the rest of the flight for monitoring and no further signs of fire or smoke were seen. Inspection of the aircraft after completion of the flight found signs of burning on the feeder terminal block for the No.1 Variable Frequency Generator (VFG) located in the forward cargo compartment below the affected toilet compartment, on the feeder cables connected to the feeder terminal block and on the insulation blankets around this feeder block. The inner surface of the cover of this feeder terminal block was partly covered in soot but there was no sign of any heat damage. The Lightning Protection Units (LPUs) connected to the feeder terminal block showed signs of melting. After replacing the burnt components and performing a No 1 engine idle power ground run, the aircraft was released to service but when take off thrust was applied, the ECAM alert message “ELEC GEN 1 FAULT” appeared and so the take off was abandoned and the aircraft returned to the gate. Further investigation found that the No 1 VFG Main Excitation Cable, which contains two wires in which voltages are differentially varied by the associated No 1 GGPCU in order to create a means of voltage control, was degraded with the sheath and shielding of the cable and the insulation of one of the wires within it both damaged. No heat or stress damage was found in the vicinity of damaged cable and it was found that no maintenance work had been performed on it since the aircraft had been delivered. The non-volatile memory (NVM) from the No 1 Generator and Ground Power Control Unit (GGPCU) which controls the No 1 Engine VFG was downloaded and showed that at the time of the in-flight event being investigated, the GGPCU Fast Over Voltage (FOV) protection logic had failed to trigger when the No 1 VFG output voltage reached the established maximum figure