The airline considers the airport to be one requiring specific briefing and crew qualification procedures. The local topography can indeed result in wind variations leading to strong turbulence and rapidly varying visibility and cloud conditions. The approach briefing should focus briefly and concisely on the following: The need for maintaining visual contact with the runway strobe lights by one crewmember, which reduces his or her capacity to monitor flight instruments.. The need to rely on automation to support task-sharing and help workload management.. The need for a high level of concentration and for effective coordination by the crew and ATC.. The need for being prepared for a go-around to avoid this type of occurrence.. The need to beware of visual illusions that may exist when looking at a misleading visual scene. Disorientation can occur when there are difficulties in orientation or when there is a mismatch between the real world and what is sensed.. The need to maintain permanent instrument scanning to counter the potential for vestibular disorientation.. The need for the pilot to trust his instruments rather than his own senses. The pilot may fail to perceive angular motion, called the leans; with a slow rate of roll, the pilot may feel that his aircraft is still flying straight and level although the attitude indicator shows that the aircraft is, in fact, turning.. The need to keep in mind that this distortion of sensed information can indeed have strong effects on situation assessment and decision making.. When situational awareness is lost, as in loss of visual contact, correct go-around procedures must immediately and promptly be followed. This involves task sharing and callouts of go-around altitudes, speeds, headings and tracks, minimum safe altitudes, sector altitudes and limits.. Most aircraft require that the initial go-around be flown at constant speed and without any acceleration with one notch of flap retraction. The acceleration and cleanup should be done at a higher altitude. This is to ensure that a correct go-around is performed and associated procedures are followed. In general, there are no go-around procedures that require a sustained turn. Although most are standard, some go-arounds are problematic, either due to visual maneuvering or ATC intervention.