An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was available but Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten preventing any evaluation of the Crew Resource Management aspects of the event including the “lack of monitoring of the basic parameters and the flight path” which the Investigation eventually found had played a major part in the event. Both operating crew were experienced on type. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF and that the cruise speed prior to the event had been M0.83. FDR data showed that the turbulence encounter began suddenly and lasted approximately one minute. During this time, the indicated airspeed increased quickly to M0.87, just above the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) MMO of M0.866 triggering the ‘OVERSPEED’ warning. The First Officer had responded by pressing the side stick takeover button, which disconnected the AP, and making a significant pitch up input without the awareness of the PF in respect of either action. The aircraft climbed rapidly with a pitch attitude of up to 12º at up to 5700fpm to a maximum of just over FL380, by which time speed had reduced to M0.66. The PF was unaware of what was happening and stated to the Investigation that he “noted with surprise that altitude was 38,000 feet and asked the PNF if they were cleared for FL350”. Only as the aircraft was descending through 36,520 feet some 30 seconds after the maximum altitude had occurred did the PF realise that the AP was not engaged. Once the cleared level had been regained, the AP and A/T were reengaged and the flight completed to destination without further event. The vertical profile of the excursion flown. Reproduced from the Official Report. The Investigation considered the use of the onboard weather radar and noted that there was no direct advice on tilt settings in either Air France FCOM or the Airbus FCTM but noted that such appears in an Airbus-authored generic Briefing Note on this subject Airbus FOBN:Adverse Weather Operations - Optimum Use of the Weather Radar. It was found that “the adjustment of the weather radar (had not been) the most suitable for detecting the convective zone crossed. The activation of angle of attack protection (“Alpha Prot”) for over half of the 2 minute excursion was noted, as was the fact that this protection had been activated only because Normal Law had remained until the aircraft commander had pitched down for at least a second when the angle of attack was less than the maximum this protection mode permits - ‘Alpha MAX’. The inverse relationship between the Alpha Prot threshold applies and the prevailing Mach Number was also noted. It was determined that: If the AP had not been manually disengaged, it would have remained engaged; there would not have been a significant trajectory deviation, with a gain in altitude of about 200 feet.. Without the high angle of attack protection, the aeroplane would have kept its