ascending trajectory until the triggering of the stall warning”.. The AP disconnect warning had been rendered inaudible to both pilots by the concurrent sounding of higher category alerts, a situation which although in accordance with the 1995 type certification of the A340 would no longer meet current certification requirements.. The ‘startle effect’ of unexpected occurrences and the effect this can have on some pilots was considered. It was considered that “The PNF, probably surprised by the “OVERSPEED” warning as well as by the unanticipated turbulence, experienced a “startle” effect.” In that context, it was observed that: “Sometimes (such a sudden) effect sparks primal instinctive reaction, instant and inadequate motor responses. These basic reflexes may prove to be incorrect and difficult to correct under time pressure and may affect the pilot’s decision-making ability. The surprise effect typically occurs when there is a difference between the mental representation that the pilot has of the aeroplane’s behaviour and its real behaviour (instrument failures, trajectory upset) or when an unexpected event occurs. Its intensity depends on the severity, frequency and predictability of the event, as well as the previous experience of the crew. In some cases the surprise effect may lead to: Disturbance of memorisation mechanisms. Reduction or loss of situational awareness. Forgetting procedures. Absence of reaction or an over-long reaction time”. The formal Conclusions of the Investigation were that: “This serious incident was due to inadequate monitoring of the flight parameters, which led to the failure to notice AP disengagement and the level bust, following a reflex action on the controls”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: The AP disengagement aural warning was not broadcast, because of (the simultaneous) “OVERSPEED” warning with higher priority.. The turbulence encountered at the start of climb made parameter reading difficult.. Checking AP engagement, as required in the operator’s “Severe Turbulence” procedure, was not carried out.. Inappropriate use of the weather radar meant it was not possible to avoid entering a zone of turbulence.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that EASA introduce the surprise effect in training scenarios in order to train pilots to react to these phenomena and work under stress.. [Recommendation FRAN-2012-021] that EASA evaluate the possibility of requiring that the autopilot disengagement aural warning for all aeroplanes of a maximum mass on take-off of more than 5.7 t be triggered in compliance with paragraphs AMC 25.1322 and AMC 25.1329(j) of the CS-25.. [Recommendation FRAN- 2012-022] that the DGAC ensure that operators provide training and practice to their crews enabling them to improve their use of weather radar.. [Recommendation FRAN-2012-023] that the DGAC request that operators check, for example in the context of flight analysis or LOSA, that the use of weather radar is in accordance with procedures or best practices.. [Recommendation FRAN-2012-024] that EASA and ICAO require that the minimum recording duration of CVR’s be increased to allow the recording in full of long-haul flights.. [Recommendation FRAN-2012-025] The Final Report of the Investigation was published in May 2012 with