for an immediate take-off" from intersection 'F' ahead of the backtracking aircraft and when this was accepted, take-off clearance was granted immediately. The intersection take-off was commenced using the reduced engine thrust which had been planned for a full-length take-off. As the take off roll progressed, "both pilots made the observation that the remaining length of the runway was unusually short". However, the Captain did not increase the thrust setting in response. V1 speed (140 KIAS) was reached 700 metres prior to the end of the runway when abeam the 'D' intersection and the aircraft became airborne when abeam the 'C' intersection which was 350 metres before the end of the runway. As the aircraft passed over the end of the runway, QAR data showed that it had been passing 104 feet agl. It was noted that the area beyond the 1900 metres TORA from intersection 'F' "cannot be used as a stopway in the event of a rejected take-off". During a short discussion between the two pilots about the lack of runway which occurred after take-off, the reason for it "still remained unnoticed" and it was not until "the end of his flight duty" that the Captain "became aware of a possible error" and informed both his First Officer and the Belair Flight Safety Officer of his conclusion that "the take-off in Porto had been performed with insufficient engine power". The Investigation noted that although this reduced engine thrust had been sufficient for a normal take-off "according to the manufacturer's official performance calculations", it had not met the requirement to be able to stop the aircraft on the remaining available runway length in case of a rejected take-off up to V1 speed or to be able to continue the take-off in the event of an engine failure after V1. In order to establish the context for the crew error at the heart of the event, the Investigation carried out an in-depth review of the circumstances in which it had occurred. Crew fatigue was discounted as a factor and attention was focused on crew actions and relevant Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and their supporting documentation. It was considered that the arrival of the handling agent with their 'one passenger down news' for the Captain had amounted to a distraction and concluded that "the decision to interrupt his work and leave the flight deck at this stage was not appropriate to the situation and facilitated the occurrence of the […] serious incident". It was noted that the 'Before Pushback or Start’ procedure "stipulates that the final take-off data is first entered by the commander" but that the other pilot must then check these entries. However, on the day, "neither the data entry nor the check were performed in accordance with this provision" and so it was "not possible by the flight crew to discover that the take-off data were incorrectly programmed". It was also noted that the last action in this procedure is the Before Start Checklist, "which includes both pilots