Notification of the event was not received until over three weeks after it occurred, on 24 October 2013. Portugal delegated the conduct of the Investigation to Switzerland and it was commenced on 22 November 2013 by the former Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB), since replaced by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). Because of the late initial notification, by the time the Investigation started, relevant data from both FDR and CVR were no longer available and neither were relevant ATC radar and communications recordings. However, relevant recorded data from the QAR and both EFBs was available and used. It was found that both pilots were familiar with operations on the aircraft type involved. The Captain had 9611 hours total flying experience which included 1624 hours on type and the First Officer had 2185 hours total flying experience which included 1335 hours on type. The Captain was PF for the investigated departure. It was established that prior to the arrival of the loadsheet, the Captain had provisionally used an estimate of the take-off mass to calculate the required engine thrust for take-off from runway 17 using his EFB. Since an intersection take-off from 'F' (see the aerodrome diagram below) with 1900 metres TORA would require full thrust and since reduced thrust could be used if the full runway length (3480 metres TORA) was used, he input the full length take-off data into the FMGS with the awareness of the First Officer. When the loadsheet subsequently arrived, the actual take-off mass was 3.5 tonnes less than the earlier estimate and during the subsequent take-off briefing based on a full length take-off, the Captain "resolved to re-assess the option of an intersection take off". He carried out the calculation on his EFB and found that a reduced thrust take-off would now be possible from intersection 'F', albeit with a smaller reduction than would apply to a full length take-off. At this point, the arrival of the handling agent advising that they were one passenger down led him to record the results on a piece of paper, aware that reprogramming of the FMGS was still to be done. He then left the flight deck "to take care of this matter" and was absent for approximately ten minutes. Soon after he returned, ATC gave push back and engine start clearance and the intended reprogramming of the FMGS for an intersection take-off did not occur - although the First Officer subsequently stated that he had assumed that it had been done. It was noted that the arrival of the aircraft into Porto had been 13 minutes behind schedule and that the missing passenger situation had had the effect of increasing the departure delay slightly to 21 minutes. Whilst taxiing out, the flight crew requested take-off from intersection 'F'. ATC then issued clearance to the aircraft taxiing in front of them on taxiway 'F' to enter the runway and backtrack for a full-length take-off. This was followed by ATC asking if the flight crew "were prepared