cross-checking the take-off data again" but that "even using this Checklist, (neither pilot noticed) that the programmed take-off data did not correspond to the calculated take-off data on the commander's EFB”. It was considered that a number of factors may have contributed to the incomplete execution of the 'Before Pushback or Start' procedure as follows: the Captain's inappropriate and unusual use of a piece of paper to record. the calculated take-off data the First Officer's biased assumption that the take-off data which the Captain had recently calculated were correctly programmed in the FMGS. the one-off careless execution of an important check, probably due to the frequency of the checks prescribed in the entire process. the effect of time pressure caused by the departure delay. the nature of the applicable SOPs and their presentation to flight crews. It was found that whilst the elements of procedure came from a range of original sources and were suitably cross referenced, they were not presented in a user-friendly way. Since a flight crew will use the relevant QRH Pre Start Checklist to prepare for their flight, the fact that key checks were not revisited after the decision to request an intersection take-off was significant. The incomplete execution of the steps required by the 'Before Pushback or Start' process remained undetected because subsequent Checklists only resulted in a confirmation that (some) take-off data had been programmed in the FMGS and not what that data was. It was also considered that as the Operator allowed the entering and checking of take-off data to be "subject to task sharing between the PF and the PM”, the process followed "therefore varied from flight to flight". It was considered that although the taxi procedure "includes the steps to be taken in the event that the take-off data or the intended take-off runway is changed", since the First Officer "believed that the intersection take-off data had already been programmed", the stated qualification for these steps was "if required" which did not trigger any such action. It was especially noticed that since the taxi procedure is required to be completed by the PM alone in silence, the Captain had no influence on the response to 'if required', whereas had it been a challenge and response or other verbalised procedure, the Captain might have been reminded of the status of the FMGS data. A similar charge of ineffectiveness was also considered to apply to the 'Before Take-Off Procedure' which required only that the pilots check whether the aircraft is on the intended runway since "there is no check stipulated to ensure the correct intersection or the available runway length". Had this been included, it "could have served as a reminder of the delayed programming of the correct take-off data". It was concluded that "the stipulation that the take-off data check and take-off briefing check should be performed in silence while taxiing is an inappropriately narrow interpretation of the sterile cockpit procedure". A "closed loop" procedure involving both pilots which allows an incorrect