An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was noted that the pilot was one of four employed by Skippers Aviation and based at Broome to operate the C441 aircraft there. After being employed by the operator, he had qualified on type 9 months prior to the investigated event and had a total of 2,403 hours flight time, of which 402 hours were on type. His training records for conversion to the C441, line check and most recent instrument proficiency were found “not to contain any major issues or concerns regarding his performance or capability”. The pilot was operating the aircraft involved on a return scheduled passenger flight from Broome to Halls Creek via Fitzroy Crossing on an IFR flight plan. The first and last sectors were expected to take around 45 minutes and the second and third about half an hour. No significant weather was forecast for the Broome area although there was a possibility of afternoon thunderstorms whilst away from Broome. The same pilot had flown the aircraft the previous day and had recorded the fuel on board at the end of the day’s flying read from the fuel gauges as 1,300 lb. Prior to departing for the following day’s flights, fuel to make a total of 2,350 lb was uploaded which would be sufficient to complete the planned four sectors. After arriving at Halls Creek, the pilot recorded the fuel quantity on board from the gauges as 1,430 lb and stated that the difference in indicated fuel quantity after the first two sectors was consistent with the expected use. On arrival at Fitzroy Crossing after the third sector, he recorded the fuel quantity on board from the gauges as 1,300 lb which indicated an apparent fuel burn of 130 lb (although he erroneously recorded 230 lb on the flight log) whereas the expected fuel burn was 357 lb which would have led to an indicated fuel quantity of about 1,110 lb. The OFP (Operational Flight Plan) showed that an estimated 977 lb would be used on the final sector including required reserves and the pilot subsequently stated that having noted that the indicated fuel quantity was above that required, he had not considered the difference between the expected and indicated fuel quantity any further. He reported that when taxiing for departure from Fitzroy Crossing, the right fuel transfer pump ‘fail’ indication had “illuminated momentarily” which he had attributed to “fuel movement within the tank during the left turn onto the runway from a downward sloping taxiway”. Having also noticed an imbalance between the indicted fuel quantity in the left tank and right tanks (left higher) he had then selected the right engine crossfeed (both engines supplied from the left tank) until the indicated quantity in each tank was similar before taking off. The subsequent takeoff and the 18 minute climb to FL 260 were reported as normal. However, shortly after levelling off, the left main fuel boost pump CB