is not carried out at intermediate stops, cross checks, other than prior to the first flight of the day, may be made by checking the fuel quantity gauge readings against the calculated fuel on board". The operator’s practice for recording fuel burn and fuel on board before each flight relied on the flight log forms used by each pilot which, in terms of fuel, allowed them to compare fuel actually used per sector based on the fuel gauge differences with the planned fuel burn. An examination of the flight log figures for fuel actually burned on the previous days two sectors flown by the same pilot and aircraft found that after the first sector the fuel recorded as burnt was 201 lb compared to a 664 lb planned burn and for the second sector the fuel recorded as burnt was122 lb compared to a 730 lb planned burn. On the four sectors the following day which ended in the forced landing, it was noted that whilst the planned and actual fuel burns for the first two sectors were similar, the fuel recorded as burned was significantly lower than planned (130 lb compared to a planned 357 lb) and had resulted in the recorded departure fuel for the final sector being artificially inflated. It was noted that the OM Part 1 stated that the definition of the recorded fuel quantity on departure “shall be the fuel total as described in the aircraft type specific operations manual” but no such information was provided. It was noted that the fuel flow gauges on all the operator’s Cessna 441 aircraft received their information from fuel flow transducers and that this information was also fed to the Garmin GNS 530 GPS/navigation system which had a fuel totaliser function. This required that a departure fuel figure was manually entered prior to each flight and/or after refuelling after which the residual fuel was continuously calculated. Senior pilots told the Investigation that the fuel burn figures produced by the Garmin 530 totaliser function were accurate. However, although there was a stated requirement that the Garmin GNS 530 totaliser function should be used as a means to cross check the fuel quantity indications after each fight, it was found that this requirement was widely ignored and that this fact was widely known. It was observed by the Investigation that “if the pilot of the occurrence flight had used the procedure, then it would have identified a significant discrepancy after the third sector on the day of the occurrence (and was) also likely to have detected the discrepancies on the two sectors they had flown on the previous day". The other concern was that the pilot took no account of the illumination of the fuel low level annunciators, which were independent of the fuel quantity indication system, when deciding whether to continue the planned fight. Had he done so, he would have been able to safely complete a diversion. Five Contributing Factors, one of which was defined as a ‘Safety