was after the aircraft was parked outside during a period of particularly heavy rainfall during a period when it was out of service awaiting a repair to the right wingtip damaged during a towing accident. However these circumstances could not be confirmed to have resulted in water ingress to the right wing fuel tank. An explanation as to why the routinely required daily checks for water in drained fuel samples and the responses to such findings in the event that abnormal water contamination was found was sought. It was noted that the operators OM Part 1 included a requirement that pilots must conduct a fuel drain prior to the first flight of the day and following each refuel. This fuel sample must be visually checked for water and other contaminants and in the event any water is evident, further drains must be conducted until water was no longer visually evident. Once this point is reached during any required fuel drain process, the procedure requires that a further sample must be chemically tested for water using a water detection capsule. Should this water test result in a positive detection of water, a corresponding defect was to be recorded and this would ground the aircraft until the defect was cleared by qualified maintenance personnel. It was found that the operator did not provide guidance as to what amount of water should be considered excessive nor did it require any reporting or recording (in the aircraft flight log or alternative maintenance documentation) of any water drained from fuel tanks. It appeared to the Investigation that the assessment of excessive water in the fuel relied on the judgement of individual pilots as supported by any knowledge gained from instructor pilots during training. It was also found that the operator’s water drain procedure did not include guidance on allowing a fuel sample to stagnate for a period to enable any water in suspension to settle, or to remind pilots that water may be in areas not immediately accessible via drain points. In the case of the series of flights by the aircraft involved on the day of the forced landing, the pilot stated that he had carried out a fuel drain check during his first pre-flight external check of the day whilst the aircraft was still in the hangar and did not recollect any concerns about the findings. He did perform a second water drain test after refuelling had taken place and on neither occasion did he carry out the second stage of required testing using the water detection capsule, a lack of compliance which he was unable to offer any explanation for. On the subject of fuel management during and between flights, relevant guidance in the General and Type-Specific sections of the OM stated that the PIC must use the indicated against calculated cross check to ensure sufficient fuel is on board for an intended flight before departure. It noted that “when a series of flights is undertaken by the same crew and refuelling