tripped and the corresponding auxiliary boost pump on annunciator illuminated. After waiting a short time for the main fuel pump to cool, the pilot reset its CB but it tripped again, so he actioned the QRH Checklist for “Main and Auxiliary fuel boost pump failure”. Six minutes after reaching the top of climb, the pilot contacted Brome TWR and reported maintaining FL 260 with approximately 90 nm to run to Broome and was cleared when ready to descend to 7,000 feet. Almost immediately this clearance had been received, descent was commenced from a position approximately 27 nm south of Curtin Airport and 42 nm south of Derby Airport (see the illustration below). At about the same time, the pilot reported having again observed a fuel imbalance, this time with the right tank contents higher than left) and that the total indicated fuel quantity “was not consistent with the fuel quantity indications on departure and the fuel flow observed during climb”. He stated that he had then selected left engine crossfeed (both engines supplied from the right tank), but had seen that the right auxiliary boost pump annunciator did not illuminate as expected for this crossfeed selection. He reported that when the left tank quantity began to show the expected increase, he had “assessed” that the absence of an indication that the auxiliary booster pump was working was an indication fault. He added that during the crossfeed, an intermittent annunciation that the right fuel transfer pump had failed occurred (as seen prior to the earlier cross feeding prior to takeoff) and this had prompted him to stop the crossfeed. The right tank fuel low level indication was then annunciated but having checked the total fuel remaining based on the indications on both fuel gauges, he had concluded that there was sufficient fuel to continue to Broome as planned. However, shortly after this, the right fuel transfer pump fail annunciation became continuous and the right ‘FUEL PRESS LOW’ indication was illuminated, with corresponding left fuel system indications then following a few minutes later. The annotated ground track of the aircraft from just before top of climb until the forced landing. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The right engine then began surging and whilst the pilot was actioning the partial / intermittent engine power checklist, the left engine also started to surge. The right engine then failed and the pilot contacted the Broome TWR controller and declared a MAYDAY with the aircraft at FL155 and approximately 47 NM east of Broome and at around the same distance from both Derby and Curtin. A few minutes later, with the aircraft descending through 10,800 feet and now approximately 38 nm from Broome, the TWR controller asked if the aircraft would still be able to reach Broome and was advised that the left engine was still operating and they would be able to reach Broome. However, shortly after this, the left engine also lost all power with an attempted restart only briefly successful before it again