failed. Having recognised that it was now impossible to reach Broome, the pilot turned south towards the only main road in the area and advised TWR of a dual engine failure and the intention to make a forced landing on the road south of Broome. A successful emergency landing gear extension and passenger briefing followed but the latter did not include an instruction to brace for the landing. The forced landing was subsequently accomplished on the main road approximately 21 nm east-south-east of Broome without any occupant injuries or damage to the aircraft. After bringing the aircraft to a stop, the pilot contacted another aircraft in the area who was able to relay their situation to Broome TWR. The passengers were all subsequently taken to Broome by road and the aircraft was towed to a nearby truck stop and secured. A photo of the fuel quantity gauges taken approximately an hour after the landing showed that their combined indications were about 1,120 lb whilst subsequent inspection found that there was “little or no usable fuel on board”. On the day following the forced landing, the fuel drains were operated and “a significant but unquantified amount of water” was collected. Fuel from sealed drums was then placed in the tanks and when drained was found not to contain any significant quantity of water. Engine ground runs did not result in any fuel leaks being detected and the fuel pump pressure low and fuel level low annunciators were checked and found to be operating normally. Based on this action and findings, and a preliminary assessment that both engines had probably lost power due to fuel exhaustion, the CASA issued Skippers Aviation with a special flight permit to allow the aircraft to be flown to Broome. Once at Broome, all usable fuel was drained from the aircraft by diverting boost pump output into drums. After allowing for the quantity of fuel added at the roadside and used during the ferry flight, it was confirmed that there was little or no usable fuel on board the aircraft at the time of the forced landing whilst the fuel quantity gauges both indicated 370 lb. To allow inspection of the fuel tanks and their internal components, the fuel drains were opened and the underwing access panels removed. Inspection of the interior of both tanks was found to show “significant water beading on the surfaces and on the fuel quantity probes and a grey substance, subsequently identified as a fungus, was found in the tanks (although not on the probes)". The probes were tested and found to be outwith the required capacitance specifications but when cleaned, dried and retested, functioned normally so that the zero fuel state was correctly indicated on the fuel quantity gauges. Potential opportunities for abnormal levels of fuel system contamination to have occurred after the last time the absence of such contamination had been routinely checked as a maintenance action during a scheduled check two months earlier were examined. The only such opportunity