Issue’, were identified as follows: Due to water contamination in the fuel tanks, the aircraft’s fuel quantity gauges were significantly over reading on the day of the occurrence and on previous days. This ultimately resulted in the aircraft departing for a flight without sufficient fuel to reach its destination.. [Safety Issue] Although the operator had specified multiple methods of cross-checking fuel quantity gauge indications for its C441 fleet, there were limitations in the design, definition and/or application of these methods. These included: ­The primary method used (indicated versus calculated fuel) was self-referencing in nature, and not able to detect gradual changes in the reliability of fuel quantity gauge indications. ­Pilots did not record (and were not required to record) sufficient information on flight logs to enable trends or patterns in fuel quantity gauge indications to be effectively identified. ­Pilots did not routinely cross-check information from fuel quantity gauge indications with information from the independent fuel totaliser.. ­The primary method used (indicated versus calculated fuel) was self-referencing in nature, and not able to detect gradual changes in the reliability of fuel quantity gauge indications.. ­Pilots did not record (and were not required to record) sufficient information on flight logs to enable trends or patterns in fuel quantity gauge indications to be effectively identified.. ­Pilots did not routinely cross-check information from fuel quantity gauge indications with information from the independent fuel totaliser.. Although the pilot routinely compared indicated versus calculated fuel quantities, and indicated versus flight-planned fuel quantities, the pilot did not routinely conduct two other methods stated in the operator’s procedures for cross-checking fuel quantity gauge indications.. The recorded fuel burn for the previous (third) sector based on fuel quantity gauge indications was substantially lower than the expected fuel burn based on the flight plan. However, in the absence of relevant information from other sources, the pilot did not regard this as being an indication of a fuel quantity indicating system problem.. The pilot disregarded the L/R FUEL LEVEL LOW annunciators, which likely illuminated approximately 30 minutes before the fuel was exhausted in each tank and when the aircraft was still within range of suitable alternative airports. The pilot relied on the (erroneous) fuel quantity indications and continued to Broome until the engines lost power, at which point a forced landing on a highway was the only remaining option.. Two Other Factors that increased risk, were also identified: Although the pilot stated that they conducted a fuel quality check prior to the first flight of the day, they did not conduct another check after refuelling (as required by the operator’s procedures), increasing the risk of undetected fuel contamination.. The pilot did not instruct the passengers to brace for impact prior to the emergency landing.. Safety Action taken as a result of this event and known to the Investigation was reported as having included: Skippers Aviation strengthened company management surveillance of its Broome base and enhanced its pilot line training procedures.. The CASA increased its surveillance of Skippers Aviation through a series