Detection & Confirmation. First indications of a wing fire may come from onboard systems, physical shock (from an explosion or impact), or observation. Clear communication between flight deck crew and cabin crew is essential. The cabin crew should check for signs of fire and continue to keep the captain informed of the development of any fire until the aircraft is safely on the ground. In some situations it may not be possible to see the fire, particularly if it is under the wing or in the undercarriage bay. In such circumstances, and depending on the stage of flight and location of the aircraft, it may be possible to ask other aircraft or an air traffic control tower to confirm the existence of the fire. Monitor aircraft systems, skin temperature in the vicinity of the suspected fire (if crew can gain access) and, if a fire is confirmed or suspected:. LAND AS SOON AS POSSIBLE Descent & Emergency Landing. See the section titled "Plan for Immediate Descent and Landing" in the separate article In-Flight Fire: Guidance for Flight Crews for guidance on emergency descent and landing. It is vital to get the aircraft on the ground before loss of control occurs.. See the section titled "Plan for Immediate Descent and Landing" in the separate article In-Flight Fire: Guidance for Flight Crews for guidance on emergency descent and landing. It is vital to get the aircraft on the ground before loss of control occurs.. Aircraft Handling. Few manufacturers and operators offer guidance to pilots on the handling of an aircraft with a wing fire. There are several things which a pilot could consider, depending on the nature of the fire and the aircraft type, that are aimed at limiting the spread of the fire: Don't slow down - keep the speed up to prevent the fire propagating forward. Some pilots even suggest that a steep dive might blow the fire out but this approach is not without risk. Side slip can hinder propagation of the fire towards the fuselage but should only be considered if the emergency response procedures of the aircraft operator provide for this. Manoeuvring the aircraft after touchdown (or a rejected take off) so as to stop the aircraft into wind or beyond may be important since it can materially delay propagation of a wing fire towards the fuselage. This strategy is equally applicable to a fire that is still confined to the engine/nacelle since it could quickly spread to the wing. Consideration should be given to the ability of fire and rescue services to access the aircraft. It may also be preferable to deploy evacuation slides onto the runway rather than an uncertain surface at the side of the runway.. Don't slow down - keep the speed up to prevent the fire propagating forward. Some pilots even suggest that a steep dive might blow the fire out but this approach is not without risk.. Side slip can hinder propagation of the fire towards the fuselage but should only