An Investigation was carried out by the Bangladesh Aircraft Accident Investigation Group (AAIG). Relevant recorded flight data was available from the FDR and the CVR. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain had a total of 23,512 hours flying experience of which 3,637 hours were on type and the 38 year-old First Officer had a total of 6,951 hours flying experience of which 1,869 hours were on type. It was noted that light rain had been falling prior to the reject and that the runway surface was “wet to damp” at the time it had occurred. It was established that there was no indication of any engine malfunctions until almost at V1 at which point ‘ENG FAIL R’ was annunciated and the crew took immediate action to reject the takeoff 31 seconds after the takeoff roll had commenced and come to a stop on the runway as prescribed. Once stopped, there were no other abnormal flight deck indications or any cabin reports of obvious engine distress and after approximately 2 minutes, when the TWR was advised of the reject, they simply “instructed the aircraft to vacate the runway and taxi back via the taxiway”. Having cleared the runway via an RET, the crew then asked for clearance to stop on it, which was approved with a request to be told what the problem was. When told that it was an “engine problem”, TWR transferred them to GND and the taxi in to parking was completed. No action was taken to carry out a runway inspection before permitting further use of the runway and it remained in use until it was realised that debris was likely to be on the runway. A runway inspection was then ordered and a considerable quantity of engine debris was found which, when collected, totalled 13.5 kg and included debris sizes ranging from small granules to larger pieces up to 15 cm long and 5 cm wide. Attendance of the Emergency Services to conduct an external inspection was at no stage offered by ATC or requested by the crew. It was also noted that although the Airport Fire Fighting section had a multi-frequency radio set, only the GND frequency is monitored and that even if directed to attend and externally inspect an aircraft, their vehicles were not equipped to facilitate direct communication with aircraft. An initial inspection of the failed engine found that the N2 rotor system was still rotating normally whereas N1 rotor system rotation “was restricted to about 120 degrees” and caused “metallic sounds” to occur. Borescope inspections of the Low Pressure Turbine (LPT) module subsequently found severe blade and vane damage beginning at stage 3 and continuing rearwards, but there were no abnormal findings from similar inspections of the Low Pressure Compressor (LPC), High Pressure Compressor (HPC) and high pressure turbine (HPT) modules. Extensive disassembly of the LPT module found that the full extent of the damage was: Thermal damage to stage 2, 3 and 4 stators locally around the 5 o’clock