radial position, reducing in that stage sequence.. Mechanical damage caused by the liberated vanes beginning at the stage 2 rotor which increased from stage 3 onwards.. The Investigation as to the cause of this damage eventually led to a focus on the 30 LPT module fuel spray nozzles. It was found that they had varying hysteresis values and an attempt to establish a reason for this, with a suspicion of contamination, led to a focus on their only movable component, their valves. Residues eventually identified as very small size particles of Super Absorbent Polymer (SAP) were found in nozzles in the vicinity of the 5 o’clock radial sector already associated with the damage. The particle sizes - mainly between 5µm to 20µm - were below the size which the engine fuel filter and the fuel nozzles strainers were designed to catch. It was concluded that, since there was also evidence of a high probability that fuel contamination in the engine’s Hydro Mechanical Unit (HMU) valve and in the fuel tank sample taken was also SAP, the contamination had “affected the complete fuel system and therefore must have been introduced by the fuel supply”. It was noted that SAP, which readily absorb water, are commonly used in the filter monitors installed in airport fuel handling (whether this is refuelling vehicles, hydrant dispensers or other mobile fuelling equipment) to ensure fuel uploaded is free of water in order to minimise the risk of ice formation in the engine fuel system and are typically globules in the same size range as those found during the Investigation. The equipment and procedures of the Dhaka aviation fuel supplier were investigated and it was noted that it was “technically supervised and supported by Shell” and was in compliance with their standards and its own documented procedures. The type of fuel filter elements used in their equipment was recorded as having dispensed 16,753,420 litres of fuel to about 20 different air carriers in the 14 day period around the date of the investigated event “with no adverse report”. The Investigation noted that operators of aircraft with GE90-94B and GE90-115B engines had previously been informed of two GE90-94B in-flight shutdown events which occurred in 2010 (one of these affected the function of both engines in flight and was extremely serious) had been directly related to a pre-flight fuel uplift which investigations had concluded were most likely caused by SAP contamination causing fuel nozzle valves to stick. It was also noted that evidence from these two investigations had shown that a SAP contamination during fuelling “does not necessarily result in an immediate event” and could then occur “an unknown number of cycles later”. The following observations were made without further comment: The R/T phraseology used by the flight crew following the rejected takeoff was improper.. Use of improper R/T phraseology by the flight crew following the rejected takeoff might have negated an effective response from the controller.. ATC did not have a procedure to apply in the event of