of a small area of moderate turbulence between FL350 and FL374 and a larger one of moderate to severe turbulence between FL374 and FL399” but both pilots reported that when viewing this chart, they had only “seen” moderate turbulence above as well as at their flight level and attributed this to being unfamiliar with the colour code used by the app for this chart (light green for moderate turbulence, dark green for severe turbulence).They commented that training for use of the app was by an e-learning course on the use of the app rather than directed classroom training. It was also noted that although the First Officer had downloaded the flight file again about half an hour before departure to check that there were no changes, this was mainly to look at the latest TAF and METAR and he had not checked the latest (and now current) SIGWX chart. Given the information the crew had accessed before departure, turbulence at the position it occurred was not entirely unexpected but the flight crew had not been expecting severe turbulence. However, the Captain’s pre flight briefing was given on the basis of a flight file downloaded 4½ hours before the flight departed with the First Officer having downloaded the same file at a similar time. This file did contain a SIGWX forecast chart, but not the one issued 4 hours prior to departure which was valid from flight departure time. The earlier chart used for the briefing did not forecast severe turbulence on the planned route whereas the later one did do so, with severe local turbulence forecast between FL300 and FL420. It was noted that whilst Transavia procedures ensure that a flight file including its forecast weather data are continuously updated, the applicable documentation does not specify at what point prior to departure pilots should download the flight file and brief using it. The flight crew response to the turbulence once it had begun was considered against the content of the Transavia OM and the Boeing 737 Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM). The OM was found to state that “the autopilot must be the primary means of control when entering turbulence” and the FCOM content for severe turbulence included instructions for the crew to disengage the A/THR and place the AP into CWS mode. What actually happened was that the AP and A/THR initially acted on the controls to reduce the thrust to counter the effects of the turbulence and the CWS mode was automatically engaged by the Captain’s control input. Relevant aspects of the training of Transavia cabin crew were examined and it was found that they covered turbulence procedures including “practical exercises in an aircraft mockup” every three years, although none of these concerned the actions to be performed in the cabin after severe turbulence. It was noted that all four of the cabin crew on the flight had been working for Transavia long enough to have completed this training several times. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the