An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, based on downloaded FDR data and crew statements, relevant data on the CVR having been overwritten. It was noted that the Training Captain in command had accumulated around 15,000 hours flying experience of which 11,200 hours had been as Captain and 6,800 hours had been on type. The First Officer had over 3000 hours flying experience of which 900 hours were on type. It was established that during their pre flight briefing carried out in the lobby of the hotel where they had been accommodated overnight, the Captain, having downloaded the flight file onto his EFB had noted that a risk of slight to moderate turbulence was forecast to occur about 90 minutes after takeoff. The flight subsequently departed and proceeded normally to establishing in the cruise at FL 370. Just as the senior cabin crew member (SCCM) arrived in the flight deck 1½ hour after departure to advise the Captain that cabin service had been completed, ATC advised the flight that the flight was “about to enter an area where severe turbulence had been reported between FL380 and FL400”. The Captain told the SCCM that “there was going to be turbulence within two to three minutes” and she returned to the cabin and went to the rear to where her two colleagues were. By the time she reached there, the ‘Fasten Seatbelt’ signs had been switched on and the No 2 cabin crew then made a PA to announce that turbulence was expected soon and the No. 3 began to pass through the cabin to check that passengers had fastened their seatbelts. The SCCM then returned to the front of the cabin, on the way passing the No 4 cabin crew who had begun a seat belt check from the front. In anticipation of the turbulence, two minutes after the ATC turbulence alert had been received, the First Officer had reduced the speed from M 0.79 to M 0.77. The first turbulence was felt approximately one minute after the illumination of the ‘Fasten Seatbelt’ signs and just over a minute later, ten seconds of moderate turbulence occurred “as the longitudinal wind component changed from a tailwind of 35 knots to a headwind of 11 knots and the left crosswind component with respect to the aircraft heading went from 77 knots to 50 knots”. The recorded vertical acceleration as detected close to the aircraft C of G varied between +0.52 g and +1.70 g. The indicated airspeed rapidly increased and as the overspeed warning was activated, the First Officer extended the air brakes whilst leaving the A/THR engaged. Following this ten second interval, the turbulence then increased in severity for six seconds, the recorded vertical acceleration went from -0.70 g to +1.71 g and then to -0.32 g as the aircraft rolled 37° to the left at up to 38° per second. The Captain took control, levelled the wings and engaged the AP in control