wheel steering (CWS) mode. He began a descent and asked the First Officer to inform ATC of this, although this was initially refused until the reason for the descent was give after which descent to FL 350 was approved. When the severe turbulence began, the SCCM managed to sit down and secure herself on a crew seat and the No 4 cabin crew was able to sit down in an unoccupied passenger seat and secure themselves but neither the No 3 cabin crew who was in the aisle at row 27 or the No 2 cabin crew who was in the rear galley had time to secure themselves and were “thrown against the ceiling twice”. Some passengers at the rear of the cabin who had not fastened their seatbelts were also thrown upwards and struck the overhead lockers and it was reported that “other passengers who had fastened their seatbelts (still) sustained minor injuries”. Once the turbulence was over, the situation in the cabin was assessed. The two cabin crew who had not been secured were reported to have taken “a few minutes to recover their senses” whilst the SCCM and the No 4 cabin crew went through the cabin to assist passengers who were injured or in shock. It was observed that “there was no division of tasks between the cabin crew and each one went through the cabin without coordinating with the others”. On completion of this cabin check, the SCCM reported to the Captain and asked for a call to be made for any medically qualified passengers to make themselves known. This was responded to by both a doctor and a medical student who, in coordination with the cabin crew then provided first aid to the injured passengers. The doctor then informed the Captain that the health of the passengers did not require a diversion and since there was no further risk of turbulence, the flight was continued to its intended destination with a request made for medical assistance on arrival. The general weather situation in which the flight took place was an anticyclone centred over Europe which was “creating a north-easterly flow marked by a jet stream running perpendicular to the terrain of the Dinaric Alps towards Italy”. This jet stream was situated behind the CAT and mountain waves breaking at high altitude over the Adriatic, a combination which was considered fairly common in this area and more generally downwind of any mountain range where a jet stream is perpendicular to such terrain. A SIGMET issued shortly before the flight took off warned of severe turbulence between FL190 and FL400 in the southern area of the Zagreb FIR where the encounter took place. In addition to online access to the specific flight file, all Transavia flight crews also had access to weather information via a proprietary app on their EFBs called ‘eWas PILOT’. When the latest SIGWX forecast chart provided by this app had been consulted, it had been indicating “the on-track presence over the Adriatic