After an unspecified delay in the reporting of the event to the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC), an Investigation was commenced. Recorded data from the CVR and FDR were no longer available due to this delay but the aircraft Operator provided relevant data from the QAR and a recording of pertinent ATC communications with the aircraft was available. The Investigation had requested a copy of relevant security camera footage of runway 03R "in order to ascertain the conditions in which the vehicle was working, its position and the movement of the aircraft" but the Airport Operator had "stated that such footage was not available". Weather conditions were not relevant to the occurrence - light winds and good visibility prevailed. The 36 year-old Captain was a German national who had accumulated a total of 6,550 flying hours which included 1,550 as Captain. Most of his experience - 6,030 hours - had been on the Boeing 737. The 26 year-old First Officer was a Dutch national who had accumulated a total of 1,000 flying hours which included 650 hours on type. Which pilot was acting as PF at the time of the event was not identified. The 38 year-old Controller involved had been a TWR controller since 2008 and at Gran Canaria since 2010. He was also both a supervisor and a supervisory instructor. He had just begun his afternoon shift as TWR Controller and had received a comprehensive position handover from the off-going controller which included the fact that runway 03R was closed. It was established that the TWR controller had, after clearing the previous departing aircraft to take off from runway 03L, cleared the 737 to "cross 03L and line up and wait on runway 03R". In the absence of a response from the aircraft which the crew reported had been a direct consequence of their "confusion" on hearing that their departure would unexpectedly now be from runway 03R, the controller repeated the instruction which was then acknowledged. About a minute later, the 737 crew observed a lit red stop bar ahead at the runway 03R holding point and queried this with the controller whilst briefly stopping the aircraft. Although responsible for the TWR frequency, the controller was also monitoring the Departure frequency in respect of the recovery of a helicopter using newly modified procedures and a transmission on Departure from the previously-departed aircraft overlapped the beginning of the query made by the 737 so that he only "heard part of the message" they transmitted. He subsequently stated that "he assumed that the crew had made the typical report that they were ready for departure". He therefore "re-authorised the crew to line up and wait on runway 03R" and, two minutes later issued take-off clearance. The 737 crew taxied into position across the lit stop bar and awaited take-off clearance. They reported having been aware of a vehicle ahead and on the right hand edge of the 45 metre-wide runway and stated that