coordinated with TWR.. The TWR Supervisor noted that a new procedure for recovering helicopters required to maintain regulatory compliance which had taken effect on the day of the occurrence was more "complex" than the previous procedure and that although the unit had a training simulator, familiarisation with this new procedure had been achieved through a classroom session, the simulator only being used for emergency and contingency plan change training. The role of the Local Runway Safety Committee (LRSC) in relation to the occurrence was considered. It was found that under a specific Technical Safety Instruction issued by the National Aviation Safety Agency (AESA), the LRSC had "responsibilities" which included "identifying potential safety problems on runways" and "ensuring that the recommendations included in the EAPPRI are implemented". This Technical Instruction also stated that "when the timeline or the urgency does not allow waiting until the next regular meeting", relevant matters will require that additional "extraordinary" meetings shall be held to address them. It also states that the proceedings of all meetings "is to be reflected in the minutes, which must be sent to the interested parties within two weeks" who will have "at least a further two weeks to make comments or request changes". With this in mind, it was noted that: The survey work which would involve regular closure of runway 03R was not discussed at the regular LRSC meeting held on 1 December 2015. However, this meeting did decide, according to the minutes, that the introduction of lighted cones at the thresholds of temporarily closed runways would help to avoid runway incursions and that this measure "would be immediately implemented". The minutes of this meeting were approved on 15 January 2016, eight days after the investigated event had occurred.. A meeting to discuss the work which would involve regular closure of runway 03R was held on 21 December 2015 but this was not an LRSC meeting and was not open to all members of the LRSC. The plan to place cones temporarily whilst a runway was closed as agreed during the LRSC meeting held on 1 December was "not discussed".. In respect of regulatory guidance on the subject of lit red stop bars across taxiways, it was noted that although ICAO (Annex 2, Doc 4444 and Doc 9870), European SERA ATS procedures and the EAPPRI all state that aircraft should not be taxied across such stop bars unless "contingency procedures" are in place, there is no definition of the what such procedures might be, only a single example, the use of a follow-me vehicle. No reference was made to any corresponding aircraft operating documentation. It was considered that the Investigation had "revealed a lack of common procedures or phraseology that allow crews to clearly identify if said measures are in effect" which "could have created doubts in the crew of the Germania aircraft, since after informing ATC that there was an illuminated stop bar and being cleared once more to line up on the runway, they might have assumed