that said contingency measures were in place". The existence at the time of completion of the Investigation of a relevant EASA Notice of Proposed Amendment (NPA) was noted, which although "subject to change until it goes into effect" provided the following guidelines in respect of "contingency measures to be used when the lights on a stop bar cannot be turned off": Disconnect the power supply from the affected stop bar.. Dim the lights on the affected stop bar.. Provide a vehicle to drive the aircraft across the stop bar.. The Cause of the event was formally stated as "the controller’s loss of situational awareness, as he instructed the crew of (the Boeing 737) to enter and then take off from runway 03R, despite (them) knowing that it was closed". Five Contributing Factors were identified as: The controller did not detect his mistake despite the presence of visual aids in the Tower indicating that the runway was closed. He also did not see the car in the runway 03R strip, though this may have been caused, as per the statement from the crew and the controller, by the fact that the car did not have its flashing lights on.. The controller only partially heard a report from the crew notifying that the stop bar was illuminated, but he did not ask for the message to be repeated and again instructed the crew to line up and wait.. The crew crossed an illuminated stop bar without having information regarding contingency measures in place to specifically allow this. Contributing to this was the fact that the regulation on stop bars and the applicable manuals were not clear or specific.. The aircraft’s crew started the take-off run despite being in visual contact with the vehicle that was stopped on the runway strip.. The mitigation measure of placing cones at the threshold of the temporarily closed runway was not in effect because the minutes of the Local Runway Safety Committee meeting, where this measure had been proposed, had not yet been approved.. Safety Action by the ANSP ENAIRE as a result of the event and known to the Investigation was noted as including the following: Their internal occurrence investigation had recommended that "if a controller monitoring another frequency became aware of another traffic calling, they should request that the message be repeated to avoid misunderstanding or mistakes". Confirmation of implementation of the recommendation and the means of implementation was not recorded.. In respect of the alerting of controllers to the fact that a runway is closed, it was decided that an additional strip would be placed on the wind velocity indicator whenever a runway is occupied so that "when a controller clears an aircraft to take off/land, they would look at the wind reading and see that the runway is closed".. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ICAO develop a common procedure or phraseology for the application of contingency measures in the event that a stop bar