it did not have any flashing lights on. When they received take-off clearance two minutes after the (repeated) clearance to line up and wait, the vehicle was still there but "thought there was no collision danger" so they began the take-off. It was noted that since the vehicle concerned was not on the TWR frequency, the crew "did not know the vehicle’s intentions”. The controller, who had previously not seen the vehicle and had forgotten, despite the prescribed indications of its status being present at his position, that runway 03R was closed and therefore the responsibility of the GND controller, reported subsequently that he "became aware...of the presence of an object on the runway strip at the same time as his colleague in the ground position (and) immediately cancelled the take-off clearance”. At this point, the aircraft was about to pass the vehicle. FDR data showed that when the crew promptly responded to this instruction, the aircraft had a reached groundspeed of just over 60 knots and had travelled approximately 270 metres along the 3,100 metre-long runway. It came to a complete stop 40 seconds later after travelling 740 metres. QAR data were used to make an approximate reconstruction of the path followed by the aircraft during the ultimately rejected take-off (see the illustration below). It was noted that the closure of runway 03R had been included on the ATIS broadcasts (hence the crew awareness of this) and was promulgated by NOTAM as the case throughout the day. The Investigation noted that local investigations into the occurrence had been carried out by both the ANSP (ENAIRE) and the airport operator (AENA) and the findings advised. The AENA Report was found to state that "the vehicle had flashing lights and that they were on during the work" in accordance with its regulations, but given that the security camera footage which would have supported this assertion had been stated to the Investigation as "unavailable", it was unclear how this had been demonstrated. ENAIRE stated to the Investigation a Checklist for controller position handover "had been in place since 2015, though its use was not obligatory" and that "on the day of the incident there was no updated copy of the Checklist at the controller positions in use, as it had likely been misplaced". It was also noted that specific procedures documented in the ENAIRE Operations Manual under 'Specific Unit Procedures' included the following controller actions in respect of closed runways: Indicate that the runway is occupied by an obstacle, aircraft or vehicle by placing a strip on the strip holder that specifies the nature of the obstacle. In addition, the strip holder is to be placed across the bay.. Pay special attention to crew acknowledgments regarding the runway on which they are cleared to operate.. Visually check, and verify using radar if needed, that the cleared aircraft is proceeding to the runway in use.. A closed runway shall remain under the control of GND, meaning its use does not have to be