An Investigation was carried out by the Malaysian Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). The FDR and CVR were removed but no relevant data was obtained as their CBs were not tripped by the flight crew after the event. Data from the QAR was, however, available. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain had a total of 14,349 flying hours experience which included 6,473 hours on type and the 30 year-old First Officer had a total of 3,022 flying hours experience of which all but 200 hours were on type. The weather report at the time gave the wind as 150° at 4 knots, the visibility as 7000 metres and no cloud below 1,500 feet. It was established that prior to departing, the flight crew briefing had been focused on the potential impact of adverse weather in the area and en route, the fuel uplift required and engine out procedures for the departure from Kathmandu. Although the flight crew had just flown the aircraft from Kuala Lumpur to Kathmandu, the Cabin Crew for the return flight were just starting their duty period but were not given a pre-flight briefing by the Captain as required by the OM. The First Officer subsequently stated that prior to the Captain commencing the takeoff roll on runway 20, he had physically checked that the speed brake selector was fully stowed in its down detent. Following a backtrack, the aircraft was kept moving as it came out of the 180° turn and a rolling takeoff was commenced. The Captain stated that all was normal until, “at approximately V1”, a Takeoff Configuration Warning was annunciated. This caused him to physically confirm that the speed brake selector was at the down detent but when the warning did not disappear, he decided to reject the take-off. He reported having applied brake pedal pressure and after a few seconds asked the First Officer to do same. Despite this, they could not stop the aircraft before it overran the end of the runway and onto soft ground where it quickly came to a stop. He stated that he believed that his decision to reject the takeoff was appropriate since the high terrain and bad weather conditions around the airport meant that it would have been “unsafe to continue”. An annotated ground track of the aircraft take off roll and its rejection. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain stated that once the aircraft had come to a stop, it had been his initial intention to order an immediate emergency evacuation but he had re-considered this when the First Officer had suggested that it was not necessary since there was no indication of fire or malfunctions apart from the Configuration Warning. Instead, he changed his mind and called the Cabin Crew to order them to remain seated and made a corresponding PA to the passengers. After the APU had been started, both engines were then shut down and the First Officer switched on all the external lights. A few minutes later,