was noted that although both the aircraft operator generally and the flight crew involved in the investigated event were familiar with the main content of this Technical Memorandum, it also recommended that a rejected takeoff in the event of any activation of a Takeoff Configuration Warning was only appropriate if it occurred up to 80 knots. It was further noted that the content of the aircraft operator’s standard takeoff briefing in respect of a rejected takeoff decision did not replicate that contained in the Boeing QRH for the aircraft type since it did not state more widely what circumstances would justify such action at takeoff roll speeds up to 80 knots or when above it but below V1. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “the attempt by the Captain to reject the takeoff at high speed following a take-off configuration warning (with) the rejection initiated at a speed of 154 knots, which was above the applicable V1 and without the application of maximum braking throughout the deceleration”. Eight Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Malindo Air ensure that their Boeing 737 Standard Takeoff Briefing is aligned with the Rejected Takeoff criteria specified in the aircraft manufacturer’s QRH and specify what items may trigger a rejected takeoff up to 80 knots and above 80 knots.. that Malindo Air ensure that a Flight Operations Notice is issued to communicate the new takeoff briefing and to ensure it is reviewed during all pre-flight briefings and includes the recommendations stated in Boeing Technical Bulletin 737-04-1 R1 and stresses the importance of Captain’s briefing to the Cabin Crew prior to every flight.. that Malindo Air ensure that the rejected takeoff criteria detailed in the Boeing QRH are covered during Base and Line Training and that the need for emphasis on this subject is communicated to all Training Pilots.. that Malindo Air check with Boeing the recommended/best practice on the use of the auto brake during a rejected takeoff and review their rejected takeoff procedure accordingly, emphasising the use of simulator sessions to assess pilots’ compliance with it.. that Malindo Air ensure that their OM-A (section 11.1.3) specifies that it is the responsibility of flight crew to electrically isolate the CVR/DFDR after an incident/accident and also makes provision for an alternative method of achieving this in the event of pilot incapacitation.. that Malindo Air check with their Boeing Technical Representative that they have access to the latest revision of Technical Bulletin 737-04-1 and whether there are further actions which can be taken if the recommendations are followed but do not prevent false Takeoff Configuration Warnings being triggered.. that Malindo Air issue a Flight Operations Notice requiring the recommendations in Boeing Technical Bulletin 737-04-1 R1 to be followed.. that Malindo Air issue a Flight Operations Notice to emphasise the importance of the Captain briefing the Cabin Crew prior to a flight.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 3 June 2019 and subsequently published.