the emergency services arrived and a discussion followed on how to get the passengers off the aircraft. It was concluded that it would be impossible to disembark them using steps because of the aircraft position in relation to soft ground and it was decided that everyone would have to disembark using the slide at door 2R. All passengers were then disembarked this way and later, the crew members followed, the Captain being the last to do so but left the APU running and did not electrically isolate the flight recorders. The aircraft was recovered to a hard surface and found to be almost undamaged except for some main gear wheels/ tyres and all of these were replaced in accordance with AMM requirements. An analysis of QAR data showed that the applicable V1 of 141 KCAS had been reached with 1500 metres of the 3000 metre-long runway remaining and 4 seconds later a rejected takeoff was initiated at 154 KCAS with approximately 1750 metres of runway remaining. Autobrake was disconnected immediately and manual braking was commenced but initially only at around 30% of maximum pressure and had not reached maximum until 10 seconds had elapsed and the speed was still 120 KCAS. Thereafter, constant maximum pressure was applied continuously until the aircraft stopped. The aircraft crossed the end of the runway onto soft ground at a groundspeed of 30 knots, finally stopping approximately 50 metres from the threshold. An analysis of the failure to stop on the runway, which it was calculated should just have been possible even after commencement of the rejected takeoff above V1, was attributed to a combination of the delay in applying maximum brake pressure, the effect of the runway surface being contaminated with rubber deposits in the runway 02 TDZ and the -1.2° slope of the final part of the paved surface. Although a full test of the Takeoff Configuration Warning System did not detect any faults, it was found that the speed brake lever switch was out of range and as a result providing an intermittent signal. Following adjustment of this switch, further testing including an engine ground run confirmed that the system was now functioning as intended. It was noted that over two years prior to the investigated event occurring, Boeing had, after receiving several reports of Takeoff Configuration Warnings occurring because the speed brake handle was not in the fully stowed (down) position issued a Technical Bulletin 737-04-1 which added to the pre-flight checklist an action to check that the speed brake lever was properly stowed since it appeared that “speed brake cable friction and/or speed brake lever spring back force” could prevent the operating lever from dropping completely into the detent. This Bulletin recommended that the way to ensure that the speed brake is properly stowed is by pushing down firmly on top of the speed brake lever. However it also stated that “this technique will not prevent a false warning if the speed brake warning switch is not adjusted correctly”. It