The event was notified to the Portuguese Accident Investigation Agency (the GPIAA) which carried out an Investigation. It was noted that the aircraft was a Class E type for which ICAO Annex 14 prescribes a minimum of 3.75 metres between an aircraft on any part of a designated stand and any object as long as all obstacles are clear of the engine ingestion danger area. The ramp where the collision occurred was approved for engine ground running or the parking of aircraft up to Class E and was equipped with a perimeter blast deflector. It was established that the decision to tow the aircraft to the Multi Purpose Ramp (MPR) was taken to minimise the delay to the departure following the Captain’s finding of ice on the upper and lower surfaces of both wings during his pre flight external inspection. It was also a consequence of the fact that the airport had only 8 parking stands which could accommodate class E aircraft and all were either already occupied or were required for inbound aircraft of this class so that the potential difficulty of moving the loaded in-service aircraft to the MPR was accepted - although the risk of doing so was not fully recognised. The tug performing the task was preceded by an airport operator ‘Follow Me’ vehicle and the allocated aircraft dispatcher and the route followed is indicated below. A wing walker was neither required nor requested. On arrival at the MPR, the aircraft was towed in nose first and then a 180° turn was performed during which the outer part of the right wing was observed to be over, but clear of, the blast deflector at the perimeter of the ramp. It was determined that towing equipment with greater manoeuvrability was required and it was decided to change to a towbarless tractor instead of the one which had initially been used. However, during this changeover, the nose gear was raised and the weight supported by the main landing gear consequentially increased which compressed its shock absorbers and thereby reduced the clearance of the outer wing over the blast deflector and as the manoeuvre re-commenced using the towbarless tractor, the wing came into contact with it and marked the lower wing with a 22 cm scratch and the operation was stopped. To raise the damaged wing clear of the blast deflector, all passengers were disembarked and all cargo offloaded but it was still necessary to also add additional nitrogen to the right main gear shock absorber to move the wing clear. It was considered that “the exchange of towing equipment proved to be not the right decision” since not only was the overhanging wing clearance reduced, the front axis of the towbarless tractor was in very close proximity to the rail on which the jet blast deflector ‘halves’ can be moved and by moving in this direction it passed over them which caused “an oscillation of the aircraft” during which the lower wing surface contacted the blast deflector. It