the SOP in effect at the time of the incident;. Clear lines of responsibility and delineation of duty were not adequately established in the SOPs between the handling service and the airport operations responsibilities;. There was no established leadership in the pushback team between the driver and headset man who both work in cooperation with the Airport Ground Operation, without a clearly defined hierarchy;. The towing manoeuvre involving tight 180° turns of the aircraft was not made according to the FCTM which limits the aircraft weight for this type of manoeuvre to 251,290kg;. No defined risk assessment had been performed to determine the safety of the intended manoeuvring of the aircraft once it was removed from stand where it had been boarded and loaded, in particular in respect of the clearances from the blast deflector at the MPR;. The combination of Causes which led to the event were determined to have been as follows: The tight tow manoeuvre involving a 180° turn of a class E aircraft within a space surrounded by a 7 metre high obstacle (the jet blast deflector).. The pushback procedure which was required in order to position the aircraft so that the obstacle created by the blast deflector was avoided.. The non-standard pushback procedure used to position the aircraft at the designated location (the Multi Purpose Ramp).. The failure to use a wing walker to manage the wingtip clearance risk.. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: The lack of marks on the ground in the Multipurpose Ramp to facilitate the (intended) towing manoeuvres.. The difficulty of moving the jet blast deflector.. The absence of any clear pushback team organisation.. The risk mitigation for non-standard pushback manoeuvres was not clearly defined.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should ensure that Lisbon Airport does not authorise manoeuvres involving 180º turns with class E aircraft on the Multi Purpose Ramp – such aircraft should be only parked nose in or nose out taking into account the respective ACN. [14/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should equip Follow-Me vehicle drivers with a portable radio so that they are permanently in contact with ATC and the Airport Operations Service whenever they are performing aircraft movements in manoeuvring areas. [15/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should consider the acquisition of a de-icing system appropriate to the operating conditions of Lisbon Airport in order to increase the operational safety of aircraft, avoid towing manoeuvres to other stands or platforms and decrease the risk of operational disruptions. [16/2016]. that TAAG ANGOLA AIRLINES should not practice fuel tankering (OM-A 8.1.7.5) to destinations without de-icing systems facilities when the forecast weather conditions at the destination are a temperature of 10° C or below and visible moisture is present (clouds or fog with a visibility of one mile or less). [17/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should ensure that the instructions given by the Airport Operations Service concerning aircraft towing manoeuvres as well as the