was also observed that the initial offloading of passengers and the holds after the collision was considered to have been inappropriate because the effect was that the wing dropped further onto the blast deflector. The damage caused was minor and was subsequently assessed as being within SRM limits. The initial mis-positioning of the aircraft on the MPR was found to have occurred in the presence of inadequate instructions given by the Airport Operations Service to the driver of the ‘Follow-Me’ vehicle which led the tug into the MPR. This had resulted in the driver using his discretion to effectively direct the manoeuvre there on arrival. During the 180° turn of the aircraft, the driver had to abandon his vehicle in order to coordinate the operation with no contact with either ATC or Airport Operations in the absence of a portable radio. It was also found that the surface of the MPR was uneven and that this had “contributed to the vertical distance between the lower wing surface and the blast deflector not being uniform”. Given that Lisbon Airport did not provide aircraft de/anti icing, the Investigation examined the circumstances which led to airframe ice being present at the time of departure. It was found that the aircraft had arrived earlier in the morning from Luanda after a 7 hour overnight flight for a scheduled four hour turnround and a return departure at 1000 hours local time. The TAAG Airlines policy was to tanker fuel into Lisbon to the extent operationally practicable and since a return flight from Luanda to Lisbon typically required around 65,000 kg of fuel against a total tank capacity of 145,500 kg and even if the traffic load northbound was high, most of this fuel could be carried from Luanda without any risk of exceeding the MLW. The effect of this was that after a relatively small fuel uplift in Lisbon - 9,600 kg on this occasion and typically in the range 6000 - 15000 kg - the majority of fuel in the wings was always ‘cold-soaked’ from the northbound flight and received little conductive heating from mixing with the uploaded fuel. At the time of the aircraft’s arrival, it was found that there was 69,100 Litres (55,500 kg) of fuel in the two wing tanks with an approximate temperature of - 16°C and with mist present at the airport and fog in the vicinity, the temperature and dew point were both 7°C. By the time the Captain found frozen deposits on the wings five hours later, the mist and fog had cleared but the temperature had only risen to 10°C just 1° above the dew point. It was concluded that the formation of ice on the aircraft’s wings during the turnround had been a direct consequence of TAAG Airlines’ fuel tankering policy and the relatively low surface temperature, high humidity and the low level of solar radiation. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included the following: No pushback briefing was required prior to push back in