positioning of the same on the apron or platforms are communicated clearly and unambiguously to Follow-Me vehicle drivers involved. [18/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL, GROUND HANDLING OPERATORS, AIRLINES COMPANIES and the APRON SAFETY COMMITTEE should jointly develop a prescriptive procedure for Non Standard Pushbacks (NSP), which should also address the training and competence of the ground handling personnel responsible for conducting push back manoeuvring. This procedure shall be applied using the pushback simulator as part of the driver approvals procedure. [19/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL and RELEVANT AIRSIDE STAKEHOLDERS AT ALL ANA Airports should review all the procedures implemented internally about airside circulation of vehicles and equipment in the SMS procedures (ICAO Annex 19 ICAO) to ensure the correct Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment process is being applied to all aircraft pushbacks. [20/2016]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL, AIRPORT SAFETY DEPARTMENTS and AIRLINE COMPANIES should update their respective airport Safety Management Systems (SMS) to include pushback risk assessment, ground handling crew coordination and risk mitigation for jet blast in airside operations. [21/2016]. that LISBON AIRPORT HANDLING OPERATORS (GROUNDFORCE / PORTWAY) and AIRLINE OPERATORS should standardise in their Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the pushback operations to include the following requirements: The composition of a pushback team must be agreed as a Standard Operating Unit (SOU). An SOP must be developed for a pre-pushback briefing which includes a clear delineation of team responsibilities and communication. This shall include designating the team leader for the pushback. A risk assessment of parking stands where non-standard pushback operations are normal procedure should be performed and any requirement for a wing walker identified. Either the wing walker and tug/tractor driver must be in radio communication or the wing walker should be equipped with an aural warning device to alert the tug/tractor driver of any potential conflict. Standard and Non-standard pushback procedures must be developed for all parking stands and included in an SOP. [22/2016]. The composition of a pushback team must be agreed as a Standard Operating Unit (SOU).. An SOP must be developed for a pre-pushback briefing which includes a clear delineation of team responsibilities and communication. This shall include designating the team leader for the pushback.. A risk assessment of parking stands where non-standard pushback operations are normal procedure should be performed and any requirement for a wing walker identified.. Either the wing walker and tug/tractor driver must be in radio communication or the wing walker should be equipped with an aural warning device to alert the tug/tractor driver of any potential conflict.. Standard and Non-standard pushback procedures must be developed for all parking stands and included in an SOP. [22/2016]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 24 June 2016.