to be used as a prelude to entering the same data into the FMC to derive the takeoff performance data which would actually be used by the aircraft systems. Although the OPT was supplied by Boeing for use in the aircraft type and the FMC was installed in the aircraft by Boeing, it was noted that because the FMC did not have a database of available airport runway lengths or take account of minimum engine climb out gradient capability or obstacle clearance, it was essential to check that the takeoff data calculated by the FMC was the same as that calculated independently by the OPT which did have such a database. This cross check confirmed that the initial FMC calculation - V1 138 knots, VR 139 knots, V2 142 knots and N1 90.4% matched the OPT figures and the crew subsequently noted that when they repeated their OPT calculations using the new OAT, the V speeds were the same and the required thrust had increased very slightly to 90.8%. The PM then input the new OAT into the FMC which would have resulted in the V-speeds previously calculated being de-selected and a ‘VERIFY TAKE OFF SPEEDS’ message appearing on the control/display unit (CDU) scratch pad. The revised V speeds are displayed in a small size until accepted by the crew when they change to a larger size. The action of accepting the FMC calculated speeds requires that they correspond to the OPT-derived figures. When the crew noticed the ‘VERIFY’ message, “the PM re-selected the V speeds” and having informed the PF accordingly he received an acknowledgement. Neither pilot noticed that (according to the FDR data) the FMC had generated a completely different set of calculated takeoff data - V1 138 knots, VR 139 knots, V2 142 knots and N1 90.4% and displayed ‘AT’. The ‘AT’ indication showed that the calculation had used the ‘Assumed Temperature’ method to calculate data for a reduced thrust takeoff instead of full thrust which would have displayed ‘TO’ to indicate that the data calculation had been made for the required full thrust takeoff. The new FMC calculation was evidently not checked against the new OPT calculation, and the significant discrepancy between the initially-calculated full thrust takeoff performance data and the subsequently accepted reduced thrust takeoff data was not recognised by the crew as invalid, so the takeoff was inadvertently made using V speeds and takeoff thrust which were not valid for the prevailing circumstances. The aircraft operator “was unable to offer an explanation” as to how an AT takeoff data calculation by the FMC had occurred and it was noted that according to Boeing, “the only known way for an AT (Assumed Temperature) departure to be entered was by an FMC entry”. The Investigation also noted that the aircraft operator’s policy was that the AT method of calculating reduced thrust takeoff data was not to be used and that if one was possible, the data must be derived by using the alternative “fixed de-rate” method.