The Investigation considered that its findings indicated that in general “it would be desirable for the FMC to be able to factor in runway length information and deny a request for calculations of V speeds and N1 when an inappropriate AT is input to the FM”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: The aircraft took off with a reduced thrust take-off of 90.4% as determined by the FMC using an assumed temperature of 67°C. The thrust setting was significantly below that required for the conditions of the day and the runway length available. The assumed temperature of 67°C was somehow inadvertently introduced into the FMC.. The flight crew could have noticed the discrepancies between the results of the OPT and FMC had they followed both the operator’s and the aircraft manufacturer’s procedures.. The FMC calculations of V-speeds and N1 setting did not take into account the runway length available, unlike the OPT calculations.. Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: MyJet Asia reminded its flight crews not to use the Assumed Temperature method for reduced thrust takeoffs and implemented a procedure to prevent it being used inadvertently. This procedure requires the PM to verify that the N1 value calculated by the FMC and confirmed by the OPT is set on the Primary Engine Indications portion of the upper display before announcing “Thrust Set”. The company has also stressed to its flight crews that maximum thrust must be used for takeoffs from runways less than 1,830 metres long.. Boeing issued a Flight Operations Technical Bulletin 737-18-02 dated 21 December 2018 which provides operators with techniques for verification of take-off performance data to help reduce takeoff performance errors. This Bulletin also discusses the assumptions and limitations of FMC takeoff speeds.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Boeing consider including the airport runway lengths in the calculation of V-speeds and N1 settings by the FMC, so that the flight crew can be made aware when the performance data entered into the CDU does not meet the aircraft take-off and climb performance requirements. [TSIB-RA-2019-001]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 10 June 2019 and subsequently made available online.