The matter was reported to the Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of the Singapore Ministry of Transport by ATC and a Serious Incident Investigation was commenced and both the FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft. Relevant data were successfully downloaded from the FDR but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that both pilots were FAA-licensed and both were qualified as Captains on type with the older and relatively more experienced one designated as commander and occupying the left hand seat. The 50 year-old commander, who was acting as the PF, had a total of 8,537 flying hours which included 6,363 hours on type and the 38 year-old Co-pilot had a total of 6,300 flying hours which included 650 hours on type. FDR data showed that the aircraft had rotated approximately 500 m before the end of the runway and lifted off at about 120 m before the end it. The approach lighting damage caused during the takeoff had occurred “about 60 metres beyond the end of the runway” with FDR data indicating that the ten damaged lights had been overflown with the aircraft “about 1 metre above the ground”. Eight lights had the poles on which they were mounted severed and the remaining two had just their top covers damaged. FDR data also showed that the takeoff had been made using significantly higher V speeds and a lower thrust setting – V1 138 knots, VR 139 knots, V2 142 knots and N1 90.4% - than those required for the prevailing conditions and that these had been indicated as and based on an Assumed Temperature (AT) of 67°C rather than the actual OAT of 29°C. Contrary to this finding, the flight crew stated that they had “intended to use full thrust for the takeoff (and) were aware of the operator’s procedures that reduced thrust takeoffs were not allowed for flights out of Seletar”. They also stated that whilst recognising that “the aircraft had lifted off close to the end of the runway and climbed slowly at a very shallow angle” they had “not noticed anything unusual” since as they had decided to carry almost six tonnes more fuel than was required for the flight, they “were expecting that the takeoff roll could be longer than normal”. The application of the routine process used by the crew to calculate take off performance data was therefore examined and it was found that the intention of the crew appeared to have been to make a full thrust departure. However, this procedure had not been applied correctly when attempting to modify the initial results to match a 3° increase in OAT which had occurred between the time of the initial calculation which had assumed runway 03 would be given for departure and confirmation of this by TWR. The procedure used involved both pilots using the Onboard Performance Tool (OPT) software installed on their EFBs to make a calculation of the expected takeoff performance data taking account of the runway