met.. A total of eleven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Flydubai should include in contracts agreed with maintenance service providers, and also in appropriate audits, a requirement that the service provider operates a Safety Management System that is accepted by the AMO regulatory authority. (SR 25/2015). that Flydubai should provide its Safety Manual and a reporting form in its online incident reporting system that is accessible to all appropriate third party contractors to enable incidents involving the Operator’s aircraft to be reported to the Operator. (SR 26/2015). that Flydubai should improve the Initial Assessment and Supplier Audit checklists to include check items relevant to the Operator's SMS for maintenance contractors requirements. (SR 27/2015). that Flydubai should provide initial and recurrent dangerous goods training, appropriate to the responsibilities of the position, to maintenance and stores personnel. (SR 28/2015). that Flydubai should broaden the scope of the job description of the Base Maintenance Liaison Engineer to include a wider range of air safety issues such as observing, on an ad hoc basis, work in progress on the aircraft, and conducting random spot checks on safety critical tasks. (SR 29/2015). that the Jordan Aircraft Maintenance Company (JorAMCo) should enhance initial and recurrent training for all maintenance employees to ensure that they adhere to approved maintenance instructions. (SR 30/2015). that the Jordan Aircraft Maintenance Company (JorAMCo) should enhance the maintenance procedure to ensure that work involving oxygen generators, or PSU assemblies containing oxygen generators, should be classified as a critical task, requiring a dual signature on the appropriate work instructions. (SR 31/2015). that TIMCO as the Supplemental Type Certificate holder should permanently mark each individual oxygen generator canister with the appropriate dangerous goods marking. The marking should be designed to be highly visible, especially when the canister is in its installed position in the PSU. (SR32/2015). that TIMCO as the Supplemental Type Certificate holder should review EO 12T478E056 and ensure that steps that involve dangerous goods are appropriately classified and clearly identified. (SR 33/2015). that TIMCO as the Supplemental Type Certificate holder should include a caution in Step 30 of EO 12T478E056 to require a certifying engineer to verify, with his signature, that correct procedures have been adhered to. (SR 34/2015). that the General Civil Aviation Authority should consider requiring initial and recurrent dangerous goods training, appropriate to the responsibilities of the position, for certifying maintenance engineers, service engineers and stores personnel engaged in the maintenance of UAE registered aircraft. This requirement should be applicable to UAE Operators and AMOs, and foreign AMOs engaged in maintenance of UAE registered aircraft. (SR 35/2015). The Final Report was published on 17 June 2015.