not included in either the 'Initial Assessment' or 'Supplier Audit' Checklists used by the Operator to approve an AMO.. The Contract drafted by the Operator and agreed by the AMO did not require the AMO to have an SMS.. The contract between the Operator and the AMO contained a clause stating that any components removed from the aircraft should be returned to the Operator's base on board the Operator's ferry flights or commercial flights without taking into account the likelihood that some aircraft parts removed from the aircraft would be classified as Dangerous Goods.. The Jordanian Civil Aviation Regulations required Operators and/or service providers (including AMOs) to establish, maintain, and adhere to, a Safety Management System but the AMO did not have an SMS.. The Supplier Audit of the AMO conducted by the Operator prior to signing the maintenance contract did not include an audit of the AMO Stores.. The GCAA had required UAE based AMOs to operate an accepted SMS since January 2010 but did not require UAE-based operators to restrict subcontracting of aircraft maintenance activities solely to AMOs that had an accepted SMS in place.. The formally-documented Causes of the carriage of prohibited Dangerous Goods (chemical oxygen generators) onboard a passenger aircraft were: The chemical oxygen generators contained in the PSU assemblies that had been removed from the aircraft were not labelled as dangerous goods.. The AMO maintenance personnel did not label the oxygen generators as dangerous goods because they did not consult, and follow, the instructions contained in AMM ATA 35 - Oxygen.. The Engineering Order prepared by the STC holder did not contain a direct reference to ATA 35 - Oxygen in regard to handling the removed PSU assemblies as having dangerous goods installed. Neither the Operator nor the AMO identified shortcomings in the STC holders EO.. The Operator and AMO personnel, involved in the configuration modification work on the Aircraft were unaware that the PSU assemblies contained dangerous material.. The contract agreed between the Operator and the AMO contained a term related to the return of removed aircraft parts and materials to the Operator by air, which did not differentiate between normal and dangerous goods.. The following Contributing Factors were also identified: The lack of dangerous goods markings on the oxygen generator casings.. The quality system of the AMO was unable to detect a lack of control of dangerous goods improperly kept in the stores for a lengthy period.. The lack of an SMS did not enable the AMO to promote a safety culture among the line maintenance and stores personnel that could enable them to deduce that the PSU assemblies contained dangerous goods, which required special handling.. The noncompliance of the Operator with its Safety Manual policy that required sub-contracted AMOs to operate a Safety Management System. The GCAA did not exercise sufficient oversight of the foreign contracted aircraft maintenance arrangements of the Operator in that they did not discover that the operators own requirement that contracted AMOs must have an SMS was not