Dangerous Goods and so the incident was not reported at the time. It was subsequently reported to the GCAA on 18 January 2014. The comprehensive Investigation made a number of significant findings which had collectively contributed to the failure to identify the risk of unauthorised Dangerous Good shipment. These centred on a lack of effective safety-related oversight of contracted heavy maintenance activities. The Operator's Safety Manager had no visibility of contracts potentially affecting air safety, entered into between the Operator and contracted service providers.. The Operator did not formally risk assess the process of subcontracting aircraft heavy maintenance and modifications to the AMO before signing the contract.. The Operator’s Technical Planning Department performed a technical evaluation of the seating modification documentation and instructions, which accepted the instructions contained in the STC-holder’s Engineering Order (EO) and other instructions, as being appropriate to safely implement the passenger seating configuration change modification.. The EO directly referenced only the ATA 25 (Equipment and Furnishing) section of the AMM for the removal of the appropriate PSU assemblies from the aircraft and did not contain an appropriate breakdown, warning note or requirement for an inspection signature, for the task of removal of the PSU assemblies and ensuring that the oxygen generators they contained were made safe.. The special tools (approved pliers, safety pin and safety cap), required by the instructions contained in the ATA 35 (Oxygen) section of the AMM to make the oxygen generators safe were not directly referenced in the EO.. The ATA 25 section of the AMM did reference the ATA 35 section of the Manual where the procedures and warning notices necessary to ensure the safe handling of oxygen generators are provided.. The Maintenance personnel involved in removing the PSUs from the aircraft referred only to ATA section 25 of the AMM as directly referenced in the EO and did not refer to or comply with the instructions contained in ATA section 35 which were essential in making the oxygen generators safe after removing them.. The errors and omissions related to the treatment of the PSU assemblies containing the oxygen generators were not noticed by the Operator's Base Maintenance Liaison Engineer present at the AMO; his job description did not specify any inspection or safety oversight functions, nor had he received any Dangerous Goods training from his employer.. The AMO did not review the detailed technical content of the work packs for the 'C' Check and seating configuration modification. It was assumed that this review had been carried out by the Operator.. The Operator's policy, specified in their Safety Manual, required that a sub-contracted AMO should have an SMS in place prior to carrying out maintenance of the Operator's aircraft. The Operator did not positively determine, during either their 'Initial Assessment' or their subsequent 'Supplier Audit', that the AMO had the SMS required by the Operator’s Safety Policy in place.. The requirements related to the scope of the SMS at a contracted maintenance service provider contained in the Operator's Safety Manual were