An Investigation was carried out by the UAE General Civil Aviation Authority Air Accident Investigation Sector. It was noted that the Operator did not hold regulatory approval to transport dangerous goods on any of their aircraft and the flight crew of the specific aircraft involved had been unaware that dangerous goods had been loaded on board their aircraft. It was established that the aircraft in question was returning to Dubai following a 'C' Check which had been carried out by JorAMco, an AMO based in Amman, Jordan. In addition to the Check, a modification to the passenger seating configuration had been carried out which included a requirement to remove three sets of triple economy seats and their associated equipment. The latter included the corresponding PSUs, each of which contained a chemical oxygen generator. The three removed PSU assemblies, which had been tagged as serviceable on removal, were brought to the AMO stores, logged into a computerised parts tracking system and then wrapped individually and boxed. These boxes were then placed with similar boxes containing the PSU assemblies that had been removed from eight other previously modified FlyDubai aircraft making a total of twenty-seven altogether. It was expressly noted that: "The chemical oxygen generators had not been removed from the PSUs, nor had they been made safe by the installation of a safety pin and safety cap. In the case of each oxygen generator, the firing pin was engaged in the firing mechanism and the activation cable was connected to the pin. Neither the individual PSU assemblies, or oxygen generators, nor the boxes containing them, were labelled as Dangerous Goods." Prior to the positioning flight on 6 December, six of these PSU assemblies were removed from the stores as boxed and loaded onto the aircraft along with other parts being returned to the Operator. The flight subsequently departed from the AMO ramp, whereas the previous eight similarly modified aircraft had all departed from the airport passenger terminal as scheduled commercial passenger flights. On arrival at Dubai, the boxes containing the PSU assemblies were unloaded and taken to the “Pending Receiving Area” of the Operator's Stores where they were opened and their contents inspected by a QA Engineer. He noted that each PSU assembly contained a chemical oxygen generator and was aware that these are classified as Dangerous Goods in respect of carriage by air and that, as such may not be carried on passenger aircraft. The finding was duly reported. Shortly after this finding, while reconciling the number of PSU assemblies remaining in the AMO stores following the incident under investigation, it became apparent that a previous Fly Dubai post-maintenance flight from Amman to Dubai had - also unknown to the flight crew - transported three identical PSU assemblies containing chemical oxygen generators. This flight had been operated by another Boeing 737-800 (A6-FDR) as a revenue flight on 28 November 2013 with165 passengers and 6 crew on board. On this occasion, the unlabelled box of PSUs was not identified as containing