A total of 46 formally-documented Findings from the Investigation included the following: The Captain’s inappropriate aft control column inputs in response to the stick shaker caused the airplane’s wing to stall. The minimal aircraft performance degradation resulting from ice accumulation did not affect the flight crew’s ability to fly and control the airplane. Explicit cues associated with the impending stick shaker onset, including the decreasing margin between indicated airspeed and the low-speed cue, the airspeed trend vector pointing downward into the low-speed cue, the changing colour of the numbers on the airplane’s indicated airspeed display, and the airplane’s excessive nose-up pitch attitude, were presented on the flight instruments with adequate time for the pilots to initiate corrective action, but neither pilot responded to the presence of these cues. the failure of both pilots to detect this situation was the result of a significant breakdown in their monitoring responsibilities and workload management. The Captain’s response to stick shaker activation should have been automatic, but his improper flight control inputs were inconsistent with his training and were instead consistent with startle and confusion. The Captain did not recognize the stick pusher’s action to decrease angle-of-attack as a proper step in a stall recovery, and his improper flight control inputs to override the stick pusher exacerbated the situation.. It is unlikely that the Captain was deliberately attempting to perform a tailplane stall recover. No evidence indicated that the (aircraft type involved) was susceptible to a tailplane stall.. The Captain’s failure to effectively manage the flight. enabled conversation that delayed checklist completion and conflicted with sterile cockpit procedures and. created an environment that impeded timely error detection.. The monitoring errors made by the accident flight crew demonstrate the continuing need for specific pilot training on active monitoring skills.. Colgan Air’s standard operating procedures at the time of the accident did not promote effective monitoring behaviour.. The pilots’ performance was likely impaired because of fatigue, but the extent of their impairment and the degree to which it contributed to the performance deficiencies that occurred during the flight cannot be conclusively determined.. Colgan Air did not proactively address the pilot fatigue hazards associated with operations at a predominantly commuter base.. Operators have a responsibility to identify risks associated with commuting, implement strategies to mitigate these risks, and ensure that their commuting pilots are fit for duty.. The current air carrier approach-to-stall training did not fully prepare the flight crew for an unexpected stall in the (aircraft type involved) and did not address the actions that are needed to recover from a fully developed stall.. The inclusion of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration icing video in Colgan Air’s winter operations training may lead pilots to assume that a tailplane stall might be possible in the (aircraft type involved), resulting in negative training.. The current Federal Aviation Administration surveillance standards for oversight at air carriers undergoing rapid growth and increased complexity of operations do not guarantee that any challenges encountered by the carriers as a result of