is promulgated by the new standards,. increase staffing for those certificates with insufficient staffing levels, and. augment the inspector staff with available and airplane-type-qualified inspectors from all Federal Aviation Administration regions and 14 CFR Part 142 training centres to provide quality assurance over the operators’ aircrew program designee workforce.. [A-10-26] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to:. develop and implement flight operational quality assurance programs that collect objective flight data, #analyse these data and implement corrective actions to identified systems safety issues, and. share the deidentified aggregate data generated through these analyses with other interested parties in the aviation industry through appropriate means.. [A-10-27] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) seek specific statutory and/or regulatory authority to protect data that operators share with the Federal Aviation Administration as part of any flight operational quality assurance program. [A-10-28]. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to:. routinely download and analyse all available sources of safety information, as part of their flight operational quality assurance program, to identify deviations from established norms and procedures;. provide appropriate protections to ensure the confidentiality of the deidentified aggregate data; and. ensure that this information is used for safety-related and not punitive purposes.. [A-10-29] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to incorporate explicit guidance to pilots, including checklist reminders as appropriate, prohibiting the use of personal portable electronic devices on the flight deck.. [A-10-30] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) implement a process to document that all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators have taken appropriate action in response to safety-critical information transmitted through the safety alert for operators process or another method.. [A-10-31] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to revise the methodology for programming their adverse weather phenomena reporting and forecasting subsystems so that the subsystem-generated weather document for each flight contains all pertinent weather information, including Airmen’s Meteorological Information, Significant Meteorological Information, and other National Weather Service in-flight weather advisories, and omits weather information that is no longer valid.. [A-10-32] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require (their) Principal Operations Inspectors (for)14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to periodically review the weather documents generated for their carriers to verify that those documents are consistent with the information requested in Safety Recommendation A-10-32.. [A-10-33] that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) update the definitions for reportable icing intensities in the Aeronautical Information Manual so that the definitions are consistent with the more detailed intensities defined in Advisory Circular 91-74A, “Pilot Guide: Flight in Icing Conditions.” [A-10-34]. Three previously issued Safety Recommendations to the FAA were also re-iterated. The 299-page Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) on 2 February 2010