The Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It established that 47 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight had a total of 3,379 flying hours of which just 111 hours had been on type. He had been employed by Colgan for a little over 3 years. The 24 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,240 flying hours which included 774 hours on type, the latter all achieved after she had joined Colgan about a year prior to the accident. It was found that the aircraft had been fully serviceable and not subject to any significant effects` attributable to ice accretion at the time of the accident. However, reference airspeeds set by the flight crew for the approach were not compatible with the position of the “reference speeds switch” which was in the “increase” (icing conditions) position which would therefore automatically trigger a stall warning in the form of a stick shaker activation at a higher airspeed. As a result, when a stick shaker activation occurred at about 6nm from touchdown, the aircraft was actually around 20 to 22 knots above a stall rather than the a 5 to 7 knots which this activation normally indicates. The activation was automatically accompanied by autopilot disconnection automatically and the PF responded with a power increase and an abrupt aft movement on the control column. This had the effect of increasing the angle of attack (AOA) from +8° to +13° with a pitch attitude of about +18° and led to airspeed reducing from 131 kt at the onset of the stall to 125 kt. The airflow over the wing separated as the stall AOA was exceeded and a wing drop occurred. The Report concludes, following this description of the beginning of loss of control, that: “the Captain’s inappropriate aft control column inputs in response to the stick shaker caused the airplane’s wing to stall” Three stick pusher activations then followed in rapid succession, beginning as AoA reached +18 degrees. The Captain’s response to each of these was a successively increasing rearward force on the control column - the precise opposite of the applicable SOPs for such an event. As a result, the opportunity to regain control of the aircraft was lost. The investigation also found that the intensity of the post crash fire had been aggravated by release of gas from a domestic supply pipe damaged by the aircraft ground impact. these issues are addressed to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)."