Monsoon climates have clearly marked seasons, each with a specific type of weather and wind from a certain direction. Monsoon climates are found in many parts of the world: West Africa, Ethiopia, northwest Australia, northwest corner of South Africa and the biggest areas of east and south Asia (including East Indies and Philippines). Over Asia the mountain ranges run mainly east to west and this, together with the fact that the land mass of Asia is the largest in the world, limits the transposition of warm and cold air masses and makes seasonal contrasts much greater. In winter: In January, in the northern hemisphere, low temperatures over Asia in winter give rise to an intense anticyclone (called Syberian high) which extends its influence over most of Europe and Asia. Because of the intense cold in the heart of Siberia in winter (average of minus 40 degress Celsius) the pressure in the anticyclone reaches very high values (sometimes even 1070 hPa). Air flows out from the high pressure region and gives rise to the winter monsoon, with north westerly winds in northern China. Further south the winds become northerly and finally north easterly as they take up the trade wind flow to become the northeast monsoon of Southeast Asia and Indonesia. India is cut off from the Siberian anticyclone by the barrier of the Himalayas, but it develops its own high pressure system, centered in northwest India (in the Thar desert) and northern Pakistan and, as a result, there is an eastward flow of air out along the Ganges valley area which eventually joins the northeast monsoon over the Bay of Bengal. Over China, Japan and eastern Asia, the air is generally very cold and warms up as it moves towards the equator. The flow from India is not as cold. Over the land the air remains dry, over the sea the monsoon becomes moist. The weather created by the monsoon depends on whether a land or sea track is followed and how much instability has developed. In summer: The pressure distribution is completely changed because the high land temperatures lead to low pressure systems over the areas of southern Asia which are subject to the most heating and high pressure over the oceans. The flow is then from the sea to the land and the air in many cases actually comes from the southern hemisphere as the southeast trade winds which are then turned by the coriolis force on crossing the equator to form the southwest monsoon. The southwest monsoon has its direction changed again as it reaches the land masses of Asia (for example being diverted to flow from the southeast up the Ganges valley towards the low pressure area over northwest India). Whilst the descriptions above have focused on the Asia monsoons, other parts of the world are subject to similar seasonal changes. The climatology of West Africa for example includes reference to the southwest monsoon and that of Australia, the northwest monsoon.