This article summarizes the current status and near-future trends of helicopter terrain awareness and warning systems (HTAWS). Although many regional and national aviation authorities advocate wide voluntary adoption of HTAWS throughout most civilian flight operations, they primarily have required adoption only in two helicopter industry mission segments: helicopter emergency medical services (HEMS), and,. offshore operations transporting of workers to and from oil/gas production platforms (such as those in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico).. These mission segments were targeted for this safety intervention because of their track records of disproportionately high rates of crashes — categorised by accident investigators as Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT). This type of accident occurs whether operating under Visual Flight Rules (VFR) or Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), often in hard-to-avoid environmental conditions and in mission situations that inherently are hazardous. TAWS and HTAWS equipment computes the precise three-dimensional position and velocity of the aircraft — i.e., real-time monitoring — in relation to accurate databases of the terrain height and hazardous-obstacle locations. Like TAWS for fixed-wing aircraft, HTAWS automation continually monitors the terrain/object situation — with few distractions of the properly trained pilot’s attention — except when it annunciates one of the limited possible alerts. The system empowers the pilot to execute immediate changes to the flight trajectory to prevent CFIT. The first generation of certified HTAWS software and databases, circa 2008, proved capable of reducing the CFIT accident rate in much the same way that fixed-wing aircraft escape imminent collisions. Pilots typically responded as expected to their ground proximity warning system (GPWS) and later to their enhanced ground proximity warning system (EGPWS), both introduced by predecessor companies acquired by Honeywell Aerospace. TAWS is a later term the encompassing products of all manufacturers. In simple terms, RTCA special committees and European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment (EUROCAE) working groups establish minimum operational performance standards, and write TAWS technical standards and certification/upgrade methods for adding proprietary, patented functions. As of early 2020, expert teams at these organisations are cooperating to produce what essentially will be the next generation of HTAWS (see References below). Manufacturers will continue to add complementary capabilities to address the needs expressed by the two mission segments mentioned, and by stakeholders in other helicopter segments.