benefit from and if the assessment of the situation is left to the crew, they may not be aware of everything they need to know to make an objective decision. Air France had been aware of the potentially serious risk posed by crew errors in inputting takeoff performance data but much review of this risk over many years was found to have resulted in little change to procedures and significant weaknesses in their construction were considered to have remained. It was noted that some of the recommendations contained in the 2014 EASA AMC on the use of EFBs were relevant to this risk but had not been implemented by Air France in the period of a year between the issue of the AMC and the investigated event. It was noted that prior to the occurrence of the investigated event, the DGAC directorate responsible for civil aviation safety had “considered that Air France's procedures relating to the calculation and insertion of takeoff parameters were satisfactory”. Given the occurrence of many other similar events around the world and the repeated warnings that there is much evidence to show that procedural barriers against significant data input errors are not enough, the actions of other State regulators on the subject of the risk posed by crew errors in takeoff performance calculation and input were reviewed in some detail. It was concluded that the fact that so much attention had been devoted to ways to mitigate this risk over many years yet so little had been achieved was a global problem. The failure of a Transport Canada initiative to develop a Take Off Performance Management System (TOPMS) to yield anything, the focus of the FAA on improvements through new FMS rather than improvement of existing systems and the failure of EASA to provide a positive lead on any new system development were all seen as disappointing. However, the Take Off Safety (TOS) system developed by Airbus and fitted to the A380-800 was noted to have included various helpful features such as a check for consistency of masses and speeds inserted into the FMS. The Causes of this Serious Incident were formally documented as follows: The flight over the end of the runway at a low height during takeoff was the result of the takeoff being attempted on the basis of erroneous parameters (takeoff speeds too low and insufficient flap deflection and thrust).. The erroneous parameters entered in the FMS and used for the takeoff were the result of a performance calculation based on a weight which was 100 tonnes below the actual weight of the aeroplane.. The error of 100 tonnes occurred when each member of the crew estimated the planned weight and entered it in their EFB.. Possible Contributory Factors in respect of the failure to detect the error and its propagation were identified as: The crew’s handling of takeoff weight data in numerous formats, on various media and with various denominations.. The non-consideration of orders of magnitude partly related to the increasing use