automatically calculated by the aircraft. Once refuelling was complete, both pilots resumed setting up for takeoff and found that the previously displayed reference speeds were no longer visible. It was considered likely than when deleting routine CDU and FMS message ‘TAKEOFF SPEEDS DELETED’, which would have occurred as fuel loading took the actual weight above 330 tonnes, the crew were also likely to have deleted the message following which followed - ‘V SPEEDS UNAVAILABLE’ - “without paying particular attention to it”. None of the crew members understood why these speeds had disappeared and stated that attempts had been made to make the speeds re-appear by cycling the REF SPEEDS ON/OFF button without success. The Captain and First Officer then reinserted all the data into the FMS starting with the ZFW. When the reference speeds still did not appear, the takeoff speeds calculated on the EFBs were inserted, V1 = 143, Vr = 152 and V2 = 156 which were for use with flap 5. The correct figures would have been V1 =167, Vr = 175 and V2 = 179 for use with a flap 15 setting. The aircraft lined up on runway 26R and once in receipt of a clearance began takeoff. When the indicated Vr of 152 KIAS was reached, rotation was commenced but just after this, all the crew members reported sensing that the aircraft had sunk. Five seconds after the rotation had been commenced, at which point the Captain began looking outside, and with the wheels still on the ground, the tailstrike protection system was activated at its maximum authority, placing a limit of 10° on the pitch attitude which stabilised at 9°. Eight seconds after the activation of tailstrike protection, one of the augmenting First Officer’s called “TOGA” and full thrust was applied by the PF with the aircraft just airborne and at a height of 16 feet agl with a pitch attitude of 13° and with the speed accelerating rapidly through 189 KCAS. The Captain reported having been concerned about the height and low vertical speed and ordered an increase in the rate of climb to 1500 fpm. As this was done, the recorded pitch attitude increased to 16° and the aircraft crossed the end of the runway at 172 feet agl. The other augmenting crew member reported having monitored airspeed and assisted the PF in maintaining the airspeed above the minimum manoeuvring speed and within the indicated pitch limit. The Stall Protection System was not activated and the climb continued without further event. Subsequently, the crew considered several explanations for their experience and the error of 100 tonnes was discovered when the PF referred to his EFB. The PF continued in that role until passing FL200 when he was relieved. The crew reported having discussed whether a turn back was appropriate but it was decided not to as they all considered themselves fit to continue the flight, which was completed normally. Once parked, an external inspection confirmed that there had been no tailstrike and