An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. QAR flight data was used to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the operating flight crew consisted of a 63 year-old Captain with a total of 21,331 hours flying experience including 5,272 hours on type, a 45 year-old First Officer with a total of 9,717 hours flying experience including 1,328 hours on type who was acting as PF for the departure. The augmenting crew members, who assisted with preparations for the flight and were present on the flight deck for the takeoff, were a 51 year-old First Officer with a total of 11,662 hours flying experience including 2,156 hours on type and a 39 year-old First Officer with a total of 6,208 hours flying experience including 3,940 hours on type. It was established that runway 26R would be used for takeoff with entry at the T12 intersection giving a 3735 metre TORA. The crew was aware that the takeoff mass was likely to be close to the MTOM of 347.4 tonnes. Whilst the two augmenting crew members carried out the external pre flight inspection and supervised the loading, the operating crew completed their flight preparation. Both pilots made the initial takeoff performance calculations in their respective EFBs but both entered the same erroneous payload value of 100 tonnes less than the actual payload and got a takeoff weight of 243 tonnes instead of the actual 343 tonnes so their subsequent cross check of their outputs did not evidence their error. The Investigation noted that in the absence of any CVR evidence, it was impossible to establish whether the two errors were unrelated or whether conversation between two pilots affected their independent calculations. The resulting EFB data, including a flex temperature of 37°C, a 5° flap setting and a V1 of 143 KIAS was then input to the FMS by the First Officer. Soon after this, the Captain reported having been surprised by the takeoff speeds which appeared on the FMS which were around 20 knots lower than he had been anticipating but the crew thought that the difference may be explained by instability in the fuel measurement probes. Whilst refuelling was being completed, and after the augmenting First Officers had returned to the flight deck, the operating First Officer gave the takeoff briefing and remarked in particular that “we are heavy”. The Captain was then presented with the final load figure and the First Officer then made a paper calculation to check it but used the same incorrect load figure as previously and therefore found that the takeoff weight was 241.5 tonnes, again 100 tonnes less than the actual figure. He announced that his finding was consistent with his previous calculation and the Captain, having compared the loadsheet figure with the figure displayed on the FMS also found a consistent comparison but at the correct weight since the FMS weight was calculated from the correctly-input ZFW (zero fuel weight) and the fuel load was