the Company is informed of the event. The Investigation considered in detail the various errors of input and cross checking and the failure of the crew to detect the situation despite various available cues that an error had been made. The Air France SOPs relating to the pre flight calculations for takeoff were also examined. In addition, the failure to detect such a gross error when the figure, on which thrust and takeoff speeds were based was used, was 100 tonnes below expected was noted but could not be explained. It was considered that the failure of the twice-generated ‘V SPEEDS NOT AVAILABLE’ message to constitute an alert was likely to be attributable to the failure of Air France procedures and training to include any response to such messages which can indicate situations which may or may not be significant. It was noted that the same message on a 737 would ask a crew for verification of the inserted EFB data before takeoff would be possible. In the case of the 787, for which all the pilots involved were dual rated, it was noted that the FMS does not calculate reference speeds and there is no ‘V SPEEDS NOT AVAILABLE’ message. Instead, takeoff speeds are calculated on the EFB and a message ‘MIN V SPEEDS UNAVAILABLE’ associated with the message help ‘Unable to compute takeoff speeds for current conditions’ clearly informs the crew when the protection against the insertion of too low speeds is lost. This message cannot be deleted as long as the inserted values do not allow the calculation of take-off speeds and takeoff is not allowed. It was considered that the 8 second delay in deciding to set TOGA thrust once it was clear that some sort of parameter problem had affected the ability to get airborne was consistent with the context of surprise, a lack of understanding of the problem and the fact that the application of the full thrust push was not a unique and obvious solution. In respect of the decision to continue the flight, it was noted that there was a specific 'TAILSTRIKE' procedure which should be applied when the possibility of a tailstrike is suspected or proven and it requires, amongst other things, that a landing should be made on the nearest airfield. In the investigated case, the Captain stated that he had been “sure” that the tail of the plane had not touched the runway during takeoff and had therefore decided, in conjunction with the other crew members, to continue the flight as planned. However, it was considered that such situations required an analysis of the risks related to each option which may require outside assistance in order to guide the crew not only in respect of the decision to be made but also on the elements to be monitored in completing the flight in accordance with such a decision. It was noted that there was no such guidance or encouragement for crews to solicit help they may be able to