of performance optimisation tools.. Insufficiently robust procedures including numerous basic checks, which incompletely take into account the operational context and how the crew works. These procedures are notably based on a double calculation which is supposed to be independent, whereas a simple verbalisation may undermine this independence. These procedures do not include a means of detecting gross errors or a simultaneous check of the three media using weight data (the Final Loadsheet, the Onboard Performance Tool and the FMS).. The absence on this aeroplane, as on the majority of commercial air transport aeroplanes, of systems to detect or prevent such gross errors and to warn the crew of them, or of systems to warn the crew that the actual performance during the takeoff roll is insufficient to support the intended takeoff.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included but not been limited to the following: Air France introduced modified procedures for entering takeoff parameters in the case of the Boeing 777 which required a consistency check between the various TOW values to be carried out before engine start.. Air France updated its Training Manual to require that the Captain must share their Final Loadsheet data with the First Officer.. the DGAC conducted a retrospective analysis of the procedures previously approved for use of EFBs which showed that they included requirements for both cross checks and gross error checks as suggested by EASA AMC 20-25.. the EASA issued on 16 February 2016 a Safety Information Bulletin (SIB) 2016-02 on ‘Use of Erroneous Parameters at Take-off’.. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air France modify the media used (the flight file, the loadsheet and the EFB interface) during flight preparation in order to increase the consistency between the different weight denominations, formats and units handled by the crew. [FRAN 2018-016]. that the DSAC (Civil Aviation Safety Directorate) assess the need for other French operators to modify the media used (the operational flight plan, the loadsheet and the EFB interface) during flight preparation in order to increase the consistency between the different weight denominations, formats and units handled by crews. [FRAN 2018-017]. that Air France check, in operational conditions, the robustness of the procedures for calculating and entering takeoff parameters in order to take into account the constraints inherent in the flight preparation phase. [FRAN 2018-018]. that Air France improve the provisions allowing crews to request outside help for decision-making regarding the continuation of the flight after the occurrence of an incident. [FRAN 2018-019]. that Boeing, for all relevant in-service aircraft, update the operational documentation relating to the ‘V SPEEDS UNAVAILABLE’ message, in particular to indicate the conditions under which the message is displayed, the consequences (loss of the protection against entering speeds below calculated V1min, VRmin and V2min) and the action to be taken by crews if the message is displayed. [FRAN 2018-020]. that Boeing, for all relevant in-service aircraft and