The following are extracts from the official AAIB report, which sustained five Safety Recommendations concerning bird strike risk assessment and aircraft powerplant certification. "The aircraft was cleared to take off at 1446 hrs and the initial part of the take off run was normal. At a speed between V1 and Vr the commander saw a large bird ahead of the aircraft flying from right to left. He called "Rotate" at the correct speed, at which point the bird was on the left side of the aircraft but it then appeared to veer back and upwards towards the aircraft. All three crew members felt a pronounced 'thump' at about 100 feet agl, at which time the speed was estimated to be 165 KIAS. Almost immediately the Exhaust Gas Temperature for the No 2 engine rose rapidly, exceeding the maximum limit, and the crew noted that the other engine parameters for the No 2 engine also indicated damage to that engine. None of the other engines showed any unusual indications and the FO encountered no significant handling problems in controlling the aircraft. The crew of another aircraft which had been cleared for take off…saw debris fall from the inboard left engine of the incident aircraft… The gear was selected up and the aircraft was climbed straight ahead as the crew confirmed the engine failure. Once above 400 feet agl the drill for 'Engine fire, severe damage or separation' was initiated for the No 2 engine and the FO transmitted a Pan call…informing ATC of the engine failure; this call was acknowledged by the controller. The FO engaged the autopilot, the commander took control of the radio and upon reaching 4,000 feet they were given radar vectors towards the south coast. They were offered a discrete frequency, but declined because the frequency they were then operating was very quiet. The flight engineer confirmed that the Checklist items for an 'Engine fire, severe failure or separation' had been completed and then carried out the associated drills followed by the after take off checks. …The cabin services director had already reported to the flight deck that the cabin crew had witnessed significant damage to the No 2 engine. The aircraft was levelled at FL120 over the sea to the south of the Seaford VOR and 50,000 kg of fuel was jettisoned to reduce the aircraft weight to the maximum for landing. When the jettison drill had been completed the flight engineer went back into the passenger cabin to conduct a visual inspection of the No 2 engine and noted that the intake nose cowl and the fan cowls were missing; he did not observe any related damage to the airframe. Although there were no apparent hydraulic or flap/slat problems, the crew decided that they would reduce the speed early at every stage of the subsequent approach in order to detect any handling problems as soon as possible. Whilst in the holding pattern, which was flown at 260 KIAS in the clean configuration, there was noticeable