An Investigation into the incident was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Board (SHK) following delegation of responsibility by the AIB Finland because the Swedish-domiciled operator of the aircraft involved was also the largest single operator of the aircraft type. The Investigation determined that the issues involved in the investigated incident had been seen beyond the specific aircraft type involved and whilst the Investigation remained focused on the aircraft type involved, it was judged as a result of extensive testing and analysis, that similar issues relating to the use of thickened ground de/anti icing fluids were also relevant to other aircraft types and the eventual Safety Recommendations made were therefore generic. It was established that the incident aircraft had undergone a normal two step ground de/anti icing procedure prior to departure and noted that this had involved an initial application of hot water mixed with Type I fluid followed by an application of thickened fluid, in this case Type IV, the exact product used being “Clariant Safewing MP IV Launch". The aircraft commander had been the designated PF. It was noted that the BAe ATP had been tested in 1991 for the use of Type II fluid and these tests had shown that increased stick force was needed on rotation after application of the fluid used in the test. The aircraft was certified for use with Type II, and in 1998 was also certified for use with Type IV fluids. However, the Type IV testing was not carried out on the ATP, but on a different type of aircraft, the Jetstream 41, because this type was “considered to be more critically sensitive to effects arising from Type IV fluid”. The AIB noted that once their Investigation commenced, “it was discovered that several similar incidents involving the same type of aircraft and similar conditions had occurred [...] which had all involved deicing with thickened fluids [...] combined with too narrow a gap between the stabiliser and elevator”. A number of common factors were identified in most of these incidents: the elevator movement was restricted and/or felt very stiff to manoeuvre in connection with takeoff rotation. the problems arose at speeds around Vr. the incidents were often accompanied by "Standby Controls" and/or "Split" Warnings. all the occurrences took place during winter conditions. the aircraft had been deiced in preparation for flying. (thickened) fluid of Type II or Type IV had been applied. full elevator travel had been confirmed in rudder checks before and after the incidents. no known balance problems had played a part in the occurrences. no technical/mechanical faults could be identified in the aircraft. the fault differed in character depending on whether the pilot performing take-off was seated on the right-hand or left-hand side. The Investigation noted that the process for drawing up specifications and requirements for deicing fluids is to a certain extent controlled by trade organisations (coordinated through SAE) and that “at present no monitoring or specific inspection activities relating to these fluids are carried out by