any pan-European aviation safety body”. It was also noted that there is no regulatory authorisation process or any established certification rules to control which types of aircraft can use different types of deicing fluids. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that the investigated incident and other similar ones which had involved the same aircraft type had been caused by: “a phenomenon which, for unknown reasons, occurs following the use of anti-icing fluids containing thickening agents, on individual aircraft where the stabiliser and elevator are too close together” and that one Contributory Factor was that: “there were shortcomings in that part of the aircraft's type certification exercises that concerned anti-icing.” Safety Action taken during the Investigation by the ATP Type Certificate Holder, BAE Systems and by EASA, which issued an AD based on procedures and` requirements developed by BAE Systems on 17 December 2010 As a result of the Investigation, and the Safety Action achieved in respect of the specific aircraft type involved, four generic Safety Recommendations were made in respect of all aircraft types: That EASA should work for an extension of EASA’s remit to include certification of fluids used for ground de- and antiicing of aircraft. (RL 2011: 16e R1). That EASA should investigate the possibility of tightening requirements on aircraft design organizations in terms of demonstrating that the aircraft has full manoeuvrability during all phases of the takeoff procedure after the application of de- and anti-icing fluids. (RL 2011: 16e R2). That EASA should actively consider the value of a wider use of Type III fluids (or corresponding fluids), within the field of European Civil Aviation. (RL 2011:16e R3). That ICAO should, within the international flight safety community, work to ensure that in the future, the issuing of requirements, specifications and definition of areas of use, aircraft de- and anti-icing fluids are made the responsibility of airworthiness authorities. (RL 2011:16e R4). The Final Report of the Investigation RL 2011:16e was published on 23 November 2011.