Statistics show that 5 to 10 percent of all general aviation accidents can be attributed to spatial disorientation, and 90 percent of these accidents are fatal. Similarly, 21 percent of approach and landing accidents involve disorientation or visual illusion. This effect may be airfield-dependent. The crew was qualified to operate into the airport, and both pilots had actually done so. They briefed the approach procedure and configured the aircraft correctly before the VDP. At the VDP, both crewmembers saw the runway strobe lights and confirmed this fact with ATC. At that point, they were cleared to turn and line up with the runway. As the pilot flying, the captain then disengaged the autopilot, autothrottles and flight directors. With reduced visibility, workload management became more problematic when conducting the final approach. Whereas the captain had initially eased his task by using automation to enable early visual contact, he actually complicated matters for himself after passing the VDP. It would have been easier for the first officer to maintain visual contact with the runway from the right seat. The first officer announced that he preset a radio frequency in anticipation of an expected change. From then on, both pilots — probably having both been looking down — lost visual contact with the runway strobe lights. These lights are necessary to help mitigate potential threats of visual confusion with limited runway lights and ambient lighting. ATC procedures require the strobe lights to be switched off when aircraft are at 2 nm unless requested differently by the pilot or if visual contact is not confirmed. The go-around was decided on promptly, but the captain did not realize that he was turning right and right of centerline because his attention and vigilance were limited by what to do next, where to go around to, being squeezed between the risk of infringing another nation’s airspace and approaching high ground around the airport. This is where vestibular control (spatial disorientation) may have caused some further confusion as the captain thought he was maintaining a constant runway heading. The right turn was actually continued as the captain was reminded to push the go-around switch, after which the flight director bars reappeared to command the current track of about 140 degrees. ATC then instructed the crew to continue this right turn to a heading of 180 degrees to clear high ground. As both pilots were fully absorbed by the priority of promptly executing the climb, they temporarily failed to ensure that they were on the correct missed approach track. Stress or ensuing narrowing of the attention span can often be destabilizing in such unexpected situations where imminent decision making may lead to the risk of pilot error. However as the aircraft’s lowest altitude over land was 2,100 ft, controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) was never a real threat. The controller provided effective control by rapidly providing vectors to avoid the high ground. At go-around, the aircraft was descending through 650 ft at 134 kt, with a bank of 8