of the lead vehicle was not aware that the vehicle was on Taxiway C2 as it approached the holding position. As a result, the operator was not looking for, nor expecting to see, any of the visual cues that would have alerted him that the vehicle was approaching an active runway.. Because some of the visual cues marking the holding position (which was crossed) were obscured by snow and others may not have been working, these cues were not conspicuous enough to alert the operator of the lead vehicle to its proximity to the runway. As a result, the vehicle and the two vehicles following entered the runway protected area.. The GND controller recognised the incursion by the lead vehicle and instructed it to stop 4 times; however, the first two instructions were addressed to the wrong callsign - Plough 170 rather than Plough 862. Immediately after the ground controller used the correct call sign, the lead vehicle came to a stop 10 seconds and 82 metres after crossing the holding point on Taxiway C2.. A formally-stated Finding as to Risk was also made as follows: If air traffic controllers use abbreviated phraseology when issuing safety-critical instructions, there is a risk that the instruction will not be recognized or followed by flight crews.. One ‘Other Finding’ was also made: The vehicle operators did not have access to any real-time navigation displays to assist with navigating the various taxiways and runways, such as moving maps or a global positioning system.. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated event prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: The Airport Operator amended its SOPs relating to the changing of vehicle transponders to require that after installing a unit, the contracted service provider involved confirms with ANSP NAV CANADA that the vehicle's transponder call sign is correct and not mismatched when displayed on ATC systems.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 22 April 2020 and it was officially released on 12 May 2020. No new Safety Recommendations were made.