An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) using data downloaded from the CVR and FDR of the aircraft involved and recorded ATC voice and radar data. A group of three snow plough/sweepers and one snow blower were engaged in taxiway snow clearance. Driver forward visibility was reduced due to blowing snow and there was accumulated snow on the manoeuvring area which had in places obscured surface paint markings and embedded centreline and holding position lighting. The GND controller was relying on their A-SMGS display for airside movement control and this uniquely identified all airside vehicle and aircraft positions based on their transponder transmissions. The snow clearance vehicles were operating as a group led by a vehicle using the call sign ‘Plough 862’ and the driver of this vehicle was responsible for ATC communications for the group although all vehicles had the same VHF radio capability and were able to monitor ATC communications. However, it was subsequently found that ‘Plough 862’ was actually transmitting its radar position identity as ‘Plough 170’ and this was therefore how it was shown on the GND controller’s radar display. The snow clearance vehicle group was proceeding south on taxiway ‘E’ and was instructed to turn left onto Taxiway ‘C’, the eastbound taxiway parallel to runway 06L to continue snow removal operations there. The vehicles reached the taxiway ‘E’/’C’ intersection and briefly turned to the right to dump some of the snow near the southern edge of taxiway ‘C’ before beginning the left turn. However, the lead vehicle then failed to turn sufficiently left and instead inadvertently entered taxiway ‘C2’ and, followed by the other three vehicles continued towards runway 06L (see the illustration below). The lead vehicle approached and then crossed the runway 06L holding point and was followed by the other vehicles in the group. All the drivers subsequently stated that they had not seen any of the associated lights or visual cues which mark the holding point. As this was happening, the Embraer 170 was cleared for takeoff from the beginning of runway 06L with the reported RVR being reported as 900 metres. Since the intersection of taxiway ‘C2’ and the runway was approximately 1370 metres ahead, the crew had been unable to see it from the threshold. The actual and intended routes of the vehicle group at the taxiway ‘E’/‘C’ intersection. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Shortly after the takeoff roll had begun, the RIMCAS (Runway Incursion Monitoring and Collision Avoidance) stop-bar overrun alert in the control tower was activated and the GND controller saw from their radar display that the snow clearance vehicle group was crossing the holding position on taxiway ‘C2’ led by a vehicle with the callsign ‘Plough 170’. He therefore instructed ‘Plough 170’ to hold position but the driver of ‘Plough 862’ did not recognise that this instruction was intended for him and when the vehicles did not stop, the GND Controller repeated his instruction, this time using the words “Plough 170 Stop”.