GND Controller twice got no response to his ‘stop’ call addressed to ‘Plough 170’, he checked the EXCDS display, saw what the correct call sign for the lead vehicle was and addressed his third and fourth ‘stop’ calls to the vehicle group to with the prefix ‘Plough 862’. The RIMCAS which was activated in this event when the holding point was crossed without clearance only provided an alert (both aural and visual) once the holding point illuminated stop bar had been crossed when illuminated red. At the time of the incursion, both the illuminated stop bar and the holding point markings were obscured by snow but the two elevated stop bar lights installed near each runway edge at the holding point and which were unobstructed were not seen by the lead vehicle driver although it was reported (but not confirmed) that only one light of each pair was working. It was noted that whilst the intensity of all airside lighting was adjustable from level 1 (lowest) to level 5 (highest), no records of the intensity set were kept, although the intensity setting at the time was reported to have been level 5. In respect of the TWR Controller’s instruction to the Embraer 170 to “abort” its takeoff, it was noted that the crew response had been prompt and effective. However, it was found that the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) stated that the qualification “immediately” should be used only “when immediate action is required for safety reasons” and did not specifically recommend using this phraseology to emphasise urgency in an instruction to abort a takeoff which had already been identified of more general concern. It was found that in the matter of rejected takeoffs, Canadian ATS phraseology, lacking any requirement for attention-getting enhancements such as use of the word “immediately” or repeating the instruction, was at variance with the corresponding phraseology contained in ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM which uses both options (the emphasis is in the original) “STOP IMMEDIATELY (repeat aircraft call sign) STOP IMMEDIATELY”. It was, however, noted that whilst the current Investigation was in progress, the TSB had, in the course of a Safety Issue Investigation into a group of 27 runway incursions at Toronto in July 2019, made Safety Recommendation A18-04 to ANSP NAV CANADA to amend its phraseology guidance for safety-critical instructions such as a high speed rejected takeoff to ensure it was “sufficiently compelling” to attract attention of flight crew. This Recommendation had since been addressed by a new requirement to include repetition as the means to emphasise urgency but it had not yet been introduced. In respect of vehicle driver position awareness, especially in poor visibility conditions, it was noted that “they did not have access to any real-time navigation displays such as moving maps or a GPS to assist”. However, all the drivers involved had understood the ATC clearance they had been given and had known where they were and where they were supposed to go before making the incorrect turn onto