taxiway C2. Each of the vehicles had a VHF radio capable of communicating with ATC and the operators also had handheld radios capable of communicating with each other yet still followed the lead driver onto the runway after listening to the GND Controller’s clearance. The Investigation looked at how the lead vehicle transponder had come to be transmitting an identity which did not match the actual identity of the vehicle on which it was installed. It was found that the task of installing transponders on airport authority airside vehicles was outsourced to a contractor by the airport authority and that the transponder installed on Plough 862 had originally been installed on another snowplough, Plough 170 and had been removed and installed on Plough 862 six weeks prior to the investigated event. The Airport Authority SOPs for the contractor’s transponder installation task required that after installation of a previously installed transponder, its code must be checked to ensure that the transmitted signal was correct. In the case of the transponder on Plough 862, the necessary reprogramming and validation check had been omitted. There were also no procedures in place for ATC to report cases of transponder code/vehicle identity mismatch to the Airport Authority. The Investigation was led to understand that when the vehicle transponder installation programme had first started, “controllers would often challenge a vehicle that had an incorrect or a missing transponder code” but as these instances were not recorded and less feedback was communicated to the Airport Operator, they “assumed that fewer errors were occurring”. It was noted that early on in the development of the vehicle transponder project a mismatch between vehicle identity and transmitted code had been identified as a risk with the appropriate corrective action being the development of robust SOPs. Finally, it was noted that the TSB had carried out 10 Runway Incursion Investigations including the Safety Issue Investigation focused on the recurrent incursions at Toronto and had also initiated investigations into two other runway incursion events concurrently with this one. Whilst accepting that it is a long time (1978) since there has been an accident as a result of a runway incursion in Canada, it was observed that “the potential consequences of such a collision could be catastrophic.” It was noted that “the rate of runway incursions in Canada and the associated risks of collision will remain until effective defences tailored to address previously identified hazards are implemented at airports and in aircraft, vehicles, and air traffic service facilities across Canada”. The five formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The transponder installed on the lead vehicle was had not been updated to remove the code from the vehicle on which it had previously been installed. As a result, the incorrect code was shown on the ground controller’s display.. NAV CANADA did not have procedures in place to track or report vehicle transponder errors to the Greater Toronto Airports Authority.. Due to the reduced visibility in blowing snow, the operator