When the vehicles still continued, he transmitted “Plough 862 Stop”, but in the absence of an immediate response and with three of the four vehicles having now passed the runway 06L holding point, he then repeated the instruction and the group stopped moving. The GND Controller then transmitted “you are on the runway, hold position there”. The lead vehicle was just over 80 metres beyond the holding point but still approximately 30 metres from the edge of the actual runway. At about the same time as the GND Controller began to instruct the vehicle group to stop, the south TWR controller instructed the Embraer 170 to “abort”. Its crew subsequently reported that although they could not see the vehicle incursion ahead, having reached an airspeed of 110 knots, they had immediately taken action and had come to a stop on the centreline of the 60 metre-wide runway, approximately 60 metres before its intersection with taxiway ‘C2’. This put then about 60 metres laterally distant from the vehicles (see the illustration below). The ground radar display as it showed the stopped aircraft and vehicle group. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that all of the vehicle operators involved in this event had “several years of experience operating various equipment, including snowploughs, on the airport manoeuvring areas”. The GND Controller involved had approximately 15 years’ experience of which the previous 18 months had been gained at Toronto. Given the reduced visibility and the addition to normal traffic of numerous snow removal vehicles working on the manoeuvring areas, his workload was assessed as having been “high and complex”. The TWR controller involved had 14 years’ experience of which 9 years had been gained at Toronto and it was the first time he had ever instructed a departing aircraft to reject a takeoff when at high speed. The GND controller was used to mobiles not transponding with the same identity as their designated identity and it was noted that whilst the Unit OM describes controllers’ responsibilities and responses if an aircraft transponder tag on their radar display does not match its call sign, it contained no similar procedures if a vehicle transponder tag on screen does not match its call sign. It was further noted that prior to the introduction of the A-SMGCS, the (ASDE) ground radar display had been derived from primary radar with no vehicle identity tags and vehicle call signs input manually on a virtual progress strip embedded in the Extended Computer Display System (EXCDS) to which controllers could refer. This system had led to controllers becoming used to seeing vehicles without associated tags. Once A-SMGCS arrived and vehicles increasingly became equipped with transponders, ground radar display screens began to show vehicle tags or call signs. If a vehicle’s display tag was incorrect, “controllers simply referred to the EXCDS for the appropriate call sign”. They did not track the number of incorrect tags/call signs so there was no way of knowing how frequently this was happening. So when the