hours when the incident occurred. He noted that because it is hard to see the southern end of the runways at night, the ASDE was sometimes used to assist ground traffic position awareness but he had not used it on this occasion because the weather was fine. He stated that “there are no rules about the time at which to rotate the controllers’ shift, thus the timing for rotating the shift is determined by the watch supervisor who also has the coordinator duty. It was noted that the ANSP for the civil airport of New Chitose and the adjacent similarly aligned and linked runways of Chitose military airbase (the former Chitose civil airport) is the Japanese Military. When the investigated incident occurred, there had been four personnel on duty in the TWR, the TWR and GND controllers, a trainee carrying out traffic recording duties and the Watch Supervisor. It was noted that the person in charge of the entire ATC night shift is the “Control Section Chief” who is present in the TWR only when the Japanese military airbase is active. Recorded data showed that the departing aircraft had rejected its takeoff about 500 metres from the beginning of the runway and had come to a stop 31 seconds later at about 750 metres further on. The crossing aircraft had been occupying the same runway from 4 seconds before the take off was rejected for a period of 19 seconds and the closest distance between the two aircraft on the runway as a result of the prompt rejected take off had been approximately 1400 metres. If the rejected take off had not been made, it was calculated that the departing aircraft would have been about 1000 metres from the crossing aircraft as the latter cleared the runway. The Investigation undertook a detailed review of both procedures and controller working practices at airport and found some aspects of concern. The formal statement on the Probable Cause of the Incident (in which Aircraft A is the departing aircraft and Aircraft B is the arriving one) was as follows: “It is estimated that this serious incident was caused because the Tower Controller issued takeoff clearance to Aircraft A by mistake despite that he had planned to instruct it to hold on 19R, while allowing Aircraft B to cross 19R without realizing the mistake, and Aircraft A which started takeoff run, visually confirmed Aircraft B crossing 19R and rejected the takeoff. Concerning the erroneous issuance of takeoff clearance by the Tower Controller, it is considered possible that he had been tired out and kept working at the same control position over an hour without knowing when the next rotation personnel would take over his position, thereby causing his attentiveness to slacken. As for the fact that the controller didn’t realize his mistake until Aircraft A reported him of its reject, it is considered that this is so because he had been thinking that Aircraft A would be holding at the takeoff run starting point