An Investigation was initiated on the day following the incident by the Aircraft and Railway Accidents Investigation Commission, the responsible body as the time which was subsequently replaced during the course of the investigation by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB) who completed the Investigation and issued the Final Report. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had not been a factor in the event and that it occurred in the hours of darkness. It was also noted that the Captain had been designated as PF on the departing aircraft and that on the arriving aircraft, the Captain had decided that he would act as PF for take off and below 500 feet aal on the approach until the aircraft had reached taxi speed after landing with the First Officer acting as PF for the rest of the flight. It was found that the TWR controller had issued the clearance to the just-landed aircraft to “cross Runway 19R, contact Ground” as the aircraft had reached taxi speed on runway 19L and before it entered the RET ‘B9’. As it entered ‘B9’, the crew had called GND with “Crossing Runway 19R, Spot 7” and been instructed to “continue taxi H6 and J, hold short of H5”, a position in the vicinity of the Terminal. The crew of this aircraft had both seen another aircraft towards the other end of the runway with its lights on as their aircraft had approached the runway intersection on taxiway ‘B9N’ “but it didn’t seem to be moving” and so the taxi was continued. It was noted that the First Officer of the departing aircraft had been paying particular attention to the aircraft that had just landed on the other runway based on his earlier experience crossing runway 19R after landing on Runway 19L. He had realised then that when an aircraft was lined up at the other end of the runway, it was difficult to see whether it was moving or not when about to cross. When he had observed that the other aircraft was not going to stop before entering the runway, he had called “crossing traffic” which prompted the Captain to reject the take off from “somewhere at around 80-knot call. Neither crew reported hearing a contrary clearance being given to the conflicting aircraft but it was apparent that these transmissions, if made when the respective aircraft were on the same frequency, would have occurred at a time when crew attention was necessarily focused on their own aircraft. The TWR controller stated that when the departing aircraft called that it was rejecting take off because an aircraft was crossing the runway, he had initially presumed that this was for aircraft technical reasons but, upon seeing the inbound aircraft moving from taxiway ‘A8S’ towards taxiway ‘D’, had then realised that he had given it takeoff clearance by mistake, having been under the impression that he had instructed it to “line up and wait”. He had been in the TWR position for about 1.5