An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant flight data was available but relevant data on the CVR was not because it had been overwritten. It was noted that the absence of CVR data precluded a meaningful examination of human factors issues which were prominent in the event, especially instances where there had been a clear lack of effective CRM. These had included, for example, “both pilots’ failure to assimilate the runway 28L closure information included in the ATIS information, the First Officer’s failure to manually tune the ILS frequency and the Captain’s failure to verify the tuning of the ILS frequency (and) there was no way of telling whether distraction, workload and/or other factors contributed to these failures”. It was established that the Captain had been PF for the investigated approach. Four aircraft were waiting in line on taxiway ‘C’ to depart from runway 28R which was being used for both arrivals and departures because runway 28L was closed. The first aircraft on the taxiway, a Boeing 787-9, was overflown at 100 agl but as a subsequent go around was at last initiated, the second aircraft on the taxiway, an Airbus A340-300, was also overflown as the A320 reached a minimum height of about 60 feet agl before beginning to climb away. Two further aircraft, another Boeing 787 and a Boeing 737 were also further back in the taxiway ‘C’ departure line. It was established that both A320 pilots had recent experience flying into San Francisco at night although probably when both runways were in operation. However, on the night involved, closure of runway 28L had been the subject of a NOTAM which was available to the crew at pre-flight briefing. The First Officer subsequently stated that he “could not recall” seeing this NOTAM and the Captain subsequently stated that, although he had seen it at that time, the fact that he aligned the aircraft with taxiway ‘C’ instead of runway 28R had “demonstrated that he did not recall that information when it was needed”. This was despite the crew receiving ATIS ‘Q’ which included the same information about the runway 28L closure via ACARS. Both pilots "recalled reviewing ATIS information Quebec” but there had not then been any discussion about the implications of its content in respect of the approach they could expect. In preparation for the approach to runway 28R, the First Officer was supposed to set up the corresponding ILS as back up for the expected visual approach procedure but had not done so and the omission was not detected by the Captain. The Captain stated that, as the aircraft approached the airport, “he thought that he saw runway lights for runway 28L and thus believed that runway 28R was runway 28L and that taxiway C was runway 28R”. At this time, the First Officer was still programming the missed approach and setting the runway heading and did not monitor the approach. The Captain asked the First Officer to contact ATC and “confirm that the