runway was clear” at which time the First Officer reported having looked up and “presumed” that the aircraft was aligned with runway 28R. There was some delay in asking for this ATC clarification because of congestion on the TWR frequency. However, after ATC confirmed that runway 28R was clear, the pilots “were unable to reconcile their confusion” about lights that they assumed were on the landing runway with this assurance and neither then recognised that the aircraft was not aligned with the landing runway until it was over the taxiway. The Investigation noted that “multiple cues were available to the flight crew to distinguish runway 28R from taxiway C (such as the green centreline lights and flashing yellow guard lights on the taxiway)” and that “the cues available to the flight crew to indicate that the airplane was aligned with a taxiway did not overcome the crew’s belief, as a result of expectation bias, that the taxiway was the intended landing runway”. Given the difficulty of visually distinguishing the approach track alignment being flown by the aircraft from the correct one on the runway extended centreline, it was considered that “the controller responded appropriately once he became aware of the potential conflict”. It was considered on the basis of the timing of the flight under investigation - at a time when the flight crew would normally have been asleep - and the fact that at the time of the incident, the Captain had been awake for more than 19 hours and the First Officer for more than 12 hours, both the pilots involved could be considered fatigued. The formal statement of the Findings of the Investigation covered all the matters mentioned above and re-emphasised the significance of the lack of CVR data given that the investigated event was entirely a product of human factors issues relating to the performance of the A320 flight crew involved. The absence of this data had obliged the Investigation to speculate on the reasons for significant elements of this performance, notably their “preparation for the approach, flight deck coordination, perception of the airport environment and decision-making”. Six ‘Safety Issues’ were identified as a result of the Investigation which, in summary, were as follows: The need for consistent FMS auto-tuning capability within any air carrier fleet. The ‘FMS Bridge’ visual approach to runway 28R was the only approach in Air Canada’s Airbus A320 database for which the relevant navigation aid(s) had to be manual set up. It was considered that because manual tuning of the ILS frequency was therefore an unusual procedure for the crew, the development of an auto-tune solution would help preclude such a situation from recurring. It was also noted that although an explicit instruction to manually tune the ILS frequency was on the chart, it was “not conspicuous”.. The need for more effective presentation of flight operations information to optimize pilot review and retention of relevant information. Although the NOTAM about the runway 28L closure was readily available at pre-flight briefing and