in the ACARS message that the flight crew received, it was considered that the way it was presented had not conveyed the importance of the runway closure information in way that would be conducive to retention.. The need for aircraft landing at primary airports within class B/C airspace to be equipped with a system that will alert their pilots the aircraft is not aligned with a runway. A system which provided an alert if it appeared that a landing on a surface other than a runway would provide pilots with additional positional awareness information. It was considered that if such a system had been installed on the incident aircraft it “could have helped the flight crew identify its surface misalignment error earlier” and resulted in the go-around being performed before the aircraft was “dangerously close” to the aircraft on the taxiway.. The need for ASDE and airport surface surveillance capability (ASSC) systems to be able to detect potential taxiway landings and provide alerts to ATC. The San Francisco TWR had an ASSC system but it was not designed to predict an imminent collision involving an arriving airplane lined up with a taxiway. It was considered that an automated ASDE alert of such a situation could assist controllers and noted that an FAA demonstration in February 2018 had shown the potential effectiveness of such a system.. The need for a more effective way of visually alerting pilots to a runway temporary closure when at least one parallel runway remains in use. It was noted that although a runway closure marker with a lighted flashing white “X” was placed at the approach and departure ends of closed runway 28L, this marker was “not designed to capture the attention of a flight crew on approach to a different runway” and did not do so in the case of the investigated approach. It was considered that increased conspicuity of such markers, especially those used in parallel runway configurations, could help prevent runway misidentification.. The need for revisions to Canadian regulations to address the potential for fatigue when pilots on daytime standby duty are then called to operate evening flights that would extend an FDP into their window of circadian low. Although the flight crew roster for the flight duty period involved was in accordance with the applicable Canadian regulations, it would not have been allowable under the equivalent US regulations. It was noted that the Canadian regulations have not been updated since 1996 but that potential revisions which were issued in 2014 and revised and reissued in 2017. No changes to the 1996 regulations has yet occurred but it was noted that “according to Transport Canada, the proposed regulations would better address the challenge of fatigue mitigation for pilots on standby duty who are called to operate evening flights extending into their window of circadian low”.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was “the flight crew’s misidentification of taxiway ‘C’ as the intended landing runway, which resulted from the crewmembers’