with ANSP personnel during their day-to-day activities.. This process helps the assessment team to become familiar with the working environment of the ANSP and make observations that can be followed up and explored further in interviews and workshops. It also allows the team to establish a rapport with ANSP personnel, which is of general benefit in subsequent information sharing stages. In order to gather information on a range of Safety Culture issues, enablers, constraints and opportunities for improvement, the assessment team should visit different units of the ANSP such as towers, approach and en route centres. Familiarisation visits are generally conducted by a mixed team, consisting of: those with (ATC) operational expertise - to assist with understanding the technical aspects of the observed activity; and. external experts from the assessment team - who contribute an ‘outsider’ perspective and the experience and expertise to assess observed behaviours in terms of Safety Culture elements.. When assessing an ANSP’s Safety Culture, the assessment team must have an understanding of, and empathy with, the entire local environment in which the ANSP operates. As Hofstede notes, “ …people in other countries may think, feel, and act very differently from yourself, even when confronted with basic problems of society…”. The assessment team can conduct external literature and document reviews and websites reviews, for instance, to access relevant information. Reading about the historical background of the country may also assist in understanding the national culture. Specific information about an ANSP’s Safety Culture can be gained from a number of sources to complement data obtained through the questionnaires and familiarisation visits: The ANSP website. The content and the way the information is presented conveys information about where the company’s areas of interest lie. Safety programs and safety initiatives in place within the ANSP, indicating the level of commitment to safety. Documented policies and procedures. Internal publications outlining details of the organisational structure, mission statement etc.. Incident reports, incident summary data and other safety indicators. While the Safety Culture questionnaire identifies whether the ANSP has tools in place to learn (e.g., reporting systems, incident analysis, feedback and communication channels), the quality and effectiveness of this learning process is difficult to assess without observing the outcomes. An examination of the process and related documents (incident reports, documentation of resulting action and feedback, etc.) provides important information on organisational learning by considering issues such as: How often voluntary reporting processes are used The quality and scope of incident reports, and whether important issues are covered appropriately Whether reports are acted on, how feedback is communicated, and what the process for responding to reports entails How trends in incident data are collected and acted upon.. How often voluntary reporting processes are used. The quality and scope of incident reports, and whether important issues are covered appropriately. Whether reports are acted on, how feedback is communicated, and what the process for responding to reports entails. How trends in incident data are collected and acted upon.. This information assists the assessment team in understanding