(note that stabilisation heights are typically set at 1000 ft aal but may be as high as 1500 ft aal) 5. Modern jet aircraft need longer distance to descend and decelerate than propeller-driven aircraft. read more... 6. Instructing an aircraft to reduce speed during the upper parts of the descent will usually cause it to drift above its descent profile. read more... 7. 160 knots is the maximum acceptable speed to 4 nm from touchdown in order for most (but not all) aircraft types to get the approach stabilised at the speed which will typically be needed when 1000 feet above the runway. read more... 8. Be aware of forecast winds both aloft and at the surface and actively monitor them so as to minimise exposure to an excessive tail wind component on approach and minimise any tailwind component for landing. read more... 9. Optimal vectoring will typically result in an aircraft being fully established on final approach not later than 6 NM (and 2000ft) from touchdown. read more... 10. Vector so that the glide slope is intercepted when an aircraft is in level flight. read more... Stabilised Approach Awareness Toolkit for ATC. Contribution of Unstabilised Approaches to Aircraft Accidents and Incidents Flight Crew Workload in Preparation for the Execution of an Approach Unstabilised Approach: Inappropriate ATC Speed Instructions Unstabilised Approach: Delayed Descent Instructions Unstabilised Approach: Lack of or Wrong Information About Distance to Touchdown Unstabilised Approach: Landing Distance and Final Speed Calculations Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring into Short Final Distances Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring Resulting in Intercepting the Glidepath from Above Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring to Runways with Significant Tailwind Component. Contribution of Unstabilised Approaches to Aircraft Accidents and Incidents. Flight Crew Workload in Preparation for the Execution of an Approach. Unstabilised Approach: Inappropriate ATC Speed Instructions. Unstabilised Approach: Delayed Descent Instructions. Unstabilised Approach: Lack of or Wrong Information About Distance to Touchdown. Unstabilised Approach: Landing Distance and Final Speed Calculations. Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring into Short Final Distances. Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring Resulting in Intercepting the Glidepath from Above. Unstabilised Approach: Vectoring to Runways with Significant Tailwind Component.