The opening of new sectors is based on local particularities and should be described in the Manual of Operations of the ATSU. While there are no strict rules for this some typical criteria are: Expected traffic is above a specified threshold, e.g. 90% of the sector capacity;. The number of expected aircraft on the frequency at the same time is greater than a specified threshold, e.g. 20 aircraft on the frequency at the same time;. Traffic complexity, e.g. a lot of aircraft departing from/ arriving to nearby aerodromes;. Expected adverse weather, especially CB;. Testing of ATS equipment, e.g. a new ATS system;. A combination of the above.. The procedures to be followed in case a new sector is opened should be described in detail in the Manual of Operations of the ATSU. The typical steps are as follows: The supervisor makes a decision to open a new sector based on local criteria;. The controllers from the new sector: verify the operational status of the equipment; inform the adjacent sectors/units; perform a takeover/handover procedure (get informed about the situation – conflicts, coordinations, aircraft requests, weather, etc.) with the controllers of the affected sector(s); assume control of aircraft within their area of responsibility.. verify the operational status of the equipment;. inform the adjacent sectors/units;. perform a takeover/handover procedure (get informed about the situation – conflicts, coordinations, aircraft requests, weather, etc.) with the controllers of the affected sector(s);. assume control of aircraft within their area of responsibility.. Risks, associated with the opening of new sectors: The procedure starts too late – this can lead to controllers working under high workload in unfamiliar environment; also, this case reduces the chance for performing an adequate takeover/handover procedure; in general, good timing and adequate interpretation of traffic forecasts should be sufficient to mitigate this risk;. Too many frequency changes within a short period of time – this can easily lead to a blocked frequency or an aircraft being transferred to a wrong frequency; this risk can be mitigated simply by allowing longer pauses between frequency changes;. Poor takeover/handover, e.g. if the controllers from the existing sector fail to inform the ones from the new sector about a conflict or some particularity (danger areas, adverse weather, etc.); since the workload when opening a new sector is higher compared to the takeover procedure it is possible to have a conflict spotted too late; to mitigate this risk, the procedure should be performed with extra caution and without rushing;. Underestimation of traffic, leading to sectors not being open when they should have been – this usually results in controller overload; this risk can be mitigated with adequate interpretation of traffic forecasts;. Overestimation of traffic, leading to sectors being open unnecessarily – this generally seems to be a marginal issue, but can often mean that controllers have to work for 3 or 4 hours without a break; also, too little traffic tends to make people prone to lapses; this risk can be mitigated with adequate interpretation of traffic forecasts..