Frequency blocking is a phenomenon that occurs when two or more stations transmit on the same frequency or when a station makes an unnecessary transmission that lasts for too long. In the former case, the result is a signal that is a mix of all transmissions and the receiving stations hear a garbled message which is often completely unreadable. In the latter case the frequency becomes unavailable to the other participants because if they try to transmit, the result will be a garbled message (as in the other scenario). There are several types of frequency blocking: Partial overlap - one station starts transmitting and at some point another one does that too (usually due to lack of radio discipline). Parts of the messages are normally garbled but in most cases everyone is aware of what has happened and corrective action will usually be carried out promptly.. Complete overlap - overlap in such a way that the controller or a pilot is not aware that more than one transmission has occurred. This phenomenon is described in a dedicated article. The issue is that since the parties are not aware of the blocking, they will not know that a message has not reached its destination.. Prolonged blocking means that a station transmits for a relative long period of time (at least several minutes but this may extend to 20 or more). Any other transmission during this period would cause frequency blocking. Normally, a voice message lasts a few seconds. There are some exceptions to this (e.g. when transmitting a departure clearance or a weather report) but in such cases this is expected and the timing is made in such a way that would not disturb communication. For example, a controller would transmit a long METAR message only when they are not expecting aircraft to check in on the frequency in the next few minutes and all the necessary clearances are issued and acknowledged. On the other hand, a long and unexpected transmission made at the wrong time may prevent important message (e.g. a conflict solving instruction, an emergency declaration, etc.) from reaching the recipient.. The most common reasons for frequency blocking are: Stuck microphone button. Sometimes releasing the button does not switch the radio to "receive" mode. This is a type of temporary and intermittent equipment malfunction. It often prevents the normal use of the frequency because if any other station tries to transmit, the others will likely hear a garbled message. This situation is identified by a specific background noise and occasional events such as equipment sounds, people talking to each other, etc.. A pilot making a PA announcement but forgetting to appropriately switch the equipment. The message is then sent on the operating frequency denying access to all other stations. This makes the situation similar to the one described above but the duration is usually shorter. Also, pilots sometimes realize their error which further reduces the period of frequency unavailability.. Lack of radio discipline. While most communication manuals advise against