The following procedures may be helpful to mitigate the consequences of a frequency blocking and restore normal communications: Using the word BLOCKED alerts the others that a frequency blocking has occurred so that they may act accordingly (e.g. transmit again, wait to be called for, etc. according to the specific circumstances).. CPDLC message UM157 "Check stuck mic [frequency]". This is sent by datalink to all aircraft in the sector. This may not always work because CPDLC may only be provided above certain levels (in Europe this is FL 285) and if the aircraft blocking the frequency is flying below that level they may not be CPDLC equipped and may therefore not receive the message.. Calling aircraft one by one on the emergency frequency in order to determine which one is causing the blocking. Other methods for identifying the aircraft blocking the frequency include use of Selective Calling System (SELCAL), operator frequencies (if available), other appropriate frequencies (if available) and even direct contact with the aircraft if it is on the ground. If the aircraft in question is successfully identified and communication is established, then the crew should be informed about the situation and advised to stop transmitting.. In case of frequency blocking due to traffic congestion controllers may choose to take the initiative and initiate dialogues. There are a few clues that may help in identifying the aircraft that have transmitted during the blocking or are about to transmit (and may cause a blocking), e.g.: Many ATC systems have features that show aircraft in handover state (i.e. those that are in the process of switching from one frequency to another). This enables the controller to make the initial call and be reasonably sure they will receive a reply. The implementation of OLDI messages for communication transfer (e.g. COF, MAS, etc.) is helpful in this regard. While the messages during frequency blocking are generally garbled and not fully readable, sometimes the callsigns of both aircraft can be extracted. Calling them one by one instead of just saying "blocked" may help restore orderly communication.. Many ATC systems have features that show aircraft in handover state (i.e. those that are in the process of switching from one frequency to another). This enables the controller to make the initial call and be reasonably sure they will receive a reply. The implementation of OLDI messages for communication transfer (e.g. COF, MAS, etc.) is helpful in this regard.. While the messages during frequency blocking are generally garbled and not fully readable, sometimes the callsigns of both aircraft can be extracted. Calling them one by one instead of just saying "blocked" may help restore orderly communication..