to other Airbus A330 aircraft flown by various operators. As the Airbus A330 is a Fly-By-Wire aircraft, a secondary effect of these failures was that the prevailing Control Law changed from 'Normal' to 'Alternate' with the effect of removing Flight Envelope Protection in respect of any attempt to fly at an excessive angle of attack. Crew awareness of such a change is confirmed by the CVR recording of the PNF acknowledging ‘alternate law protections’. The sudden change to manual flight control was found to have been followed almost immediately by a series of inappropriate pitch control inputs by the PF and, as a result of these inputs, two brief activations of the stall warning system. In the presence of some roll instability, the pitch attitude of the aircraft had initially increased to beyond 10 degrees and the aircraft began to climb at up to 7000 fpm with no recorded comments from either co-pilot. The PF then made nose down inputs alternately to the right and to the left and the rate of climb reduced to 700 fpm. After an absence of 29 seconds, valid indications returned to the left side PFD showing Mach 0.68. By this time the aircraft was at about 37,500 ft with a recorded (but not annunciated) angle of attack of around 4°. Thirty nine seconds after the AP disconnection, the stall warning was again activated, this time remaining continuously active. The response of the PF was to select TO/GA and maintain nose-up input. The recorded angle of attack continued to increase and the trimmable horizontal stabiliser (THS) moved from 3° nose-up to 13° nose-up in about a minute in response to pilot control inputs and then remained there until the end of the flight. It was determined that “in less than one minute after the disconnection of the autopilot, the aircraft became fully stalled and exited the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) Flight Envelope as a result of the actions of the PF”. Having reached an altitude of 38000 feet, the aircraft began to descend fully stalled. As descent continued, and approximately 30 seconds after the fully stalled condition had begun, the aircraft commander re-entered the flight deck. During the following few seconds, all of the recorded airspeed indications became invalid and the stall warning stopped, after having sounded continuously for 54 seconds. The altitude was then about 35,000 ft, the angle of attack exceeded 40 degrees and the vertical speed of the descent was about 10,000 fpm. Pitch attitude did not exceed 15° and engine thrust remained close to 100%. After the aircraft commander had been present for 20 seconds, the thrust levers were reduced to Flight Idle. As the aircraft continued to descend in a fully stalled condition, “the angle of attack, when it was valid, always remained above 35°”. All recordings ceased 2 minutes and 46 seconds after the aircraft commander had re-entered the flight deck with pitch attitude recorded as 16.2° nose-up. It was noted that all activations of the stall warning system