Pitot probes and its consequences. The absence of any training, at high altitude, in manual aeroplane handling and in the procedure for (flight with unreliable airspeed);. Task-sharing that was weakened by: incomprehension of the situation when the autopilot disconnection occurred, poor management of the startle effect that generated a highly charged emotional factor for the two copilots;. incomprehension of the situation when the autopilot disconnection occurred,. poor management of the startle effect that generated a highly charged emotional factor for the two copilots;. The lack of a clear display in the cockpit of the airspeed inconsistencies identified by the computers;. The crew not taking into account the stall warning, which could have been due to: A failure to identify the aural warning, due to low exposure time in training to stall phenomena, stall warnings and buffet, The appearance at the beginning of the event of transient warnings that could be considered as spurious The absence of any visual information to confirm the approach-to-stall after the loss of the limit speeds The possible confusion with an overspeed situation in which buffet is also considered as a symptom Flight Director indications that may led the crew to believe that their actions were appropriate, even though they were not The difficulty in recognizing and understanding the implications of a reconfiguration in alternate law with no angle of attack protection. A failure to identify the aural warning, due to low exposure time in training to stall phenomena, stall warnings and buffet,. The appearance at the beginning of the event of transient warnings that could be considered as spurious. The absence of any visual information to confirm the approach-to-stall after the loss of the limit speeds. The possible confusion with an overspeed situation in which buffet is also considered as a symptom. Flight Director indications that may led the crew to believe that their actions were appropriate, even though they were not. The difficulty in recognizing and understanding the implications of a reconfiguration in alternate law with no angle of attack protection.