stall warning and strong buffet. Despite these persistent symptoms, the crew never understood that they were stalling and consequently never applied a recovery manoeuvre. The combination of the ergonomics of the warning design, the conditions in which airline pilots are trained and exposed to stalls during their professional training and the process of recurrent training does not generate the expected behaviour in any acceptable reliable way. In its current form, recognising the stall warning, even associated with buffet, supposes that the crew accords a minimum level of “legitimacy” to it. This then supposes sufficient previous experience of stalls, a minimum of cognitive availability and understanding of the situation, knowledge of the aeroplane (and its protection modes) and its flight physics. An examination of the current training for airline pilots does not, in general, provide convincing indications of the building and maintenance of the associated skills. More generally, the double failure of the planned procedural responses shows the limits of the current safety model. When crew action is expected, it is always supposed that they will be capable of initial control of the flight path and of a rapid diagnosis that will allow them to identify the correct entry in the dictionary of procedures. A crew can be faced with an unexpected situation leading to a momentary but profound loss of comprehension. If, in this case, the supposed capacity for initial mastery and then diagnosis is lost, the safety model is then in “common failure mode”. During this event, the initial inability to master the flight path also made it impossible to understand the situation and to access the planned solution.” It was thus concluded that the accident resulted from the following succession of events: Temporary inconsistency between the airspeed measurements, likely following the obstruction of the Pitot probes by ice crystals that, in particular, caused the autopilot disconnection and the reconfiguration to alternate law;. Inappropriate control inputs that destabilized the flight path;. The lack of any link by the crew between the loss of indicated speeds called out and the appropriate procedure;. The late identification by the PNF of the deviation from the flight path and the insufficient correction applied by the PF;. The crew not identifying the approach to stall, their lack of immediate response and the exit from the flight envelope;. The crew’s failure to diagnose the stall situation and consequently a lack of inputs that would have made it possible to recover from it.”. And that these events can be explained by a combination of the following factors: The feedback mechanisms on the part of all those involved that made it impossible: to identify the repeated non-application of the loss of airspeed information procedure and to remedy this to ensure that the risk model for crews in cruise included icing of the Pitot probes and its consequences. to identify the repeated non-application of the loss of airspeed information procedure and to remedy this. to ensure that the risk model for crews in cruise included icing of the