Since the loss of the aircraft occurred over International Waters, it was investigated by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) as State of the Operator and State of the Manufacturer. Indications that erroneous airspeed displays had occurred were obtained from Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System maintenance messages which had been transmitted automatically at the time. The floating wreckage retrieved in the days following the disappearance suggested to the Investigation that control of the aircraft had been lost prior to sea surface impact. A long period involving sea search in demanding deep water conditions then elapsed before the site of the principal wreckage on the sea bed was located and significant pieces of it and the crash protected recorded data units carried by the aircraft recovered. A series of communications relating to the ongoing Investigation were issued by the BEA as it became clear that the process would be an extended one delayed by the need to locate and recover essential evidence to understand the circumstances which led up to the loss. These included Interim Reports released on 2 July 2009, 17 December 2009 and 29 July 2011. The first two contained contextual information and details of the difficult search for essential evidence. The third followed the location of the wreckage at a depth of 3900 m on 2 April 2011, 6.5 nm north-north-east of the last position report transmitted by the aircraft and the recovery of both the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) a month later. This Report contained crucial details derived from the recovered recorders which yielded completely successful replays despite the extended period of immersion and a review based thereon of clearly relevant Air France pilot operating procedures and pilot training. Additional evidence was gained from the non-volatile memory (NVM) of some of the specifically recovered solid state units relevant to the Investigation. It was possible to confirm that prior to the onset of the event sequence, level flight at a speed of Mach 0.82 was being maintained with a pitch attitude which was normal for the circumstances of about 2.5°. The aircraft commander (who had been acting as PNF) had then left the flight deck for a planned rest period leaving the two co-pilots in the flight deck with right hand seat co pilot continuing to act as PF. Shortly afterwards and in quick succession, two of the three airspeed indications, those on the left hand PFD and those on the ISIS (the Integrated Standby Instrument), failed followed by that on the right hand PFD indication. Recorded data showed that the speed displayed on the left hand PFD was incorrect for a total of 29 seconds, that on ISIS for 54 seconds and that on the right hand PFD for up to a total of 61 seconds. After these short intervals, normal function returned to all three displays. Their transient malfunction was subsequently attributed to ice crystal icing of their respective pitot probes, as had occurred previously in similar environmental conditions