co-pilots had been facilitated by cadet training and gained within Air France on Airbus aircraft types. The more experienced of the two overall was the PNF who had been with Air France for 11 years and on type since 2002. The PF had been with Air France for 5 years and had completed A330 type conversion just six months prior to the accident. Secondary matters reviewed by the Investigation included ‘Search and Rescue (SAR) and Accident Investigation issues, ATC communications and flight deck ergonomics. The Findings of the Investigation also included the following: The meteorological situation was not exceptional for the month of June in the inter-tropical convergence zone.. There was an implicit (but not explicit) designation of (one of the two co pilots) as relief Captain.. The PNF (had initially) called out imprecise flight path corrections. They were however essential and sufficient for short-term management of the situation.. The pitot probes installed on (the accident aircraft) met requirements that were stricter than the (EASA) certification standards.. EASA had analysed (previous) pitot probe icing events; it had confirmed the severity of the failure and had decided not to make the probe change mandatory.. The Causes of the Accident were documented formally as follows: “The obstruction of the pitot probes by ice crystals during cruise was a phenomenon that was known but misunderstood by the aviation community at the time of the accident. From an operational perspective, the total loss of airspeed information that resulted from this was a failure that was classified in the safety model. After initial reactions that depend upon basic airmanship, it was expected that it would be rapidly diagnosed by pilots and managed where necessary by precautionary measures on the pitch attitude and the thrust, as indicated in the associated procedure. The occurrence of the failure in the context of flight in cruise completely surprised the pilots of (the accident flight). The apparent difficulties with aeroplane handling at high altitude in turbulence led to excessive handling inputs in roll and a sharp nose-up input by the PF. The destabilisation that resulted from the climbing flight path and the evolution in the pitch attitude and vertical speed was added to the erroneous airspeed indications and ECAM messages, which did not help with the diagnosis. The crew, progressively becoming de-structured, likely never understood that it was faced with a “simple” loss of three sources of airspeed information. In the minute that followed the autopilot disconnection, the failure of the attempts to understand the situation and the de-structuring of crew cooperation fed on each other until the total loss of cognitive control of the situation. The underlying behavioural hypotheses in classifying the loss of airspeed information as “major” were not validated in the context of this accident. Confirmation of this classification thus supposes additional work on operational feedback that would enable improvements, where required, in crew training, the ergonomics of information supplied to them and the design of procedures. The aeroplane went into a sustained stall, signalled by the