A total of 41 Safety Recommendations were issued during the course of the Investigation as a consequence of its findings. Six un-numbered Recommendations relating to the task of accident investigation were included in the Second Interim Report, four in respect of flight recorders and two more in respect of aircraft certification: that EASA and ICAO extend as rapidly as possible to 90 days the regulatory transmission time for ULB’s installed on flight recorders on aeroplanes performing public transport flights over maritime areas.. that EASA and ICAO make it mandatory, as rapidly as possible, for aeroplanes performing public transport flights over maritime areas to be equipped with an additional ULB capable of transmitting on a frequency (for example between 8.5 kHz and 9.5 kHz) and for a duration adapted to the pre-localisation of wreckage.. that EASA and ICAO study the possibility of making it mandatory for aeroplanes performing public transport flights to regularly transmit basic flight parameters (for example position, altitude, speed, heading).. that ICAO ask the FLIRECP group to establish proposals on the conditions for implementing deployable recorders of the EUROCAE ED-112 type for aeroplanes performing public transport flights.. that EASA undertake studies to determine with appropriate precision the composition of cloud masses at high altitude. that EASA in coordination with the other regulatory authorities, (uses) the results obtained (from the separately recommended studies into the composition of cloud masses at high altitude) to modify the certification criteria.. The Third Interim Report contained ten further Recommendations, also un-numbered, three relating to pilot training and procedures following an examination of those in place at Air France, one in respect of data presentation to the pilots and six more concerning accident investigation issues: that EASA review the content of check and training programmes and make mandatory, in particular, the setting up of specific and regular exercises dedicated to manual aircraft handling of approach to stall and stall recovery, including at high altitude.. that EASA define additional criteria for access to the role of relief Captain so as to ensure better task-sharing in case of relief crews.. that, provisionally, the DGAC define additional criteria for access to the role of relief Captain so as to ensure better task-sharing in case of relief crews.. that EASA and the FAA evaluate the relevance of requiring the presence of an angle of attack indicator directly accessible to pilots on board airplanes.. that ICAO require that aircraft undertaking public transport flights with passengers be equipped with an image recorder that makes it possible to observe the whole of the instrument panel.. that at the same time, ICAO establish very strict rules for the readout of such (image) recordings in order to guarantee the confidentiality of the recordings.. that EASA and the FAA make mandatory the recording of: the position of the flight director crossbars, the parameters relating to the conduct of the flight displayed on the right side, in addition to those displayed on the left side.. the position of the flight director crossbars,. the parameters relating