to the conduct of the flight displayed on the right side, in addition to those displayed on the left side.. that EASA and the FAA evaluate the relevance of making mandatory the recording of the air data and inertial parameters of all of the sources used by the systems.. that EASA and ICAO make mandatory as quickly as possible, for aeroplanes making public transport flights with passengers over maritime or remote areas, triggering of data transmission to facilitate location as soon as an emergency situation is detected on board;. that EASA and ICAO study the possibility of making mandatory, for airplanes making public transport flights with passengers over maritime or remote areas, the activation of the emergency locator transmitter (ELT), as soon as an emergency situation is detected on board. A further 25 Recommendations were made in the Final Report covering the following subjects: SAR coordination plans over maritime and remote areas. Training of SAR operators. Organisation of SAR in France. Air Traffic Control. Initial and recurrent training of pilots. Flight simulators and pilot training exercises. Flight deck ergonomics. Operational and Technical Feedback from line operations. AOC Regulatory Oversight effectiveness. The release of Drift Measuring Buoys at sea accident sites. These Recommendations are as follows: that ICAO ensure the implementation of SAR coordination plans or regional protocols covering all of the maritime or remote areas for which international coordination would be required in the application of SAR procedures, including in the South Atlantic area. [FRAN-2012-032]. that the DGAC in concert with the other services responsible develop a homogeneous framework for training and for approval of operators responsible for search and rescue activities in France. [FRAN-2012-033]. that ICAO define the framework for the training of SAR operators in its standards and recommended practices. [FRAN 2012 034]. that the DGAC designate a point of contact at ICAO for the ARCC that has adequate means to accomplish his/her missions. [FRAN‑2012‑035]. that ICAO ensure each Member State has a national point of contact and makes his/her contact information available. [FRAN‑2012‑036]. that the Brazilian and Senegalese authorities make mandatory the utilisation, by aeroplanes so equipped, of ADS-C and CPDLC functions in the zones in question. [FRAN‑2012‑037]. that ICAO request the involved States to accelerate the operational implementation of air traffic control and communication systems that allow a permanent and reliable link to be made between ground and aeroplane in all of the areas where HF remains the only means of communication between the ground and aeroplanes. [FRAN‑2012‑038]. that EASA ensure the integration, in type rating and recurrent training programmes, of exercises that take into account all of the reconfiguration laws. The objective sought is to make its recognition and understanding easier for crews especially when dealing with the level of protection available and the possible differences in handling characteristics, including at the limits of the flight envelope. [FRAN 2012 039]. that more generally, EASA ensure that type rating and recurrent training programmes take into account the specificities of the aircraft for which they are designed.