the wet runway”. Four seconds after touchdown after travelling about 235 metres and at a recorded groundspeed of 126 knots, the right main landing gear left the sealed surface of the runway. It then remained no more than 1.5 m from the edge of the runway and impacted 6 runway edge lights mounted on concrete pads until it regained the runway after an excursion lasting just under 400 metres at a recorded groundspeed of 92 knots and thereafter remained on it. The Captain then deployed the thrust reversers, subsequently commenting that he had delayed this action until he was sure the aircraft was away from the edge of the runway. An illustration below shows the aircraft ground track prior to, during and immediately after the excursion. Unaware that an excursion had occurred, the crew then taxied the aircraft to its allocated gate but stopped short for around 10 minutes until the weather conditions had eased sufficiently for ground crew to attend the aircraft and facilitate passenger disembarkation. Only after a subsequent external inspection did the crew report realising that the aircraft had left the runway edge and immediately reported this to ATC. After an initial brief runway inspection during which at least four runway lights were found inoperative but no debris other than grass was seen on the runway, the next approaching aircraft was advised of the situation and elected to continue. After its uneventful landing a few minutes later, a more thorough inspection then found debris from the runway lights was present on the runway surface. During the excursion, the Captain recalled having heard “a repeated light thudding noise” which prompted him to ask the First Officer if they had hit the runway lights and was advised that they were just missing them. Since the aircraft nose was oriented to the left of the direction of travel, the front of the aircraft was within the painted runway edge markings making this assessment difficult. The First Officer later reported having felt “a shudder, as though the wheels were skidding” and both pilots later commented that “the physical sensation and noise were not as strong as they would have expected from the wheels departing the runway”. Both Melbourne-based pilots also stated that they were familiar with operations into Darwin with the most recent landings there in the case of both pilots having been at night. The Captain also stated that he had only seen rain conditions there like those which had affected the final stages of the investigated approach once, about 30 years previously and the First Officer said that he had never seen such conditions there before. It was considered that in the absence of any evidence of aircraft unserviceability or crew fatigue, the excursion under investigation followed a normal approach and landing in all aspects except the undetected extent of lateral drift prior to touchdown in a context of reduced visibility at night. In particular, the crosswind component “was not sudden or strong enough to be significant under most