An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data from the aircraft FDR was downloaded and provided useful information on the precise trajectory of the aircraft. The B737 flight crew were noted to have been a Captain with a total of 22,559 flying hours of which 9,206 hours were on type and a First Officer with a total of 7,000 flying hours of which 3,500 hours were on type. It was established that after discovering en route that the destination weather was forecast to be significantly worse than that forecast prior to departure, the flight crew made appropriate advance preparations. By the time they arrived in the area, there was thunderstorm activity in the vicinity of the airport but the crew decided that they would continue their ILS Category 1 approach to the 60 metre-wide, 3354 metre-long runway 29 since they had good visual reference with the runway and its surrounds after emerging from the lowest cloud at about 2500 feet. At this time, a “rain shower” was reported to have been visible “towards the far end of the runway”. It was agreed that in the event that a go around became necessary, it would be flown to the right rather than straight ahead and the Captain, who was PF, asked the First Officer to be “ready to use the windscreen wipers”. The approach was stable and the runway lights remained clearly visible below DA with the wipers on ‘fast’ from 500 feet agl until, at a recorded 179 feet agl, the aircraft suddenly entered heavier rain which rapidly intensified over the next few seconds. A small but slightly variable crosswind component from the left began to increase and analysis of FDR data indicated that from about 140 feet agl, which occurred about 5 seconds before crossing the runway threshold at 50 feet agl, the aircraft had been banked slightly right and had begun to drift away from the extended centreline without correction until touchdown. It was concluded that this continuing drift to the right could be attributed to “a combination of momentum and continuing crosswind”. It led to the runway threshold being crossed at 50 feet agl with the aircraft about 3 metres right of centreline and continuing to drift to the right at about 3°. By the time the landing flare was initiated at 35 feet agl, the aircraft was about 11 metres to the right of the runway centreline. A main gear touchdown wings level and within the TDZ followed with the aircraft about 21 metres right of centreline and still drifting about 3° to the right. As the Captain lowered the aircraft nose, he subsequently stated that he had “realised the aircraft had landed ‘well right’ of the centreline but with the obscured visibility he could not readily ascertain how far”. He also stated that although he recalled having tried to steer the aircraft back towards the centre of the runway, he had been “very wary of over-steering and losing control on