regard to visual issues on approach was uncommon”. The ERSA information for Darwin did not include any information on “the potential for visual illusions or potential problems with visual guidance during landing associated with the runway width, lack of centreline lighting or touchdown zone lighting”. The decision to continue the approach to a landing.. The crew were fully aware that the approach was being commenced and continued in deteriorating weather conditions. Frequent updates were provided by ATC and the aircraft weather radar was being fully utilised. However, in the five minutes before landing, there had been several recorded lightning strikes within 5 nm of the airport and two within 5 nm of the aircraft and an instrumented rain gauge situated near to the threshold of the landing runway had begun recording heavy rainfall 15 minutes prior to landing and this had peaked at a rate of 24 mm/hour for “a period of several minutes around the time the aircraft landed”. It was noted that the operator’s FCOM recommended that an approaching thunderstorm should be avoided by at least 5 nm at any time during descent, approach and landing unless, in the landing case, they have cleared the immediate area since “the rear of storms is considered to be comparatively inactive”. However, it was also accepted that this was not a strict requirement and that the decision to continue was a matter of judgement. Overall, it was concluded that “the flight crew’s interpretation of the information available to them gave no compelling reason to initiate a missed approach and they did not detect the deviation from centreline until after touchdown”. In particular, it was considered that whilst a decision to continue an approach after entering heavy rain “would usually not result in an adverse outcome […] the combination of a wider runway and relatively limited visual cues” at night had increased the potential for adverse consequences. In this respect, it was observed that “a flight crew that is informed about the potential risk associated with a sudden reduction in visibility close to landing, particularly at airports with 60 metre-wide runways and no centreline lighting” is likely to have greater readiness to recognise and respond appropriately to the risk or onset of such circumstances. The Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Three Contributing Factors were identified as: After passing the decision height for the approach, the aircraft drifted under the influence of a slight crosswind and landed 21 m to the right of the runway centreline.. Due to heavy rain, darkness and limited visual cues, the flight crew did not detect the aircraft’s deviation from the runway centreline prior to landing.. The absence of centreline lighting and the 60 m width of runway 11/29 at Darwin result in very limited visual cues for maintaining runway alignment during night landings in reduced visibility. [Safety Issue]. Six Additional Factors that increased risk were also identified as follows: Category 1 runways that are wider than 50 m and without centreline lighting are overrepresented in