circumstances” and was essentially a landing which suddenly became additionally challenging due to gusty, turbulent conditions in reduced night visibility which reduced the extent of information available to assess the aircraft behaviour and respond appropriately. It was noted that the existence of at least some visual reference had continued throughout the final part of the approach through to touchdown and completion of the landing, but the problem for the crew was the degraded nature of this reference. It was also reported that the TWR controllers, located just under 1 nm northwest of the runway 29 threshold “had been able to see the lights of the aircraft including the illuminated logo light on the vertical stabiliser throughout the final approach and landing”. A number of factors of potential relevance to the conduct of the approach were examined: The impaired visibility through the windscreen in heavy rain.. The aircraft type was certified for operation with windscreen wipers alone and was not fitted with a rain repellent fluid dispensing system of the sort which had been fitted to earlier versions of the type. However, windscreens could be treated with a hydrophobic coating if specified by the operator but it was noted that the service life of such coatings would depend on the operating environment in which the aircraft was used. Virgin Australia reported that 43 of its 79 Boeing 737 aircraft, including the aircraft involved in the event under investigation which had been delivered new in 2013, had arrived with a hydrophobic coating applied but that their maintenance schedule did not include any regular maintenance of these coatings and they “had not been routinely replaced in service”. The effect of the wide runway.. Darwin was identified as the only 60 metre-wide Australian runway which did not have centreline lighting. The only other Australian runway that width was runway 16/34 at Melbourne, which was equipped with centreline lighting. The other four Australian runways which had centreline lighting were all 45 metres wide - Brisbane 01/19, Melbourne 27 and Sydney 16L/34R and 16R/34L. These runways had Cat 2/3 approaches whereas Darwin runway 29 was Cat 1 only. It was found that the only other Australian occurrence in which a transport aircraft had been involved in a similar runway excursion in a similar context (specifically involving reduced forward visibility rather than a total loss of it) during the period 1997-2017 had also been at Darwin. As a result, the operator in that case had made considerable relevant additions to their Darwin airport briefing material whereas it was noted that the corresponding guidance to Virgin Australia pilots had not been similarly improved. It was observed once the aircraft had begun to drift to the right soon after entering the heavy rain below 200 feet agl, maintaining the required flight path would have required corrective action. It was concluded that the available visual cues to achieve this - the runway edge lights and the marked but unlit runway centreline - were likely to have provided insufficient reference to