veer-off occurrences involving transport category aircraft landing in low visibility conditions. The installation of centreline lighting on wider Category 1 runways is recommended but not mandated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation Annex 14. [Safety Issue]. Virgin Australia did not have formal guidance for flight crews regarding the limited visual cues for maintaining alignment to runway 11/29 at Darwin during night landings in reduced visibility. [Safety Issue]. The En Route Supplement Australia (ERSA) did not have formal guidance for flight crews regarding the limited visual cues for maintaining alignment to runway 11/29 at Darwin during night landings in reduced visibility. [Safety Issue]. While the aircraft was in descent, the airport’s primary anemometer failed due to a lightning strike. Although there were windsocks and a second test anemometer at the airport, the reliability and timeliness of the wind information that the controllers could provide to flight crews was temporarily degraded.. Although air traffic services broadcast details of an amended aerodrome forecast (TAF) for Darwin issued at 2207, the flight crew were not made aware of a subsequent amended TAF issued at 2237. However, the flight crew were provided with multiple updates of current weather conditions prior to landing at 2302.. Because they were unsure what had occurred, the flight crew did not report the possibility of a runway excursion to air traffic control until 29 minutes after it occurred. This delayed the response by the airport operator and air traffic control to ensure that the runway was safe for subsequent operations.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation review the effectiveness of Annex 14, recommendation 5.3.12.2 (for the installation of runway centreline lighting on Category 1 runways that are wider than 50 m), given that Category 1 runways that are wider than 50 m and without centreline lighting are over-represented in veer-off occurrences involving transport category aircraft landing in low visibility conditions. [AO-2016-166-SR-013]. that Darwin International Airport address the risk of very limited visual cues for maintaining runway alignment during night landings in reduced visibility that arise from the combination of the absence of centreline lighting and the 60 metre width of runway 11/29 at Darwin. [AO-2016-166-SR-014]. Safety Action known to have been taken as a result of the investigated event included, but was not been limited to, the following: Virgin Australia Airlines introduced additional guidance to flight crews for approach to Darwin airport, including notes about runway surface, slope, width, lighting and ambient light and initiated specific training to pilots for loss of visibility in heavy rain. It also commenced a program to investigate the potential to install hydrophobic windshield coatings on its 737 fleet.. Darwin International Airport initiated relevant additions to the En Route Supplement Australia (ERSA) entry for the airport under the headings ‘Additional Information’, ‘Aerodrome and approach lighting’ and (runway) ‘Physical Characteristics’.. On the basis of the findings of the Investigation, the ATSB formally documented a Safety Message as follows: Approaches in darkness and poor