allow the deviation to be detected and thus appropriate corrections made. It was also noted that in the prevailing conditions, and given that the runway threshold had been crossed at 50 feet agl, the forward visibility available to crew below about 100 feet agl would no longer have included either the approach lighting or the runway threshold lighting and the only visual clues to the relative lateral position of the aircraft would have been the (widely spaced) edge lights with the centreline markings not visible to a useful - if any - extent. This prompted the Investigation to conduct a simple simulation of the edge lights as they would have been seen by the Captain by using a simple model representative of the prevailing night visual conditions. As illustrated below, this demonstrated that the 3.4 metre deviation from the centreline at 60 feet agl would have been “almost undetectable” and that the 11 metre deviation at 24 feet agl would have been “inconspicuous”. The model was also used to show that the addition of centreline lighting would have materially improved the ability to detect the deviation at both points and that this improvement had centreline lighting been available would have been equally true with a 6° bank angle. It was noted that the 7th edition of ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 published earlier in 2016 contained a Standard requiring runway centreline lighting for Category 2 and 3 runways but only a Recommendation that these should be provided on Category 1 precision approach runways - although with a particular emphasis on such runways if used by aircraft with high landing speeds or if the distance between the edge lights on each side of the runway was greater than 50 metres. It was noted that this same Recommendation had been included in the Annex and not subsequently upgraded to a Standard since 1966. It was also noted that there was no corresponding Recommendation for TDZ lighting on such runways, although this was a Standard for Cat 2 and 3 runways. Runway surface water drainage.. Since it was likely that there was already considerable surface water on the runway when the aircraft touched down, it was considered of note that although the runway was 60 metres wide, only the central 45 metres was grooved to assist surface water lateral drainage and as such “did not meet the relevant texture or surface friction requirements”. However, it was not considered that this had contributed the excursion. AIP Information for Darwin.. Aerodrome operators were obliged under the prevailing regulations to ensure that “adequate particulars” were included in the AIP En Route Supplement Australia (ERSA). Guidance on what such particulars should be were noted as including “the width and lighting information for each runway and important cautionary […] information relating to the use of the aerodrome”. It was noted that although ERSA information for many aerodromes included specific hazards such as birds, weather balloon launches or the likelihood of turbulence on particular runway approaches, “specific guidance with