During the aircraft preflight, ensure that the tyres are properly inflated, there is no evidence of hydraulic leaks on any of the brake lines or fittings and that the brake wear indicators show that the brakes are serviceable.. On initial taxy, check the brakes to ensure proper function.. Minimise the requirement for brake applications during ground operations by adjusting power settings when possible, including the use of reverse thrust / reverse pitch if allowed by the Aircraft Flight Manual. During ground operations, use the appropriate braking technique for the type of brakes installed as the recommended techniques for steel and carbon brakes are not the same. For takeoff, use the manufacturer’s recommended auto-brake setting if auto-brakes are installed. For landing, use auto-brake at an appropriate setting when available.. If heavy braking becomes necessary, monitor subsequent brake temperatures if possible and ensure an adequate cooling period follows. Use brake fans if they are available. If brake temperature indicators are not available, use the manufacturer’s brake cooling charts to determine minimum ground time. Otherwise subsequent braking performance may be degraded and tyre overheating or deflation may occur.. Leave the gear down for longer than usual if overheating is suspected after take off, providing climb performance is not thereby affected to a degree that compromises safe terrain clearance or compliance with ATC clearances.. Understand how the brake system operates. Understand the implications of failures of any of the associated systems inclusive of hydraulics, anti-skid and auto-brakes and know the appropriate procedures for operating in a degraded configuration.. Stay alert for unexpected movement of the aircraft while on the ground, especially just after setting the parking brake or just after releasing it once the chocks have been put in place. Don’t become too engrossed inside the flight deck until you are satisfied that the aircraft is not going to move..