A duplicated mode A or mode S 24-bit address is not properly handled (or is neglected) may ultimately lead to: wrong identification and consequently to clearances being issued to a wrong aircraft with various undesired results, e.g.: loss of separation; possibility of a CFIT; airspace infringement.. loss of separation;. possibility of a CFIT;. airspace infringement.. the ATC system dropping one of the tracks, considering it to be fake.. Corrupted or intermittent mode C altitude information may lead to: a complete loss of track (due to the ATC system considering it invalid);. wrong assumptions about the aircraft level which may result in a loss of separation event;. aircraft assumed to be at all heights causing numerous false alerts;. TCAS being inefficient.. Total loss of transponder information may lead to: Controller tools (MTCD, STCA, AMAN) not accounting for the aircraft in question. This affects planning and conflict resolution.. Loss of communication (that may further spread to more downstream sectors or units): The controllers might forget to transfer the aircraft to the next sector/unit; The flight crew may not ask for a frequency change when leaving the sector; At some point, the flight crew may be outside the radio coverage of the previous sector and be unaware of the frequency used in the airspace they are flying through.. The controllers might forget to transfer the aircraft to the next sector/unit;. The flight crew may not ask for a frequency change when leaving the sector;. At some point, the flight crew may be outside the radio coverage of the previous sector and be unaware of the frequency used in the airspace they are flying through.. Incomplete situational awareness for the next sectors or units, as they may even not be aware that an aircraft without a transponder has entered their airspace (and has not checked in on the frequency);. Airspace infringement: The aircraft may enter controlled airspace without obtaining a clearance; The controllers might not detect the aircraft entering a prohibited, restricted or danger area; The controllers may be unable to warn the flight crew of possible airspace infringements if they are unaware of the aircraft’s presence in their airspace.. The aircraft may enter controlled airspace without obtaining a clearance;. The controllers might not detect the aircraft entering a prohibited, restricted or danger area;. The controllers may be unable to warn the flight crew of possible airspace infringements if they are unaware of the aircraft’s presence in their airspace.. Loss of separation – if the controllers are not aware of the aircraft presence they are likely. TCAS being inefficient – the TCAS would not generate RAs in case of a total transponder failure which may lead to an accident. Collision avoidance via procedural control – Use of altitude information acquired through voice reporting to achieve vertical separation.. Collision avoidance via procedural control – Use of altitude information acquired through voice reporting to achieve vertical separation.. Crew collision avoidance See and avoid practiced by aircraft - This could include the executive controller actively encouraging the