Cloud base usually below 6,500 ft. Low Clouds Identification code: Cloud symbol: Specification: Example cloud Genera/Species: CL1. . Cumulus clouds with little vertical extent and seemingly flattened (humilis), are ragged cumulus other than that of bad weather (fractus). Cumulus humilis, Cumulus fractus. CL2. . Cumulus clouds of moderate or strong vertical extent, generally with protuberances in the form of domes or towers, sometimes accompanied by other cumuliform clouds, all with their bases at the same level.. Cumulus congestus, Cumulus mediocris. CL3. . Cumulonimbus cloud, its summit lacking sharp outlines, being neither clearly fibrous, nor in the shape of an anvil.. Cumulonimbus calvus. CL4. . Stratocumulus formed from the spreading out of cumulus clouds, the remains of which may also be apparent in the sky.. Stratocumulus cumulogenitus. CL5. . Stratocumulus not resulting from the spreading out of cumulus clouds.. Stratocumulus stratiformis, Stratocumulus castellanus, Stratocumulus lenticulari. CL6. . Stratus in a more or less continuous sheet or layer, or in ragged sheets, or both, but no stratus fractus of bad weather. Stratus nebulosus. CL7. . Stratus fractus of bad weather or cumulus fractus of bad weather, or both (Pannus" pannus cloud).. Stratus fractus. CL8. . Cumulus and stratocumulus other than that produced by the spreading out of cumulus, with the bases of the two cloud types being at different levels.. . CL9. . Cumulonimbus, the upper part of which is clearly fibrous (or cirriform), often in the shape of an anvil. This cloud may sometimes be accompanied by cumulonimbus calvus (without anvil).. Cumulonimbus capillatus. Cloud base between 6,500 ft and 20,000 ft. Medium Clouds Identification code: Cloud symbol: Specification: Example cloud Genera/Species: CM1. . Altostratus, the greater part of which is semi-transparent; through this part of the sun or moon may be weakly visible, as through frosted glass.. Altostratus translucidus. CM2. . Nimbostratus is a thicker for of altostratus opals, the greater part of which is dense enough to hide the sun or moon from view.. Altostratus opals, Nimbostratus. CM3. . Altocumulus, the greater part of which is semi-transparent; the various elements of the cloud change only slowly and are all at a single level.. Altocumulus translucidus, Altocumulus stratiformis. CM4. . Patches of altocumulus, often lenticular, the greater parts of which are semi-transparent; these clouds occur vat more than one level and are continually changing in appearance.. . CM5. . Semi-transparent altocumulus, either in bands or in one or more fairly continuous layers, which progressively invade the sky, growing thicker as they do so.. Altocumulus stratiformis. CM6. . Altocumulus resulting from the spreading out of cumulus(or cumulonimbus) clouds.. Altocumulus cumulogenitus.. CM7. . Altocumulus translucides, stratiformis or opaques in two or more layers, not progressively invading the sky; or a single layer of altocumulus opals or altocumulus stratiformis, not progressively invading the sky; or altocumulus appearing with altostratus and/or nimbostratus.. Altocumulus duplicatus. CM8. . Altocumulus with sprouting either in the form of towers or castellations (castellanus) or small tufts (floccus).. Altocumulus castellanus, altocumulus floccus. CM9. . Altocumulus of a chaotic sky, generally at