the CVR and returned the aircraft to service. The Investigation was able to eliminate both mis-loading of the aircraft or a lack of airworthiness as factors in the pitch control difficulty experienced. Initial considerations of a possible cause for the control difficulty also included the possible effects of re-hydrated thickened de/anti ice fluid residues. It was noted that the Operator stated that because it seldom needed to use thickened fluids, their maintenance requirement had, for several years, been that a check for residues was only required "after an airframe had received 10 applications of thickened fluid". In fact, it was found that the single time the aircraft had been treated with thickened fluid during the 2015/16 winter season had been four days before the flight and although no specific check for residue had been triggered by this, it was noted that the engineer who inspected the aircraft after the flight (which was the subject of the Investigation) saw no evidence of residue on the tailplane. It was noted in passing that the Operator's residue inspection practice was contrary to the explicit requirement in Part 'A' of their Operations Manual which was found to state that such an inspection was required "within three days of (any) thickened fluid application". The focus of the Investigation therefore turned to the possibility of frozen deposits affecting the operating and trim of the elevator. Based on the evidence available, it was confirmed that "for much of the flight the elevator had a tendency to deflect upwards and that the aircraft would have adopted an undesired nose-up attitude but for the maximum nose-down pitch trim which had been applied and the pilot’s control input". It was noted that the mechanically controlled elevators were each linked mechanically to trim tabs. An analysis by the aircraft manufacturer based on the available FDR data concluded that the "abnormal nose-up pitching tendency was consistent with the aerodynamic effects of upper surface icing on the horizontal tailplane". The manufacturer’s aerodynamic explanation for this was that "with ice contamination to the upper surface of the horizontal tailplane, which may also extend over the upper surface of the elevator (and possibly over the elevator tab as well) […] ice on the upper surface thickens the airflow boundary layer". This reduces the downward pressure on the upper surface and since there is no comparable effect on the lower surface, any deflection of the elevator in this condition will mean that less downward aerodynamic force will result, so that additional input to provide the downward force which would normally result with a clean elevator is required. Dependent on the extent of the additional downward force required, the elevator trim may reach its stop before the desired result has been achieved, so that only additional force applied manually through forward movement of the control column could maintain the desired pitch attitude. The diagram below illustrates this. The result of a reduction in downward force on the elevator is an increase in the pitch up for a