After a three day delay in notification because neither the aircraft Captain nor the airline involved considered that the occurrence was notifiable, the UK AAIB was advised and assessed that it had been one ‘which could have caused difficulties controlling the aircraft’ and therefore constituted a 'Serious Incident'. The Operator had already downloaded both the FDR and the CVR after the diversion and the data obtained were passed to the AAIB. It was noted that the 58 year old-Captain had joined the Operator two months earlier already type rated and current on the ATR42/72 and had 8,276 hours total flying experience including 928 on type. He had accumulated "most of his flying experience while based in Guernsey where, due to a mild climate, de-icing/anti-icing is seldom necessary and then usually only after overnight frost" and so "his experience of operating in freezing precipitation was not extensive". The 30 year-old First Officer was in his first airline job and had 920 hours total flying experience including 620 hours on the ATR72 all with the same operator. He had "no previous experience of flight in snow or of de-icing/anti-icing between flights" and the diversion during the investigated flight was his first during commercial operations. It was established that the aircraft had landed at Manchester after a flight from Guernsey at 0810 and the turnround prior to the investigated departure had been more than an hour, including almost half an hour waiting to get onto their allocated parking stand because the aircraft on it was being de-iced. As they began the taxi in after landing "the crew's perception was that light, wet snow was falling and melting on taxiways, although some was lying in the adjacent grass areas". The Captain was recorded as having remarked at that time that "it doesn't appear to be sticking […] so I think we can get away without de-icing”, adding that he would “have a good look”. Later, whilst waiting for the stand to become free, the Captain "said he did not see any snow settling on the aircraft and suggested snow visible on other aircraft had probably accumulated overnight". In fact, the snow had only begun falling shortly before they had landed as the temperature fell to 0°C. Throughout their time on the ground, it was snowing and both the Air Temperature and Dew Point remained at 0°C. The First Officer stated that with no previous experience of ground operations in snow, "he had been trained that an aircraft was clear of ice if none was visible on the Ice Evidence Probe, the leading edge de-icing boots or the propeller spinner and he saw no ice in these locations while taxing-in”. The two cabin crew were Guernsey residents who "seldom saw snow […] and they took photographs while the aircraft was parked" which "showed snow lying on the fuselage" and on the coat of the senior member of the cabin crew who "later recalled brushing snow from her coat when passengers began boarding". The Captain had