carried out the pre-flight external inspection and although aware from the 0850 ATIS that the air temperature was 0°C, he had advised the handling agent that "no de-icing procedures were required". The aircraft pushed back from the stand at 0910 with the Captain as PF and subsequently began its take-off 9 minutes later. When rotation was attempted "the Captain found he needed to apply less aft pressure on the control column than he anticipated and, once airborne, had to push forward on the column to achieve the (required) climb attitude". He used the electric pitch trim switch several times to trim nose-down and the aural warning which is activated when this action continues for more than one second was triggered. The AP was engaged one minute after take-off but disconnected after about two minutes. When it was immediately re-engaged, it disconnected after one minute and the First Officer "noticed that the pitch trim indicator showed full nose-down deflection". In response to the 'Pitch Mistrim' message was displayed on the AFCS, reference was made to the corresponding QRH drill but this required only that the AP should be disengaged. The First Officer "suggested the problem might have been caused by contamination" and the Captain responded by saying that "the reason he had been happy to depart was that the snow was not sticking to the aircraft and, because it was wet, he expected it to have blown off". As the aircraft continued to climb in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) and icing conditions, two further attempts to engage the AP were made but it disconnected after three minutes the first time and less than two minutes the second time. The Captain asked the First Officer to "check the load sheet" and said that they would divert "if he was still having control difficulties once they levelled-off". Once level at FL170, the First Officer reported that the load sheet "looked very similar to the one from the previous flight" (which had been similarly loaded) and soon after this, the Captain decided to divert to East Midlands because of the continued need to maintain abnormal forward pressure on the control column. The diversion request was made to ATC without any declaration of urgency or emergency and the reason given was "a pitch trim problem". The aircraft flew clear of cloud soon after the descent began. As the descent continued, the aircraft became easier to fly and the Captain was recorded as saying "I reckon it was ice, I’ve got the pitch trim back”. A normal approach to and landing on runway 27 at East Midlands, where the air temperature and dew point had been given on the ATIS as temperature 3ºC and 0ºC respectively, was made. After shutdown, the horizontal tailplane was inspected and when no ice was found, the Captain "decided the problem might have been mechanical and placed the aircraft unserviceable". After an engineer had inspected the aircraft later that day and found no faults, the Operator had downloaded the FDR and