given column position and a reduction in the amount of corrective elevator trim tab movement available. [Reproduced from the Official Report slightly reduced] During the Investigation, it also became clear that the elevator trim tab had run to a maximum nose down position of +1.76º whilst under normal control instead of being limited to +1.5º. Tests indicated that this had been the consequence of a previously unidentified failed microswitch within the left trim tab actuator with the unappreciated-at-the-time consequence of this being that the pitch trim system had been assisting the Captain "to a greater extent than would be expected under normal control" by responding as if the standby trim switch on the central console had been used, which it was not. Two previous AR-72 events attributed to a similar cause were identified, one of which was a 2012 fatal accident to a Russian aircraft in which the crew lost control after failing to de/anti ice prior to departure. In terms of the crew decision making involved in the investigated event, it was noted that according to aircraft ground handling providers at Manchester, "all other commercial aircraft which departed on the morning of 4 March 2016 sought de-icing/anti-icing before start-up" and that "de-icing providers had difficulty coping with the demand for their services" with flights either delayed or cancelled as a result. This was not unexpected given that with both a temperature less than 3ºC and visible moisture present, it was apparent both ‘atmospheric icing conditions’ (FCOM) and ‘freezing conditions’ (OM) existed. These were noted to be unequivocally conditions in which, whatever opinion the flight crew had held, the guidance was "to de-ice/anti-ice an aircraft completely and check it afterwards". It was considered that had the First Officer previously experienced winter operations, "he might have questioned the […] decision not to de-ice/anti-ice" before departure. It was noted that pilot decision making can be affected by various cognitive biases which can interfere with a balanced consideration of all the available evidence. If an initial mental model of a situation is incorrect, pilots' can be prone to "confirmation" or "plan continuation" bias which may then prevent them from "accepting clear evidence that contradicts their initial assessment". It was additionally noted that pilots are also susceptible to "optimism bias" in which only positive outcomes to problems are envisaged and that this "can be the subconscious result of overcoming previous difficulties" which may support a belief that they are relatively less prone to risk than others. It was considered that the Captain's "decision to depart without being certain the aircraft was free of ice" tended to suggest that the pilots in this case, especially the Captain, had been affected by "optimism bias" having "only foreseen a positive outcome" that any snow on the airframe would "blow off". It was surmised by the Investigation that since the pilots had been trained for conditions like those encountered at Manchester, "a contributory factor in deciding not to de-ice may have been that their training was less effective