than it might have been". It was found that their conversion courses - which had occurred at the same Approved Training Organisation (ATO) - may not have adequately covered airframe icing risk. It was also noted that despite a reliance placed by the Operator on pilot self-study of the ATR 'Cold Weather Operations' booklet prominently referenced in the annual winter operations "Flying Staff Memo", which both pilots had signed as having read, neither had done so. No recurrent classroom-based training was provided on icing risks and "the knowledge amassed" from the assumed self-study was "not tested other than through participation in recurrent simulator checks". Finally, it was found that the manufacturer’s ATO included a scenario for "a badly de-iced tailplane" in its conversion course but that the ATO at which the two pilots involved had done their type conversion was not one of those using simulators which incorporated this profile - which in any case only represented one potential consequence of inadequate ground de-icing. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "Ice contamination affected the tailplane and caused pitch control difficulty after the aircraft rotated, on departure. The evidence indicated that this would have been avoided if the aircraft had been de-iced/anti-iced and then inspected carefully before flight. The crew considered, before parking, that de-icing was probably going to be unnecessary. It may then have become difficult for them to change their assessment because of ‘confirmation bias’, even though they were in freezing conditions and snow was falling. A contributory factor may have been the crew’s lack of experience operating aircraft in such conditions. The commander optimistically thought that lying snow would blow off the aircraft before rotation; an assessment that was flawed and a possible reflection on the training the pilots had received for such winter conditions. The operator has recognised that recurrent winter training for pilots may have been over-reliant on self-study and has taken remedial action." Safety Action taken as a result of the event and known to the Investigation included the following: The Approved Training Organisation which was responsible for the pilots' type conversion training is enhancing this by incorporating in it the aircraft manufacturer’s simulator profile for a "badly de-iced tailplane".. The Aircraft Operator has enhanced its winter awareness training for pilots by introducing a computer-based training module which all pilots must now complete prior to each winter season and are then tested on their knowledge of its content.. The Aircraft Operator has extended its own type conversion input by adding a day of ground training with a Training Captain before Line Training leading to release to unsupervised operations commences to ensure that time is spent discussing technical issues relating to line operations such as winter operations and de/anti icing in detail.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 9 February 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.