The Investigation into the Accident was carried out by Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), who specified the following “Contributing factors relating to occurrence events and individual actions”: "The crew commenced the Lockhart River Runway 12 RNAV (GNSS) approach, even though the crew were aware that the copilot did not have the appropriate endorsement and had limited experience to conduct this type of instrument approach.. The descent speeds, approach speeds and rate of descent were greater than those specified for the aircraft in the Transair Operations Manual. The speeds and rate of descent also exceeded those appropriate for establishing a stabilised approach.. During the approach, the aircraft descended below the segment minimum safe altitude for the aircraft’s position on the approach.. The aircraft’s high rate of descent, and the descent below the segment minimum safe altitude, were not detected and/or corrected by the crew before the aircraft collided with terrain.. The accident was almost certainly the result of controlled flight into terrain.". Contributing factors relating to local conditions: "The crew probably experienced a very high workload during the approach.. The crew probably lost situational awareness about the aircraft’s position along the approach.. The pilot in command had a previous history of conducting RNAV (GNSS) approaches with crew without appropriate endorsements, and operating the aircraft at speeds higher than those specified in the Transair Operations Manual.. The Lockhart River Runway 12 RNAV (GNSS) approach probably created higher pilot workload and reduced position situational awareness for the crew compared with most other instrument approaches. This was due to the lack of distance referencing to the missed approach point throughout the approach, and the longer than optimum final approach segment with three altitude limiting steps.. The copilot had no formal training and limited experience to act effectively as a crew member during a Lockhart River Runway 12 RNAV (GNSS) approach.". For the complete list of Findings, see Section 3 of the Final Report (Further Reading)