A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB in order to seek to establish how the errors made had gone undetected and the actual risk which had resulted. It was noted that the 62 year-old Captain had a total of 19,991 hours flying experience which included 7,235 hours on type. The flying experience of the First Officer was not recorded. It was established that during pre flight preparations, the flight crew had decided to calculate takeoff performance for departure runway 04R from B3, the most limiting intersection they were likely to be able to use (see the illustration below). The subsequent cross check of their independent performance calculations disclosed a 1 knot discrepancy in calculated takeoff speeds which was considered acceptable and the most conservative figures were input to the FMC. An overview of Nice with an expanded inset view of the intersections mentioned. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the runway was neared, ATC offered a departure from intersection A3, which would provide more runway than B3 and so this was accepted. The reduced thrust takeoff was subsequently commenced but on reaching the calculated V1, the Captain reported having considered that the runway remaining ahead was “less than he would have expected, but not alarmingly so (and) did not feel TOGA was required”. However, a takeoff performance calculation error was later detected by the operator’s OFDM programme and a comparison of the OFDM information and the corresponding EFB calculations which had been made showed that both pilots had inadvertently selected the Q3 (almost full length) intersection and not B3 in their performance software. This parallel mis-selection was not detected during either an initial data validation which checked the departure distance and cross-checking the EFB outputs simply confirmed that they agreed. The TORA available from Q3 as actually input was 2,858 metres, from A3 as used was 2,473 metres and from B3, which it was believed had been input, was 2,157 metres. The actually available TORA was thus 385 metres less than that actually available, instead being 316 metres more. The Investigation completed an “indicative calculation” which indicated that the likely outputs from takeoff performance calculations based on B3 and Q3 differed significantly - from B3 rather than Q3, takeoff speeds were at least 13 knots slower, the flex temperature was 8° lower and a flap 2 rather than flap 1 would have been required. From A3 as actually used, the speeds would have been 8 knots slower than from Q3, the flex temperature would have been 4° lower and again Flap 2 was the optimum setting. It was noted that “meaningful comparisons of the takeoff run required could not be drawn because all three calculations used different settings to achieve a balanced-field performance”. It was noted that the aircraft operator was “in the process of introducing an EFB performance software update that placed greater emphasis on a graphical, rather than text-based, representation of runway dimensions and associated intersections” but noted that outputs would still be vulnerable