An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB, informed by relevant recorded data from the QAR which were provided by the aircraft operator. Relevant CVR data were not available. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain had a total of 13,479 hours flying experience of which 12,755 hours were on type. Corresponding experience details in respect of the First Officer, who was PF for the investigated departure, were not recorded. The Captain stated that the calculated V1, VR and V2 speeds for a flap 1 takeoff with a reduced thrust based on an assumed temperature of 55°C were, respectively, 144 knots, 152 knots, and 155 knots. He added that these speeds and the other takeoff performance data had been input to the FMC at the gate as usual and that no changes had been necessary thereafter. After engine start, the aircraft had been taxied to the A1 holding point for a runway 26L departure as cleared and had subsequently been cleared to line up and wait. Takeoff clearance for 26L, which is in excess of 3000 metres in length, was subsequently given with a light southerly wind in rain and it was commenced. Passing 80 knots, the Captain confirmed that the airspeed indications were normal and the flight crew was then expecting to hear the automatic call at V1 but this call did not occur. He said that when he realised that the automatic call had not occurred, he had checked his PFD and seen that the V speed bugs were not displayed on the PFD speed tape. He reported having felt that “the aircraft was slow” so he “allowed it to accelerate whilst he evaluated the situation”. He did not recall whether the V speeds were still displayed on his control display unit (CDU). He said that “as the end of the runway approached, he instructed the First Officer to initiate a smooth rotation” and the aircraft subsequently became airborne. On completion of an otherwise uneventful flight, he recorded the lack of the automatic V speed calls in the Aircraft Technical Log and observed that they had functioned normally on the earlier departure from Casablanca. It was learnt that “subsequent investigation by the operator did not find any aircraft faults” and the automatic calls had continued to function normally on subsequent flights. Recorded flight data showed that the nose landing gear left the ground at 189 KCAS, which was almost 40 knots above the calculated VR. The aircraft was fully airborne just 120 metres prior to the end of the paved runway surface and 13 seconds after the calculated VR with thrust being increased slightly only just before rotation finally occurred. It was noted that the QAR record of V speeds set in the FMC for the flight concerned was blank throughout the departure but that flights both before and afterwards had recorded the usual V speed data. However, the Mode Control Panel (MCP) selected speed, which is normally set to V2 for takeoff, was recorded on