the QAR as 155 knots, which was the calculated V2. The annotated ground track of the takeoff based on recorded flight data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that if changes are made to any of the FMC takeoff performance data once it has been initially entered, then the takeoff speeds are automatically deleted. This will trigger a message on the CDU and illumination of the CDU message light, an amber FMC caution light above the ND and a ‘NO VSPD’ message on the PFD. Boeing advised that they were “not aware of any situation in which the V speeds can be deleted without these warnings appearing”. It was found that the 737 Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) states that the PF will normally display the CDU takeoff Reference Page which allows them to immediately see the VR and V1 speeds in the event that they are no longer displayed on PFD speed scale for any reason. It was also found to state that: There have been incidents where pilots have missed FMC alerting messages informing them that the takeoff speeds have been deleted or they have forgotten to set the airspeed bugs. If, during a takeoff, the crew discovers that the V speeds are not displayed and there are no other fault indications, the takeoff may be continued […] In the absence of displayed V speeds, the PM should announce V1 and VR speeds to the PF at the appropriate times during the takeoff roll (and) if neither pilot recalls the correct rotation speed, rotate the airplane 5 to 10 knots before the displayed V2 speed. For the investigated flight, no V speeds were recorded on the QAR which suggests they were not loaded into the FMC when the engines were started. It is possible that the flight crew did not enter them but the aircraft weights and the assumed temperature had been entered into the FMC and the MCP speed had been set to V2 both of which are part of the same procedure as entering the V speeds which suggests most of the pre-flight procedure was completed. It is also possible that the speeds were entered correctly and then inadvertently deleted, but the flight crew did not recall seeing the FMC alerting messages or the ‘NO VSPD’ message on the PFDs and it appears that there is no way of deleting the V speeds without these messages appearing. The guidance in the FCTM on how to respond to a lack of automatic calls or the absence of speed bugs was not followed. However, these systems are normally reliable, so it would not have been exceptional for the flight crew to take a few seconds to react when the automatic calls did not occur. However, in this case, rotation was delayed until considerably more than the typical rotation speed and for more than the few seconds which might have been generally expected. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that it was likely the automatic call and