An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). Relevant data was recovered from the DFDR and CVR. It was a noted that the 48 year-old Captain had accumulated 12,213 total flying hours including 8,721 hours on type. The 30 year-old First Officer had accumulated 2,630 total flying hours, most of them - 2,403 hours - on type. It was established that approximately half an hour after the aircraft had reached its cruising altitude of FL 370, an indication that the left bleed supply had ceased occurred. Engine anti ice but not airframe anti ice was in use at the time. As the flight crew commenced the procedure for this failure, the same indication was displayed for the right bleed air system and the indication of duct pressure was observed to have dropped to zero. The cabin altitude immediately began to rise and within two minutes of the initial left side loss of bleed air, it had exceeded 10,000 feet and triggered annunciation of a Cabin High Altitude Warning. The crew stopped running the bleed air loss checklist and commenced an emergency descent, donning oxygen masks and manually deploying the passenger oxygen masks. The Captain reported that the indicated cabin altitude had reached a maximum of approximately 16,000 feet. Once the aircraft had descended to and levelled at 10,000 feet, the Captain decided that in the absence of any consequent issues in the cabin, there was no reason why the flight should not continue to its intended destination unpressurised and this was achieved without any apparent further difficulty. After a detailed assessment of the aircraft bleed air system, it was concluded that the loss of pressurisation on both systems in quick succession had been initially triggered by malfunction of the pre-cooler control valve in the left-side system which had resulted in insufficient mixing of the high temperature/pressure engine bleed air used for cabin pressurisation and conditioning with cooler (and low pressure) engine inlet fan air in the pre cooler (see the system diagram below). The output from the pre-cooler is normally about 390ºF and if the actual temperature exceeds that of the first system limit switch - 450ºF - this switch should signal the system PRSOV to reduce the amount of high temperature air entering the pre cooler. However, it was found that this would not have happened because the 450° switch was found to be faulty. The temperature of the air leaving the pre cooler would have continued to rise until it reached the setting of the second limit switch - 490 ºF - at which point this switch did function as designed and closed the PRSOV and illuminated the left-side ‘BLEED TRIP OFF’ caution on the flight deck. It was concluded that when the loading of the remaining right-side bleed air system increased to compensate for the loss of the left-side system, a similar malfunction of the pre-cooler control valve on the right side system had caused the output bleed air temperature to rise and