against a rainfall radar recording. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Almost immediately this left turn had been made, the Captain observed the appearance of a new storm cell ahead and remarked “this one will make a bang” adding that he had put the ‘Fasten Seat Belt’ sign on. He then called “engine anti-ice on” and almost immediately (point 8 in the second illustration below), a sudden background noise was recorded, indicative of the impact of sudden heavy precipitation on the windshields. A pronounced and rapid fluctuation in both airspeed and vertical acceleration followed accompanied at one point by an uncommanded roll which was sufficient to trigger a EGPWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ Alert which caused the Captain to disconnect the AP. After 25 seconds, the noise of rain on the windshields ceased and the Captain was recorded as saying “and now we are out” with all turbulence ceasing a few seconds later (point 11 in the second illustration below). Twenty seconds later, passing approximately FL210, the flight was transferred to Nice APP and the Captain received a cabin crew injury report and an ambulance to meet the flight on arrival was arranged. Twenty minutes later the aircraft landed off an RNP approach at Nice. The Investigation was concerned at the absence of weather radar returns available as a background on the ATC controller displays, noting that the situation and no plan for rectification also applied in France where a previous related Safety Recommendation relating to a 2013 Serious Incident had not been followed by any action. The following new Safety Recommendation was therefore made: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency in coordination with EUROCONTROL: Conduct a global review of existing systems and those being developed that display near-real-time weather images on the radar screens of air traffic controllers and their use by Air Navigation Service Providers as part of the flight information service, with the aim of facilitating meteorological avoidance strategies developed by flight crews. On the basis of the above review and other available data, identify the system specifications, tools and working methods that would be most suitable for use by European Air Navigation Service Providers in order to facilitate weather avoidance strategies developed by flight crews.. Conduct a global review of existing systems and those being developed that display near-real-time weather images on the radar screens of air traffic controllers and their use by Air Navigation Service Providers as part of the flight information service, with the aim of facilitating meteorological avoidance strategies developed by flight crews.. On the basis of the above review and other available data, identify the system specifications, tools and working methods that would be most suitable for use by European Air Navigation Service Providers in order to facilitate weather avoidance strategies developed by flight crews.. The Final Report was published simultaneously in English translation and in the definitive French language version on 17 October 2022.