In Europe, the structure for a harmonised European ATCO licence has been developed to enable the licence qualifications to more closely match the ATC services being provided and to permit the recognition of additional ATC skills associated with the evolution of ATC systems and their related controlling procedures. It has not yet been adopted by all States. Although the harmonised European ATC licence retains the basic principles of the ICAO licence, new ratings have been introduced. The ICAO Aerodrome Control rating is divided into two, Aerodrome Control Visual (ADV) and Aerodrome Control Instrument (ADI). The ADI rating must have one or more rating endorsements associated with it. The new system removes all references to the equipment associated with ratings such as radar and the ICAO Approach Radar Control and Area Radar Control ratings become respectively the Approach Control Surveillance (APS) and Area Control Surveillance (ACS) ratings. To be valid, both these ratings must include a Radar or ADS endorsement. The Approach Control and Area Control ratings are renamed to become the Approach Control Procedural and the Area Control Procedural ratings to more clearly indicate that no surveillance equipment is used while providing air traffic control services using these ratings. A student ATCO licence has also been introduced to enable NAAs to regulate persons in training for an ATCO licence. Student ATCOs are prospective ATCOs who have successfully completed an approved Initial Training course and passed any associated assessments or examinations. Rating Endorsements are endorsements associated with particular ratings to indicate the type of equipment associated with the provision of an ATC service in that rating discipline. For example, the ICAO Approach Radar Control rating becomes the Approach Control Surveillance rating with a Radar endorsement; the endorsement indicating that radar is the surveillance equipment used in providing the ATC service. Unit endorsements are endorsements associated with specific ratings and rating endorsements which indicate the ATC Unit and the individual sectors, groups of sectors or operational positions where the licence holder provides an ATC service. Licence endorsements are endorsements associated with the licence, but not with any particular rating or rating endorsement. Currently, the only licence endorsement possible on an ATCO Licence issued under the new European system is the On-the-Job-Training Instructor (OJTI) endorsement.