Safer operations by minimizing the interruptions can be obtained by simply adhering to the sterile flight deck rule. Prior to the flight, during the preparation phase, the captain should recall the objectives and importance of the sterile flight deck and brief the cabin crew on how to determine when the flight will be around the 10,000-foot mark. Most companies have developed procedures to inform the cabin crew. Those procedures should not create, in turn, another distraction to the flight crew since the whole purpose is to reduce those interruptions. Regarding the unexpected entry of cabin crewmembers into the flight deck below 10,000 feet, the captain shall make it very clear that it is only in case of great urgency. And in those cases, information needs to be timely and accurate, so the flight crew can make an informed decision. The process can work the other way around (flight crew to cabin crew), as well. The flight attendants have to use their own discretion in order to determine if the situation is critical and whether to call in the flight crew. Cabin crew training includes critical situations requiring calls to the flight crew. They include the following: Any outbreak of fire inside the cabin or in an engine. Presence of smoke or a burning odor in the cabin. Fuel or fluid leakage. Localized extreme cabin temperature changes. Evidence of a de-icing problem. Cart-stowage problem. Suspicious bag or package. Any abnormality in the aircraft attitude during take-off and landing. Existence of any abnormal vibration or noise. Medical emergency. Any other condition deemed relevant by the senior cabin crewmember.. The cabin crew must make an immediate emergency call to the flight crew upon discovery of any abnormality, even in circumstances where there is a doubt. Emphasizing the team spirit between flight crew and cabin crew during training, offering aircraft technical and jump seat familiarization flights for the cabin crew, and integrating crew resource management (CRM) courses to include pilots and flight attendants may reinforce the sterile flight deck rule. High-altitude airports may cause the 10,000-foot level to be unusable in establishing a sterile flight deck. The flight crew might use 10,000 feet above ground level (AGL) or 40 nm to 50 nm as an alternative, to allow sufficient time for preparation.