An Investigation was carried out by the German BFU. DFDR and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) information were available and successfully downloaded. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been PF and that their considerable aircraft type and overall experience was in marked contrast to that of the co pilot who had little flying experience which had mainly been obtained on the accident type. It was noted that a Cat 2 Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach had been flown despite ATC clearance for a Cat 1 approach. This had required a landing flap setting of 22º rather than the 45º which was mandated for a landing on a contaminated runway and which would have reduced the LDR. FDR data showed that a stabilised approach at the appropriate speed had been flown but that touchdown had occurred nearly 700 metres from the start of the runway, slightly beyond the ideal point but not significantly so. Some directional control difficulties had been experienced soon after touchdown but more significantly, maximum possible braking had not been initially attempted and in addition, all braking had subsequently ceased for an 8 second period. As the end of the runway approached, the parking /emergency brake had been applied by the co-pilot without any such instruction from the PF and directional control, substantially maintained until this point, was then lost. It was noted that use of this system is prohibited on wet or contaminated runways by means of an instruction in the aircraft type volume of the Operations Manual. It was noted that the runway braking action report on which the crew exclusively relied - ‘good’ as included in the ATIS first broadcast 20 minutes prior to landing - was only one part of the information available on what to expect and on how to react when braking action was initially less than normal. It was noted that “the crew did not take into account other present signs for the worsening condition of the runway. There was continuous snowfall at Stuttgart Airport and the runway was covered with a thin but visible layer of snow. This runway condition suggested a limited braking action. Since the estimation ‘braking action good’ was broadcast by ATIS at 1409 UTC, already 20 minutes prior to the landing, it could have been assumed that the conditions had deteriorated since then. Moreover, the reduced braking action detected during the first rollout phase should have been considered for all further actions.” The absence at the aircraft operator Flybe of any “special provisions for winter operation” and in particular the absence of any “special procedures in case a reduced braking action was broadcast” were noted. The TWR controller on duty stated that none of the five aircraft which had landed following snow removal had reported decreased braking action. However, it was concluded that by the time of the overrun, twenty minutes after the previous landing aircraft, the braking action on most of the runway was much less than that recorded during the most recent measurement