made and broadcast on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). The exception was at the very end of the runway where snow had not been removed, although in this small area braking action in dry snow was better than in slush formed after falling snow mixed with runway de-icing fluid, and this may have served to slightly reduce the extent of the overrun. The failure to update the ATIS once conditions began to change was considered inappropriate. In respect of the airport operator’s procedures for measuring and communicating braking action on a runway surface which was affected by slush and in a situation where it could be reasonably presumed that conditions were changing after snow removal due to new snowfall onto a de-iced runway surface, the Investigation noted that: there had been a failure to recognise that deteriorating conditions coupled with the absence of any landing aircraft for 20 minutes prior to the accident indicated that “another measuring run should have been undertaken”.. according to the responsible airport manager “pilot messages were used in the decision-making process in particular during ongoing flight operations. As long as operations continue without any reports on restrictions, then normally no friction measuring run is conducted so as not to interfere with traffic. As soon as there are first signs of a deterioration of braking values, a friction measuring run is undertaken".. the equipment routinely used by the airport to measure braking action was expressly declared by its manufacturer as not to be used in slush because it “does not provide reliable values.”. With the aircraft ELW of 15400kg, well within the MLW of 18700kg, it was calculated during the Investigation that the LDR for the aircraft as loaded and configured in the conditions actually prevailing was approximately 2120 metres, comfortably within the LDA of 3045 metres. The Cause of the overrun was determined as “the fact that the crew did not brake the aircraft consistently down to a safe speed”. Three Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: The Flughafen Stuttgart GmbH should develop procedures permitting a timely and flexible transmission of the prospective braking action to the responsible air traffic control centre. [03/2012]. The Flughafen Stuttgart GmbH should modify the Service Instruction D No. 43 so that the prevailing weather conditions are taken into account when decisions regarding measurement runs are made. When runways are contaminated additional corrections, which take the inaccuracy of the measuring method into account, should be made when classifying the friction coefficients. [04/2012]. The Aircraft Operator (Flybe) should extend the instruction of the crews with respect to winter operation so that indications on a possibly reduced braking action are recognized and considered for the planning of the landing. [05/2012]. The Final Report of the Investigation BFU EX001-09 was published in August 2012