Tackling airspace infringements has been a high priority for many European ANSPs for almost two decades. Much time and energy has been expended in reducing the risk of a mid-air collision caused by an infringement. These actions have been successful in managing the risk to an extent, but leaves a lot of room for improvement. Data from the ECR (European Central Repository for Aviation accident and Incident Reports), retrieved by EASA, shows that during 2010-2021 there were over 32,800 reported infringements in the EASA member states and the United Kingdom. Source: European Central Repository for Aviation Accident and Incident Reports Despite the lower numbers in 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this continues a trend that has been ongoing for nearly twenty years. It is worth reminding ourselves that the true risk of airspace infringements is higher than currently documented. Evidence from a number of EUROCONTROL and individual ANSP Safety Culture surveys, internal audits, and questionnaires shows that many ATCOs admit that they are less likely to report airspace infringements if, in their subjective opinion, the situation was not perceived as a major threat. Analysis of the data available from a number of different sources shows some clear trends. The majority of infringement events happen in TMAs, CTRs, and CTZs: the majority involve GA pilots flying under VFR: the majority occur due to issues regarding navigation, planning, distraction in the cockpit, and/or difficulty dealing with unexpected or unfamiliar weather conditions. The overall upward trend may be influenced by the increasing awareness of this type of risk and other improvements in the general reporting culture. However, a comparison with the evolution in the number of reported incidents assigned to other key risk areas (such as Separation minima infringement and Near CFIT) shows a particularly marked trend. It should also be noted that a number of states still do not report this category of safety occurrence. The reporting of Airspace Infringements was made mandatory in 2017 under Regulation (EU) No 376/2014. It is likely that this has contributed to an increase in Airspace Infringement reporting since that time, although the precise impact is difficult to assess. The data shown in the figures above comes from the European Central Repository for Aviation accident and Incident Reports (ECR) and illustrates the infringement data for the subject period, as collected, analysed and reported by EASA. It must be recognised that different organisations, whether they are ANSPs, Regulators, National Authorities, or flying clubs, capture, analyse, assess, and report such data in a variety of ways and using a number of methodologies. This can and does lead to apparent variations between organisations in the absolute numbers of events, including airspace infringement events reported year-on-year. Nevertheless, the data published in this plan serves as an illustration of the continuing scale of the challenge faced in reducing the number and severity of airspace infringement events across Europe.