right and 11 seconds later, the TWR controller instructed the aircraft to “turn right 330, climb 3000” and this time the turn and climb were commenced. The minimum altitude reached was 490 feet QNH. Thereafter, radar vectors were provided towards finals for runway 16L and the aircraft eventually landed there without further event. An annotated illustration of the ground track leading to the attempted approach to runway 23 is provided below. Although visibility had been in excess of 10 km, the Captain subsequently stated that he had been unable to identify runway 16L and “had no memory of passing altitude of SAZAN or the automatic callout at MDA” and had therefore “instinctively let the aircraft turn left because he saw the runway which looked bright in left front of him and he ordered the FO to set the HDG/TRK selector to the 157 degree runway 16L track and set TRK/FPA”. He had then “realised that something was wrong because he could not see the HDG (TRK) bug on PFD and noticed that the magnetic heading indicated 230 degrees”. He continued by stating that “lots of concerns came up to his mind and he wondered if the runway in front of him might not be runway 16L but runway 23 which was closed” whereas “a closed runway must be in complete darkness”. He then remembered hearing the first TWR instruction to turn right but took no action because he was “confused by being instructed to turn in an opposite direction from the one prescribed in the missed approach procedure”. However, he had then “received another specified instruction on direction and altitude and followed it”. The Captain stated that although he had a decade of experience on the Airbus A320 and had frequently landed on 16L at Haneda in the past, he had not previously flown the VOR A approach followed by a circling approach to runway 16L and recognised with hindsight that “he should have reported to the Controller that he had been short on time for preparations and he should have requested a holding or a radar guidance for a visual approach”. The First Officer noted that the VOR A procedure was not loaded in the database but that although the Captain gave no brief on what the VOR procedure and circling would involve, he did have a clear ‘mental map’ of what was required and although he had not located runway 16L, he had easily identified one of the ALBs associated with the required circling. However, he was “mostly concentrating on operational processes such as setting of flaps (and) could not monitor the flying course properly”. When he saw that the aircraft was turning left and was instructed by the Captain to set the runway 16L centreline, he became confused because he was expecting “a right turn first to enter the downwind and then turn left in the base leg to align”. However, he stated that he had “relied on the Captain and interpreted that the aircraft flew to