the point where a runway was just in front of him before he noticed” and attributed this to his being “unable to monitor properly (and so) did not try to confirm his odd feeling with the Captain”. On hearing the first instruction to turn right after they had completed the landing checklist, he stated that just as he was about to “ask the reason why they should turn right there”, they received another specific instruction to climb and turn right and followed it. The Investigation found that communications procedures within the aircraft operator in the event of “irregular operations” which explicitly included Accidents or Serious Incidents had not been followed after the event so that the crew and aircraft had continued operating and no notification was made to the Safety Regulator (the CAB) or JTSB until the QAR data from the event had been processed. In respect of the performance of the flight crew, the Investigation considered that there had been a failure to see the unexpected change of approach to one which was unfamiliar to both pilots as a “threat” in TEM terms. It was concluded that the evidence from the Investigation was that it had occurred “because the CRM skills […] of the Captain and the First Officer had not been sufficiently learned during the corresponding Operator-provided education and training” and that the Operator needed to revisit this. It was also evident that the Operator had failed to recognise that there was a finite and unaddressed risk if an approach procedure which was sometimes used was not in the procedures database so that only a paper chart was available. Finally, it was concluded that given the reliance on flight crew self-study as a means to developing airport familiarity, there was insufficient monitoring of the resulting crew knowledge or even the use of self-study materials. The Investigation formally determined that the Probable Causes of the investigated Serious Incident were that “when conducting a VOR A approach to land on runway 16L at Tokyo Haneda the crew mistakenly commenced an approach to runway 23 which was closed because advance preparations for the VOR A approach by the Captain and the First Officer were not sufficient - neither identified the change of landing runway as a ‘threat’ and they failed to manage workload, properly monitor or provide advice". Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: Peach Air provided interim guidance on how to manually modify the VOR A approach via the MCDU and subsequently added the VOR A approach to the procedures database. It also improved crew self-briefing facilities by providing CBT access to all navigation data, added details of the scheduled night-time runway changes at Haneda to briefing material for the airport and extended the time provided for airport qualification self-briefing.. Peach Air revised arrangements for station management and despatch to ensure that the Company Operations Control Centre would be advised if there was any possibility that a Serious Incident had