An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). FDR data was subsequently downloaded in support of the Investigation in association with recorded ATC data but that from the CVR was not as the aircraft had continued flying and relevant information had been overwritten. It was a noted that the 62 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector, had accumulated 24,104 total flying hours which included 8,490 hours on type. The 43 year-old First Officer had a total of 3,530 flying hours of which just 405 were on type having recently completed type conversion. It was established that having learned from the ATIS that the surface wind was light and variable with no cloud below 3,000 feet and that an ILS approach to runway 34R at Haneda could be expected, this was initially confirmed by the Tokyo APP controller on checking in. But a couple of minutes later, with the aircraft descending through 10,600 feet QNH, it was advised that a change to runway to 16L using a VOR A procedure could be expected. Passing 6300 feet QNH, the flight was then cleared for this approach joining via the ‘DARKS’ STAR. The procedure involved flying an inbound course of 274°M towards the Haneda VOR and then turning right to circle left hand to finals. To assist with the visual positioning segment, Circling Guidance Lights (CGL), Approach Light Beacons (ALB - flashing white lights to indicate significant points on the approach) and a Landmark Beacon (LBN - also a flashing white light) were installed to provide specific points of reference whilst circling and are shown on the illustration below. The aircraft arrived in the vicinity of the ‘DARKS’ waypoint at the prescribe 1,800 feet QNH and proceeded to fly more or less along the 274° VOR radial with the AP engaged and VS mode selected but immediately began to descend below the vertical profile and by the FAF at waypoint SAZAN which was 5.9 nm from the VOR, it was almost 400 feet below the procedure height, already marginally below the MDA of 760 feet QNH and fully configured for landing. The AP and FD were then disconnected and the aircraft was turned left to line up with the runway 23 extended centreline at 620 feet QNH. This runway was temporarily closed as per a night-time schedule for alternating runway use subject to suitable weather conditions. Although the approach lighting aids for this runway were all off, the runway lighting remained on as per agreed routine procedures and it was these lights which the Captain used to align with final approach. As thus turn was being made, the TWR controller initially called to say “continue approach, we have one more to depart” but as the new heading took effect and descent continued just 1.5nm from runway 23, the controller recognised what was happening and instructed the aircraft to “turn right immediately”. The aircraft was at 530 feet QNH but continued descending and did not turn