Prevention is the best countermeasure against electrical fires, including these actions: Proper aircraft maintenance - Cables should be checked for signs of ageing or damage at regular intervals and replaced as necessary.. Lead acid storage batteries containment — These batteries must be contained in an approved battery box with the lid vented to the outside of the aircraft to prevent explosive hydrogen gas from entering the aircraft.. Electrical component replacement — When replacing electical equipment (e.g. light bulbs), only regulator-approved components should be used. Also, the maintenance engineering should make sure the new component fixture is complete and intact.. Pre-flight inspection — A thorough inspection may reveal evidence (e.g., by sight or smell) of leaked fuel, oil, or hydraulic fluids.. When an in-flight electrical fire is suspected or indicated, common flight crew responses consider: Emergency landing — Landing immediately at the nearest suitable aerodrome — per international best practices — is usually the best course of action if a fire is suspected, even if there are no visible flames.. Fire characteristics — Once ignited, electrical fires burn just like most any aircraft fire. One difference is that the heat from the energized electrical wiring or component that ignited the fire might sustain it by continued ignitition. Therefore, the common first step when electrical fire is suspected is to cut the power by turning off the master switch. This removes the ignition source, and if an imminent fire has not started to burn, may lead to elimination of ignition threat.. Troubleshooting — If electrical power is essential for the flight, some emergency checklists authorize the flight crew to attempt to identify and isolate the faulty circuit by: Turning all individual electrical switches OFF. Turning the master switch back ON. Selecting electrical switches that were ON before the fire indication, one at a time, permitting a short time lapse after each switch is turned ON to check for signs of odor from fumes, smoke or sparks.. Turning all individual electrical switches OFF.. Turning the master switch back ON.. Selecting electrical switches that were ON before the fire indication, one at a time, permitting a short time lapse after each switch is turned ON to check for signs of odor from fumes, smoke or sparks.. (Note that this procedure may have the effect of recreating the original problem. On the other hand, lack of electrical power would require a no-flap landing, manually lowering the landing gear, no normal communication capability and no navigation capability, which could increase risk factors, especially if flying at night or instrument meteorological conditions. See Further Reading below for current best practices in designing emergency checklists for smoke-fire-fumes events.) Deploying extinguishers — If flames from an electrical fire have already started, cutting the power supply will not be enough, and immediate use of some sort of extinguishing equipment will be necessary. The crew's initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher. Water must not be used if the crew believes the fire is