210°, the Boeing was instructed to turn right again onto a heading of 160° when the controller realised that the effect of the instructed left turn was going to produce less separation than the right turn to close the ILS. Within just under 20 seconds, each of the aircraft had reported visual acquisition of the other. As both aircraft continued their headings, the Airbus without the usual instruction to establish on the ILS Localiser from the heading given because the controller had forgotten to give that instruction, both received two successive TCAS TAs. The minimum separation of 0.6nm at the same altitude was reached just as the Boeing began to turn left to establish on the 18R localiser and soon afterwards, the Airbus was given a heading to close the 18C localiser from the right having gone slightly through it. The remainder of both approaches was uneventful. The Investigation concluded that the cause of the conflict was the failure of the controller vectoring to runway 18C to resume the normal operational procedure of vectoring traffic to the 18C localiser at 3000 feet when the gap in traffic from the west finished. Although it was clear that “no immediate chance of a collision was present” it was considered that the loss of prescribed minimum separation represented “a possible breach of flight safety”. It was noted that whilst it was necessary for controllers to be afforded a degree of operational flexibility in handling traffic, such discretion should be “conducted…within written boundaries”. Accordingly, the Investigation recommended that LVNL (the ANSP) should “give extra attention to the circumstances under which ATC controllers are allowed to deviate from procedures in their safety program”. It was also observed that “controllers must be aware that they cannot operate individually, but are dependent on each other, especially when deviating from procedures” and appreciate that “strict co-ordination and communication are needed to maintain separation during parallel approaches”. The Final Report of the Investigation was released in May 2013. No formal Safety Recommendations were issued. Editor’s Note: It is unclear whether the recommendation made as a consequence of this Investigation and quoted above verbatim from the Final Report has the status of a formal Safety Recommendation.