[AIP]. controllers observing a delay in a departing aircraft commencing its takeoff roll after being cleared to do so shall cancel that clearance and instruct the aircraft to vacate the runway immediately at the nearest (available) taxiway [AIP]. the approach arrivals controller shall be responsible for providing the desired landing interval between arrivals and that the nominal spacing between arrivals when there is a departure in between two arrivals on runway 29 is 7nm although this may be increased when the speed differential between the preceding and succeeding arrivals is high [ANSP MATS Part 2]. controllers shall not normally permit a landing aircraft to cross the runway threshold on its final approach until the preceding departing aircraft has crossed the end of the same runway or has started a turn or until all preceding landing aircraft are clear of the runway [ANSP MATS Part1]. radar controllers are required without exception to instruct all arriving jet aircraft within 20 nm of touchdown to fly at no more than 180 knots (or 170 knots if necessary), then when on a closing heading for final approach (or from 12 nm from touchdown if straight in) to reduce to 160 knots and then between 10 nm and 5nm to be 160 knots. [ANSP MATS Part1]. It was noted that none of these requirements had been complied with and also observed that landline coordination between TWR and APP radar controllers had been effected in “non standard (local) language”. The Investigation also considered without any explanation that the 787 crew should, in the absence of the mandatory ATC-instructed speed control, have automatically flown at the 787-9 “approach speed” contained in the “FAA Reference Approach Speeds for Boeing Aircraft” dated 30 March 2016. These figures were reproduced in full in the ANSP MATS Part 1 and were acknowledged as having been taken from data issued by Boeing Airport Compatibility Engineering and claimed to be thereby “laid down in SOP”. By clear implication, this was considered by the Investigation as if it was an aircraft operator SOP which would be automatically applied in the absence of ATC speed control instructions. The fact that this indicative guidance on ‘normal’ approach speeds had not been followed led the Investigation to formally determine that the “failure of the crew” to follow it was a “Contributory Factor” to the conflict (see below). The Probable Cause of the event was determined as “non adherence to Standard Operating Procedures by the TWR controller”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Failure of the APP radar controller to provide adequate inter-arrival spacing and to apply speed control methods to arriving aircraft.. Failure of the 777 flight crew to adhere to the published departure procedures.. Failure of the 787 flight crew to adhere to the published speed control norms.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Delhi International Airport should ensure that its TWR controllers are reminded of the importance of situational awareness in such situations and (directed) that they should not use a