A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Indian Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) in accordance with the Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules 2017. Recorded ATC radar and RTF communication data and landline communications between the APP and TWR positions involved were available and relevant QAR data was supplied by British Airways. No details of the experience levels of the pilots or controllers involved were obtained. It was found that the 787 had been given a closing heading to join the 29 ILS LLZ by APP radar. The Captain of the aircraft subsequently recalled that ATC speed control had been used but the RTF transcript did not include any such speed control instructions. Once fully established, the aircraft was transferred to TWR South approximately 10nm from touchdown as number 2 to land. At that time, FDR data showed that the 787 was reducing though 185 KCAS and the Airbus A321 7 nm in front was, according to ATC data, maintaining 140 knots. By the time the 787 had 7nm to run, it was 6.5nm behind the A321 ahead and at 183 KCAS. The A321 landed and, with the 787 showing on the radar display as having 6 nm to run, the departing 777 was cleared to line up at an intersection 110 metres from the beginning of the runway (the Investigation noted that the actual separation was slightly less “due to the displaced landing threshold and the intersection line up”). This clearance did not include confirmation that an immediate departure would be required when cleared. Less than a minute later, with the 787 4nm from touchdown at 160 KCAS, the TWR controller cleared the 777 for takeoff but again did not add a requirement for an immediate departure. The 777 “took some time on the runway before commencing its takeoff roll” and when it was still not airborne as the 787 approached the runway threshold, the 787 commenced a go around from 200 feet due to the occupied runway. The TWR controller asked the 787 to expedite climb to 3,600 feet and, in coordination with the APP arrival radar controller, instructed it to turn left onto heading 180°. He then instructed the 777 to stop climb at 2,600 feet and transferred both aircraft to the APP arrival radar frequency. The action to prevent any further conflict was successful. The surface weather shortly before the conflict was recorded as 3000 metres visibility in haze with no significant cloud and it was concluded that it had not been a contributory factor in the conflict. It was noted that the AIP India entry for the airport and the ANSP MATS Parts 1 (General) and 2 (Delhi IGI) variously included a number of requirements aimed at avoiding conflicts of the type under investigation at Delhi including that: pilots of departing aircraft shall complete all mandatory pre-departure checks before entering the active runway for departure so that the aircraft is in a position to take off immediately upon receipt of takeoff clearance