ready to land may be extensive due to the requirement for a diversion and/or to otherwise prepare for the landing. The crew must remain aware of the fuel state at all times.. Gather Any Other Pertinent Information. Use onboard information sources such as approach charts and the MEL plus external resources (via ATS, ACARS or Company communications) to compile airfield data, weather reports, runway condition and other information to be considered in the decision process. Request technical support as required.. Consider the Implications of the Failure. Develop a clear picture of the impact of the failure on the approach, landing and post landing operations. For example: will the failure require an alternate landing gear extension procedure? if an alternate extension is required, when would be the most prudent time to carry out the procedure? if an alternate extension is required, will the inability to retract the gear compromise missed approach obstacle clearance in the event a go around is required? on a fly by wire aircraft, will the failure result in a change of control law when the landing gear is extended? will the failure allow for normal braking or will it require alternate braking techniques due to the loss of anti-skid or to sole reliance on accumulator pressure? are thrust reversers available? is the nosewheel steering functional? Should the landing procedure consider leaking hydraulic fluid might come into contact with hot brakes on landing? can the aircraft be taxied clear of the active runway?. will the failure require an alternate landing gear extension procedure? if an alternate extension is required, when would be the most prudent time to carry out the procedure? if an alternate extension is required, will the inability to retract the gear compromise missed approach obstacle clearance in the event a go around is required?. if an alternate extension is required, when would be the most prudent time to carry out the procedure?. if an alternate extension is required, will the inability to retract the gear compromise missed approach obstacle clearance in the event a go around is required?. on a fly by wire aircraft, will the failure result in a change of control law when the landing gear is extended?. will the failure allow for normal braking or will it require alternate braking techniques due to the loss of anti-skid or to sole reliance on accumulator pressure?. are thrust reversers available?. is the nosewheel steering functional?. Should the landing procedure consider leaking hydraulic fluid might come into contact with hot brakes on landing?. can the aircraft be taxied clear of the active runway?.