The Investigation was delegated by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) to the UK AAIB acting for the State of the Operator. Data was obtained from the 25 hour Flight Data Recorder (FDR), the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and the Digital ACMS Recorder (DAR) which provided details for the entire incident flight. It was found that the Operator’s procedures for the protection of the CVR following a Serious Incident did not extend to the FDR and that the preservation of the required data from that source was fortuitous. It was established that, after flexible thrust take off from runway 35L with the Co-Pilot as PF and a heavy crew member, another Senior First Officer, present in the flight deck for take off, the aircraft had suffered multiple bird strikes as it passed 530 feet aal. A loud noise accompanied the impact of a bird with the nose of the aircraft and shortly afterwards, Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) indications of a malfunctioning left engine were annunciated. The crew engaged both autopilots in heading mode and the designated PF continued in that role whilst the aircraft commander analysed the problem with the assistance of the third pilot. Significant vibration was felt through the airframe which indications suggested was likely to be from the left engine which was now showing a low oil pressure annunciation on the ECAM and an indication of zero oil pressure on the gauge. This required idle thrust to be selected on that engine and, when those indications persisted, that the engine should be shut down which was accomplished. A ‘PAN’ call was transmitted to TWR who acknowledged it and instructed a change to radar on a different frequency. On initial contact with Radar, the flight status was upgraded to ‘MAYDAY’ and a return requested. The aircraft was levelled at 3,000 feet where the crew reviewed the situation and the commander then downgraded their status to PAN and took over as PF. Single engine landing performance overweight was reviewed and radar vectors for an ILS approach to Runway 36R were accepted subject to a single orbit to allow the crew additional time to complete checks. The landing was uneventful and the aircraft taxied clear of the runway for an Rescue and Fire Fighting Services inspection which confirmed hot brakes and so a tow in to the parking gate was provided. The total flight time was 30 minutes. The comprehensive arrangements implemented by the airport authority for bird hazard control were noted as was the relatively low bird strike rate - 0.36 strikes per 1000 movements in 2011 of which arriving aircraft had accounted for 72% of strikes. Recorded data on engine function showed that following the ingestion, the left engine N1 shaft vibration had increased from 0.4 to 10 units - the maximum figure, EGT had increased by 10°C to 771°C and all three engine shaft speeds, N1, N2 and N3, increased slightly. Right engine N1 shaft vibration also increased at the same time from