0.2 to 1.8 units. As the left engine speed had reduced, the N1 shaft vibration level had also reduced to 0.1 units. The total time from the initial ECAM warning to shutdown was 1 minute 46 seconds. With MCT set on the right engine, the maximum recorded N1 shaft vibration during the remainder of the flight was 2 units which was below the trigger for an ECAM N1 shaft vibration advisory message. “Examination of the aircraft in Orlando revealed impact damage to the radome, the left engine nose cowl, three fan blades fitted to the left engine and two fan blades fitted to the right engine. No defects were identified with the engine oil system. Analysis of the bird remains recovered from the engines indicated that the birds were probably Ring-necked Ducks, of between 1.5 lb and 2 lb in weight, and that each engine had ingested one bird.” The technical part of the Investigation then sought to understand why the left engine oil pressure indication had instantly dropped to and remained at zero. It was established that oil pressure monitoring was provided by three sensors - two oil pressure transducers mounted on the left side of the engine fan case and an oil pressure switch mounted on the gearbox-driven oil pump. The pressure transducers provide oil pressure readings to the EEC which are then fed to various aircraft systems and the oil pressure switch generates a signal in the event of loss of oil pressure. The ECAM generates a low oil pressure message when any two of the three sources of oil pressure sensing indicate low oil pressure. In addition, in order to protect the engine bearings if lubrication fails, an oil pump failure condition will be assumed by the EEC if it detects both transducer outputs to have a specified negative differential pressure within a three second period and the EEC will then overwrite the oil pressure values being transmitted with a zero value which leads to the ECAM reading of zero oil pressure seen after the bird ingestion. Crucially this logic is designed so that once activated, the EEC remains latched in this condition until it resets during engine shutdown. This means that even if the oil pressure recovers or stabilises, the ECAM message would remain illuminated and require an engine shutdown response from the crew. Rolls Royce advised their awareness of seven previous high vibration events which had generated a low oil pressure message on Trent 700 engines of which five had led to a precautionary engine shutdown . Five of the seven events had followed IDG failure and one had followed a bird strike. It was noted that the Trent 800 engine, which has a similar lubrication and oil pressure monitoring system, is not set to zero if negative pressure differentials are transmitted from the transducers and there have been no reported low oil pressure events due to high shaft vibration on Trent 800 engines. The Investigation noted that Rolls Royce were in the process