Certification is regarded as an entry qualification to the market for ANS service provision. Once certified, a service-provider is legally qualified to provide ANS elsewhere in SES airspace. The legislation specifically requires Member States to recognise any certificate issued in another Member State. It is understood that such recognition would apply to a competence level equivalent to that assessed within the certification process, and that any significant extension of capabilities required by a new service provision task would require a re-assessment of the service-provider. The legislation provides the possibility of derogations from certain requirements for certification for certain specific forms of aviation activity and for certain types of service-provision, but in both cases subject to strict and monitored conditions. No derogation is possible in the cases of those requirements addressing technical and operational competence and capability, safety management, human resources, and open and transparent provision of services. The use of certification differs in a number of ways from its application in other areas of aviation, such as that applied to aircraft or their components. In this specific SES context, it enables and facilitates an open market for ANS service provision. States do not necessarily have to rely upon nationally-based service provision, and may use services provided by certified service-providers from other States. Indeed, the amended Article 7(6) of the Service Provision Regulation states that the “…the issue of certificates shall confer on air navigation service providers the possibility of offering their services to Member States, other air navigation service providers, airspace users and airports within the Community”. The requirement for Certification applies to all cases of ANS service-provision, whether or not designation is also required. With the adoption of the SES II legislative package, and of the Regulation (EC) No 1108/2009 extending the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) competence in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services in particular, the scope of the certification process is extended to include “aeronautical products, parts and appliances, aerodromes and their equipment, operators involved in commercial air transport and in the operation of aerodromes, ATM/ANS systems and providers”, as well as “… organisations involved in the training and medical assessment” of pilots and air traffic controllers. Implementing rules relating to the certification of the design, manufacture and maintenance of ATM/ANS systems and constituents, as well as to organisations engaged in the design, manufacture and maintenance will only be laid down when related to safety-critical issues identified following a detailed impact assessment study. Designation Conversely, designation applies in cases where it is necessary to have a single, unique agency providing the service, and competition or selection between multiple providers is not possible. Designation is therefore applied to ATS service provision and can, at the discretion of States, also be applied to the provision of meteorological services. The process of designation confers upon a service provider the sole responsibility of providing a service in a specified area of SES airspace. In each case, the State concerned has the legal duty to