The Thailand Department of Civil Aviation classified the event as a Serious Incident and delegated the conduct of the Investigation to the Singapore Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). It was established that the first sign of anything untoward was the detection by the First Officer of “a slight burning smell coming from the ventilation blowers in his position”. The Captain was not aware of any unusual smell as the vents of his blowers were closed. Soon afterwards, just after the aircraft had crossed into Myanmar airspace, an AFT/BULK CRG SMOKE warning was annunciated indicating a problem in the rear lower deck hold. This consisted of a main compartment for ULDs and pallets and small bulk cargo compartment, these two compartments being separated by a cargo net (see below). The applicable Checklist was executed and fire extinguishing agent was discharged into the rear hold. Soon after the appearance of the warning, one of the cabin crew contacted the crew using the interphone at Door 3L and advised that he and some of the passengers in that vicinity had detected a burning smell. Despite the action taken, the ECAM message remained and it was decided to divert to the nearest available airport, Bangkok. Yangon Control were advised accordingly and fifteen minutes after the ECAM warning had appeared, it was still present and on transfer to Bangkok APP, a MAYDAY was declared. Aware that they had received a pre-departure NOTOC (Notification to Captain) recording the presence of Dangerous Goods on board, this fact was communicated to ATC. On transfer to Bangkok TERMINAL APP, landing priority was confirmed and, with ARFS vehicles deployed alongside the landing runway, a further query from ATC resulted in a confirmation that there were three Dangerous Goods items on board but no further details about them were communicated. ATC were advised by the crew that they would stop the aircraft on the runway for an ARFS inspection and the landing was made 33 minutes after the appearance of the ECAM warning, which had remained illuminated throughout the flight. Once stopped, the crew repeated the request for the ARFS inspection “three times over a period of about four minutes (but) the controller did not answer it (and) instead asked if the crew could taxi the aircraft”. After the third request, the controller asked if the ARFS vehicles should be moved away so that the aircraft could taxi to its allocated parking bay and the crew responded that if there was no smoke then yes. Taxi clearance was subsequently given and whilst taxiing, the controller asked “if the emergency was terminated” to which the First Officer replied that it was not and requested that the ARFS vehicles should follow the aircraft and re-inspect the aft cargo area of the aircraft once it was parked. Once parked, the First Officer asked the controller if the ARFS had observed any smoke from the aft cargo area and was told that “everything was normal” and followed this soon afterwards with a request for the crew