and 7 of the 99 packages in the main consignment had been screened on that basis. The 99th package had originated from New Zealand and had not been X-ray screened there before being shipped to Singapore and was also exempted from the sampling of selected items at transhipment once there. There was no requirement for the cargo handler to undertake further screening and CCTV surveillance of relevant activity at both the main consignor and the cargo handler was available but did not yield any useful information. Given all the above, the Investigation was unable to determine the cause of the fire but did consider that it had highlighted four areas of safety interest as follows: The re-ignition of the fire. The fact that the fire which had been extinguished in flight had re-ignited after the hold door was opened was indicative of the presence of embers within the 42L container which were fed by a fresh supply of air. It was noted that any airport fire service should always be ready for such an eventuality and recognise that a fire-related emergency is not over until all appropriate fire risk checks have been carried out.. The communication of information about Dangerous Goods. There appear to have been opportunities for the flight crew to volunteer the details of the dangerous goods known to be on board to ATC whilst proceeding on the diversion as MAYDAY traffic but this did not happen. Although the flight crew passed the NOTOC to the ground handing staff before leaving the aircraft in Bangkok it appears that the details on it were not promptly passed to the ARFS. Although it was eventually established that the three declared dangerous goods items were not involved in the fire, information regarding the presence, location and nature of any dangerous goods on board an aircraft they are to attend is essential since the effectiveness of their response could be compromised without it. It was noted that Annex 18 clearly establishes this requirement.. On-ground emergency communications between the parties involved. Once the aircraft had been stopped on the runway, the crew repeatedly asked the Controller to ask ARFS personnel to check if smoke was present at the aft cargo area and in the absence of any direct radio communication between the crew and the ARFS, there was no alternative. A direct communication channel between the ARFS and the aircraft crew would have ensured speedier communication and more expeditious and effective decision-making. However, it is noted that for any such direct communication to be effective, the parties involved need to be able to communicate with basic proficiency in English. In the absence of direct crew/ARFS communications for the initial external inspection, the attempt by the controller to get the crew to declare the emergency terminated was inappropriate since it appears obvious that only the ARFS would know.. The flight crew decision to terminate the emergency. After the aircraft had arrived at its allocated parking bay and in response to a question from the