of the aircraft wiring within the hold found that this did not include any effects on the electrical systems in the hold. The 42L container was extensively damaged and the adjacent one at 43L sustained slight damage. It was noted that the cargo fire protection provided on the aircraft consisted of a smoke detection system and the cargo fire extinguishing system. Lower deck aft hold smoke detection relies on two sets of smoke detectors in the main compartment and one set of smoke detectors in the bulk cargo compartment. The cargo fire extinguishing system uses two halon fire extinguisher bottles, one of which discharges quickly and the other then does so over a 195 minute period using metered discharge. The contents of the 42L container were 100 packages which did not include the 3 declared dangerous goods items. These packages were put in the container by Singapore Airlines’ cargo handling contractor. The majority of the packages were of fabric, 99 of them being shipped for the same consignor. The other package was an envelope containing documents. Container 42L sustained severe damage and the first consignors 99 packages sustained varying degrees of fire damage. The other consignor’s single package was not damaged. The adjacent container at position 43L was also fire damaged and a small part of its contents were destroyed by the fire. None of the three notified dangerous goods items were in these two containers and they were not damaged in the incident. Expert examination of the 42L container identified an area in the lower middle part of it which appeared to be where the fire had started. Only one item in the container contained any trace of ignitable fluid and this was a damaged bale of fabric that was heavily soaked with what was subsequently identified as ethanol. Because of the extensive fire damage, many of 100 packages which had been loaded in the 42L container could not be identified and attempts to get meaningful information from the shippers of the packages were only partially successful. It was established that the 99 packages loaded in container 42L were trans-shipment cargo which had originated from various countries and been flown to Singapore and then been consolidated for onward shipment to Dhaka. They had arrived at the consignor’s facility throughout the day before being taken to the cargo handler for loading a little under two hours prior to the departure of the flight. The loader who transferred the 100 packages to the 42L container recalled loading the bale of fabric that had been found after the fire to be heavily soaked with ethanol and that it had been both dry and devoid of any unusual smell. The consignor of the 99 packages advised that all but one of them had been recorded as having been X-ray screened at their countries of origin before being shipped to Singapore. The applicable regulatory requirement for further screening of transhipment cargo at Singapore required the consignor to choose items at random for X-ray screening