to “report emergency terminated”. An initial response to that effect from the First Officer was quickly followed by the intervention from the Captain who informed the controller that he would terminate the emergency only after all the persons on board had disembarked and the aft cargo area had been inspected and requested that the ARFS should remain on standby for “a further ten minutes”. About three minutes after the aircraft had parked, engineering personnel attending the arrival advised the crew via the ground/flight deck intercom contrary to the ARFS report, smoke was coming come out of the aft cargo area. They were told to ensure that the hold door was not opened until everyone on board had disembarked. This disembarkation was completed 22 minutes after landing by which time the NOTOC had been passed to a member of the ground handling staff. Ground handling staff then opened the aft cargo compartment door upon which “white smoke started billowing out of that door”. The ARFS discharged carbon dioxide extinguishant into the compartment and asked the ground handling staff for information on the dangerous goods on board. They were told only about the presence of one of the three items on the NOTAC and there was no mention of where it had been loaded. After 10 minutes, the white smoke began to clear and the ground handling staff were requested to expedite the unloading of the cargo containers in the hold so that the ARFS could locate the origin of the fire. However, this request was declined as they were “not suitably attired and equipped”. After a further 22 minutes, with the aft hold door still open but with no unloading having taken place, “dark black smoke started billowing out from the hold, several explosion-like sounds were heard and thereafter, a huge flame developed within the hold”. The ARFS extinguished the fire with water. After a further 40 minutes - 1 hour and 34 minutes after the aircraft had stopped on the runway after landing - ground handling staff, in the presence of the ARFS, began unloading the hold using a high loader. The ARFS sprayed carbon dioxide extinguishant into the hold from time to time to cool it. While the cargo container at position 42L was being unloaded, “its contents burst into flames as it was moved onto the high loader” and the ARFS used carbon dioxide to extinguish this. Once the 42L container had been unloaded, it was placed 100 metres away from the aircraft. Subsequently, its remaining contents again re-ignited but by then, the ARFS had learned that it did not contain any dangerous goods and water was used to extinguish the fire. All the remaining contents of both rear hold compartments were then unloaded and a thermal imaging camera was used to check them for any heat source or unusual condition and after none was found, the emergency was declared over. Damage to the aircraft was limited to the interior of the lower deck rear hold and examination