then issued once the runway is clear. This option also enables the crew to anticipate a go-around which they will then automatically initiate in the absence of a landing clearance at a time which they can decide.. The location of the position on the runway at which the departing aircraft needed to cross and that where the first landing aircraft was to exit both posed a visual observation problem for the controllers because of their angular displacement of approximately 90° which was exceeded for the just landed aircraft as it entered the taxiway. This meant that in the latter case, it had been impossible to determine whether the aircraft was continuing to move or had come to a stop whilst still partly on the runway. However, aircraft which had landed both before and after this one were found to have then exited the runway and proceeded along the same taxiway at approximately twice the speed.. When issuing the late go-around instruction, the trainee controller maintained the tone and pitch of speech that he had used in preceding communications which gave no hint of any abnormality. This was understandable given that no potential for collision existed and especially so given that the controller in position was a supervised trainee. Had there been a real collision hazard, the tone used “would very likely have been more forceful and surprise would definitely have been reflected in the controller’s voice”.. During interview in connection with the Investigation, both controllers “mused on the reasons why the crew had disregarded the go-around call” after initially establishing that the go around instruction had not been masked by a transmission from another aircraft. It was concluded from these interviews that the controllers did not understand what had happened on the second landing aircraft’s flight deck. Their view was purely technical and experience-based and did not demonstrate an understanding of factors related to flight crew operation, the human factors in play during the final approach and landing, or the impact of automated callouts in the flight deck.. Prevailing ATC SOPs stated that an aircraft may be cleared to land on an occupied runway when there is reasonable assurance that the runway will be clear no later than the time when the aircraft crosses the runway threshold. The Investigation revealed that risks resulting from issue of a landing clearance for an occupied runway and its consequences had not been assessed by either the safety regulator or the ANSP and parameters such as but not necessarily limited to weather conditions, surface friction and lighting relevant to ‘reasonable assurance’ have not been established. The safe application of the principle of reasonable assurance “therefore hinges on appropriate action by controllers exercising operational responsibility”.. Five specific Conclusions in respect of the Investigation which “include the Causes of the investigated event which means the factors underlying it and the direct and indirect factors that had an effect on it” were documented as follows: The principle of reasonable assurance is recognised internationally, and its purpose is