to enable the efficient use of runway capacity. If the situation changes, safety will be ensured by cancelling the landing clearance. This instruction shall be transmitted in a timely manner to allow time for its execution.. Runway crossings affect tower operations at Helsinki-Vantaa airport in several ways and may result in the breakdown of de-confliction. Controllers should be aware of the associated risks and assume a proactive stance to the problem during all work shifts.. There can be a multitude of justified reasons for slower-than-normal taxi, such as procedures at an unfamiliar airport, winter conditions, or waiting for a taxi clearance or a ‘follow-me’ car. The traffic situation and prevailing conditions may change abruptly, in which case ATC will need to decide quickly whether the conditions of a landing clearance continue to exist, or should the succeeding airplane be directed to go around.. Controllers shall be sufficiently conversant with flight crew activities and the sound environment in the flight deck during various phases of the flight. Sometimes the controller may need to transmit an urgent instruction (such as a go-around call) to ensure safety in an evolving situation. These calls shall be readily distinguishable among other radio communications in terms of both tone and volume.. An underlying safety management principle is that actions shall not contradict rules and regulations. Either the actions and procedures shall be aligned with internationally recognised regulations, or the Finnish interpretation - that in this case offers a wider safety margin - shall be endorsed and incorporated in aerodrome-specific publications.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Traficom (State Safety Regulator) and ANS Finland (ANSP) launch a joint long-term risk analysis of potential hazards associated with landing clearances that are based on reasonable assurance. The analysis would look at challenges to the controllers, the potential consequences of non-executed go-around instructions and other contingencies. The results would be used to revamp the existing procedures by eliminating the possibilities of inconsistent interpretations resulting from the way the conditions are prescribed in the present documents. [2019-S61]. that ANS Finland pays attention to the way controllers speak during communication and the tone and volume of speech in the delivery of critical messages. The principles shall be clearly documented and observed during site-specific and other training. [2019-S62]. that Traficom and ANS Finland jointly see that the controllers’ actions are in compliance with the existing guidelines and instructions and clarify the definition of runway vacation in the national documents if necessary. [2019-S63]. The Final Report was published on 19 December 2019.