led by a ‘Follow-Me’ car to its designated parking stand. During the second aircraft’s taxi-in, the TWR controller asked the crew to establish contact on a discrete frequency and there advised them that they had been told to go around and that the event would be reported. The Captain, who had been PF for the flight involved, also subsequently called ATC on the phone and made it clear that they had not ignored the go around instruction, they had not heard it. The prevailing weather conditions at the time were being reported as CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK).. The flight crew of the second landing aircraft were both wearing Bose A20 headsets certified for aviation use which incorporated a noise reduction feature that effectively attenuated background noise which would otherwise be audible in the flight deck. The automated callout system which enables the 10 foot interval height calls below 50 feet agl (as well as less frequent height calls earlier in an approach) may be annunciated through the roof panel speakers but when headsets are in use these would normally be (and were) set to mute. These calls were thus (routinely) heard at a relatively high (and pre-set) volume in the pilots’ headsets.. Communication systems used in civil aviation do not incorporate technical solutions to supplement voice messaging when critical instructions, such as go-around calls, are issued to arriving aircraft and do not incorporate a selective calling method such as that used to communicate alert, urgency, or emergency messages between maritime stations nor any other audio tones that would alert a receiving station to an impending critical message.. Until a landing clearance has been received, pilots are “go-around minded,” whereas after it has been given, their attention shifts to landing the airplane and they become “landing minded”. There was no communication with ATC or any other direct visual indication that conditioned the pilots to expect an instruction to go-around. Since a go-around call is rarely transmitted when the aircraft is already over the runway, pilots with a landing clearance are unlikely to anticipate one unless the controller has pre-advised the possibility or they have already recognised themselves the possibility on account of a change in weather conditions, an unusual traffic situation or some other circumstance. Once over the runway (the threshold should be crossed at 50 feet agl) touchdown will happen in a matter of seconds.. The second aircraft was cleared to land on the still-occupied runway on the basis that it could be reasonably expected that adequate separation would exist when the aircraft reached the runway threshold. The purpose of the principle of reasonable expectation is to facilitate efficient use of a runway and it involves a built-in option to cancel the landing clearance and instruct the aircraft to go around if the runway remains occupied.. An alternative is to notify a crew that they should “expect a late landing clearance” or by use of an information call such as “continue approach, another 737 vacating” with a landing clearance