This Regulation applies within the zones designated as U-space airspace to: Some UAS operation are not subject to this Regulation, e.g. those of model aircraft clubs and associations that have received an appropriate authorisation or privately built UAS with MTOM of 250 g or less and speed of 19 m/s or less. U-space airspace is designated by EU member states following a risk assessment. For each such airspace, requirements to UAS, U-space services and operational conditions are defined. All UAS operations in the U-space airspace are subject to at least the following services: Additional services may be provided in the designated U-space airspace. This is decided by the individual EU member state based on the risk assessment. These services are: If U-space airspace is designated within controlled airspace, dynamic reconfiguration of the airspace must be ensured, i.e. manned aircraft provided with ATC service and UAS remain segregated. The common information services are the means to disseminate static and dynamic data that enables the provision of U-space services. This data is provided by information service provider(s), designated by the EU member states and includes: The common information services must: The Regulation defines general requirements applicable to UAS operators. These include provisions for: An UAS operator may provide U-space service to themselves. The Regulation defines general requirements applicable to U-space service providers. They must: U-space service providers and single common information service providers must hold a certificate issued by the competent authority of the relevant EU member state or by EASA. In order to be granted a certificate, they must demonstrate compliance with the relevant conditions. The certificate remains valid as long as compliance is maintained but may be invalidated if the provider does not start operations within 6 months of issuing or ceases operations for more than 12 months. In addition, the provider's operational and financial performance are to be assessed, and, specific measures may be imposed based on the results of this assessment, e.g. suspension, limitation or revocation. The Regulation defines: The Regulation contains seven annexes and an appendix, detailing various provisions: