There are three main areas where improvements may prevent or mitigate the handover-takeover related risks - people, equipment and procedures. Handover time: Allow sufficient time for handover.. Training: Handover should be practised during all phases of training including refresher training.. Availability and preparedness: Operational staff should make themselves available and prepare for the takeover (e.g. familiarisation with new procedures, environment, weather, expected demand, work plans, etc.) prior to approaching the operational position.. Workload and information transfer: Where available, the supervisor should be responsible for determining the timing. All handover/takeovers should be conducted at a time when doing so will not compromise the information transfer (i.e. during demand troughs). Supervisor may monitor transfers in complex situations.. Staff assessment: Operational staff assessment should include handover process on a regular basis.. Checklist(s): Checklist(s) should be available at all operational positions.. Handover form / briefing note: Standardised handover form should be available to describe critical information e.g. weather, facilities, staffing, and equipment status.. Reminders: Consider introducing support tools to provide reminders to the controllers (e.g. bleep).. Personal settings: The possibility to store and easily recall personal settings helps the controller adapt to their new position and role more quickly.. Describe the process: Development and formal description of standard and reasonably detailed handover-takeover procedure. Follow checklist: As a routine task, operational staff should follow the checklist. A ‘uniform’ way of working for all members having the same endorsement which should reduce the problems where teams have distinctly different ways of working.. Handover form: The handover form should be completed.. Signing off/in procedure: Signing off and signing in procedure should be in use to acknowledge that everything is done.. Adjacent operational positions: Avoid simultaneous handover of adjacent operational positions.. Number of handovers: Where possible minimise the number of handovers (need to compromise between need for regular breaks and need to minimise hazardous activity like a handover/takeover).. Sector opening: Minimise the number of handovers before/after sector opening (e.g. when sectors are collapsed or de-collapsed). All handovers/takeovers should be conducted at a time when doing so will not compromise the information transfer.. Roster design: Time for position handover should be built into the roster.. Controller rotation: The rotation pattern should be carefully considered so that the optimal one is chosen. Generally, simultaneous replacement of both positions or controllers leaving one sector and starting to work on another one without a break may lead to reduced situational awareness..