An Investigation was carried out by the German BFU. Relevant data from the 737 QAR and from the NVM of the Motor Glider's GPS were successfully downloaded and useful recorded radar data were available from both civil and military ATC Units. However, it was noted that although powered aircraft in Class 'E' airspace are required to have an activated transponder when flying above 5,000 feet QNH or at more than 3,500 feet agl, the motor glider involved was unpowered during the encounter and so had not been visible to ATS units as a secondary radar target. It was noted that the 39 year-old Captain of the 737 had approximately 11,000 total flying hours and the 23 year-old First Officer had approximately over 4,500 total flying hours. Both pilots held Irish professional licences. The 65 year-old Pilot of the motor glider held a PPL (A) and an unrestricted German glider pilot licence and had more than 8,000 hours total flying experience. The motor glider, which had the pilot's wife on board, was found to be on a triangular flight with Marpingen being the aerodrome of departure and arrival. Its pilot stated that the glider had been tracking south southwest in an almost cloudless sky with only slight haze domes at 7,000 feet QNH. In-flight visibility had been about 30 km and without the engine running, airspeed had been around 60 knots. At about 6,500 feet QNH, the glider's TRX 1090 ADS-B Traffic Receiver had generated a collision warning for traffic at the same altitude. A transport aircraft with its landing lights on was visually acquired ahead and to the left a range of about 10 km away and at the same altitude. As avoidance action, he had made a left turn with a bank angle of about 45° so as to fly approximately south in the opposite direction to and to the left of the transport aircraft - see the illustration below. His aircraft had been in gliding flight with a sink rate of about 160 fpm. He stated that he had "decided to fly a parallel opposite course to the other aircraft so that he could continuously observe it and react to possible heading or altitude changes if need be". He saw that the other aircraft was a 737 and that it appeared to be maintaining heading and altitude with no avoidance manoeuvre seen. After about a minute, he estimated that the 737 had passed about 165 feet above his aircraft when approximately 150 metres apart laterally. He had noticed that "only at the last moment, while the two aircraft were passing each other, had the 737 Co-pilot turned his head to the right". He had then resumed his original track. The 737 had been under radar control and was being positioned to the runway 21 ILS approach at Hahn and flying at 250KIAS. Its crew reported that only the First Officer had seen the glider and then only as it passed close to their aircraft in the opposite direction