and slightly below. The closest point of approach was calculated using data from the 737 QAR and the motor glider's GPS and put the motor glider 350 metres east of the 737 and 161 feet below it. The Investigation noted that: The pilot of the motor glider had been warned of the risk of conflict in good time because of his on-board ADS-B out collision warning system.. Since the engine had not been in use, a transponder was not required in the airspace class involved.. The size of the Boeing and the already illuminated landing lights made it easier for the pilot of the powered glider to observe the other aircraft.. The effectiveness of “See and Avoid” as a collision avoidance strategy is subject to significant limitations when at least one aircraft involved is flying at 250 knots and glider visibility is problematic in certain cases. It was noted that at 250 knots "the crew of a transport aircraft has about 37 seconds to prevent a collision" with a non-transponding target if it is immediately visible, but since a glider is often difficult to see, "the time span can be considerably shorter".. It was concluded that the decision of the motor glider pilot to remain on an opposite course was correct due to the difference in aircraft speeds and also that although ATC could not give a definitive warning of conflict when they had only intermittent primary returns, a general traffic warning about possible glider traffic with direction information might have supported the 737 crew in visually acquiring the motor glider earlier. It was also noted that by resuming its original tracking soon after passing the 737, the motor glider had crossed the flight track of the 737 just 19 seconds later about 300 feet below its altitude at that time. Since wake vortexes from the 737 could be expected to descend at between 300 and 800 fpm, the motor glider was at that point in the immediate vicinity of the 737 wake vortex and "had it flown into it, the worst case scenario would have been a (loss of control) crash". The Causes of the Accident were formally documented as follows: The Boeing 737 crew did not have any information regarding the powered glider and did not see it until it was too late for an avoidance manoeuvre.. The air traffic service provider could not provide the Boeing crew with any meaningful traffic information, because there was no transponder signal from the powered glider. Therefore, active contribution to the collision avoidance was not possible.. The Final Report was completed on 26 February 2016 and published in September 2016.