The landing gear is the principal support of the airplane when parked, taxiing, taking off, or landing. The most common type of landing gear consists of wheels, but airplanes can also be equipped with floats for water operations or skis for landing on snow. The wheeled landing gear on small aircraft consists of three wheels: two main wheels (one located on each side of the fuselage) and a third wheel positioned either at the front or rear of the airplane. Landing gear with a rear mounted wheel is called conventional landing gear. Airplanes with conventional landing gear are sometimes referred to as tailwheel airplanes. The two main wheels are attached to the airframe ahead of its centre of gravity (CG) and support most of the weight of the aircraft. The tailwheel is located at the very back of the fuselage and provides a third point of support. This arrangement allows adequate ground clearance for a larger nose-mounted propeller and is more desirable for operations on unimproved fields. It is therefore popular with small, general aviation aircraft such as the PIPER L-18C and the C170. With the CG located behind the main landing gear (MLG), directional control is more difficult while on the ground. For example, if the pilot allows the aircraft to swerve while rolling on the ground at a low speed, they may not have sufficient rudder control and the CG will attempt to get ahead of the main gear, which may cause the airplane to ground loop. Touching down with the tailwheel may, depending on the speed, produce enough lift (due to the increased Angle of Attack (AOA)) and cause the aircraft to become airborne again. Diminished forward visibility when the tailwheel is on or near the ground is another disadvantage of tailwheel landing gear airplanes. Specific training is required to operate tailwheel airplanes. When the third wheel is located on the nose, it is called a nosewheel, and the design is referred to as a tricycle gear. It has the following advantages compared to the conventional type: A steerable nosewheel or tailwheel permits the airplane to be controlled throughout all operations while on the ground. Most aircraft are steered by moving the rudder pedals, whether nosewheel or tailwheel. Airplane brakes are located on the main wheels and are applied by either a hand control or by foot pedals (toe or heel). Foot pedals operate independently and allow for differential braking, i.e. applying different force to the left and right main landing gear assemblies. During ground operations, differential braking can supplement nosewheel/tailwheel steering. Landing gear can also be classified as either fixed or retractable. Fixed landing gear always remains extended and has the advantage of simplicity combined with low maintenance. Retractable landing gear is designed to streamline the airplane (reduce the drag) by allowing the landing gear to be stowed inside the structure during cruising flight. Fixed landing gear is common with slow (e.g. general aviation) aircraft and most commercial aircraft use retractable landing gear. Heavier aircraft require