The provisions in Chapter 8 of ICAO Annex 13 require the States to establish mandatory occurrence (incident) reporting (MOR) systems to facilitate the collection of information on actual or potential safety deficiencies. Further to that, ICAO requirements relating to the implementation of safety management systems (SMS) require that aviation service providers develop and maintain a formal process for effectively collecting, recording, acting on and generating feedback about hazards in operations, based on a combination of reactive, proactive and predictive methods of safety data collection. In Europe, Regulation (EU) No 376/2014 on the reporting, analysis and follow-up of occurrences in civil aviation establishes requirements for mandatory reporting of occurrences which, if not corrected, would endanger the safety of aircraft, its occupants or any other person. In mandatory reporting systems operational personnel are required to report accidents and certain types of incidents. ICAO Annex 13, Appendix C provides a list of examples of serious incidents that are to be reported. Furthermore, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2018 defines a detailed list of safety occurrences to be reported by aviation service provider organisations in Europe. The safety occurrences are grouped in the following domains: Aircraft flight operations. Aircraft technical, maintenance and repair. Air navigation services and facilities. Aerodromes and ground services.. In order to harmonise the reporting of safety occurrences in ATM, EUROCONTROL has adopted ESARR 2. This regulatory requirement establishes a list of ATM-related occurrences which, as a minimum, shall be reported and assessed. The reporting process should be as simple as possible and at the same time well documented, including details as to what, where, when and to whom to report. Usually, reporting templates are developed by States and organisations to facilitate the submission of information. The national requirements of what to report vary depending on the laws of the State where the safety occurrence happened and on the operational environment. The number of variables is so great that it is difficult to establish a universally applicable comprehensive list of items to be reported. For example, the loss of a system component may be critical on one type of aircraft, while on another it may be not. A relatively minor problem in one set of circumstances can in different circumstances result in a hazardous situation. Hence, the generic rule for reporting is established by the principle: If in doubt — report it. The basic considerations when deciding whether or not to report an incident should be: Did a dangerous situation occur?. Could a dangerous incident have occurred if circumstances had been different?. Could a dangerous incident occur in the future if the situation being reported is not corrected?. Further details on the type of incidents subject to mandatory reporting is provided in the sepatare article:Reportable Incidents. According to ICAO Safety Management Manual mandatory occurrence reporting systems tend to collect more information on technical (“hardware”) failures than on human performance aspects. To overcome this problem, States and service provider organisations are required under Regulation (EU) No 376/2014 to implement voluntary occurrence reporting in