An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Unit of the Austrian Federal Office of Transport and was able to make use of recovered Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data. It was established that the touchdown had been made with the landing gear locked down. The first ground contact had occurred some 660 m prior to the runway 34 threshold, slightly the right of the extended centerline and thereby avoiding the runway lighting masts. The left main landing gear collapsed soon afterwards and the aircraft had then continued to skid through a series of minor aerial and lighting obstructions before finally coming to a stop close to the southernmost taxiway to the runway. Fuel still on board after the crash did not leak away and was found to be equivalent to the design specification for ‘unusable fuel’. It was established that after take off from Chania with the Captain as PF, the crew had received indications that landing gear retraction had not been successful. The required ECAM actions and consultation with related ‘abnormal and emergency procedures’ followed but gear locked up could not be achieved and it had been decided that as a reduced rate of climb was not going to be a problem for the climb, the flight would continue towards the destination with the gear down and subject to monitoring of fuel use. It was recognised that the intended destination could not now be reached and various alternatives – Stuttgart (STG), Munich (MUC) and eventually Vienna (VIE) were considered in conjunction with the Company Operations Centre. Vienna ultimately became the planned diversion. It was noted that an hour before the crash, a calculation of the expected residual fuel by the First Officer showed that it was below 1900kg, the level at which operator procedures made a diversion to the nearest suitable aerodrome. At this juncture, it would have been possible to reach Zagreb (ZAG) in 10 minutes but this was not considered. Nine minutes later, the planned diversion to Vienna was confirmed and a series of requests for direct routing began to be made to ATC. Ten minutes later, whilst still under the control of Zagreb ACC, Vienna ACC ATC were advised on box 2 that unless a direct approach could be given, the flight would need to divert to Graz, but no indication of any actual risk was communicated. The request was granted and the flight continued towards Vienna. After a further 8 minutes, the “LT-Fuel low level” warning light came on 131 nm from Vienna and six minutes after that, after earlier proposals from the First Officer to do so had been ‘deferred’ by the Captain, an emergency was declared. Some 11 minutes prior to the eventual crash landing, it was noted that both crew members had assessed the situation as “unpromising”. Visual contact with Vienna was acquired and a visual approach to runway 34 was approved by ATC. At 11:26, both engines failed due to fuel exhaustion some 12 nm