from Vienna with the aircraft intentionally positioned above the Instrument Landing System (ILS) GS profile. The crash landing occurred 8 minutes later, at 11:34. The analysis made by the investigators particularly focused on the incomplete awareness of the flight crew on procedures for continuation of the flight with the gear down including the use of the FMS for monitoring of fuel used / remaining and on the series of decisions which led to the attempt to reach Vienna despite a progressive recognition that the fuel on board was unlikely to make this option a safe prospect. The aircraft commander was found to have been very experienced, the First Officer was relatively new to professional flying and had obtained his A310 type rating a little over 7 months prior to the accident. The training records of both were found to be exemplary. The organisational, physiological and psychological precursors to what happened were examined in some detail. It was suggested that “Insufficient knowledge of the basic method of operation and performance limitations of the FMS in certain situations because of a lack of documentation and training caused the pilot to incorrectly evaluate flight parameters and resulted in incorrect decisions concerning the piloting of the aircraft” and also that “Restricting the simulator training to landing gear problems on domestic flights helped produce negative training effects. On the one hand, the unilateral training scenario resulted in methodism, i.e. the creation of a standard plan to deal with the task”. Overall, it was concluded that “The captain's decision to continue the flight to VIE rather than, as provided for in the airline's regulations, to proceed to the nearest aerodrome (which at that point was ZAG), is explained by the phenomenon called ‘pressing on’. It is often found in air accident situations, and is determined by the joint effects of the emotion components (motivation to succeed or defence against fear) and the cognitive structuring of tasks”. The investigation also proposed that an additional reason for ‘pressing on’ to VIE was the Captain’s preference for personal ‘success’ - achieving a diversion to VIE - rather than ‘failure’ which would not have been matched by a successful diversion to ZAG. It was concluded that “the captain's decision (to continue to VIE) was based on a consideration not of the safety risks but of the likelihood of success and failure”. It was also proposed that “because of the intensive mental effort required for the landing at VIE, achieving this scenario (became) subjectively more probable than a scenario which (had) not been so carefully thought through”. In respect of the landing gear retraction problem which had initiated the sequence of events, it was found that although a locking washer in the right landing gear actuation cylinder had been secured by its retaining nut in such a way as to prevent it turning, it had not been engaged in the rod end, which had allowed the rod to work loose. The extended working length to beyond Aircraft Maintenance Manual limits had