A total of 14 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that although the procedure for the assembly of the actuation cylinder is described in detail in the Component Maintenance Manual (CMM), Airbus should ensure that these instructions contain a reference to the correct engagement of the wash locker in the rod end.. that Airbus should improve the FMS EFOB or ECAM displays in order to take better account of the anthropotechnical requirements.. that Airbus should provide the requisite fuel tables and/or calculation algorithms for the entire area of deployment (computer programs).. that Airbus should clarify and improve the transparency of Chapter 21 as regards flights with landing gear extended, in order to avoid contradictions and misinterpretations.. that Airbus should check the deployment of the emergency slides as regards wind tolerance and unusual aircraft positions.. that Hapag Lloyd should expand their LOFT to include fuel scenarios which take account of the operational limits of the FMS and require strategic decisions by the flight crew using other calculation methods in order to avoid the manifestation of methodisms.. that Hapag Lloyd should implement the assistance for the flight crew by the flight dispatcher provided for in (ICAO) Annex 6 and in the Quality Manual.. that Hapag Lloyd should add the bullet point published by the manufacturer "fuel consumption determine" to the "landing gear unsafe indication" checklist.. that Hapag Lloyd should continuously check the completeness of on-board documentation as regards the available approach procedures.. that Hapag Lloyd should train operational staff using the Human Factors Limitation Curriculum recommended by ICAO in its Human Factors Digest No 3 (35-hour course).. that Hapag Lloyd should improve Crew Resource Management training as regards assertiveness, communication, acceptance, criticism, feedback, and the indicators of loss of situational awareness and counterstrategies.. that Hapag Lloyd should demonstrate the limitations of the FORDEC principle (e.g. in the event of a masking effect where facts are being ascertained).. that Hapag Lloyd should take account of abnormal aircraft configurations when calculating the final reserve (fuel).. that Hapag Lloyd and Airbus should improve documentation and training relating to the functioning and operational limitations of the FMS.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 21 March 2006 in the German language only. This summary is based upon a reliable but unofficial translation into the English language.