Aircraft compliant with Mode S EHS provide ELS functionality features (see above) plus some or all of the following downlinked aircraft parameters (DAPs): Selected Altitude - the flight level which is manually entered in the FMS by the pilot. Selected Altitude provides an indication of the intended flight path and should reflect the ATC clearance with a few exceptions. It is used to improve controller situation awareness and conflict detection tools. The use of Selected Altitude values in Safety Net systems is expected to considerably reduce false alarms (an STCA study showed that by using Selected Altitude more than 90% of all false alarms could have been avoided) for aircraft engaged in vertical manoeuvres (level-off scenarios)and, thereby, to considerably increase the performance capability of the Safety Net systems. At the same time, the display of the Selected Altitude in the track label (either fully automated for cross checking with controller input or just presented as additional information) has proven to be an efficient tool to identify and mitigate the risk for potential level busts.. Roll Angle, True Track Angle and Track Angle Rate - these are technical parameters which may be used to enahnce the radar tracking capability and/or tactical trajectory prediction by the ground ATC systems. The Roll Angle can be used in conjunction with the True Airspeed by the surveillance sata processing systems to improve the recognition of horizontal manoeuvres and increase tracking accuracy. The True Track Angle, in combination with the Ground Speed, can be used to improve track initialisation (initialisation after just one plot and not after two or three plots as is currently the case), to increase tracking performance (particularly at the edges of the radar systems’ range) and to improve recognition of horizontal manoeuvre by monitoring changes in track angle. The Track Angle Rate (called also Rate of Turn) gives the turning speed of the aircraft. This parameter provides direct information to improve the recognition of horizontal manoeuvre and to increase tracking performance in surveillance data processing systems, better than a combination of roll angle and true airspeed. This leads to more accurate target positioning and a considerable error reduction for the predicted position.. Ground Speed - calculated aircraft speed relative to the ground. Information provided by ANSPs show that the value of this parameter is not providing a significantly better accuracy than the ground speed calculated by the surveillance data processing systems.. Magnetic Heading - the aircraft heading relative to magnetic north. Making this information available to controllers reduces R/T occupancy time as controllers no longer have to request the information from the pilot. The Magnetic Heading has the potential to improve horizontal manoeuvre recognition, either by the controller or by the surveillance data processing systems, via monitoring of heading changes.. Indicated airspeed (IAS) and Mach-number. Making this information available to controllers supports separtion provision tasks, reduces the R/T and hence the controller workload.. Vertical rate (barometric rate of climb / descent) - this parameter is not used operationally by ATC due to