A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB). The FDR and the CVR were removed from the aircraft and relevant data were successfully downloaded from both recorders. The 45 year-old Captain had a total of 9,090 hours flying experience of which 207 hours were on type and a further 3,673 hours were on the 737-800. He had flown 36 hours in the preceding 90 days. The 36 year-old Senior First Officer, who had been acting as PF for the sector, had a total of 4,187 hours flying experience of which 106 hours were on type and a further 1,623 hours were on the 737-800. He had flown 27 hours in the preceding 90 days. The aircraft involved had been delivered new on 5 March 2019 and had accumulated 100 flight hours by the time of the investigated event. The MLG tyres fitted at the time of the event were the ones it had arrived with. During the second of two flights by the aircraft on 2 December, uncommanded disengagement of the autobrake on touchdown was reported and ground testing of the Antiskid Autobrake Control Unit (AACU) in accordance with the AMM was performed. This found a fault message which indicated an internal fault within either the AACU or the antiskid valve. Time pressure prevented completion of the further investigation required and so the aircraft was released to service for the flights on 3 December in accordance with MEL provisions with the Antiskid and Autobrake systems inoperative. These provisions required the Autobrake system to be OFF and the speedbrakes to be operated manually. Also, the ‘antiskid inoperative braking procedure’ must be used in the event of a rejected takeoff or during a landing: minimum aircraft braking consistent with runway length with initial braking using light steady pedal pressure and increasing the pressure only as ground speed decreases. Do NOT pump the brakes.. no application of aircraft brakes until the nose wheel is on the ground and the speedbrakes have been manually deployed.. During the approach to Phnom Penh, the Captain was PF and when he armed the speedbrake system, the ‘SPEEDBRAKE DO NOT ARM’ annunciation appeared which reminded the pilots that manual deployment of the speedbrakes would be required in accordance with the MEL and the Captain then returned the speedbrake Lever to the off position. For the landing, the Captain had intended to manually deploy the speedbrakes as instructed but when he selected reverse thrust, “he saw that the speedbrake lever was moving to the deployed position by itself and realised that the reverse thrust selection [had] resulted in speedbrake deployment". Prior to the subsequent approach at Changi, the Senior First Officer (PF) asked the Captain whether the armed speedbrakes would move automatically when reverse thrust was selected and received the response that “the speedbrakes could be deployed manually or could move by itself to the deployed position when reverse thrust was selected”. On landing, he selected reverse thrust expecting that, as on