the previous landing, the speedbrakes would deploy automatically, although he was aware of the MEL operational requirement whereby he should manually deploy the speedbrakes. He intentionally made a gentle touchdown and then initially applied minimal brake pressure because he was “concerned that a positive touchdown would entail excessive braking and induce tyre damage, given that the antiskid system was inoperative”. However, when reverse thrust was selected, the Captain saw that the speedbrake had not moved to the “UP” position by itself and alerted the PF who manually selected the speedbrakes. As the aircraft decelerated, the PF “noticed a dark object flying forward on the right-hand side of the aircraft” and suspected that it could be FOD so he advised the Captain who informed ATC accordingly. At around the same time, a Boeing B747F crew taxiing in the opposite direction on the parallel taxiway called ATC to say that they had seen smoke coming from the left main gear of the 737. This led to the 737 stopping as soon as it had cleared the runway so that ATC could visually check for any fire or smoke coming from its left main gear but nothing abnormal could be seen and as there was no vibration or directional control abnormality and no excessive thrust was needed to taxi the aircraft, it was decided to continue taxiing to the assigned terminal parking gate. As this was approached, it was seen that the left main gear outboard wheel was indicating a lower brake temperature than the other three wheels. A requested inspection once parked then found that the left main gear outboard tyre had burst and its inboard tyre had deflated and that there was associated damage to the left main gear bay door frame. The outboard (left) and inboard (right) left main landing gear tyres. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The damaged frame on the fixed door of left MLG. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The sequence of relevant events during the landing was reconstructed from available sources and depicted on the illustration below: A composite depiction of the landing at Changi. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Examination of the damaged tyres showed that the flat spots on both tyres had been caused by the wheels skidding and the outboard tyre had burst as a result of the flat spot grinding through the tyre material. There was no evidence of FOD that could have caused the damage to both tyres and no structural abnormalities were found in the carcases of either tyre. It was noted that if the speedbrakes are armed, they will be deployed when: the ‘speedbrake armed’ annunciation is illuminated. the sensed height above runway is less than 6 feet. both thrust levers are retarded to “IDLE” position.. the main landing gear wheels spin up (more than 60 knots). Any individual wheel spin-up/compression will enable flight spoiler deployment whereas compression of both the left and right MLG struts is required for the ground spoilers to deploy. It was further noted that