if the speedbrakes are not armed for landing or in the case of a rejected takeoff, they will still automatically deploy if: the MLG wheels spin up (more than 60 knots) and. both (forward) thrust levers are retarded to idle and. reverse thrust is selected. It was noted that the FCTM provided the following guidance for operations with the antiskid system inoperative: ensure that the nose wheels are on the ground, and the speedbrakes are extended before applying the brakes.. initiate wheel braking using very light pedal pressure and increase pressure as ground speed decreases.. apply steady pressure.. use minimum braking consistent with runway length and conditions to reduce the possibility of tyre blowout.. do not pump the brakes - each time the brakes are released, the required stopping distance is increased. Also, each time the brakes are reapplied, the probability of a skid is increased.. The crew followed the same (incorrect) procedure for the landing at Singapore and the previous one at Phnom Penh but whilst wheel locking occurred at Singapore, it did not at occur at Phnom Penh. The Investigation found that the reasons for this difference were as follows: The Singapore landing did not result in the MLG struts being sufficiently compressed to cause the air/ground sensing system to change from air to ground so that the condition for automatic speedbrake deployment by means of reverse thrust was not met. On the basis that ground sensing had occurred, braking was commenced before the aircraft weight was on the MLG but with the antiskid system inoperative, the applied pressure was sufficient to lock the wheels and skidding followed as ground sensing criteria were met.. At Phnom Penh, the wheels did not lock because by the time reverse thrust was selected, the more positive touchdown had already compressed the MLG struts sufficiently to cause the air/ground sensing system to change from air to ground so that automatic speedbrake deployment followed. Brake application followed “at about the time of the speedbrake deployment” so no wheel locking was triggered.. The Conclusions of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: The damage to [the] left MLG wheels was caused by skidding. The wheels skidded because the left MLG wheels were locked during the landing. The locking of the left MLG wheels was due to a brake application on the left MLG wheels before the manual deployment of speedbrakes which would have ensured that the aircraft weight was on the MLG. The brake pressure acting on the left MLG wheels was sufficient to result in the locked-wheel situation.. For the previous landing in Phnom Penh, the speedbrakes were deployed after reverse thrust selection. Subsequently, the aircraft brakes were applied after the air/ground sensors were sensing "GROUND" and there were no locked-wheel situations or skidding of wheels.. For the landing in Singapore, although reverse thrust was selected, the speedbrakes did not automatically deploy as the air/ground sensors were still sensing “AIR” when the Senior First Officer was performing a gentle landing. When the aircraft