have rotated slightly due to the fact that the nut was secured with a lock wire in such a way that it was (eventually) possible for the nut to rotate enough for the fuel to leak”. Some aspects of the mis-assembly of this coupling were also found on engine No 1 but the assembly on engine No 2 was found to be correct. It was not possible to establish the identity of the technicians who had carried out particular tasks during the ‘C’ Check from MAS records. The Investigation also reviewed the conduct of the evacuation and considered that, whilst the outcome had been successful, the manner in which it was ordered and conducted had indicated opportunities for improvement. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the fire had resulted from a fuel leak from a fuel line coupling in the No. 3 engine pylon and that this coupling had been incorrectly assembled, probably during the ‘C’ Check completed on the aircraft at MAS Kuala Lumpur in August 2007. The Investigation formally recorded its Findings in respect of cause as follows: The incorrect assembly of the flexible half coupling at the front spar of engine No. 3.. Retaining ring missing in flexible half coupling at the front spar engine No. 3.. Lock wire fastened in such a way that the coupling nut might rotate slightly.. Findings in respect of the evacuation were recorded as: Unclear command made to the cabin crew to start emergency evacuation.. Cabin crew did not open all suitable emergency exits.. Flight crew did not follow company’s procedure regarding evacuation.. Findings in respect of poor maintenance practices at MAS were recorded as: Retaining rings and O-ring incorrectly inserted in the flexible half coupling on engine No. 1.. Pliers used to tighten or loosen the coupling nuts, even though maintenance manual instructs to only hand tight the nuts.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation: that the MAS Engineering & Maintenance Division should ensure that each task will be traceable to the mechanic/mechanics working on the task.. Safety Action taken during the Investigation was noted to have included: Changes made to the AMM by Boeing in order to avoid mixing rigid coupling with flexible half coupling and to illustrate the placement of the locking wire.. The issue by Boeing of a Fleet Team Digest (FTD) to recommend that operators regularly review lists of Service Bulletins (SBs) and Safety Letters (SLs) to ensure that maintenance actions to prevent any further strut fire events are taken.. The re-writing by Air Atlanta Icelandic of the Safety & Emergency Procedures section in their Operations Manual Part A to enhance emphasis on evacuation techniques, the use of initiative and the assessment of emergency situations.. The re-writing by Air Atlanta Icelandic of Chapter 2 of the Safety and Emergency Procedures (SEP) Manual used by Cain Crew.. The Final Report of the Investigation M-01508/AIG-04 was published on 19 May 2011.