The degree of urgency communicated by the words “now” and “immediately” is open to different interpretation by different people even though the exact meaning of the words "now" (at once) and "immediately" (without delay) are essentially the same Some of the reasons for this are: The degree of urgency which gives rise to their use is a perception on the part of the user of the word. For example, it is not possible to be precise about exactly how many radar scans need to occur before it should be considered that an “immediate” instruction is not being complied with.. Different aviation professionals (pilots, controllers, authority experts) may view the same situation from different perspectives.. Aviation regulations and procedures differ from country to country and between aircraft operators and in both cases are subject to change.. Although ICAO Doc 4444 (Chapter 12) and ICAO Doc 9432 use only the word “immediately” to imply urgency, some national guidance differs. Despite the dictionary equivalence of the two words, UK CAA CAP 413 draws a distinction between “now” and “immediately” as follows: “If an ATS unit wishes to indicate that the instruction or clearance must be complied with at once, the controller's message will include the word 'now' or 'immediately'. Use of the word 'now' indicates that the instruction should be complied with in accordance with normal aircraft operating procedures, but without delay. Use of the word 'immediately' indicates a further degree of urgency exists (e.g. to avoid flight into terrain or restricted airspace, or for the provision of collision avoidance, see Chapter 5 Paragraph 1.6.4 Avoiding Action Phraseology). In such circumstances, the pilot should take action to comply with the instruction as soon as practicable, subject to the safety of the aircraft.” The word “now” is sometimes used by a controller because it is a shorter word. It is possible that the use of “immediately” rather than “now” would result in sharper turns, higher vertical speeds and less delay in response but in the absence of harmonisation internationally and a minimum requirement for competence in the English language which is somewhat less than fluent, it must be accepted that a distinction between the degree of urgency between “now” and “immediately” may be inferred in either direction or not at all.