consecutive 14 frames in the same area. Inspection of the runway surface found corresponding superficial damage to the runway surface. This indication of fuselage runway contact was on the runway centreline at approximately 900 metres beyond the runway threshold and was recorded as having extended for 56 metres and been 0.7 metres wide. During interview, it became apparent that when the Training Captain called out “hold the attitude” (several times) he had expected this to be interpreted as an instruction to maintain the current pitch attitude whereas the PF had understood this call to indicate that the aircraft was “losing its pitch attitude” and had consequently responded by making an increase pitch command which had cumulatively led to the excessive pitch and the resulting tail strike. The operator’s SOPs required that the PM, in this case the Training Captain (or potentially the safety pilot) to announce ‘PITCH PITCH’ if the pitch reaches 7.5° which did not occur despite FDR data showing that 7.5° had been exceeded three times during the 12 seconds immediately prior to the tailstrike. During interview, the Training Captain recalled that he had been “paying attention to the external environment to ensure that the PF controlled the aircraft to maintain it along the runway centreline” and in the absence of the required callouts, it appeared that he had not noticed that the PFD pitch attitude had exceeded 7.5°. He also stated that he had not at any stage considered taking over as PF or providing dual inputs since he had considered that the PF was reacting appropriately to his instructions and that “the safety of the aircraft was not gravely compromised”. He further advised that although he had on previous occasions during line training flights taken over control or provided dual sidestick inputs, this had “usually involved Second Officer trainee pilots”. It was noted that the optional tailstrike prevention system, which provides an aural warning if the pitch angle during takeoff or landing is predicted to exceed 9° and below 400 feet agl adds a tail strike pitch limit indicator to the PFD was not installed on the aircraft. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: During the event landing, the Training Captain repeatedly gave instructions to the PF to “hold the attitude” with the intention for the pitch attitude to be maintained.. The PF’s understanding of the phrase “hold the attitude” was that the aircraft was losing its pitch attitude, hence he provided pitch up input to his sidestick.. The Training Captain did not announce “PITCH PITCH” in the three instances when the pitch angle of the aircraft exceeded 7.5 degrees, as required by the operator’s procedures.. The Training Captain did not take over the controls or provide dual input to control the aircraft despite repeating his instructions “hold the attitude” four times over 12 seconds.. The Primary Cause of the Serious Incident was formally documented as “during the landing, the pitch up inputs by the PF caused the aircraft to reach a