A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Myanmar Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) assisted by relevant data downloaded from both the CVR and the FDR on behalf of the AAIB by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB). Airport Surveillance video recordings showing the touchdown were also available. It was documented that the 52 year-old Training Captain had a total of 19,080 hours flying experience of which 688 hours was on type. The 44 year-old Captain under training was making his first revenue flight on type whilst acting as PF and had a total of 13,026 hours flying experience of which just 2½ hours were on type. He had commenced type conversion training two months prior to beginning line flying and completed 20 hours simulator training satisfactorily and with no areas of weakness which had required additional training. It was noted that he had previously flown the Boeing 777 as Captain and before that had also flown the Airbus A340-300/500. He had not previously flown to Yangon. The 50 year-old Senior First Officer acting as Safety Pilot had a total of 9,522 hours flying experience of which 1,213 hours were on type. It was established that, following an uneventful flight of approximately an hour from Singapore, after disconnecting the AP at 2150 feet agl, the PF Captain undergoing type training had made a stabilised approach to the 3413 metre-long runway 21 in undemanding weather conditions before initiating the landing flare at 100 feet agl. Almost immediately he had done so, the Training Captain said “flare” twice and the PF increased his initial pitch input with the Training Captain responding with “alright and good” as both main landing gear weight on wheels (WOW) switches were briefly activated by a bounced initial runway contact at +7.21° pitch which was followed by a further two seconds with both left and right main gear airborne before a second touchdown. Two seconds after the second main gear touchdown, both thrust reversers were deployed and after a further second, the ground spoilers were extended. During this time, the PF significantly increased the pitch command on his sidestick despite the pitch already being a recorded +8.61° as the thrust reversers were deployed. The pitch command led to the pitch increasing to its maximum of +10.72° by which time both the thrust reversers and the ground spoilers were fully deployed. Fifteen seconds after being deployed, the thrust reversers were stowed and two seconds after that, the nose landing gear made contact with the runway for the first time. Just over half a minute later, the aircraft turned left off the runway with the flight crew unaware that a tailstrike had occurred and was taxied to its assigned parking position. Ground maintenance personnel carrying out a post flight inspection subsequently informed the flight crew that they had observed damage to the lower tail section which upon a more detailed inspection was found to be dented, scratching and torn fuselage skin over five frames and bending of a