An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU after the occurrence was notified by Shannon ATC. It was based on ATC recorded data and interviews and a written report from the pilot. It was noted that the 32 year old aircraft commander reported having 4,000 hours total flying experience which included 1,600 hours in type and that a Co-Pilot was also on board. It was established that the aircraft had departed runway 26 at Kerry after one of the pilots onboard had correctly read back the ATC departure clearance "you’re cleared on track to VENER stop climb Flight Level Two Hundred squawk Six Three Zero Four". Soon after take off, the aircraft was instructed to contact Shannon and subsequently checked in advising "...Flight Level two zero zero direct VENER". Shannon then asked for a squawk and the passing altitude and received the reply "ah we are level Flight Level Two Zero Zero and squawking 6304”. The Shannon controller then confirmed radar contact and asked for confirmation of the passing altitude and received the response. "we were cleared only to Flight Level Two Zero Zero”. The Shannon controller persisted and transmitted “...that’s copied but your passing altitude...your current altitude” and this time received the response "...we confirm that we are cleared up to Flight Level Zero Two Zero… Two Thousand feet". The exchange then continued with the Shannon controller transmitting "...negative climb Flight Level Three Zero Zero” which after correct read back was followed by Shannon transmitting "And November One Three One Zero Hotel, you can caution high ground…if you can expedite your climb till flight till correction …through Four Thousand feet” to which the response was “Expediting through up to Flight Level Three Zero Zero”. Shannon subsequently asked the crew to confirm the Flight Level to which they had been cleared by Kerry prior to take off to which they received the response "we read back Flight Level Zero Two Zero… Two Thousand feet”. Shannon then advised that "Kerry seem to think that they gave you Flight Level Two Zero Zero" and that a report might have to be filed. The Investigation was able to confirm that the climb to FL200 had been correctly given and read back using the ICAO standard form of flight level verbalisation (numbers only hence 'two zero zero') used in Ireland and included in ICAO Doc 9432. It was noted that this form of vertical clearance verbalisation was contrary to that advocated in the 2006 European Action Plan for Air Ground Communications Safety which states that "all numbers used in the transmission of altitude [,,,] which contain whole hundreds and whole thousands, shall be transmitted by pronouncing each digit in the number of hundreds or thousands followed by the word HUNDRED or THOUSAND as appropriate". This alternative procedure was noted as also consistent with the procedure introduced in the USA with effect from 3 April 2014. It is also being incorporated by EASA into the procedures to be included in the Standardised European Rules