of the Air (SERA). However, after consideration of the available evidence, it was stated that "the Investigation does not believe that non-standard phraseology played a role in the Flight Crew’s misinterpretation of their cleared Flight Level". The diagram above shows the aircraft level at 2000 feet heading towards the Slieve Mish Mountains which rise to 2800 feet and then the climb in response to the instruction from Shannon to expedite though 4000 feet. The aircraft commanders written report included "our altitude climb instruction was 'climb level Two Hundred' […] as we began to climb we had some confusion as to what the altitude clearance limit was as we were unsure what level Two Hundred meant (so) we levelled at Two Thousand feet to ensure we didn't exceed any altitude limits". The fact that a previous investigation by the AAIU in relation to an event at Kerry had recommended to the IAA in 2010 that the provision of a radar display for ATC fed with existing ACC data had been made was noted. However, it was found that although this was being actioned (in conjunction with a similar plan for Knock Airport), progress had been very slow and there was still "no certainty around the timescale for completion of the project". Whilst it was considered that this facility would be of value in allowing Kerry ATC to monitor departures in the vicinity of high terrain in their area, it was accepted that "the lack of an operational ATM monitor in the tower at Kerry airport was not a factor" in the investigated event. There was, however, concern at both the slow ANSP progress in delivering a 'safety improvement' action relevant to the CFIT risk and the way in which the IAA had failed to track progress on a Safety Recommendation as required by Regulation (EU) No. 996/2010. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The aircraft levelled at Two Thousand Feet, contrary to its clearance.. Any confusion on the Flight Crew’s behalf did not originate from the non-standard phraseology.. In their written report after the event the Flight Crew indicated that they did not understand what Flight Level Two Hundred meant.. At no time did the Flight Crew seek clarification from ATC regarding their stop climb Flight Level.. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as "the aircraft levelled at Two Thousand feet in close proximity to mountainous terrain, contrary to ATC clearance". Two Contributory Factors were identified as follows: The Flight Crew misinterpreted Flight Level Two Hundred as Two Thousand feet.. Clarification was not sought from ATC regarding the assigned stop climb Flight Level.. ATC Safety Action taken a result of the event was advised to the Investigation as the introduction of new procedures for non-standard IFR departures from Kerry. These include "Aircraft on Non-standard departures from runway 26 should be cleared to maintain the runway centreline until 4500 ft (to ensure terrain clearance) prior to commencing any turn […] departing IFR Aircraft on nonstandard climb