Aruba audits to make any findings of inconsistency between documentation and reality “may also demonstrate a lack of follow-up of the aircraft operator's contracting of its EASA Part 145 maintenance service providers, in addition to purely observing the legal requirements established by the Aruba Department of Civil Aviation”. It was noted that there was no mention in the Air Astana Engineering Procedures Manual that the requirement in respect of Part 145 had been verified by them or that compliance with this requirement had been verified or audited by their own certification authority. It was found that in the first quarter of 2019 shortly after the accident flight had occurred, EASA had, when performing an audit on ANAC in respect of its licensing, certification, authorisations and approval obligations, included oversight of OGMA, approved by ANAC as a Part 145 service provider, as part of its audit activity. It identified a series of shortcomings which the Investigation considered were relevant to the approval of the OGMAs Part 145 Maintenance Organisation Manual (MOM) by ANAC. These included “lack of information regarding the internal authorisations of the certifying staff (CS) and support staff (SS) in their corresponding functions”. It was noted that Embraer, as with any OEM, provided a technical support service to its customers and service centres to ensure the efficient operation of its aircraft. It had been approached by OGMA after the latter had failed to identify a suspected flight controls failure during its own troubleshooting process and had requested help from Embraer. After initial attempts at remote assistance had not led to a resolution of the problem, an on-site Field Technical Representative (FTR) was sent to help with liaison between OGMA and Embraer in respect of what was at that time the undetected incorrect configuration of the aileron system. Eleven days of further troubleshooting action followed but it was found by the Investigation that “at no time was questioned, either by the manufacturer or the AMO, whether the aircraft still maintained the initial certification conditions, given the extent of the maintenance intervention with massive flight control system primary component replacement”. It was assumed that all potentially relevant prior work had been performed correctly and task completion requiring it had been correctly certified in accordance with the requirements of OGMAs Aruba DCA approval and that “possible additional requirements for testing and final aircraft condition validation after major intervention” had also been considered, whether or not regulatory approval was needed. The Investigation found that some of Embraer’s technical instructions relevant to aileron control cable removal and installation were complex and presented in such a way that there had been “a high potential for misunderstanding” with the illustrations. In the absence of any adequate graphical differentiation, these were considered by both those directly involved and by other staff not directly involved but who had with relevant experience to be in a “confusing” format. It was also considered that the SB 190-57-0038R2 requirement to completely disconnect both control cables in each semi-wing to accomplish the