modification had “facilitated an incorrect reinstallation (by) not complying with the normal certification specifications” (see below). Initial Certification of the type in 2005 was by ANAC Brazil for the State of Manufacture. FAA, EASA and other certifications followed based on the initial Brazilian certification. The Investigation noted, using the EASA Certification Standard CS 25.671 (General) and its related AMC that “each element of each flight control system must be designed, or distinctively and permanently marked, to minimise the probability of incorrect assembly that could result in the malfunctioning of the system”. It was also noted that under the AMC for 25.671(b), it was stated that for control systems which, if incorrectly assembled, would hazard the aeroplane, the design should be such that at all reasonably possible break-down points it is mechanically impossible to assemble elements of the system to give (amongst other results) “an assembly which would reverse the sense of the control” and that “only in exceptional circumstances should distinctive marking of control systems be used to comply with the above”. It was observed that “as demonstrated by facts, it is possible to invert the Embraer 170/190 aileron controls operation, by the control cables swap in their last section and without an automatic detection or (EICAS) message”. It was, however, accepted that the control cable reversal would have been evident with correct execution of the aileron system operational test, by noting the surface deflection depicted on the Multi Function Display (MFD) flight control system page or by a cross-check of the actual aileron surface deflection against movement of the control columns. Although Air Astana held an AOC issued by the Republic of Kazakhstan, the accident aircraft was registered in Aruba under “an agreement regarding supervisory duties and functions between the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Department of Civil Aviation of the Ministry of Tourism, Transportation, Primary Sector and Culture of Aruba”, referred to as the “Specific Aircraft Agreement”. At the time of the accident, Air Astana had no in-house base maintenance capability for their Embraer aircraft and had therefore contracted out such work to an Aruba-certified maintenance organisation. These contracted services were arranged without any prior audit of the maintenance organisation concerned or its quality assurance system. Audits were then conducted with the contract already in place “with apparently satisfactory results and without (identifying any relevant) non-conformances”. The accident aircraft was noted to have been the twelfth maintenance job performed on the basis of a contract based on the SAA (Specific Aircraft Agreement). It was noted that as it was “not a legal obligation”, Air Astana did not provide its crews with any procedure for aircraft acceptance following heavy maintenance work such as the ‘C’ Check. In particular, “no meteorological minimums were established for the first flight after such work”. In respect of checks on the correct function of the flight controls, the applicable SOPs replicated the Embraer procedure that “flight controls should be checked for freedom