of movement in a smooth and continuous manner” and noted that “a full green box indication on the MFD Flight Control System page is not a requirement for a successful check”. Significantly in the case of acceptance for the accident flight, control direction was not required to be validated, which inspection of the ‘green box indication’ would have facilitated. The key Findings of the Investigation were as follows: The accident aircraft aileron control system was incorrectly installed during the heavy maintenance check, and the incorrect installation impaired the aircraft controllability.. The aircraft design regarding the ailerons control system configuration showed weaknesses that allowed the inverted installation of the control cables.. The aircraft manufacturer did not provide proper and clear maintenance instructions for the aileron control system installation and operational checks. The same lack of unambiguous maintenance instructions in documentation was evident regarding the non-detection of the mis-configured aircraft flight controls by physical verification or by digital means during the return to service procedure.. The AMO quality assurance system failure to detect maintenance deviations because of the absence of an effective system for collecting and processing such data.. The lack of maintenance teams properly organised by competence and specialties, with proper training and experience and with an adequate management, created or enhanced a latent condition for the timely non-detection of the aircraft mis-configuration. The observed lack of experience is across the organisation, including support staff, certification staff, team leaders and managers.. The ineffective supervision and control process of maintenance activities meant that the independent nature of “function and sense” as defined in the applicable regulation, was not followed by the AMO and was generally unknown to its maintenance technicians.. The operator did not adequately oversee the work performed by the maintenance service provider during contracted heavy maintenance activities, including the independent (duplicate) inspection requirements, and technical personnel used and did not ensure that the accident aircraft was returned to service in an airworthy condition.. The operator had not established an aircraft acceptance procedure after a heavy maintenance input.. The operator did not establish or provide guidelines to the crew on the conditions for carrying out the positioning flight, after significant maintenance intervention including, among other good practices, the definition of minimum meteorological conditions for the flight.. During the pre-flight inspection and preparation phase, the aircraft flight crew did not detect the aileron control system configuration reversal resulting from its incorrect installation during maintenance activities and were not generally aware of the scope of the heavy maintenance work or which aircraft systems had been disturbed during it.. The flight crew, by adopting a teamwork strategy, discussing options with the third pilot present and with the technicians on board as passengers, complemented each other in the necessary actions to face the encountered difficulties and collaborated for an outcome with minimal consequences for all on board.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as the improper aileron cable installation in both semi-wings during maintenance activities and the subsequent inadequate independent inspection of the