ensure that the processes in place are compliant with the applicable Part-145 requirements and an effective internal auditing system exists to verify their correct implementation. Furthermore, OGMA, having implemented a SMS in 2013, review it in order to ensure that it supports the performance of effective risk management inherent to the activities performed, namely based on the appropriate risk analyses supported by real data from maintenance operations and a system in which occurrence reporting is encouraged and based on just culture principles. [PT.SIA 2020-09]. that OGMA carries out, within three months, an organisation-wide and exhaustive competencies survey, distinguishing and evaluating each one of its elements and takes appropriate measures to assure that appropriate technicians are assigned to tasks and considers limiting the scope for authorisations and/or supervisory certification to specialisations in which employees have demonstrated the necessary skills. [PT.SIA 2020-10]. that OGMA reviews, within three months, its policy for activities supervision and them reviews and updates its MOM, ONS-000028 and other applicable procedures as necessary to include specifically inclusion of the independent inspection concept in a way which will fulfil Part 145.A.48 of Regulation (EU) No. 1321/2014. [PT.SIA 2020-11]. that Embraer establishes, within six months, proper guidance material to support operators and maintenance organisations during the aircraft return to service phase, after a significant or heavy maintenance event, in order to ensure the aircraft certification standards were kept and not affected by complex maintenance tasks and/or task combinations. [PT.SIA 2020-12]. It was determined by the Investigation “that it was not necessary or effective” to issue Safety Recommendations to the Portuguese National Civil Aviation Authority (ANAC) regarding the safety issues related to their AMO oversight process. However, “the Authority, in the exercise of its competence and responsibility must necessarily monitor and oversee the AMO OGMA with a special focus namely, and among other aspects, the gaps in this organisation’s internal Quality Assurance System and their risk management of aircraft maintenance activities identified in the Investigation, in detail: Quality system,. Independent inspections follow-up,. Close follow-up of the tasks performed by maintenance technicians in order to evaluate the task accomplishment according to the manufacturer's manuals and the correct completion of the working documents,. Competency assessment of maintenance support and certifying staff,. Technicians' knowledge assessment regarding the organisation's internal procedures,. Occurrence reporting procedures and their effectiveness,. Maintenance staff oversight and management process,. Management and Post Holders competency assessment,. Management strategies for organisational change (namely the technical and management personnel turnover),. AMO external maintenance teams’ management.”. It was likewise determined that “the Aruba Department of Civil Aviation (DCA), should, within its responsibilities and the respective certification framework, properly oversee the AMO OGMA in respect of the gaps identified in that area”. The Final Report was published on 24 June 2020.