aircraft flight control systems, which resulted in a reversal operation of the aircraft aileron system and led to loss of control in-flight. A total of 11 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Insufficient functioning of the AMO quality assurance and failure to implement an effective production oversight, including but not limited to the independent inspection procedures to detect maintenance errors;. The AMO’s lack of proper risk management based on an effective SMS programme including a reporting system covering maintenance errors;. The AMO’s lack of maintenance teams properly managed and organised by skills and specialist work areas with the necessary training and experience;. Weaknesses in the aircraft design, in respect of the aileron control system configuration which made it possible for inverted cables to be installed in both Power Control Unit (PCU) quadrants;. The aircraft manufacturer’s inaccurate depiction of the complexity and limitations in presentation of the aileron cable routings in maintenance publications;. The aircraft manufacturer’s lack of proper maintenance instructions to detect the aircraft mis-configuration during the flight controls return to service procedure;. The OEM’s failure to provide proper (relevant) guidance or best practices to the operator and the AMO regarding aircraft acceptance and return to service after a heavy or complex maintenance input;. The poor supervision of the AMO by the aircraft operator;. Deficient maintenance organisation oversight by the supervising (regulatory) authorities, namely on the AMO’s maintenance supervision procedures and occurrence reporting;. The lack of proper guidance from the aircraft operator to the flight crew regarding aircraft acceptance after a heavy maintenance input;. The flight crew’s failure to detect the mis-configuration of the ailerons during the operational check procedures following limited SOPs for the highly routine pre-flight checks.. Safety Action: Whilst the Investigation was in progress, it was noted the action taken in response to the accident had included the following: OGMA made changes to their approved instructions and procedures for the aileron control cables replacement task by adding clearer instructions and using figure colouring on the SB 190-57-0038 aileron control cables instructions and also in respect of the operational task to check the aileron positions.. Embraer revised SB 190-57-0038 to make it compatible with the AMM so that it is not required to remove both aileron cables at the same time and added additional guidance to the AMM in respect of the operational test of the aileron system which ensures a comparison of the actual position of an aileron surface and the command given using the control column.. Air Astana made changes to its evaluation of potential aircraft base maintenance service providers and the process of contracting those selected. It also adopted a specific new aircraft acceptance checklist to be used following any “significant maintenance intervention” which ensured that crews are aware which systems have been disturbed and changed the normal pre flight controls check so that it now requires that the correct direction of movement following each control deflection is verified.. Safety Recommendations: that OGMA reviews, within six months, its Quality Assurance System in order to