The event was notified to the Portuguese Air and Rail Accident Investigation Agency (GPIAAF) whilst it was still in progress and investigators then travelled to Beja and commenced a detailed examination of the aircraft. The FDR and CVR were both removed from the aircraft but useful data could only be downloaded from the FDR as relevant CVR data had been overwritten. After being initially classified as a ‘Serious Incident’, it was reclassified as an “Accident” when the extent of structural damage became apparent. It was noted that three pilots were on the flight deck during the accident flight, the Captain and two First Officers who were all employees of Air Astana and Kazakhstan nationals. The 40 year-old Captain had been with Air Astana for 7 years and had a total of 6,009 hours flying experience which included 4,700 hours on type. The 32 year-old First Officer who had occupied the right seat for most of the accident flight had a total of 2,692 hours flying experience, all except 250 hours of which were on type. The 26 year-old First Officer who had occupied the supernumerary crew seat for most of the accident flight had a total of 3,514 hours flying experience of which 3,084 hours were on type. Three passengers, who were all technicians employed by the aircraft operator, were also on board - the Director of Technical Asset Management, a maintenance technician who had followed the C-Check activity and a logistics specialist. The aircraft had been positioned to Alverca to undergo heavy maintenance - a C2 Check and the incorporation of various SBs at the beginning of October. This was initially expected to take three weeks but was later extended to a month and then into November after problems were encountered. . The flight was the first since the completion of the planned maintenance input. The local weather conditions at the time of departure included a 500 feet aal cloud base with solid cloud above and a prevailing surface visibility of around 2000 metres in rain. It was established that following the conduct of the prescribed flight crew pre-flight checks and takeoff from runway 04 at Alverca into what soon became IMC in the wider context of adverse meteorological conditions, the Captain as PF had attempted to engage the AP but had been unable to do so. Almost immediately, the flight crew recognised that the aircraft was not responding normally to pilot inputs intended to control the aircraft flight path. Abnormal aircraft attitudes began to be experienced whilst still in contact with the TWR at Alverca and just over one minute after takeoff, an emergency was declared. Thirty seconds after the emergency declaration, the crew activated Direct Law for the flight control system, which removed the Flight Control Module (FCM) from flight surface command so that surface position was then controlled directly in proportion to control column and rudder pedal inputs. Some variation between Direct and Normal Law modes then followed but eventually, the crew decided that Direct Law