non-visible damage to the aircraft structure. The very significant structural damage found led to the decision that the aircraft was ‘Beyond Economic Repair’ (BER). It was noted that roll control on the aircraft type involved is achieved either by input to the control column in manual flight or, when the AP is engaged, by the commands it generates with aileron movement being assisted by roll spoilers in both cases. The Power Control Units (PCU) which move the aileron surfaces are mechanically controlled and hydraulically powered. A detailed examination of the aircraft flight controls found that the aircraft had been released to service with the aileron control cable system incorrectly installed inverted in both wings. It was noted that the aircraft was on its first flight after completion of a ‘C’ Check which had also included a flight control system modification in accordance with SB 190-57-0038R2 and it was this latter work which had been incorrectly performed and then remained undetected. This SB involved replacing the original pulley system routing for the aileron controls with a more direct routing facilitated by a new cable support which obviated the need for the original cable routing and separation around rib 21 (see the illustration below). This illustration also shows where the cable reversal occurred. This work was all carried out by ‘Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal’ (OGMA), an Aircraft Maintenance Organisation (AMO) which was approved for base maintenance on Embraer 170/190 aircraft under both EASA Part 145 (by Portugal) and under DL-ACC-069 (by the Island of Aruba, a self-governing Caribbean territory designated as a “constituent country within the Netherlands”). It was noted that at the time the accident aircraft was being worked on, the civil aircraft maintenance division of OGMA had “around 120 maintenance technicians in the categories of certifying staff, support staff and non-certified qualified mechanics”. It was found that after finishing the required structural work for the new cable routing, the technicians who had removed both cables proceeded with a “temporarily installation” because they had been instructed to work instead on another flight controls SB on the aircraft which involved replacing stainless steel control cables with carbon steel ones. It was, incidentally, found that the documentation of this cable replacement showed that it had been completed on a date when the aircraft configuration would have made this impossible because of the AMM required performance of operational tests using electrical power which was not available at that time. The temporary cable reconnection “was carried out by personnel without relevant experience” who, whilst working in accordance with AMM instructions, stated that they had “found them complex and difficult to follow”. A few days later, experienced personnel replaced the temporary cables as installed without detecting any problems in the configuration and since the aircraft was still configured without electrical power, the required operational checks to confirm correct operation of the ailerons were, contrary to instructions in the SB, not immediately performed. When power was eventually connected, the checks were run and a ‘FLT CTRL NO