troubleshooting activities had lasted 11 days, they had not identified the aileron cable reversals nor correlated this situation with the "FLT CTRL NO DISPATCH" message. It was noted that each of the two work shifts were under the control of a Team Leader (TL) and that shift handover was performed only between the two Team Leaders “without any relevant information reaching the rest of the team members in a consistent manner”. The general matter of independent (duplicate) inspections of critical systems was examined and it was found that “none of the technicians interviewed by the investigation knew the scope and philosophy of this error detection procedure”. It was also discovered that the required duplicate (independent) checks “were not accomplished according to the procedures established in the (applicable) regulation" in that “critical maintenance tasks relevant to the accident, requiring a close oversight, were mainly signed off by both production shift Team Leaders”. Whilst these persons held valid internal authorisations and certifications to carry out such checks, it was found that “the depth of their technical knowledge and the workload associated with the team management, raised doubts regarding the feasibility of such a number of complex tasks, just performed by the two team leaders”. The Investigation also found that “the production process carried out on the accident aircraft was similar, in its weaknesses, to other previous maintenance processes” at the AMO and that “weaknesses in effective production control processes were known across the organisation”. The absence of any regulatory requirement for the AMO to have a Safety Management System at the time the accident aircraft was released to service was noted. There was a “safety department with written procedures on its operation and scope”, but it was found that even after the accident, the attempt to develop a safety reporting culture within the workforce and to communicate best practices had been almost completely ineffective “revealing a lack of commitment by top management in these matters”. Reports were still “few and incipient in scope” and interviews conducted with personnel at different hierarchical levels in the organisation disclosed a lack of any understanding of the philosophy and implementation of safety management including amongst those performing leadership roles. OGMA performed the work on Air Astana’s aircraft and released it to service under its certification by the Aruba Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) rather than the EASA Part 145 certification overseen by the Portuguese National Civil Aviation Authority (ANAC) which it also held. It was noted that the Aruba authority had carried out certification audits on OGMA prior to the commencement of work on the accident aircraft and again during 2019 after the accident. It was found that “none of these audits evidenced problems or significant findings in the organisation”. The Investigation concluded that this fact may have been because “only a close and continuous monitoring of maintenance activities would allow an effective assessment between what was declared in the procedures and that practiced in daily activities”. It was also concluded that the failure of the