was the relatively better option. The only fault message annunciated was in respect of the AP, although this was increasingly accompanied by almost continuous abnormal flight attitude alerts as experimental attempts to regain control during unintended extreme manoeuvres were made with high structural loads occurring. Multiple instances of complete loss of control for brief intervals occurred - see the example illustrated below, one of many such upsets during initial part of the flight. On transfer to Lisbon APP, the crew initially contemplated a ditching in the interests of their survival and the avoidance of hazard to those on the ground. On that basis, they made several requests for headings towards the sea for a ditching but were then unable to hold the necessary track and ending up flying north east. Eventually, by comparing passenger observations of aileron surface movement from the cabin with actual control column roll inputs, erratic behaviour of the ailerons was confirmed and the finding validated by reference to indications on the Multi Function Display (MFD) flight controls system page. Roll inputs were thereafter minimised and it was also found by experiment that maintaining FLAPS 1 (Slats 15° / Flaps 7°) provided the best longitudinal control. On regaining VMC as they tracked inland, the situation became somewhat easier to control and it was decided to take up an easterly to remain in VMC as ATC began to formulate an emergency plan for diversion to a suitable airport with good weather conditions. The aircraft was joined by two Portuguese Air Force F-16s which helped guide the aircraft to the joint military/civil use airport at Beja which had, in the meantime, been selected as the best emergency landing option. On arrival at Beja, an initial visual approach to the 3450 metre-long main runway, 19R, had to be discontinued when it became unstable. Prior to positioning for a further approach, the Captain decided to switch First Officers because of signs that the one in the right seat thus far had become physically exhausted to the extent of being unwell. With this change completed, a further visual approach to 19R was attempted but also discontinued after becoming unstable. A third attempt to land on 19R finally led to a successful landing but on the slightly shorter (2951 metre-long) parallel runway 19L after it proved impossible to prevent the aircraft drifting off the 19R extended centreline on short final. It was noted that upon arriving at the allocated parking position, “all those on board were physically and emotionally shaken”. The aircraft was found to have sustained very substantial damage to its engines, wings, fuselage and all flight control surfaces. During a comprehensive examination of the accident aircraft, it was immediately obvious that a large number of fuselage panels had been damaged. Thereafter the Investigation worked with Embraer, the AMO and the aircraft operator to develop a full damage assessment. The confirmed findings are summarised on the illustration below. However, it was recognised that the overloads experienced were likely to have caused other