DISPATCH’ message was displayed on the ECAM and removing this message then became the focus and resulted in assistance being sought from OEM Embraer (see later text). Throughout the subsequent 11 day troubleshooting process several technical discrepancies, some considered likely to have originated during the previous maintenance input but others during the troubleshooting process itself, were corrected. The process concluded on the day of the accident when the final component was replaced and software loaded. After a total of six power-down/power-up sequences, the ‘FLT CTR NO DISPATCH’ message did not reappear during the applicable flight controls system return to service procedure. It was noted that “none of the involved technicians in the troubleshooting process during the several attempts to remove the message [...] with positive flight control surfaces movement, noticed the erroneous ailerons movement (by direct observation or through the synoptic page) in respect to the given command in the control column”. It was noted that although the AMO did have a procedure for final inspection and aircraft handover after a completion of a contracted maintenance input, “it was not effective in detecting the (continued) aircraft mis-configuration”. It was also noted that tests during the course of the Investigation had “confirmed that the ‘FLT CTRL NO eDISPATCH’ message would not result only from an aileron control cable reversal”. Although the OGMAs ‘Maintenance Organisation Exposition’ was, in general, assessed to be “detailed in procedures that cover the maintenance activities for which the organisation is certified (but) relevant gaps were, however, identified”. These concerned the lack of “effective implementation and knowledge of procedures and standards by the different personnel covered by the quality system, from the least qualified up to the top managers” and a comprehensive review by the Investigation found significant problems within workforce management and supervision processes. It was considered that these problems were likely to be not unconnected with “a high staff turnover in recent years associated with frequent organisational changes that […] prevented the AMO from retaining adequate technical know-how”. It was observed that “there was no evidence of appropriate technical and organisational preparation by the persons responsible for production within the assigned tasks and responsibilities”. It was also observed during the Investigation that “it was not clear how the organisation identified the organisational or soft skills training needs of the operational staff and management, to (enable them to deal with) the recognised skill and experience deficiencies in each department assumed by the middle management” and that the fact that the allocation of human and material resources to different jobs was unstructured. The result of the latter was found to have been that constant adjustments were required to activity planning leading to “significant interruptions in the production flow and the consequent reallocation of staff/resources or complete team reallocation” during implementation of the aileron system SB and on the subsequent troubleshooting process when EICAS message ‘FLT CTRL NO DISPATCH’ appeared after the work had been completed. The OEMs technical representative was eventually called in to help but although these