An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Relevant data was downloaded from both the CVR and FDR and recorded ATC data were also accessed. It was noted that the 58 year-old Captain had a recorded total of 15,410 hours total experience which included 11,350 hours on type and 4,995 hour in command on all types. The 53 year-old First Officer had a recorded total of 10,855 hours flying experience which included 5,000 hours on type. Both pilots stated that they had regularly operated into Burbank. Twelve minutes after departing Oakland for the 50 minute flight to Burbank with the Captain acting as PF, the crew obtained the latest ATIS for their destination by ACARS. This gave the wind as from 280° at 5 knots, a visibility equivalent to 2000 metres in heavy rain and mist with BKN (broken) cloud at 1,100 feet agl. Two minutes later, they received, again via ACARS, the usual ‘Landing Data Report’ generated by the operator’s Performance Weight and Balance (PWB) system which was based on the most recent METAR and reported runway condition, the latter being reported as “good”. This report “indicated that maximum autobrake should be used for a landing on runway 08” and gave a “stopping margin” (defined in the PWB system as the distance between where the aircraft should stop plus a 15% “safety factor” and the end of the runway) equivalent to 75 metres. This stopping margin calculation was noted to be based on assumptions which included a touchdown at the equivalent of 455 metres past the runway threshold. Following the receipt of this Report, CVR data showed that the pilots “were concerned about the stopping distance given the wet runway, the tailwind conditions and the runway length” and included the remark that because of the runway conditions, the braking would be “pretty abrupt”. The PWB notification included a VREF reference landing speed of 126 KIAS and a “target speed” of 131 KIAS. Twenty four minutes later, a Los Angeles ARTCC (Air Route Traffic Control Center) controller advised the flight of “moderate to heavy to extreme” precipitation between their current position and their destination before transferring it to the Southern California TRACON which then instructed the flight to descend 8,000 feet and to expect an ILS approach to runway 08 at Burbank. Corresponding radar vectoring and clearance establish on that approach was subsequently given with the advice that “about 10 minutes earlier, the pilot of King Air had reported a 15-knot loss of airspeed on final approach and that a corporate jet had just conducted a go-around”. About two minutes later, the controller added that the reason for the go around was the wind and after a further two minutes, the aircraft captured the ILS LOC and GS and was then transferred to Burbank TWR. On checking in with TWR, the controller advised of “moderate to heavy precipitation” between the flight’s position and the airport, stated that the wind was from 260° at 9 knots and