issued landing clearance. The controller then added that ten minutes earlier, another Boeing 737 flight had reported braking action as “good” but followed this with advice that “heavy precipitation was directly over the airport”. One minute later, the controller stated that the wind was from 270° at 10 knots and then a minute later gave it as was from 270° at 11 knots. The First Officer asked if the Captain wanted “to call it (11 knots) good” and received an affirmative response. During his subsequent interview, the Captain stated that cloud was exited at “about 400 feet agl” and that at the procedure DA (which was equivalent to 280 feet aal), he had disconnected the A/T and AP and continued to descend by reference to the PAPI. At about this time the CVR recorded the Captain stating, “we need some kind of lights” followed by “I got some lights”. In interview, the Captain stated that at about 5 feet agl in the subsequent landing flare “the rain intensity picked up and visibility decreased a little bit”. Analysis of the recorded flight data found that the runway threshold was crossed at 54 feet agl at 137 KIAS, 11 knots above the applicable VREF of 137 knots (the ILS procedure gave a non standard threshold crossing height of 60 feet when following the 3° GS). Ten seconds later, the aircraft touched down at 126 KIAS and at a groundspeed of 151 knots at a position equivalent to 763 metres past the runway threshold. This position was consistent with the TWR controller’s observation that touchdown had occurred “near the taxiway D7 intersection with runway 08” which was about 2,600 feet from the runway threshold. FDR data showed the aircraft autobrakes, speedbrakes and ground spoilers were activated at touchdown and the thrust reversers were fully deployed three seconds later. Brake pressure reached its maximum of 3,000 psi in about 6 seconds. Sounds of impact began to be recorded on the CVR 21 seconds after touchdown. The Captain stated that having judged that deceleration with reverse thrust and maximum autobrakes was insufficient, he had begun “blending in manual brakes”. However, FDR data showed that manual braking had been applied to override the autobrakes immediately after touchdown although it was subsequently calculated that this non standard action had not affected the achievement of maximum braking. FDR data showed that for the first 17 seconds of the landing roll, a rate of deceleration was in the range 0.3/0.4 g and the groundspeed decreased from 151 knots to 50 knots. During the next 5 seconds it decreased to between 0.15 and 0.20 g as the aircraft “crossed over the left edge of the grooved runway onto smooth pavement“ by which time, the groundspeed had reduced to about 24 knots after which the deceleration rate increased to about 0.6 g when the EMAS was entered. It was noted that whilst the tailwind component reported to the crew in flight had been up to 11 knots, the one calculated and