consistent with the aerodrome ASOS which shortly after the accident aircraft touchdown had recorded a 2 minute mean wind from 279°at 13-18 knots. Why It Happened Although both pilots were used to landings on the short runway at Burbank, it was found that expectations for the intended landing had not taken adequate account of the environmental challenges presented by the deterioration in weather conditions and the relevance of these to the challenges of landing on a short runway. Detailed analysis of the available data found that the higher-than-expected tailwind, the later than normal touchdown and the faster-than-nominal approach speed had “all contributed to the overrun, with the late touchdown being the most significant contributor”. It was considered that the decision to continue the approach to a landing “was consistent with a psychological concept referred to as plan continuation bias”. Despite hearing a surface wind report which meant an 11 knot tailwind component, the approach was continued on the basis that it would be “right on the edge” of the operator’s 10-knot limit. A go around to allow time to reassess the situation, which it was noted would have been consistent with operator guidance which instructed pilots to commence a go around if an intended landing “appeared unsafe” was not considered. The intentional decision to continue and land was considered “inappropriate”. The Investigation formally recorded that the Probable Cause of the accident was: The flight crew members’ decision, due to plan continuation bias, to continue the approach despite indications of windshear and a higher-than-expected tailwind.. the flight crew’s misperception of the aircraft touchdown point, which was farther down the runway than the crew assumed because of the faster-than-expected groundspeed.. A Contributory Factor to the accident was identified as “Southwest Airlines’ lack of guidance to prompt flight crews to reassess operator-provided landing data when arrival weather conditions differ from those used in the original landing data calculation”. Safety Action taken by Southwest Airlines as a result of the accident and known to the Investigation included, but was not limited to, the issue of a ‘Safety Bulletin’ on relevant matters almost a year later. This included the requirements that: the “touchdown zone” must not exceed the first one third of the runway length. a go-around must be executed if the aircraft touches down beyond the most restrictive of the following distances: the first one-third of the available runway length. the first 3,000 feet (equivalent to 914 metres) of the available runway length. 1,500 feet (equivalent to 457 metres) plus the planned PWB System-computed stopping margin.. the first one-third of the available runway length.. the first 3,000 feet (equivalent to 914 metres) of the available runway length.. 1,500 feet (equivalent to 457 metres) plus the planned PWB System-computed stopping margin.. This Bulletin was subsequently incorporated into an OM revision which took effect in March 2020. The 2020 pilot recurrent training both in ground school and through “line-oriented evaluation briefings” was enhanced to improve pilots’ appreciation of the issues relevant to landing safely. The Final