An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK). DFDR and 2-hour CVR data were recovered and a record of aircraft communications with the Gällivare FIS Officer on duty at the time was also available. It was established that the aircraft involved had been wet-leased from Romanian airline Carpatair by Swedish airline Nextjet to operate a domestic route flown under a government air service contract with their customer service representative accompanying the operating airline's cabin crew. The 42 year-old Captain had 8,285 hours flying experience which included 3,496 hours on the aircraft type involved. The 24 year-old First Officer had 770 hours total flying experience which included 518 hours on the aircraft type involved. The investigated event occurred on the flight crew's fourth and final sector that day. It was established that the flight had originated at Stockholm Arlanda where the flight crew had carried out their pre-flight planning for both the flight to Arvidsjaur and the flight from there to Gällivare. This pre-flight planning disclosed that at that time, "there was snow and rain at the (final destination) airport with a temperature of 1°C and light north-easterly wind" but that runway braking action was "good". The forecast received at that time "indicated that snowfall would temporarily intensify" and this meant that snow clearing was almost continuously in progress at Gällivare whilst the aircraft was en route there until approximately ten minutes before the landing. The crew performed an approach briefing for an ILS approach to the 1,714 metre-long and 45 metre wide runway 30 at Gällivare. The intention to use full flap (42°) and fully extended speed brakes for touchdown was covered but contrary to the applicable SOP, there was no mention of runway performance issues or other procedures or decision points which were especially relevant to such a short runway. The final weather and runway report passed to the aircraft by the AFIS operator whilst "the runway was still being swept" gave the wind velocity as 010°/5 knots, the prevailing visibility as 1500 metres in snow and rain, the vertical visibility as 800 feet, the temperature 0° and the Dew Point -0° with "braking action 36, 34, 35" in 1mm of slush. With the Captain as PF, the crew reported having gained visual acquisition of the runway at about 500 feet and then disconnecting the AP. DFDR data showed that an essentially stable approach had been flown but the aircraft had crossed the runway threshold at 50 feet and at 134 KIAS - the applicable Vref +12. The latter was contrary to the Operator’s OM procedure for short runways which prescribed Vref over the threshold. This excess airspeed had not then reduced "probably due to a late thrust reduction to flight idle" and there was one bounce "probably caused by an insufficient flare and high speed" before the aircraft settled onto the runway. DFDR data then showed that reverse thrust, which short runway procedures specified should be selected both without delay and straight to the