maximum available at 95.5% N1, was not selected until "about 20 seconds after touchdown and at a speed of about 50 knots" and when it was, the selection was only partial and the N1s remained between 65% and 75%, which is within the marked time-limited 'restricted zone' that exists between 57% and 75% N1, for more than the permitted elapsed time. The effect of this partial and delayed reverse selection meant that "the effect of the reverse was almost absent". DFDR data showed that above 50 knots, longitudinal acceleration "averaged -0.07 g" which indicated that the wheel brakes were having no effect. However, it was not possible to determine whether this lack of deceleration was due to the absence of brake application or to the runway friction coefficient being lower than measured and reported. In this connection, it was observed that the aircraft operator's runway performance data indicated that at the prevailing ELW of 34 tonnes, the aircraft could still have stopped on the runway if handled normally with actual runway friction coefficients as low as 0.20. The eventual overrun occurred at low speed into snow and the aircraft stopped within the runway strip with the MLG wheels just over 6 metres beyond the end of the paved runway surface. The crew quickly determined that an emergency evacuation was not necessary and the passengers were so advised in both Swedish and English by the Senior Member of Cabin Crew and the Nextjet Customer Service Representative. Ground personnel subsequently arrived with a set of steps and passengers were "disembarked and transported to the airport building". Damage to the aircraft was limited to the tyres and to the engine fan blades, the latter due to the elapsed time within the restricted rpm range exceeding the maximum time allowed. In respect of the measured runway braking action (µ) and its effect on runway deceleration, the Investigation noted that there is no way to establish a clear correlation between 'reported µ' as measured by ground equipment and 'effective µ' which results from the interaction between the tyres and the runway surface which is dependent on tyre pressure, tyre wear, wheel speed, aircraft speed, aircraft weight and anti-skid system efficiency. The consequence of this was "that it is not appropriate to use only 'reported µ' to calculate landing performance". It was noted that with only 1mm of 'frozen deposits' on the runway, the runway slush did not meet the global definition of 'contaminated' and so friction measurements would not necessarily be unreliable on that basis. However, it was pointed out that the extensive review of runway braking action during winter operations published by the AIB Norway in May 2011 had concluded that braking coefficients measured when there are only small differences between the temperature and the dew point as was the case at the time of the investigated overrun "are not reliable". This same report also stated that "reverse thrust represents approximately 20% of the total available braking force when braking on a slippery runway".