Given that the Investigation found that the effect of reverse thrust use in the investigated overrun had been minimal and that there had been little effect from wheel braking, the loss of 20% of potential deceleration would have been particularly significant. Nevertheless, from an airport perspective, the Investigation concluded that it was "understandable that the friction coefficient was not considered as unreliable". The Investigation noted from the CVR data that a significant number of prescribed crew callouts during both final approach and the landing roll had not been made. It was also noted that in respect of the monitoring of deceleration and reverse rpm after landing, "there are no standard procedures regarding cockpit cooperation". It was noted that the Investigation was unable to reconcile a number of statements made by the aircraft Captain when interviewed during the Investigation with the facts recorded on the DFDR and the CVR, neither of which were found to have any fault. These included a completely different account of the application of reverse thrust after touchdown and claims of crew actions ahead of or in the absence of their actual occurrence. Having analysed the circumstances which led to the overrun, the Investigation turned to the question of how to reduce the risk of similar events in the future. It was considered that "it is necessary to increase the knowledge and awareness of the factors that reduce safety margins during flight operations on runways in winter conditions (which) can only be achieved by ensuring that regulators and commercial operators establish improved procedures for planning and execution, and by improving initial and recurrent training of flight crews". In contrast to the generic recommendations that exist for the conduct of a stabilised approach until crossing the runway threshold, it was observed that "there are currently no recommendations for the final part of the approach, from the threshold to positive touchdown and full stop". The Investigation Authority therefore concluded "that the airline industry and regulators should examine the possibility of introducing a 'Safe Landing' concept". This was envisaged as 'taking over' from the stabilised approach concept as an aircraft crossed the landing runway threshold and it was suggested that it "could include, but not be limited to the following:" Crossing the threshold at appropriate speed.. Monitor appropriate speed reduction from the threshold until touchdown.. Touchdown on the appropriate, and agreed upon, point on the runway.. Initiate a go-around if appropriate speed, speed reduction, or touch down point is not achieved.. Appropriate use of retardation devices such as speed brake, lift dumpers, reverse and brakes.. The Investigation formally documented the Cause of the event as "the gradual decrease of the conditions for a safe landing, which was not perceived in due time". Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The airspeed did not decrease from 50 feet agl to touchdown.. The reported friction coefficients were probably unreliable.. The wheel brakes were probably not fully applied due to the initial yaw disturbance.. The reverse rpm increased only 20 seconds after