had been removed. It was also found that the AMM procedure for thrust reverser de-activation also explicitly required that specific warning labels should be placed in the flight deck reading “thrust reverser HCU is de-activated” (the HCU is the hydraulic control unit) which was not done during this work. It was noted that the previous event of this sort at Adelaide, which had not been subject to an independent external investigation, had occurred in January 2017 also to a Jetstar A320 which, after failure to remove a lockout pin with a 1 metre flag, had been released to service for a flight to Melbourne where the corresponding reverser did not deploy when selected. It was this event that had prompted the decision to replace lockout pin 1 metre flags at Adelaide with 4 metre ones. It was also noted that nine months after the event under investigation, a similar event involving the non-removal of lockout pins on both engines of a Jetstar A320 prior to release to service at Brisbane had resulted in the reversers not being available after landing at Sydney Airport. In this case, the ATSB Investigation found that the reversers were disabled for maintenance purposes using in-service pins without flags instead of the required aircraft maintenance lockout pins which have warning flags and also the required functional check of the reversers following reactivation “as per the operator’s task card for that planned maintenance” was not carried out. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated occurrence and reported to the Investigation whilst it was in progress was recorded as having included the following: Qantas has lengthened all thrust reverser lockout pin flags so that they now hang past the closed cowls and attached a warning notice to each pin flag which must be placed on the flight deck engine thrust reverser controls during maintenance.. Airbus has revised the AMM to add a requirement for an operational test of the thrust reverser system to confirm its re-activation after maintenance tasks.. The Final Report was released on 5 September 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.