An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) after it was found on a post flight engineering inspection that the left engine reverser had not deployed when selected because its lockout pin was fitted. It was established that the flight involved was the first of the day after completion by contracted MRO Qantas of overnight maintenance on the left engine which had been carried out by two licensed aircraft maintenance engineers whilst the aircraft was parked outside. Unscheduled work on the aircraft to investigate an engine bleed air issue reported by the aircraft operator but with no supporting paperwork provided had commenced at about 2300 local time. One of the engineers “began collecting the consumables required for the task” whilst the other went to the ramp stores unit to get a thrust reverser lockout pin which had to be installed to prevent inadvertent activation of the reverser during the task. He did not book out the pin on the stores computer system, which was a required action. On reaching the aircraft, he opened the left engine cowling and with the use of a stand to reach the top of the engine, installed the pin. He did not then record this action, as required by procedures, in the Aircraft Technical Log which he was aware was in the line office, instead deciding to do this “later”. The investigation of the bleed air issue was completed over the next couple of hours, by which time it had begun to rain. The engineer who had inserted the lockout pin then “made a visual inspection around the engine” prior to closing the cowling. By this time ramp floodlighting had reduced because half the lights automatically turned off at midnight and the engineer “missed seeing the lockout pin and its 1 metre-long red warning flag and closed the cowling". With the task completed, both engineers went to the line office to complete the necessary paperwork. Each recorded different parts of the completed maintenance, but neither of them entered the installation and removal of the lockout pin in the Technical Log. Prior to the release of the aircraft to service, a tooling inventory check was required and made but as the lockout pin had not been booked out on the stores computer system, “it did not show up during the check” and release to service was made with the lockout pin installed. It was found that the flag on the pin used was shorter than those on similar pins in the (main) hangar tool store at Adelaide, “which had been lengthened to 4 metres after a previous incident to make them more obvious”. It was also observed that it was known that the red colour of the flag would have been harder to see under artificial lighting and noted that it was “not fitted with reflective material” and noted that the stand which the engineer had required to be able to install the pin “and which may have reminded him about it”