While clearing an aircraft to fly on a direct route is normally welcomed by pilots (and thus, a technique preferred by controllers) there are some situations and circumstances that may need to be considered before issuing such a clearance, e.g.: A direct routing often (though not always) causes the aircraft to leave the flight planned path. If the change affects the next sector(s) or unit(s), this should be coordinated. Omiting this step may yield undesired consequences, such as surprised colleague, the need to urgently develop a new plan, loss of separation, infringement of SUA, etc.. If the direct routing takes the IFR flight away from the ATS route, it is up to the controller to ensure that terrain clearance is achieved. A direct routing clearance might actually increase fuel burn. For example, if the aircraft arrives earlier than expected, it may need to hold. This is normally done at a level that is lower than the cruise level (therefore the fuel consumption will not be optimal).. Clearing multiple flights on direct routings may have a negative impact on the applicable flow control measures. Since capacity planning (and sector management) assume that aircraft will follow their flight planned routes, direct clearances may result in too many aircraft arriving too early, thus resulting in sector (and controller) overload.. Direct routing may change the aircraft path significantly. This may result in the creation of new conflicts.. A direct routing can cause state aircraft to enter airspace for which they do not have diplomatic clearance to do so.. Compared to vectoring, direct routing is a technique that is limited to the waypoints in the flight plan. This means that controller intervention is limited to a small number of new trajectories and there is no guarantee that any of them will be appropriate. While it is possible to negotiate with the crew to fly to a point (or points) that is not included in the flight plan, this should be done with caution and the way of rejoining the planned trajectory must be specified.. When an arriving aircraft is cleared to proceed direct to a published waypoint on the STAR, the speed and level restrictions associated with the bypassed waypoints are cancelled. If the controller needs the aircraft to adhere to such restrictions, this must be explicitly specified. Restrictions after that point will remain in force unless cancelled..