All controllers are well aware of the benefits of the structured scan. Also, they were taught how to do it during their training. Nevertheless, sometimes a controller would fail to properly perform this procedure. This is usually not attributed to poor training or lack of competence and in most cases the situation involves one or more of the following contributing factors: Time pressure – e.g. a rush to: accommodate a pilot’s request; accommodate a next sector’s request; solve a short-term conflict (e.g. expected to occur in 5-6 minutes or sooner).. accommodate a pilot’s request;. accommodate a next sector’s request;. solve a short-term conflict (e.g. expected to occur in 5-6 minutes or sooner).. High workload – in such situations the human mind tends to reduce the workload by segmenting the task and narrowing the ‘look-ahead’ tactical horizon, simplifying or even skipping procedures.. Obscured information. Sometimes the information on the situational display is obscured, e.g.: A filter is used to cut out unnecessary and irrelevant information; Overlapping aircraft labels; Windows overlapping traffic. While this is a very rare occasion, it is possible that e.g. a diverting aircraft enters the sector from an unexpected direction.. A filter is used to cut out unnecessary and irrelevant information;. Overlapping aircraft labels;. Windows overlapping traffic. While this is a very rare occasion, it is possible that e.g. a diverting aircraft enters the sector from an unexpected direction.. Incomplete situational awareness, e.g. due to recent handover or sector split/collapse or due to lack of significant operational information (e.g. unknown inbound traffic from adjacent sectors or unplanned/unexpected traffic manoeuvres due avoidance of severe weather.). Information filtering (the information is presented on the situational display and is visible but is not taken into account). In most cases, ATS systems use dull colours to display traffic that is of little or no interest to the controller. It is therefore easy to assume that all such aircraft do not present a threat to the aircraft under control. There are situations, however, where this is not the case, e.g.: A recently handed over aircraft which remains near the boundary (e.g. due to the execution of a holding pattern or having changed its flight plan due to an abnormal situation or emergency). An aircraft within the sector which is controlled by a controller from another sector. Controlling an aircraft outside own area of responsibility (which usually means that all aircraft in the other sector are presented by the automated system as “unconcerned”). A flight in “wrong state” inbound from another sector (e.g. uncorrelated or with an incorrect/not updated trajectory, etc.).. A recently handed over aircraft which remains near the boundary (e.g. due to the execution of a holding pattern or having changed its flight plan due to an abnormal situation or emergency).. An aircraft within the sector which is controlled by a controller from another sector.. Controlling an aircraft outside own area of responsibility (which usually means that all aircraft in the other sector are presented by the automated system as “unconcerned”).. A