An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the two aircraft, which had both been aware of the presence of a second AEF aircraft in the vicinity, had collided at an altitude of approximately 3,000 feet when within the normal operating area for RAF St Athan AEF sorties to the north-west of Cardiff Airport located between about 10 and 20 nm from St Athan. One aircraft had been on a westerly heading whilst the other had been closing from the south, probably whilst still turning left. The pilots of both aircraft were qualified military pilots and had been occupying the right hand seats of their respective aircraft. It was determined that the right hand wing of the turning aircraft had struck the aft fuselage of the other, which had then become detached from the aircraft. The right wing of the other aircraft also appeared to have detached at, or very soon after, the point of collision. Both aircraft were thus rendered uncontrollable. It was noted that the operating area for the St Athan AEF flights was restricted by a number of factors, some of which were unique to St Athan. These resulted in the AEF flights routinely operating in a relatively small area. At the time of the collision, there were no specific operating procedures in place to ensure AEF aircraft de-confliction from each other either before or during flight. The RAF has subsequently recommended that specific de-confliction measures be introduced. It was noted that control of AEF flying was the responsibility of the RAF’s Number 1 Elementary Flying Training School, headquartered at RAF Cranwell, Lincolnshire and that the 12 UK AEFs were co-located and incorporated within 14 University Air Squadrons based at 12 locations. It was noted that AEFs are established to provide cadets with powered flying experience in an RAF environment. In accordance with normal practice, all four occupants were wearing parachutes, but their deployment had not been attempted. It was also noted that an RAF Service Inquiry had been convened under the provisions of Section 343 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 and the Panel thereby constituted had made a total of 15 recommendations to its convening authority after working in parallel with the AAIB Investigation. These Recommendations included the following: On De-confliction: “Measures should be identified and implemented to deconflict flights from all AEF units based on unit activity, tasking, ATS availability, local flying area and period of operations”.. On Collision Warning Systems: “… consideration be given to fitting a suitable collision warning system to the RAF Tutor aircraft”.. On Aircraft Conspicuity: - a review of the previous Tutor conspicuity options and alternative colour schemes should be undertaken to determine what measures to improve the aircraft’s conspicuity are technically possible and practical.. On Survival Training: - RAF Tutor emergency egress and parachute training should be reviewed to ensure motor actions required to jettison the canopy and deploy the parachute are reinforced.. The Service Inquiry also made further recommendations