INS accuracy will drift with time; this can occur for many different reasons. Older stabilised platform INS (1970’s and early 1980’s) may have position errors of 2 nautical miles (nm) per hour. Modern strap-down LRG INS tend to have error rates of 0.6 nm/hr. An INS is, generally, not the sole means of navigation on commercial airliners. INS position errors can be reduced by frequent updates of position from GPS and ground-based navigation aids. GPS tends to be given primacy over INS, by the FMS, in determining the aircraft position. However, when GPS signals are lost, or become unreliable, then INS can retain useful FMS position accuracy until the GPS reception improves. Also, it is common nowadays for GPS data to be used by INS for correction of some of the errors described below. Drift is mostly associated with imperfections. In stabilised platform INS, these imperfections exist within gyro bearings and mass imbalances. In strap-down RLG devices, the cause is derived almost entirely from imperfections in the mirrors and their coatings. Small imperfections in accelerometers cause small errors in acceleration sensing and these are compounded by the integration of these signals, first to velocity and then to distance. This is known as Integration Drift. Transport Wander a gyro will attempt to maintain it’s original alignment with the Earth. When the aircraft moves across the globe, the local horizontal reference changes and this will create an angle with a gyro. This error is known as Transport Wander and also Apparent Drift; it is usually corrected by signals derived from the INS Latitude and Longitude. Schuler Loop as the inertial platform accelerates in any one plane, it not only detects this linear acceleration, but (like somotogravic illusions in the inner ear) the platform will tilt and detect a component of Gravity, which increases the sensed linear acceleration. The opposite occurs during decelerations. Also the INS will try to compensate for this additional tilt in the same way as it compensates for Transport Wander. The system never catches up with itself and is always “chasing” itself. This loop is known as the Schuler Loop, and anywhere on the Earth the period of this loop is 84.4 minutes. What this means is that all things being equal and in a perfect INS with no drift, the position error would be greatest after 42.2 mins, and zero after 84.4 mins. In reality, the position error grows with each cycle of the Schuler Loop. Earth Rotation in the same way that a stationary INS detects the Earth’s Rotation to determine its Latitude and Orientation, it also detects this rotation when moving. The final movement detected will be a combination of both the aircraft’s movement and the Earth’s rotation. These errors are small and can be compensated for. Coriolis as an aircraft travels from A to B around the globe it actually will follow a curved path (or a series of shorter curved paths). An INS will detect this as turning (a bit like a pendulum swinging