potential consequences through countermeasures strategies. It is a fundamental premise of TEM that threats are unavoidable components of complex operational contexts, and that is why TEM advocates management as opposed to avoidance or elimination. It would be tempting to consider ergonomic deficiencies in equipment design, less than optimum procedures, and organizational factors in general, as latent threats. However, they are also actual threats. They are present at the work place, every day controllers go to work. Their consequences, however, are potential. Examples of those threats include equipment design issues in non-frequently used system functions such as back up modes or degraded modes, that only manifest themselves at the time when the system is used in that particular mode. Controllers cannot avoid or eliminate poor design or clumsily designed procedures (management can, and therein lays the rationale for the Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS)). No matter how much they anticipate them, controllers can only deploy countermeasures to manage the damaging potential of such threats. Threat management is a building block to error management and undesired states management. Archival data on flight deck operations demonstrates that mis-managed threats are frequently linked to flight crew errors, which in turn are often linked to undesired states. However, the threat-error-undesired states relationship is not necessarily straightforward and it may not always be possible to establish a linear relationship, or one-to-one linkage between threats, errors and undesired states. There are two important caveats in the TEM Framework, strictly speaking: threats can, on occasion lead directly to undesired states without the inclusion of errors; and. operational personnel may, on occasion, make errors when no threats are observable.. Furthermore, it should be realized that, with some threats, errors or undesired states, there may not be a realistic opportunity to manage them.