Threats are defined as "events or errors that occur beyond the influence of the air traffic controller, increase operational complexity, and which must be managed to maintain the margins of safety". During typical ATC operations, air traffic controllers have to take into account various contextual complexities in order to manage traffic. Such complexities would include, for example, dealing with adverse meteorological conditions, airports surrounded by high mountains, congested airspace, aircraft malfunctions, and/or errors committed by other people outside of the air traffic control room (i.e. flight crews, ground staff or maintenance workers). The TEM framework considers these complexities as threats because they all have the potential to negatively affect ATC operations by reducing margins of safety. Some threats can be anticipated, since they are expected or known to the air traffic controller. For example, an air traffic controller can use information from the weather forecast to anticipate runway changes or diversions. Another example is the unreliable quality of High Frequency (HF) communications that necessitates the availability of alternative options. Some threats can occur unexpectedly, such as pilots carrying out instructions which were intended for another aircraft as a result of call sign confusion. In this case, air traffic controllers must apply skills and knowledge acquired through training and operational experience to manage the situation. Regardless of whether threats are expected or unexpected, one measure of the effectiveness of an air traffic controller's ability to manage threats is whether threats are detected with the necessary anticipation to enable the air traffic controller to respond to them through deployment of appropriate countermeasures. The TEM framework considers threats as actual (threats exist and cannot be avoided) and their consequences as potential. Unserviceable equipment is one example. Whether primary and/or secondary equipment fails, or whether equipment becomes unavailable as a result of pre-scheduled maintenance work, it is an actual threat. The difference is in terms of the potential consequences and the required countermeasures the air traffic controller employs to manage the threat. If the primary equipment fails unexpectedly, the potential consequences are more serious than if a secondary system is taken out of service for maintenance, the air traffic controller countermeasures are different for each scenario (switching from radar separation to procedural separation in the case of an unexpected radar failure or preparing to work without the secondary system in the second case). If the threat (loss of radar) results in errors being made, and separation being compromised, an undesired state now exists, a product of mismanaged threats and errors. At such point, a controller forgets about threats and errors, and manages the undesired state. The point to be made here is that, under the TEM rationale, threats are situations and/or events that cannot be avoided, or eliminated, by operational personnel; they can only be managed. This is why TEM adheres to the notion of threat management as opposed to threat avoidance or elimination. No matter what they do, no matter how much they anticipate the threat, air traffic controllers can only manage its