An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been PF for the departure and that one of the two augmenting crew members had been present in the flight deck for take off. At approximately 500 feet aal after take off, there was a fluctuation in the N1 indication for the right engine and related EICAS cautionary and advisory annunciations. No immediate action was prescribed and when thrust was reduced to climb setting at acceleration altitude, parameter indications for both engines settled in their normal range. Subsequent system interrogation and thrust lever movement checks did not indicate anything of undue concern and it was decided that the flight should be continued. Possible causes were reviewed by the crew members present and included a bird strike, fan damage, false indications or a failure within the EEC or related systems. Once the aircraft had reached its initial cruising altitude the only evident discrepancy in engine indications was that the N2, N3, fuel flow and EGT for the right engine were slightly lower and the N1 slightly higher than the corresponding readings for the left engine. Engine vibration indications for that engine remained low. Approximately 4 hours into the flight, an EICAS annunciation indicating that the right engine EEC had changed from ‘Normal’ mode to ‘Alternate’ mode had occurred and in accordance with the applicable Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill, the left engine EEC had also been switched to ‘Alternate’ mode. An hour later, over Afghanistan, it became clear that total fuel flow was higher than would be expected to the extent that reaching the intended destination with at least minimum fuel of 5,400 kg was becoming unlikely with the trend worsening. However with no suitable precautionary diversions available, it was decided to continue en route noting that this would eventually bring more suitable diversion options into range and the relief crew took over. Just over three hours after this, a sudden “thud” had been heard accompanied by a slight movement of the aircraft. The relief crew observed that the required thrust setting and fuel flow had reduced and that the fuel remaining, although now showing insufficient to reach destination, had stopped deteriorating. As it was now daylight, and suspecting that a panel might have become loose and subsequently detached, an inspection of the right engine was made from the cabin but nothing abnormal was seen. After consultation with the Company, it was decided to divert to Amsterdam where excellent weather prevailed and where multiple runways were available. Although it appeared probable that landing would occur with more than minimum reserve fuel, it was decided that in view of uncertainties, it would be prudent to declare a PAN on initial contact with diversion ATC, although the remainder of the flight was uneventful. Initial assessments at Amsterdam of the damage to the aircraft found that “the left inner wall ‘D-duct’ on the right engine thrust reverser had separated from its engine and that a large portion