An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The FDR and CVR were recovered and sucessfully replayed. It was established that, after failing to climb properly, and in the presence of roll oscillation, the left wing of the aircraft had struck a 42 ft high car park lighting pole at a height of 37 ft agl, damaging the wing structure and causing a major fuel leak. The aircraft had then continued to roll left across the car park before striking a second lighting pole and then a building before ground impact on a road outside the airport boundary. The aircraft continued to slide along the road, disintegrating as it progressed. Fires began in various pieces of aircraft wreckage and three occupied vehicles on the road and several unoccupied vehicles in the car park were destroyed by impact forces and / or fire. The investigation found that the stick shaker had activated at takeoff and continued to operate throughout the remaining 14 seconds that the aircraft was flyable. It was established that the aircraft commander had been operating as PF and considered that both pilots had believed that the flaps had been correctly set to the required 11 degrees with the leading edge slats at the mid-sealed position. During the time the flight crew had been on board the aircraft, it was noted that there had been numerous R/T communications about windshear and microbursts in proximity to the airport. Since standard operator stall recovery procedures were not followed and especially because the mandated “Flaps 15” call had not made by PF when the stall warning system activated, it was considered probable that the PF believed that windshear had been encountered. However, overwhelmng evidence to the contrary led to the eventual conclusion by the Investogation that there had been no windshear encounter either during the take off roll or when airborne. Other findings of the Investigation included that: The aircraft had taken off with its wing trailing edge flaps and leading edge slats not extended after the flightcrew had failed to make the necessary selection.. The flightcrew had not performed the applicable checklists in accordance with prescribed procedures and in particular they had not accomplished the Taxi Checklist and therefore had not checked the configuration of the aircraft.. The aircraft climb performance had been severely limited by the failure to properly configure the wing for takeoff.. The TOWS was inoperative and therefore had not provided a warning that the aircraft was not configured properly for takeoff.. The failure of the TOWS was caused by the absence of its required 28V DC electrical power supply from the Left DC Busbar; this had occurred at the P40 circuit breaker in circumstances that could not be determined..