Aircraft refuelling and de-fuelling are accompanied by attendant hazards which must be managed sufficiently for their mitigation to acceptable levels. The issues are much the same whether the fuel source is a tanker/bowser or a fuel hydrant system. Pressure refuelling is normal for multi crew transport aircraft and business jets but gravity refuelling of these types may be available as a backup system. The kerosene fuel used by turbine engine aircraft has a higher flash/ignition point than the aviation gasoline used by piston engine aircraft but there are still potential hazards. The primary risk is unintended ignition of fuel vapour, which can occur by a single spark. A sufficient quantity of fuel vapour to create a high risk of ignition may result from spillage arising from procedural errors, leaks, aircraft tank venting or failure of pressurized fuel lines or their couplings. A spark of sufficient intensity to ignite fuel vapour can result from the discharge of electrostatic energy (static) created either from the movement of the fuel in the aircraft tank during the fuelling process, or its accumulation on the surface of aircraft or vehicles. Fuel movement during refuelling or defuelling may lead to the a static charge building up in the fuel. If the charge is of sufficiently high potential, it can cause sparking within the aircraft or the ‘origin’ storage tank. The charge density in the fuel and the possibility of sparks inside the tanks are not affected by bonding. However, the use of static dissipater additives in fuel can contribute materially to reducing the risk involved. Accumulation of a surface static charge may occur on either an aircraft or its fuelling vehicle under certain conditions. Electrical bonding must be used to eliminate this hazard. Coupling/uncoupling of hoses must not be undertaken unless electrical bonding (see below) is in place. Re-fuelling should not take place during active electrical storms/thunderstorms in the immediate vicinity of the airport.