Aviation maintenance personnel face a particular risk of fatigue due to nighttime work and rotating shift work, the potential for long and unregulated duty times, the sleep disruption that can result from these working conditions, and cumulative sleep deficit. Fatigue can affect maintenance tasks through impaired judgment, difficulty focusing attention, memory lapses, reduced mood and motivation, and other performance effects. The conditions that produce fatigue originate not only in the workplace but also in the employee’s personal life. Effective fatigue risk management requires a partnership with shared responsibility between the employee and the employer. Workplace factors include the length and time of day of the duty period, staffing levels, task deadlines and the availability of break periods. Personal factors leading to fatigue can include social and family commitments and disruptions, commute time, second jobs, and medical conditions that may reduce the quality or quantity of sleep. The employee has a responsibility to ensure, as much as possible, that he or she is rested and fit for duty before reporting for work. The International Federation of Airworthiness (IFA) has made the following statement in relation to the issue of maintainer fatigue: “Responsibility for the establishment and control of … employees’ duty hours and rest times does not solely rest with the company/employer. Individuals have a responsibility to make use of the opportunities and facilities for rest periods provided. They are also responsible for planning and using their rest periods properly in order to minimize incurring fatigue.” The three main objectives of fatigue risk management are to: Reduce fatigue - Examples of measures to meet this objective are hours of service (HOS) limits and the re-design of shift schedules.. Reduce or capture fatigue-related errors - The intention is to break the link between fatigue and performance decrements. This can be achieved by reducing the probability that a fatigued maintainer will make an error or capturing fatigue-related errors once they have occurred. Work breaks and additional task steps designed to capture errors are examples of such interventions.. Minimize the harm caused by errors - An example of this is a policy that prevents a fatigued maintainer from performing the same task on both engines of a twin-engine aircraft. The policy is not intended to reduce fatigue or reduce the probability of error. Rather, it minimizes the operational impact of an error, should one occur.. Because the Fatigue Risk Management System (FRMS) approach originally was developed for pilots, most existing FRMSs focus on the reduction of fatigue. However, the other two objectives deserve special attention in maintenance operations. Maintenance organizations face a unique set of fatigue-related challenges, but also have access to a unique set of potential solutions: Maintenance tasks tend to be self-paced rather than externally paced. Although much maintenance work is performed under time pressure, a maintainer conscious of impaired performance may be able to pause a task, trade speed for accuracy or repeat a step as necessary.. In some cases, there are opportunities to modify methods of task performance in maintenance.