An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian NTSC. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were available to aid reconstruction of the event, but the CVR readout was of poor quality, especially in respect of the cockpit area microphone. As a result, there was no useful evidence in respect of intra-crew communications or in respect of warning system activations. It was established that the aircraft had been near to but within the MTOM for the prevailing conditions and that there were no C of G issues. FDR evidence was not entirely conclusive, but it appeared that the aircraft may have reached a maximum altitude of around 70 feet aal before settling back onto the ground and remaining there apart from a further brief period airborne as it crossed a river. It was calculated from available data and simulation that the stall warning system would have been activated on both occasions that the aircraft was airborne even though there was no directly recorded data to provide proof that this had actually happened. It was also considered that although, because of the destruction of the aircraft, it was not possible to prove that the TOWS had not been activated during the take off roll, it was difficult to imagine a scenario in which it would have been ignored if it had been sounding. Circumstantial evidence allowed it to be safely concluded that the take off had been attempted with wing slats and trailing edge flaps retracted and that the aircraft had stalled after becoming airborne before settling back on the runway and continuing off the end for a distance of 540m before it stopped with the fuselage broken into three parts and a with a rapidly developing fire starting. It was noted that airport emergency services had taken some time to arrive at the accident site and that their deployment had been limited because of an initial desire to keep the airport operational, It was noted that the RESA, with a length of approximately 60m, was considerably less than the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) minimum of 90m. The Investigation found that there was confusion amongst the Operator’s pilots about the right way to use Normal Check Lists: “From the interview with the chief pilot, chief instructor, instructors and some of line pilots indicated that there were various understanding on how the checklist should be performed. Some said it should be “read and do”, some said “do and read”, while others said the combination. While being asked whenever the checklist execution is being interrupted, some of the pilots seemed not firmed on how to handle the checklist interruption.” It was also considered that both RFFS and the Airport Emergency Plan had not been fully supportive of the response to the emergency. One effect was that all initial assistance to survivors had been provided by local bystanders rather than by the emergency services. The Probable Causes of the accident were determined as: The aircraft took-off with improper take off