Example of ACAS II traffic display, indicating a "Climb" RA with a vertical speed of 1500 ft/min. The main barriers against MAC are: Strategic conflict management, including: Airspace design, including the classification of airspace, the route structure, flight levels and the SIDs and STARs around airports. Air traffic flow and capacity management (ATFCM), including capacity planning, flexible use of airspace and flow management. Traffic synchronisation, including sector planning, multi-sector planning and arrival/departure sequencing.. Airspace design, including the classification of airspace, the route structure, flight levels and the SIDs and STARs around airports.. Air traffic flow and capacity management (ATFCM), including capacity planning, flexible use of airspace and flow management.. Traffic synchronisation, including sector planning, multi-sector planning and arrival/departure sequencing.. Tactical conflict management, which may consist of: ATC conflict management, in which ATCOs provide separation between aircraft. Pilot conflict management, in which pilots are responsible for avoiding other aircraft, sometimes with the assistance of information from ATC. Lateral offset.. ATC conflict management, in which ATCOs provide separation between aircraft.. Pilot conflict management, in which pilots are responsible for avoiding other aircraft, sometimes with the assistance of information from ATC.. Lateral offset.. ATC collision avoidance, including: Short-term conflict alert (STCA) Warning from ATCOs not directly responsible for separation. Although this is not a planned barrier, this type of ad-hoc assistance sometimes helps avoid collisions.. Short-term conflict alert (STCA). Warning from ATCOs not directly responsible for separation. Although this is not a planned barrier, this type of ad-hoc assistance sometimes helps avoid collisions.. Airborne collision avoidance, including: Airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS) Visual airborne collision avoidance (See and Avoid). Airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS). Visual airborne collision avoidance (See and Avoid). Providence (i.e. the chance separation of the two aircraft trajectories in time or space) can also be considered a barrier against MAC. It explains why a loss of separation does not necessarily lead to a collision, even if all the managed collision avoidance barriers are unsuccessful.