Use of LAHSO at Melbourne was noted to increase runway capacity from about 24 movements per hour to about 44 movements per hour and at the time of the investigated event was also in use at Adelaide and Darwin. LAHSO clearances may only be given to domestic operators who have been granted corresponding regulatory approval and at Melbourne require a cloud base not less than the 2000 feet MVA within 8 nm of the ARP (Aerodrome Reference Point) and a prevailing visibility of no less than 8km. During LAHSO, the TWR controller “is responsible for maintaining visual separation in the event of a missed approach or a dual missed approach […] until such time as another separation standard can be applied, either 3 nm or 1,000 feet”.. The applicable runway separation standards in this event mean that an aircraft landing behind a departure must not cross the runway threshold until the preceding aircraft is airborne and has either commenced a turn or is both beyond the point on the runway at which a landing aircraft could be expected to complete its landing roll and there is no risk of conflict if it were to go around.. Controllers must apply wake turbulence standards to an aircraft departing or going around behind another aircraft. This may be based on either time or distance. The 777 was a ‘Heavy and the 737 was a ‘Medium’ which meant that the applicable minimum separation was 2 minutes or 5 nm. It was noted that as Melbourne was a radar tower environment, only the distance standard was applicable.. Traffic Information should be provided when, in the controller’s judgement, one aircraft may observe another aircraft and could be uncertain of their intention. Its provision and the information provided rely on the controller’s “assessment of the underlying need”. No traffic information was given to the departing 777. Had the (visiting) 777 crew been made aware of the 737 on final for runway 34 and the other 737 on final to runway 27, they would have had the option of declining the line-up and take-off clearance given.. Compromised separation recovery actions are important emergency response actions and need to be implemented promptly and accurately when separation standards have been, or will shortly be, compromised. They need to be regularly practiced. Controllers are required to issue safety alerts as a priority when they become aware that aircraft are considered to be in unsafe proximity unless a pilot advises that action is being taken to resolve the situation or that they have the other aircraft in sight. No safety alerts were issued by the trainee tower controller during this proximity event.. There were no TCAS RA activations during this event because they are inhibited below 1,000 feet agl which was where the closest proximity occurred.. When LAHSO is in use, runway 27 is the designated departure runway and runway 34 is normally used only for landings. However, since 27 is the shorter of the two runways, larger/heavier departing aircraft sometimes need