to use runway 34 as in this case. The computerised sequencing tool used at Melbourne, ‘MAESTRO’ displays each arriving aircraft’s landing runway and its position in the sequence so that all controllers have to do is use speed control, vectoring or holding to achieve an “orderly traffic flow”. However, runway 34 departures are not taken into account of by MAESTRO and the controller must fit such departures into the arrival sequence based on their best judgement, ensuring that the landing aircraft will not touch down until the departing aircraft is airborne.. The Investigation formally documented six Contributing Factors as follows: The decision to clear the flight crew of A6-EBU for an immediate take-off, combined with the aircraft’s slower than anticipated rate of movement, resulted in it coming into proximity with VH-VXS and VH-VYE.. The proximity between A6-EBU, VH-VXS and VH-VYE resulted in the flight crew of VH-VXS on final for runway 27 electing to go around and the flight crew of VH-VYE on final for runway 34 being instructed to go around on the direction of the Melbourne Coordinator.. Although initiated due to a safety concern, the decision by the Melbourne Coordinator to instruct the crew of VH-VYE to go around resulted in an airborne loss of separation compared to a potential loss of separation on the ground.. The simultaneous go-arounds conducted by VH-VYE and VH-VXS, sequenced to land on intersecting runways under land and hold short operations at Melbourne Airport, resulted in the controller issuing a radar vector to the flight crew of VH-VYE while the aircraft was below minimum vector altitude to assure surveillance and wake turbulence separation.. The radar vector issued at night to the flight crew of VH-VYE when no other options were available, though intended to ensure wake turbulence and surveillance separation behind A6-EBU and separation assurance with VH-VXS, did not assure terrain and obstacle clearance.. The hazard associated with the inability to separate aircraft that are below the appropriate lowest safe altitude at night was identified but not adequately mitigated. This resulted in a situation where, in the event of a simultaneous go-around at night during land and hold short operations at Melbourne Airport, there was no safe option available for air traffic controllers to establish a separation standard when aircraft were below minimum vector altitude. [Safety Issue]. Two Other Factors that increased risk were also identified: The lack of night-time compromised separation training scenarios for the Melbourne Air Traffic Control Tower controllers increased the risk of the controllers responding inappropriately when aircraft were in proximity at night.. The automated sequencing system used by Airservices Australia at Melbourne Airport (MAESTRO) did not ensure that two aircraft would not arrive at the intersection of the runways at the same time during land and hold short operations, increasing the risk of unsafe proximity at the intersection.. Safety Action taken by ANSP Airservices Australia as a result of the investigated occurrence whilst the Investigation was in progress was recorded as having included the following: Night LAHSO were