to understand the situation. She said that "it seemed that the Captain at that moment was trying to verify what was happening" before taking go around action. She also reported not having heard any of the EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warnings. The Supervising Controller stated to the Investigation that (since MSAW Warnings are not displayed at the Final Approach position) she had not been aware of anything abnormal until she had "heard the sound of an MSAW 'LOW ALTITUDE WARNING' from the area of Pattern Controller's position and the Pattern Controller said towards the Trainee that the Peach aircraft was descending". She had immediately checked the aircraft altitude and had "found that it was flying lower than usual". She stated that "due to the characteristics of the elevation indication on the PAR Screen, it is difficult to recognise altitude deviation of a level-flight aircraft" and she was of the view that "a deviation of 500 ft can be recognised, but that of 100 ft cannot be". The Observing Controller also failed to notice the premature descent until he heard the Pattern Controller's Low Altitude Warning. The Investigation noted that there had been a similar Serious Incident at Naha in October 2012 which had not been subjected to independent investigation and had involved a premature PAR descent from 1,000 feet to 327 feet radio height beginning at 9 miles from touchdown during an approach to runway 36. In this case, recovery again followed EGPWS Warnings with a minimum height over the water of 327 feet but in this case, the PAR procedure was resumed once the aircraft had climbed back to 1,000 feet. The Investigation also noted that the MSAW system at Naha was configured to monitor the area of radar approaches to runway 18 "in the airspace between 15.74 and 0.81 nm from the approach end of the runway" and if triggered, a LOW ALTITUDE WARNING is annunciated only at the radar display used by the Pattern Controller. According to the Aviation Regulator, the Civil Aviation Bureau (CAB), the PAR controller handling the descent from 1,000 feet does not see MSAW alerts on their screen because they are assumed to be "definitely monitoring the elevation of an aircraft" and as a result are able to "give a corrective instruction if there is a subtle deviation from the glidepath". The Investigation considered that the fact that the Captain chose to fly the approach with the AP remaining engaged was probably pertinent to what happened. This view was formed in the light of the findings in respect of automation in the 2013 Report on the "Operational Use of Flight Path Management Systems" prepared by the FAA coordinated Flight Deck Automation Working Group. This found that "pilots sometimes over rely on automated systems – in effect, delegating authority to those systems, which sometimes resulted in deviating from the desired flight path under automated system control" and that "reliance on automation reduces pilot's' awareness of the present and projected state of the aircraft and its