run using the EUROCONTROL InCAS system, it was concluded that the minimum 1.2 nm horizontal separation between the two aircraft had been just outside the 1.1 nm miss distance threshold used by TCAS and the fact that an RA was generated on the 737 but not on the A321 could be attributed to this closeness, given that each TCAS unit determines the geometry of a potential conflict using its own rather than shared surveillance data. It was found that the A321 First Officer had been PF and that the Captain had been temporarily absent from the flight deck when the instruction to descend to FL 310 had been given. He had correctly set the selected altitude to 31,000 and initially (correctly) selected OPDES mode but had then immediately selected SVS (Selected Vertical Speed) Mode instead and followed that by setting a 1,500 fpm rate of climb in place of descent. He had then apparently not noticed the resulting pitch change from 1.4° (cruise) to 4.2° (climb). Only when the Captain returned to the flight deck after the two aircraft had passed their minimum (same level) separation was corrective action taken and the descent to FL310 implemented. In respect of the Controller’s instruction to the 737 to begin descent from FL 370 after the STCA activation which had increased the risk of conflict with the A321, it was found having observed the correct selected altitude from the A321, he had then proceeded to deal with other traffic. He had only realised that a conflict was developing somewhere when the STCA had activated and had assumed at that point that the A321 was descending as cleared – an error described by the Investigation as “expectation bias”. When subsequently recognising what was actually happening, he had responded with turn instructions to both aircraft to increase their track separation, albeit with no effect until after the aircraft had already passed their point of closest proximity. It was noted that contrary to normal R/T procedure, neither the 737 nor the A321 had responded to ATC instructions during the conflict and that the 737 had only reported its TCAS RA after receiving the ‘Clear of Conflict’ message. The Main Cause of the conflict was found to be the "crew violation of the autopilot vertical speed selection process technology of the A321 aircraft which resulted in it climbing instead of descending in accordance with the accepted clearance”. A Contributory Factor was identified as “a state of Expectation Bias affecting the Radar Controller that led to the issuing of a descent clearance to the B738 at the same time as the A321 had started to climb contrary to its previously issued and acknowledged clearance for descent in the presence of a Mode ‘S’ selected altitude indication showing FL 310 as having been selected by the A321 crew”. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Bulgarian Air Traffic Services Authority (BULATSA) shall carry out a workshop with ATCOs from the ACC-Sofia,