An operator of a sovereign state desiring to conduct foreign air transportation operations into the United States must file an application with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for a foreign air carrier permit under the Federal Aviation Act, newly recodified at 49 U.S.C. 41302. Consistent with international law, certain safety requirements for operations into the United States are prescribed by the FAA's Part 129 regulations (14 CFR part 129). 14 CFR Part 129 specifies that the carrier must meet the safety standards contained in Part 1 (International Commercial Air Transport) of Annex 6 (Operations of Aircraft) to the Chicago Convention. Before DOT issues a foreign air carrier permit, it notifies the FAA of the application and requests the FAA's evaluation of the respective CAA's capability for providing safety certification and continuing oversight for its international carriers. Upon DOT notification of a pending foreign air carrier application, if the FAA has not made a positive assessment of that country's safety oversight capabilities, the FAA Flight Standards Service will direct its appropriate international field office to schedule an FAA assessment visit to the CAA of the applicant's country. Once the assessments visits have been completed, the FAA assessment team will return to the United States to compile their findings. Appropriate notifications to the CAA and other U.S. Government officials of the results of the assessments are made as soon as possible. If a CAA is found to meet its minimum safety obligations under the Chicago Convention, the FAA will forward a positive recommendation to DOT and FAA will issue operations specifications to permit the carrier to begin operations to or from the United States. When CAA's of countries with existing air carrier service to the U.S. are found to not meet ICAO standards, the FAA formally requests consultations with the CAA. The purpose of consultations is to discuss the findings in some detail and explore means to quickly rectify shortcomings found with regard to ICAO Annexes, to enable its air carriers to continue service to the United States. During the consultation phase, foreign air carrier operations from that country into the United States are contained at existing levels. Additionally, the FAA may also heighten its surveillance inspections (ramp checks) on these carriers while they are in the United States. If the deficiencies noted during consultations cannot be successfully corrected within a reasonable, period of time, FAA will notify DOT that operators from that country do not have an acceptable level of safety oversight and will recommend that DOT revoke or suspend its carriers economic operating authority.