At aerodromes, passengers may have to walk across the apron between the terminal building and the aircraft. This may expose passengers to hazards such as vehicles moving across the apron. The risks of injury are increased as passengers are vulnerable and generally unaware of the dangers around them. They can also get lost (e.g. due to ambiguous or improper markings). This greatly increases the chance they get into a hazardous situation (e.g. a passenger might approach an aircraft undergoing engine checks, the engineering personnel will most likely not be aware of their presence and therefore may not divert them soon enough). In addition, passengers may leave objects on the apron which could eventually become a source for engine foreign object damage (FOD). The aerodrome operator is supposed to provide an aerodrome that is safe for its users. The design of the layout and the facilities can make a significant contribution to the safety of passengers. Most of the risks can be (almost) eliminated by using airbridges for passenger embarking and disembarking. Where the provision of airbridges is not reasonably practicable, the aerodrome operator should ensure that the layout and marking of airside areas enables the safe movement of passengers to and from the terminal areas. The aerodrome operator, the airline operator and ground handlers all have responsibility for ensuring that the movement of passengers is strictly supervised and controlled. The steps that can be taken to ensure passenger health and safety on the apron vary from aerodrome to aerodrome, but should usually include the following measures: Passengers should not be permitted to roam free;. Where possible, the aerodrome operator should ensure that permanent traffic routes, e.g. aerodrome roads or taxiways, do not dissect the path between the terminal and the aircraft. Where this is not possible the aerodrome operator should provide safe routes marked on the apron surface (including safe crossing points for the apron roads) and clear, unambiguous signs to indicate the route to be followed.. Safe routes can be indicated by the use of moveable barriers and chains (‘Tensator’ type devices) to create a temporary safe route across the apron for passengers to follow. When not in use, it is important that such equipment is properly stowed to ensure that it does not become a source of FOD;. Routes to the aircraft should not pass below aircraft wings or beneath fuel vents, or close to propellers or rotors of the aircraft they are boarding/disembarking or those of aircraft on adjacent stands. Routes should also be clear of vehicular traffic around the aircraft, electrical cables, fuel hoses and other ramp equipment;. Restrictions should be placed on the running of aircraft engines in the vicinity of passengers and positive measures should be taken to protect them from excessive engine noise and jet blast;. Passengers should be informed of the safe route they should follow into the terminal/aircraft, e.g. by public announcement before they leave the aircraft/ terminal. However, relying solely on informing passengers of safe routes and marking them out