following the runway lead-on lights while the first officer was completing the ‘before takeoff’ procedure and checklist. This likely resulted in them having a reduced awareness of the runway environment and aircraft orientation.. When the runway holding point stop bar at intersection Golf was turned off, the lead-on lights to both runway 30 and 35 were illuminated. This increased the risk of an aircraft being manoeuvred onto the incorrect runway, particularly at night and/or in low visibility conditions.. The Virgin Australia Airlines ‘Before Takeoff’ procedure did not include a step to report ‘ready’ to air traffic control. This increased the risk of flight crews completing this procedure while entering the runway, diverting their attention to checklist items at a time when monitoring and verifying was critical.. [Safety Issue] Virgin Australia Airlines did not require flight crew to confirm and verbalise external cues such as runway signs, markings, and lights to verify an aircraft’s position was correct prior to entering and lining up on the runway.. [Safety Issue] It was also formally recorded that the immediate response of air traffic control and the flight crew in rejecting the takeoff, reduced the risk of a runway overrun. Safety Action stated by Virgin Australia Airlines to be intended as a result of this event in respect of their continuing (Boeing 737) flight operations - ATR 72 operations having since been discontinued - involves amending their Operating Policies and Procedures Manual to include reference to external cues, including runway signs and the localiser and changes to the 737 FCOM to add the following to required pre takeoff actions: Both flight crew are required to verify the intended takeoff position with the TOLD [take-off and landing data] card.. Both flight crew are required to verify the runway and runway takeoff position are correct. The pilot flying references the runway signage and/or runway markings and the pilot monitoring verifies the position and verbalises that it has been ‘checked’.. Prior to commencing the takeoff roll, verify that the aircraft heading agrees with the runway heading.. On the basis of the findings of the Investigation, the ATSB formally documented a Safety Message as follows: The design of airport runways and taxiways vary from relatively simple to more complex layouts. This can be exacerbated by reduced visual cues, such as night-time or poor weather, which can easily increase confusion. It is important for all flight crew to familiarise themselves with these layouts, particularly any unique designs, and ensure effective flight crew co-ordination is employed to minimise the risk of a runway incursion. Operators should ensure the design of their operating procedures minimises the risk of human error. Clearly delineating procedural steps may reduce the likelihood of flight crews’ heads down activities at critical moments throughout the flight. The Final Report was released on 11 December 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.