required for the takeoff and the ASDA for both runways was about 1,650 metres.. No evidence was found that would indicate that either pilot was experiencing a level of fatigue known to have an adverse effect on performance. The Investigation therefore focused primarily on the consequences of the very short time between the aircraft beginning to taxi and beginning to take off, the reasons for the crew’s desire to minimise this time and the effectiveness of the operator’s relevant SOPs: The short taxi time meant that the prescribed checks were of necessity rushed and unlikely to have been fully completed. In particular, the ‘Before Takeoff’ checklist had not been completed as far as required before the First Officer called “ready” and received the line up clearance and once on the runway the final item requiring the crew to “verify the aircraft had lined up on the correct runway using internal cues within the cockpit such as those provided by the HSI” and all other relevant information was evidently ignored.. The apparent priority to make a rapid departure from a rarely used intersection despite being ahead of schedule may have been associated with action taken by the Brisbane-based Captain before the aircraft left Sydney for the flight to Canberra and back. He had been rostered to position back to Brisbane after operating the flight from Canberra on a flight which departed 1 hour and 40 minutes after the scheduled arrival time from Canberra but had called crewing to transfer his booking to an earlier flight which was scheduled to depart just 10 minutes after the scheduled arrival of his flight from Canberra. The request for the shortest taxi route possible from the terminal to the runway may also have been made in the knowledge that two other flights had also requested pushback at around the same time.. The operator’s ATR72 ‘Before Takeoff’ procedures did not specify at what point it was appropriate to make the call ‘ready’ (for takeoff) to ATC and the crew involved stated that they would often make this call prior to even commencing these procedures. It was noted that by comparison, the call ‘ready’ was placed at the end of these procedures for the operator’s Boeing 737 fleet. It was also found that the operator’s ATR72 before takeoff procedures did not include an explicit requirement for a crew to confirm and verbalise external cues to confirm that the position of an aircraft during taxi and line up was correct.. Six Contributing Factors, two of which were defined as ‘Safety Issues’, were identified as follows: At night, the flight crew inadvertently lined-up and commenced the takeoff roll on runway 30, rather than the assigned runway 35. The flight crew and air traffic control noticed the error about the same time and the takeoff was rejected.. The runway intersection selected reduced the taxi time, resulting in the flight crew announcing they were 'ready' before completing the 'before takeoff' procedure.. While taxiing onto the runway, the captain was focused on