An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant aircraft flight data was available in support of the Investigation as was relevant recorded ATC data. It was noted that the Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector, had a total of 6,500 hours flying experience of which 2,375 hours were on type. The First Officer had a total of 6,700 hours flying experience of which 6,100 hours were on type. After pushback, the aircraft was cleared to taxi to intersection ‘G’ as explicitly requested. The taxi time was only around a minute and, as they approached the holding point which was common to both runway 35 and runway 30 (see the illustration below), the First Officer reported “ready” to TWR and the aircraft was cleared to line up on runway 35. Shortly after that, takeoff clearance was given and since neither pilot realised that they had actually lined up on runway 30, the power levers were advanced to the takeoff position and the aircraft began to move. However, at about the same time as the crew reported having realised that they were on the wrong runway, the TWR controller, although not having had originally noticed that the aircraft had lined up on the wrong runway, then saw it beginning to take off and immediately instructed it to stop, to which the First Officer responded with “stopping”. After repositioning, the aircraft subsequently took off from runway 35 without further event. Access to both runways 35 and 30 from taxiway ‘G’ with the aircraft track shown in green. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted by the Investigation that: There had been no other reported incidents involving an aircraft inadvertently taxiing onto the wrong runway from the taxiway ‘G’ access within the previous five years.. All markings, lighting and signage in relation to the distinction between access to runway 30 and 35 from taxiway ‘G’ were in accordance with regulatory requirements.. Both runways were in use at the time of the incursion but only runway 35 had centreline lighting.. Runway 35 was 45 metres wide whereas runway 30 was only 30 metres wide.. Due to the relative complexity of the layout, the ‘G’ intersection with runways 30 and 35 was designated and shown on the Jeppesen charts used by Virgin Australia as a Hotspot.. When the illuminated stop bar on taxiway ‘G’ was extinguished in accordance with the line up clearance being given, the lead on lines to both runways were simultaneously illuminated.. Both pilots had regularly operated out of Canberra “over a number of years” and were familiar with day and night operations. However, neither “could recall previously using intersection ‘G’ for departure at night, but had used it for departure at least once during the day”.. The TODA for a departure from intersection ‘G’ was 1,870 metres for runway 35 and 1,030 metres for runway 30. At the prevailing aircraft weight and in the environmental conditions, about 1700 metres was