total of 7 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the violation by the flight crew of the AFM and Operator's OM requirements in respect of the actions required in the case of a forecast or actual wind shear warning;. use of the automatic flight mode (autopilot, autothrottle) in the flight during wind shear conditions which resulted in the aircraft being unstable (excess thrust) when reverting to manual control;. lack of prevention measures taken by the Operator when the previous cases of poor crew response to wind shear warning were found;. insufficient crew training in regards to CRM and TEM that did not allow the recognition of mistakes and/or violations in good time;. the crew members' high psycho-emotional state caused by inconsistency between the actual landing conditions and the training they had received as well as the psychological limit which was determined by the individual psychological constitution of each member;. insufficient braking both in auto and manual mode during the aircraft rollout caused by the insufficient tyre-to-ground friction aiming to achieve the specified rate of braking. Most probably the insufficient tyre-to-ground friction was caused by the significant amount of water on the runway surface;. the aerodrome services' noncompliance of Sochi International Aerodrome Manual requirements related to the runway after heavy showers inspection which resulted in the crew provision of wrong normative friction coefficients;. in respect of the high overrun speed of about 75 knots, the delay in selecting the engines to reverse (this was only done some 16 seconds after the aircraft had landed) which added about 200 metres to the overrun distance.. A total of 7 Other Shortcomings revealed in the Investigation were also identified as follows: The normative friction coefficient determined by an airport service and provided to a crew for the operational landing distance calculation in case of wet runway landing does not meet the expected braking efficiency and therefore has to be recalculated by a methodology developed for each aircraft type.. The responsible aerodrome staff failed to inspect the runway condition after heavy showers as required by provisions of Sochi International Aerodrome Manual, Part 4.5, item 7.1.. In the Runway Condition log encoded (by ICAO code) entries related to the fraction of runway surface covered by water do not reflect the measured values.. Taking into consideration the individual natural and climatic characteristics of the area around Sochi airport (all-year thunderstorm activity with significant precipitations mostly in summer time), it is necessary to mention the insufficient activity of the Runway Safety Group in respect of hazard identification and response, for instance prevention of cases of landing on runways when their surface condition does not meet normal requirements.. An "Alarm" signal was not provided to the meteorologist on duty at the Sochi Aviation Meteorological Centre, no requests for special meteorological observations were issued by the Flight/Shift Supervisor or by the controller of Sochi International Airport Flight Operations Control Centre.. The Operator was aware of previous cases when crews had delayed beginning a go-around after they had received a