response from the Captain being “... the speed is the main issue” to which the First Officer had replied “yes, yes”. The 627 feet DH was passed and followed by confirmation that both pilots could see the runway and that the First Officer was monitoring the speed. Then, passing 170 feet, an EGPWS ‘Windshear, Windshear, Windshear’ Warning was annunciated indicating an actual windshear encounter and requiring that “the Windshear Escape Manoeuvre be commenced immediately”. No such action immediately followed but when almost immediately the RVRs, which had been previously advised as 3500 metres, 1500 metres and 3500 metres reduced during a heavy shower to the extent that sight of the runway was compromised, the Captain took over as PF and commenced a go around from 50 feet at a distance of 40 metres from the runway threshold, confirming later that this had been because of degraded visibility in heavy rain. During the go around, climb made as required towards FL100 and with the Captain remaining as PF, CVR data revealed a number of instances language use, procedural error and procedural non-compliance which collectively were considered to evidence both pilots’ now-disrupted psychoemotional state. As the climb continued, ATC advised that there were now no wind gusts above 17 knots and that the RVRs were all at least 2400 metres. The crew decided to make another approach and were cleared to descend from 8500 feet to 2000 feet and again position via waypoint SS062 for another runway 06 ILS approach. There was evidence of some confusion in configuring the automatics for ILS capture but simultaneous capture of both the LLZ and GS did occur and descent was commenced. On reporting this, TWR gave a landing clearance with a spot wind from 200° at 8 knots - which meant a tailwind component in contrast to the headwind component on the previous approach. Passing 1100 feet, there was another EGPWS ‘Monitor Radar Display’ annunciation and after a further 5 seconds and passing 1050 feet, a EGPWS ‘Go Around, Windshear Ahead’ warning. Neither were discussed and descent on the approach continued. As the aircraft passed the 1000 feet stabilisation gate, it was within the required speed envelope but thereafter it began to fluctuate outside the allowable limits. FDR parameters showed this speed instability could be attributed to wind velocity changes which, with the A/T engaged, had caused it to attempt to maintain the aircraft target speed by commanding large thrust variations - within the range 30% to 90%. In accordance with the Captain’s prior briefing, the First Officer was calling out speed and height continually, which was assumed to indicate that the Captain wanted to look outside continuously to ensure he had sighted the runway by DH. At about 470 feet with 1½ nm to run, an EGPWS ‘Windshear, Windshear, Windshear’ warning was annunciated indicating an actual windshear encounter and requiring that “the Windshear Escape Manoeuvre be commenced immediately”. As on the first approach, this warning was again ignored. The Captain’s subsequent explanation for this