was that “the wrong decision to land was caused by [my] emotional state, I just did not hear the windshear warning, my mind had added it to the flight deck unwanted acoustic overhead”. He added that “it worked so loudly during the first approach and was keeping me off my work, therefore it became an unwanted acoustic overhead instead of a necessary warning system that alarms you". At 75 feet agl, the Captain disconnected the AP and auto-throttle (A/T) but having overflown the runway threshold at close to 50 feet, the aircraft then floated at a groundspeed which peaked at 178 knots - well over 20 knots above the applicable VREF and did not touch down until 14 seconds after arriving over the runway with 1285 metres of its 2894 metre available length behind the aircraft. Touchdown was immediately followed by automatic spoiler deployment and autobrake at maximum as pre-set but the Captain forgot to select the thrust reversers and was not prompted to do so by the First Officer. The Captain only realised the reversers had not been selected after about 20 seconds by which time there was only 200 metres of runway left so the selection to maximum reverse was only reached after the aircraft had already passed the end and was still at a speed of approximately 75 knots. It was noted that not only did the First Officer not notice the Captain’s failure to select reverse, he had made the call “reversers maximum” immediately after calling “speedbrake up”. However it was concluded that although prompt deployment of the thrust reversers would have reduced the extent of the overrun, it would not have stopped it happening. The Investigation found no evidence that there was an airworthiness issue with the pre-accident aircraft that could have had any bearing on the accident. However, it was noted that the aircraft braking performance had not corresponded to the braking actions measured and broadcast to inbound aircraft. It was concluded that failure to compensate for the tailwind component on short final and its persistence during the flare had led to the late touchdown. However, compliance with even one of the applicable policies on go-around in the event of the approach becoming unstabilised or an EGPWS windshear warning occurring would have meant the landing attempt would not have been made since the fuel endurance during the second approach had been considerably greater than that required to safely divert. The Causal Factors of the accident were formally documented as: repeated disregarding of the wind shear warnings which when the aircraft then entered horizontal wind shear (changing from head wind to tail wind) at low altitude, was followed by a touchdown which occurred at a distance of 1285 metres past the runway threshold (overrunning the landing zone by 385 metres) due to the increased IAS and tail wind. landing on the runway when its normative friction coefficient was less than 0.3 that, according to the regulations in force, meant that landings were not allowed.. A