during the course of the investigation, paying special attention to the measures that should be taken for (control) of the hazards that can affect flight safety.. that Airline Executives identify the aerodromes with adverse navigational conditions for approach and develop recommendations for go-around procedures from the altitudes below DA.. that Airline Executives provide training for flying personnel on the following items: flight operations, including decision making aspects when there is a thunderstorm over the aerodrome area; actions required when wind shear warnings are received and procedures for ATC reporting on the wind shear availability; actions required when the aircraft has failed to follow the requirements for a stabilised approach after passing a reference height point; CRM policy when performing a landing; The importance of informing ATC about adverse weather conditions.. flight operations, including decision making aspects when there is a thunderstorm over the aerodrome area;. actions required when wind shear warnings are received and procedures for ATC reporting on the wind shear availability;. actions required when the aircraft has failed to follow the requirements for a stabilised approach after passing a reference height point;. CRM policy when performing a landing;. The importance of informing ATC about adverse weather conditions.. that Airline Executives of civil airport operators, Runway Safety Groups together with the State ATM Corporation, identify hazard factors and develop (corresponding) measures to prevent landings on unprepared runways using accident investigation information issued for flight safety purposes and published on the IAC-MAK website, as well as other relevant documents stored in the Archive of Incident and Accident Investigation Materials (AMRIPP) held by the Federal Air Transport Agency (Rosaviatsia).. that Airline Executives provide additional training for aerodrome and ATC staff on the following matters: the requirements for frequency of airfield condition inspections depending on the weather conditions and seasons; the acceptance criteria for runways related to operational elements and the procedures for an airfield condition assessment.. the requirements for frequency of airfield condition inspections depending on the weather conditions and seasons;. the acceptance criteria for runways related to operational elements and the procedures for an airfield condition assessment.. The Investigation was completed on 12 December 2019 and the Final Report in an English language translation was subsequently released.