An Investigation was carried out by the Air Accident Investigation Commission of the Interstate Aviation Committee (IAC-MAK). The SSFDR, the SSCVR and the QAR were all recovered undamaged from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded and found to cover the whole accident flight. It was noted that the 51 year-old Captain had a total of 13,995 flying hours of which 6,391 hours, including 5,147 hours in command, had been on type. The 53 year-old First Officer had a total of 12,277 flying hours of which 5,147 hours were on type. The Boeing 737 experience of both pilots had been accumulated on both ‘Classic’ and ‘NG’ variants of the type. The previous aircraft type experience of the Captain had been on the Yak-40 and that of the First Officer on the Let 410 and An-24. The flight, with the First Officer as PF, was uneventful until it arrived in the Sochi area whereupon ATC approved own navigation to the initial approach fix (IAF) waypoint ‘PITOP’ (see the illustration below) descending to FL070 so as to allow the crew to use the onboard weather radar to avoid the worst of the convective weather which was persisting over the area as forecast. By then, the flight crew were aware from the ATIS that the thunderstorm activity in the area was producing frequent heavy showers around the airport and that there was “moderate wind shear” in the layer between the ground and 660 feet agl. These conditions were in line with a SIGMET transmitted earlier by VOLMET which advised of a stationary thunderstorm with hail and cumulonimbus cloud tops up to FL380 over and around Sochi. During the descent towards PITOP, the radar controller advised that the visibility had dropped in a heavy squall and that there was 5.8 mm of water on runway 06 which they would be using. Noting that these conditions were outside approach minima, but “fast-changing”, the crew said that they hoped “to find their way between two squalls”. On reaching PITOP, the flight was re-cleared direct to waypoint SS062 to expect an ILS approach to runway 06 (see the illustration below). An automatic ILS was subsequently flown with the GS intercepted from level flight at 1976 feet QFE. On transfer to TWR, landing clearance was given and soon after this whilst completing the landing checklist and passing 1100 feet, the EGPWS predictive wind shear caution ‘Monitor Radar Display’ was annunciated. On hearing this, the Captain was recorded as saying “what is that about”, to which the First Officer responded with “suppose, about the wind shear” and the Captain said “we will try”. The approach, stabilised when passing 1000 feet, was continued and at 850 feet, with about 2.7 nm to go to the runway 06 threshold, an EGPWS predictive wind shear warning “Go Around Windshear Ahead” was annunciated. The QRH required that in this situation, either a windshear escape manoeuvre or a go around must be flown but the approach was continued with the only recorded verbal