that identifying failures and accident precursors in routine flight operations. Such data tend to be too difficult to collect, de-identify and analyze at the individual-operator level or aggregated multi-operator levels. Flight data monitoring, non-punitive voluntary safety-issue reporting systems, etc. are not yet common in some RPAS subcategories.. The team assessed that industry assumptions about RPAS pilots’ reliability (i.e., consistent performance and reslience to handle unfamiliar situations) are “mostly invalid.”. In some states and RPAS-industry segments, some RPAS pilots and operators have been a “heterogeneous and unmonitored population” that — unlike the norm in manned aviation — handle all maintenance duties and flight duties to operate their RPAS.. In the largest RPAS-pilot segments, the pilots’ main purpose and scope of drone flight often is personal diversion without serious acceptance of responsibility to others (i.e., “no connection of the end-user with social responsibility, job security, etc.”).. RPAS pilots without a civil aviation background or RPAS-pilot training and certification, often “lacked knowledge, experience and training in human-performance limitations.”. Findings of inadequate education, combined with over-reliance on fully automated flight modes of RPAS, led these researchers to note that RPAS pilots studied, in many cases, lacked “detailed technical knowledge of how drones function [and how] to react successfully to unforeseen events.” Nevertheless, they acknowledged that RPAS automation and autonomy (e.g., geo-fencing airspace to maintain rule-based spatial limits, and automatic return to a designated landing area in response to power failure or other failures) support RPAS end-users in important ways.. Intense focus on assigning primary safety responsibility (e.g., observing rules and limits during flight) to the RPAS operator and the RPAS pilot — largely ignoring the role and responsibility of aircraft manufacturers and regulators — adversely affect safety. Specifically, wide variability was observed in the extent to which manufacturers of some small RPAS met safety requirements of regulators. Moreover, variability among countries in their required mitigations for key RPAS risk factors “might confuse users.”.