on runway 04L to which two aircraft were on final approach, one with 12 nm to run and another with15 nm to run. The crew read back this clearance correctly and 40 seconds later, they were cleared to “line up and take off from runway 04L”. At this time, the aircraft was on taxiway U (position7). In the absence of a response, the controller repeated the clearance and requested that they make a quick take-off to which he received the response “stand by please” so then asked them to remain at holding point A1. The crew replied that they were on the runway without beginning with the word “negative” to which the controller responded with “OK” and asked them to contact him when they were ready. Soon afterwards, the crew called that they were ready for takeoff and the TWR controller cleared them to line up and make a quick take-off from runway 04L which was read back correctly. Approximately 20 seconds later (position 8), alerted by a shout from the GND controller who had seen the aircraft accelerating on the taxiway, the TWR controller instructed the aircraft to immediately stop the takeoff as they were on the taxiway. At this point, it had travelled approximately 550 metres from the position where takeoff thrust had been set and had reached a speed “in excess of 85 knots”. The takeoff was rejected as instructed with the speed reaching a recorded maximum of 94 knots before the aircraft began to decelerate. It came to a stop abeam taxiway ‘D’ (position 9) 13 seconds after the instruction to reject had been given after having travelled 922 metres from the position where thrust had been set. Ten minutes later, the flight was again cleared for takeoff which this time occurred in accordance with the clearance given and without further event. The crew subsequently stated that once they had lined up on what they only later realised was a taxiway, the Captain, who commented that “the lighting had seemed green to him” had asked the First Officer if they were on the runway or the taxiway. After looking outside, “seeing green lighting and believing that taxiways had blue lighting”, the First Officer had “concluded that they were not on a taxiway so had confirmed that they were indeed on the runway”. A review of exchanges between the flight crew and both the GND and TWR controllers showed that non-standard phraseology had been used by both controllers and the flight crew. It was considered especially significant that the crew had failed to begin their transmission “we are already on the runway” with the word “negative” which would have alerted the controller to the incorrect position of the aircraft given that otherwise he would only have been likely to check that the aircraft was clear of the runway.. Holding point A1 is indicated by standard-pattern signs on either side of the taxiway and by standard ground markings and runway guard lights with single-direction beams which are aligned