An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Recorded ATC data and FDR data were obtained but the CVR data was not preserved even though the Captain stated that he had been aware that the event would be subject to investigation as a Serious Incident as he had “not thought about it”. It was found that the 54 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 12,003 hours flying experience but only 555 hours in command on type, having been promoted to command the previous year after being employed as a pilot by Portugalia for 17 years. The 62 year-old First Officer had a total of 14,530 hours flying experience of which 739 hours were on type. He had been employed as a pilot by Portugalia for 27 years. Both pilots had made frequent flights to Nice - in 2017, the Captain had made 16 such flights and the First Officer 20 and so were familiar with the manoeuvring area at Nice. The TWR controller in position had fifteen years’ experience as a controller and after being posted to Nice in 2011, had been qualified as a TWR controller there since 2012. The flight departed from its parking stand (position 1 in the illustration below) more than an hour late with a west-facing push-back onto taxiway ‘T’ with the Captain acting as PF. The GND controller then cleared the flight to taxi via taxiways ‘T’ and ‘A’ (position 2) to holding point ‘A1’ for a takeoff from 45 metre-wide runway 04L. The First Officer read back the taxi route but did not mention the clearance limit also given. One minute later and prior to beginning to taxi, the crew requested confirmation of the taxi route which was provided. They then began taxiing along taxiway ‘T’, started the second engine (position 3) and carried out the flight controls check (position 4). As the aeroplane approached the end of taxiway ‘T’ (position 4), the crew reported that they were at holding point ‘A1’ and ready for departure and the GND controller asked them to contact TWR. At this point, the aircraft was actually still 350 metres away from the clearance limit given and abeam a sign which indicated that taxiway ‘A’ was to the left. The GND controller subsequently stated that he had not checked the position of the aeroplane on the ground radar because he was focused on looking out for a police car which he was expecting after a request for police attendance by an inbound flight. The annotated ground track of the aircraft derived from FDR data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] On checking in with TWR, the flight crew stated that they were “at holding point A1 for runway 04L, ready for departure” although as previously noted, the aircraft was actually on the bend which links taxiway ‘T’ to taxiway ‘A’ (position 6). In response to their call, the TWR controller cleared them to line up