whilst an aircraft could be equally routed via taxiways ‘T’ (or ‘F’) and ‘U’, there were no instructions about this and he usually used the route via taxiway ‘T’ (and ’A’) which meant there were less turns to be made for the crews, resorting the use of taxiway ‘U’ only if another aircraft was being pushed back at Terminal 2 and might interfere with traffic on taxiway ‘T’. He “did not think that a crew could be used to using only taxiway U” for 04L departures.. The Captain’s record of his previous taxi out routes for 04L takeoffs at Nice. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A total of six Contributory Factors were identified by the Investigation as follows: A high workload for the PM during the short taxiing time, due to the start-up of the second engine after the push-back and to the different actions and checks to be performed.. Insufficient monitoring, checks and confirmation of the position of the aeroplane while taxiing, perhaps because the crew had the habit of taking the same route at this aerodrome which led them to have an erroneous representation of the aeroplane’s position.. A confirmation bias mechanism which, in the absence of clear signals informing the crew that they were on the taxiway, meant that they gave priority to information reinforcing their erroneous representation of the situation: the change in lighting and the width of the taxiway seemed to be that of a runway. The difference between arriving on a taxiway and arriving on a runway is first and foremost the absence of elements (signs, ground marking at holding point ‘A1’ and runway guard lights, lighting, etc.). Indeed it is easier to note the presence of an unusual element than the absence of something expected.. The crew’s partial clarification of their position on lining up on taxiway ‘U’ linked to a confusion between the different lighting colours and the pressure to take off quickly.. The Tower controller focusing on keeping flight traffic flowing rather than on the position of the aeroplane, probably due to the confidence in the crew’s position message, which led to the line-up and take-off clearance being given well before holding point ‘A1’ was reached.. The use of approximate phraseology which could have allowed the Tower controller to think that the aeroplane was at holding point ‘A1’ although it was in fact lined up on the taxiway.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included but not been limited to the following: Portugalia withdrew an SOP which required that an aircraft always left the stand on one engine and replaced this with a recommendation to leave the stand on one engine only when long taxiing times are anticipated and added an item to ‘Check Runway, Confirm Runway’ to the ‘Before Takeoff’ checklist.. Aéroports de la Côte d’Azur installed centreline lighting on taxiway A and on the part of taxiway ‘T’ situated between taxiways ‘A’ and ‘B’.. Two Safety