so as to be visible to aircraft taxiing towards the holding point.. All relevant runway and taxiway lighting was functioning correctly at the time of the event.. Until 1999, Taxiway ‘U’ had been the former runway 04L/22R and was additionally identified as such on the Jeppesen aerodrome chart used by the flight crew. It is slightly longer than the adjacent runway and has a 60 metre-wide paved surface and although ground markings of green and white stripes indicate a reduced width for taxi use, these are not visible at night. This taxiway has the usual green centreline lighting but no edge lighting which is in compliance with aerodrome certification requirements. However, there is no sign at the beginning of taxiway U abeam the beginning of runway 04L, rather such a sign is situated at 250 metres from the beginning of the taxiway. It was noted that the applicable aerodrome certification requirements include a sign which identifies every taxiway “after an intersection” but do not specify any maximum distance from the intersection.. Portugalia stated that they had assessed the risk of a landing on taxiway U but this “risk mapping” had not considered the risk of a takeoff from this taxiway “because of the lighting that existed”.. Portugalia’s SOPs at the time of the event were noted to require that Captains were always to act as PF during taxiing and that the initial taxi out should normally be made on one engine in order to reduce fuel consumption. Their ‘Before Takeoff Checklist’ included the explicit warning “to avoid the possibility of departing from the wrong runway, verbally verify the proper runway”.. The ACC covering Nice had assessed the risk of a landing on taxiway U at Nice but had not considered the risk of a take-off from this taxiway.. The ACC covering Nice had an A-SMGCS which displayed surface movements at Nice and their identification in real time to the Nice TWR controller. Information from this system included alerts for takeoff or landing on an occupied or closed runway, vehicle incursions, conflict between vehicle and aircraft movement in the opposite direction of an active runway to that in use or on a parallel runway to that in use. Although this system was capable of providing alerting for taxiway takeoffs, this functionality had not been configured for Nice.. Although only one of the two runways was in use at the time of the event, this was not an exceptional situation and was not considered to have been a relevant part of the event scenario.. According to the Captain, he had carried out 20 flights to Nice of which “at least 16 had involved a take-off from runway 04L (and) only once when taking off from runway 04L had he taxied via taxiway ‘T’ to taxiway A" which had also been at night, in August 2016, during his first flight acting as PF whilst taxiing. The illustration below is based on the data he submitted. The GND controller observed in his statement that