Firstly identify the type of fire. This is determined by the fuel being combusted. Detection of fires within the aircraft cabin or flight deck usually depends on the ability of the cabin or flight crew member to see or smell smoke. Detecting the location of the seat of the fire can be particularly difficult due to air flow distribution within the aircraft.. Experience shows that fires can start in inaccessible locations, making it difficult or impossible to extinguish the fire. A fire in the ‘attic’ of Swissair Flight 111 spread rapidly without the ability of the crew to extinguish it due to its location. There was no means to direct a fire-extinguishing agent at the source of the fire in the area above the interior ceiling.. The inability to access the source of the fire is a serious limitation that significantly reduces the likelihood of successfully extinguishing it. All fire extinguishers work best when they are discharged at the base of the fire. The Flight Attendants on Air Canada flight 797 observed the increase of smoke as the fire progressed behind the lavatory wall but recognised that the fire was inaccessible.. SOLID fuels such as paper/wood, fabric, plastic are best extinguished by H2O/Glycol extinguishers that will smother/saturate/cool the fuel. LIQUID fuels such as petroleum based fluids are best extinguished by smothering agents such as Dry Powder, CO2, Foam, BCF. But not water extinguishers. GAS fires are extinguished by smothering agents such as CO2, BCF or Fire Blanket. METAL fires e.g. batteries once burning are extremely difficult to control and can only be extinguished using specialized Gel agents that smother and cool after first attacking the fire with BCF. FIND AND IDENTIFY type and source of fire or smoke. EXTINGUISH fire immediately and aggressively. COMMUNICATE with the flight crew. COLLECT all necessary fire fighting equipment. WATCH for re-ignition. PASSENGERS - re-seat away from fire/heat, instruct to protect nose and mouth with tissues. CAUTION: If moving passengers away from the source of the fire, consideration should be given to the effect this might have on the centre of gravity of the aircraft - this is particularly the case with smaller regional turboprop aircraft. If moving passengers to new seating, the cabin crew must keep the flight crew informed of their actions.. CAUTION: If moving passengers away from the source of the fire, consideration should be given to the effect this might have on the centre of gravity of the aircraft - this is particularly the case with smaller regional turboprop aircraft. If moving passengers to new seating, the cabin crew must keep the flight crew informed of their actions.. Aggressive fire fighting and timely communication is essential. In some airlines, the flight attendant who discovers the fire "owns" the fire - they are the primary fire fighter. The second flight attendant on the scene assumes the role of "communicator". The communicator's first responsibility is to make the rest of the cabin crew aware of the problem and they respond by bringing all