More broadly, UTM essentially is an initiative undertaken in various ways by national aviation authorities (NAAs). A common aspect of UTM is the NAA’s collaboration with — and dependence on — private-sector operators that cooperatively separate their small remotely piloted aircraft (RPAs), or drones, from those of other operators in uncontrolled airspace. UTM is intended primarily to mitigate the risk of collision among small unmanned aircraft systems (sUAS), a subset of RPAS, flying below 400 ft in uncontrolled airspace. UTM concepts also will segregate the participating sUAs from manned aircraft and other types of RPAs being controlled by air navigation service providers (ANSPs). In its Annual Report 2017, the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s (ICAO’s) said UTM "is a concept that brings an automated ATM-like system to very low level airspace, which will be occupied primarily by unmanned aircraft weighing less than 25 kg (commonly referred to as drones). Development of this concept is underway in many States, at universities and by large aviation corporations and new start-up tech companies.” The report said that in September 2017, in the context of the ICAO Assembly’s request to include “all unmanned aircraft” in the organisation’s work programme, UTM became the main theme of the Drone Enable — ICAO Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Industry Symposium. “The focus was on UAS traffic management (UTM) and fundamental requirements needed for implementation, these being [drone] registration, identification and tracking; communications systems; and geo-fencing like systems,” ICAO said. Among countries pursuing UTM systems, the FAA created its UTM Pilot Program (UPP) in April 2017 to define an initial set of industry and FAA capabilities that will be required to support UTM operations. The final set of capabilities will define services to be provided by FAA and by private-sector UAS service suppliers (USSs), their respective roles and responsibilities, information architecture, data-exchange protocols, software functions, and performance requirements for managing these low-altitude sUAS operations without intervention by air traffic control (ATC) facilities. In January 2019, FAA selected three FAA UAS Test Sites for tests and demonstrations in conjunction with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and industry partners. UTM services demonstrated in UPP Phase One included: (1) the exchange of flight intent among operators, (2) the generation of notifications to UAS Operators regarding air and ground activities, known as UAS Volume Reservations (UVRs), and (3) the ability to share UVRs with stakeholders, including other UAS Service Suppliers (USS) and the Flight Information Management System (FIMS). As mandated by Congress in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, UPP is required to meet additional objectives prior to the project, including remote identification technologies and operations with increasing volumes and density. UPP Phase 2 moves toward the development and deployment of remote ID technologies in increasingly complex environments to enable a UTM ecosystem. In April 2020, FAA section two FAA UAS Test Sites to partner with the agency in Phase 2. FAA said the primary goal for UPP is to develop, demonstrate, and provide enterprise services that will support the implementation of