Controllers may notice during fam flights that pilots generally have a tendency to place a great deal of belief in the TCAS displayed information. Whilst the following of any TCAS generated advisories (both ‘cautions’ in the form of traffic advisories (TA) and ‘warnings’ in the form of resolution advisories (RA)) is necessary, other details may result in (minor) issues for controllers as described below. TAs alert pilots to be prepared for an RA to follow, and RAs provide advice on manoeuvring in the vertical plane to avoid any conflicting aircraft that is deemed to be a threat. Controllers may notice that flight crews often become very wary of proximate traffic, sometimes asking the controller to clarify the associated details or clearances in order to confirm that a collision hazard does not exist. This, however, may occur when (in the opinion of the controller) the proximate traffic is not necessarily that ‘close’ to the aircraft in question. Radar controllers spend their working lives controlling aircraft to the appropriate minima, typically 3nm, 5nm or 10nm, with the range scale of the radar screen set to enable the controller to accurately judge the required distance. Pilots however, although spending much of their working lives in busy traffic environments close to proximate traffic, do not have experience of working in front of a radar screen and so their perception of ‘close’ is different to that of a controller. In general therefore, and depending on the situation, traffic that is within 10nm - 20nm may be considered by flight crews to be ‘close’ and a state of apprehension may follow. Also, due to the fact that the range of the TCAS display can be altered by the pilot, with a longer range selected the traffic symbol will therefore be closer on the TCAS display to the aircraft symbol compared to when a shorter range is selected. Even though the pilot knows the range he/she has selected for the TCAS display, with other than a short range selected, this can lead to the mindset that the traffic is relatively close. Controllers may notice that pilots also have a tendency to believe that the TCAS displayed information is true in the lateral plane. Current TCAS equipment is not certified for use in the lateral plane and whilst, in general, pilots are aware of this, it is surprisingly difficult when viewing proximate traffic on the TCAS display to gain the mindset that what is being displayed (laterally) may not actually be true. Although it is not a common occurrence for TCAS equipment to be (wildly) inaccurate in the lateral plane such occurrences have been reported. Another factor to consider when using the TCAS display is that of the height band selection. There are many different specifications of TCAS equipment fitted in aircraft and so the exact details will vary according to the particular specification. However, typical height band selections are: ‘Above’: 2,000ft below to 6,000ft above aircraft’s level.. ‘Normal’: 2,000ft below to 2,000ft above aircraft’s level.. ‘Below’: 6,000ft