When approaching an assigned level, and during the level off manoeuvre, it is important for the pilot to confirm that the correct Flight Director (FD) mode is engaged and that the FD commands and the autopilot are suitably acquiring the selected level. The usual sequence of events for the FD when acquiring a level is for the FD, which will initially be in a climb or descent mode, to change to an ‘Altitude Capture’ mode, and then change to an ‘Altitude Hold’ mode. Such mode changes will be displayed on the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA). Note that with the level set in the Mode Control Panel (MCP) and the FD engaged in a climb or descent mode, the mode changes required to accomplish the level off manoeuvre are engaged automatically i.e. the pilot does not have to separately select ‘Altitude Capture’ and ‘Altitude Hold’ modes. The FMA mode change sequence described above is worthy of observation during fam flights. Also worthy of note is the timescale involved during the mode change sequence. The point, or in particular, the level at which the FD will change to the altitude acquiring modes is determined (automatically) by the flight computers and is a function of the vertical (climb or descent) rate of the aircraft i.e. the greater the vertical rate, the greater the level difference will be when the altitude acquiring process commences. However, as can be observed during fam flights, at vertical rates in the region of 2,000-3,000 fpm as are often achieved in the low to medium levels, the altitude acquiring process (as announced to the pilot by the change of mode displayed on the FMA) will not commence until 200-300ft from the selected level. Whilst this is sufficient to give a smooth level off for passenger comfort with no noticeable change in g-force, should the FD or auto-pilot commands not change to those required to acquire the selected level, this will leave minimal time for the pilot to manually take over and prevent a level bust. In the unlikely event that the pilot has to take over manually to acquire the required level, the amount of overshoot that occurs will depend on the individual circumstances and therefore may or may not, due to the legal definition, constitute a ‘level bust’. At high levels, particularly those that are close to the aircraft’s maximum level due to performance, the altitude capture process may not commence until in the region of only 20 feet from the selected level due to the very low climb rate achieved. In such a case the ‘Altitude Capture’ mode may only exist for a fraction of a second and consequently the FMA may show a change directly to the ‘Altitude Hold’ mode from the climb mode. With such a low climb rate, should the FD or autopilot not acquire the selected level, it is possible for the pilot to manually take over and acquire the required level with an overshoot in the region of only 20ft.