In order to ensure that ATC transmissions are heard correctly and to consequently ensure that the correct clearance is flown (in particular, avoiding level busts) during the stages of flight which are the busiest and where traffic is more prevalent, a greater emphasis is now being given to the removal of non-essential verbal communication between flight crew members during such stages of flight (i.e. removing trivial conversations and general chit-chat). In general this therefore means that most operators will have SOPs that state that a ‘verbal silence’ is to be imposed below a certain level during climb and descent except for required SOP calls and those necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft in order to provide a ‘sterile cockpit’. It is a common SOP among operators to impose a verbal silence below 10,000ft both climbing and descending, although some operators may use different levels, possibly up to the initial cruising level during the climb, and from when leaving the cruising level at commencement of descent. Things to look out for. How the crew make sure that the approach is clear before entering the runway; The workload on the flight deck, and perceived ability of the crew to receive instructions during initial climb (remember that the actions on the flight deck are similar during a go around); Does the sequence in which you usually provide multiple instructions to aircraft tally up with the sequence in which the actions actually are carried out on the flight deck? How other traffic visible on TCAS affects the crew’s decision to ask for further climb.. How the crew make sure that the approach is clear before entering the runway;. The workload on the flight deck, and perceived ability of the crew to receive instructions during initial climb (remember that the actions on the flight deck are similar during a go around);. Does the sequence in which you usually provide multiple instructions to aircraft tally up with the sequence in which the actions actually are carried out on the flight deck?. How other traffic visible on TCAS affects the crew’s decision to ask for further climb.. Go To Cruise Return to Flight Deck Procedures - A Guide for Controllers