paved surface of the runway and continued for 60 metres into the grass before coming to a stop to the right of the extended runway centreline. The ARFF arrived within 2 minutes of leaving their base, approximately 3 minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop. None of the occupants were injured and a mobile staircase positioned at door 1R was eventually used to get everyone off the aircraft and they were bussed to the terminal building. An annotated illustration if the landing sequence is shown below. The Investigation found the unfactored dry runway landing distance required for the aircraft as configured and at the ELW with a touchdown not later than 460 metres beyond the threshold and without use of reverse thrust was 1,130 metres, which was less than 40% of the distance available or 2,035 metres (70% of the distance available) for a wet runway. It was apparent that the WestJet criteria for a stabilised approach had been met. However, aided by an incorrectly calculated 'target speed', the aircraft had crossed the runway threshold 15 knots faster than recommended. The effects of this were aggravated by the failure of the crew to react to the tailwind component implicit in the final wind check received from ATC and a "slightly high flare", and combined effect of these factors was that the aircraft touched down beyond the TDZ. Whilst WestJet's "normal procedures" require that a go around should be flown if a landing cannot be made within the TDZ, it was noted that no guidance is provided on how to determine this prior to touchdown and there is no way a crew can determine by external visual reference whether they have touched down beyond the TDZ or are about to. The Investigation concluded that "it is likely that the crew were unaware of how far beyond the touchdown zone the aircraft was" as it touched down. It was concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that standing water had introduced a risk of dynamic hydroplaning/aquaplaning but the lack of deceleration once maximum manual braking was applied near the end of the runway suggested that viscous hydroplaning/aquaplaning may have occurred at that point. A review of the means of deceleration available as used was made: The Speedbrakes were armed and automatically deployed on touchdown but were stowed manually ten seconds later. The Westjet Operations Manual stated that this action "is permitted when the aircraft has decelerated below 80 knots and stopping distance within the remaining runway is assured”. There is no such restriction on the alternative method of disarming the speedbrakes - by "smoothly applying brake pedal pressure" - although the latter method was stated as preferable "when disarming MAX autobrake" which was not used.. The Autobrake System was set to level 1 and activated on touchdown. Autobraking automatically ceased at 103 KCAS when the Speedbrakes were stowed. Manual braking was not commenced until nine seconds later and after a further seven seconds, this was increased to maximum. Although