An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from both the FDR and the 2 hour CVR. The CB of the latter was tripped after the aircraft had stopped. It was found that the Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had been promoted to command just over a year previously after seven years as a First Officer on type and had accumulated 9,000 total flying hours including 7,500 hours on type. The First Officer had gained his 737 type rating 4½ years previously and had accumulated 13,898 flying hours including 3,360 hours on type. The accident flight was the crew's first flight of the day. It was established that the ATIS obtained during descent gave benign weather with runway 24L and 24R in use for landing. While being vectored for what was initially planned to be a visual approach to 24L "with the ILS as a backup", the crew observed indications of moderate to heavy rain to the north-northwest of the field, which once on left base showed that there was heavy rain on the approach. The aircraft was configured for a Flap 30 landing with autobrake 1 set since runway exit at the end of the 2,926 metre-long runway was expected and the Vref was 125 KIAS. Once on final and in heavy rain with the wipers on, TWR gave a landing clearance and a spot wind of 350° at 17-22 knots. FDR data showed that at this time, the ILS was selected with the AP engaged and the A/T was engaged in 'Speed' mode with the initially-selected 130 KIAS subsequently increased to 140 KIAS as the aircraft descended through 740 feet agl. The AP was disengaged passing approximately 280 feet agl after which the aircraft began to deviate slightly above the ILS GS. FDR data showed that it crossed the runway threshold at 52 feet agl at a speed of 145 KCAS and with a brief bounce touched down on the wet - but not contaminated - runway 10 seconds later about 780 metres beyond the threshold at a speed of 133 KCAS. Speedbrakes deployed, the autobrakes activated and the thrust levers were brought to reverse idle. With the speed at 103 KCAS and with 1500 metres of runway remaining, the PF manually stowed the speedbrakes, which disarmed the autobrakes. Nine seconds later with the speed at 92 KCAS, he began manual braking with just over 1,000 metres of runway remaining and then, with just under 700 metres of runway remaining, this was increased to maximum brake pressure and maximum reverse thrust was selected. From that point, an overrun was anticipated and the aircraft was steered to the right of the runway centreline to proactively avoid the runway end lights and the approach lighting system for the opposite runway direction. As the speed reduced through 55 knots KCAS there were just under 170 metres of runway remaining and with a speed of approximately 39 knots KCAS, the aircraft departed the