following the occurrence suggests that non-standard use of deceleration devices is more prevalent on runways where aircraft are typically instructed to exit at the end of the runway". This suggests that in these cases, pilots may be inclined to maintain speed and decelerate at the end of the runway rather than decelerating normally through the early application of all available deceleration devices and then taxiing the aircraft to the end-of-runway exit at a normal taxi speed. It was concluded that if pilots limit the use of deceleration devices to expedite an exit at the end of a runway, whether as a preference or because of an explicit instruction to do so, then the risk that the landing will result in a runway overrun is liable to be increased. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The knowledge that precipitation was intensifying at the airport did not prompt the crew to expect that the runway could be contaminated rather than just wet, and, as a result, they continued to expect good braking performance on a wet runway.. The crew calculated an inaccurate target approach speed and crossed the threshold 15 knots faster than recommended. Combined with a tailwind and a slightly high flare, this resulted in the aircraft touching down beyond the normal touchdown zone, thus reducing the amount of runway available for stopping.. The Captain delayed the selection of maximum thrust by approximately 25 seconds after touchdown. Consequently, the distance required to stop the aircraft increased.. The Captain stowed the aircraft’s speedbrakes above the speed of 80 knots specified in WestJet’s standard operating procedures, and they were not redeployed during the landing roll. This reduced the normal load on the gear and the aerodynamic drag. Consequently, the deceleration rate decreased, which increased the stopping distance.. The instruction to exit at the end of the runway contributed to the minimal use of deceleration devices early in the landing roll, as the crew were attempting to expedite their exit at the end of Runway 24L.. It is likely that viscous hydroplaning occurred when the aircraft was approaching the end of the runway, as shown by the lack of deceleration once maximum braking was applied. Combined with the downslope, this reduced the possibility of stopping on the runway.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If operators do not consider making more conservative time-of-arrival assessments when active heavy precipitation exists, then there is a risk of runway overrun.. If there is no specific guidance on how to assess and report runway surface conditions during non-winter months, then there is a risk that crews will be unable to properly assess landing conditions.. If procedures and guidance do not prompt flight crews to anticipate less-than-good braking conditions on wet runways, then there is a risk that landing distance and aircraft management will be inadequate to provide for safe stopping performance.. If pilots do not identify a point at which a go-around should be initiated if the