the manual brake pressure initially applied was similar to that applied by the autobrake system, the deceleration decreased to 50% of that previously achieved - which was attributable to the absence of speedbrake deployment.. The Thrust Reversers were deployed to reverse idle nearly 3 seconds after touchdown and remained so for approximately 25 seconds. This was re-selected to full reverse 83 knots but engine spool up from idle took 10 seconds by which time there was less than 170 metres of runway remaining and the speed was 55 knots.. It was noted that the runway involved did not have centreline lighting, which had it been installed would have changed from white to alternating white/red at 914 metres from the end and to all red at 305 metres from the end. The runway was not equipped with distance-remaining signage but neither was this required under State Regulations or to meet ICAO standards. It did have a Runway Strip which extended 60 metres beyond the end of the runway and a RESA which was 240 metres long and 152 metres wide, both of which satisfied ICAO Standards. Meteorological data indicated that at the time of the overrun, the rainfall rate was within the range described as heavy rain intensity. However, both the transverse profile and the surface of the runway involved were such as to promote rapid drainage and the best possible braking action during such episodes, although the concrete runway surface was 'wire combed' rather than 'grooved'. Runway friction levels were measured after the overrun and found to be above the applicable regulatory Maintenance Planning Level. Overall, it was concluded that even if heavy rain is occurring, it will not automatically prompt a crew to anticipate poor braking, because in the absence of reports of standing water, a wet runway with an adequately drained surface is generally expected to provide good braking action. The Canadian 'Airman's Information Manual' was noted to include the statement that "the well-drained runways at most major Canadian airports seldom allow pooling of sufficient water for hydroplaning to occur". So the crew’s initial plan for the arrival - using autobrake setting 1 and thrust reversers to provide minimal deceleration - was consistent with this guidance. However, it was noted that after an analysis of landing performance in a number of runway overrun events in the USA, the FAA had concluded that the widely accepted assumption that a wet runway will allow good braking action may not be completely valid. The Administration had therefore warned operators that "30% to 40% of additional stopping distance may be required on runways that are wet but not flooded". This suggested that Operators “should be more conservative when making landing distance assessments in situations where moderate or heavy precipitation is occurring on non-grooved or non-porous friction course (PFC) runways" such as the one in this case and prompt their crews to anticipate less-than-good braking conditions on wet runways in such conditions. Finally, it was noted that "flight data monitoring conducted by WestJet