An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). FDR and CVR data was successfully downloaded and used in the Investigation and equivalent QAR data was made available to the aircraft manufacturer. It was established that the First Officer had been PF. The flight was uneventful until the descent towards Sydney with the AP engaged in VS mode and with “a target airspeed of 235 knots”, when passing 8500 feet QNH a “rapid airspeed increase” was observed. The First Officer reduced the engine power setting and used control wheel steering (CWS) to temporarily disconnect the AP “before manually raising the aircraft’s nose to control the speed”, expecting that these actions would arrest the speed trend. The Captain stated that he had been unsure if the control inputs made would be sufficient to avoid exceeding Vmo (250 KIAS) so he had put one hand on the controls and disconnected the AP in order to raise the nose further. With both pilots making simultaneous nose-up pitch inputs, the rapid pitch up produced a noticeable increase in ‘g’ loading which prompted the First Officer to immediately reverse his control input to nose down. Both pilots then reported noticing that “the controls suddenly felt different and ‘spongy’”. A series of system status warnings were annunciated as it became apparent that the aircraft was “under control at a stable attitude and speed” - it was reported as “being level or in a slight descent at an airspeed of about 230 knots”. One of the warnings was ‘Pitch Disconnect’ indicating that the left and right elevator control systems had uncoupled from each other which allowed independent movement of the left and right elevators via the Captain’s and First Officer’s control columns respectively. After determining that neither column was jammed, it was decided that the Captain would take over as PF for the remainder of the flight which was completed without further event. The upset associated with the occurrence of a flight control disconnect was found to have resulted in the senior Cabin Attendant sustaining serious injury. Recorded flight data showed that there had been no atmospheric turbulence prior to crew intervention. It showed that “in the seconds leading up to the occurrence, there were a number of rapid increases in the recorded airspeed” with the First Officer making “three nose up control inputs” whilst the AP was temporarily disconnected. Just before the pitch disconnect occurred and “shortly before the First Officer made the third nose up input”, a small pitch up input was made on the Captain’s control column and then, when the First Officer reversed his pitch command, the Captain’s pitch up input “increased at about the same rate that the First Officer’s pitch up input decreased and the elevators uncoupled as per design for prevent jamming of the controls”. At disconnect, vertical acceleration was increasing through +2.8g to reach a maximum of 3.34g one second later and aircraft pitch attitude was increasing. The data showed “peak elevator deflections of +10.4° and