-9.3° […] about 0.2 seconds after the pitch disconnect” and that about 0.25 seconds after these peak deflections, the Captain had moved his control column forward until both elevators were in similar positions. It was noted that “due to the data resolution and lack of a parameter that monitored the pilot’s disconnect button, it could not be determined if the autopilot disconnection was due to the load exceedance or the manual disconnection reported by the Captain”. It was noted from the CVR data that the first verbal indication of flight crew awareness of the pitch disconnect was about 6 seconds after the master warning caused by it had activated. Significant structural damage caused to the aircraft by the “large asymmetric elevator deflections” when near to Vmo (which was not exceeded) was not identified until 5 days later during which time the aircraft continued to be operated on the basis that it was airworthy. Examination of the aircraft by investigators and ATR representatives then found extensive damage had been caused to the horizontal stabiliser (some is shown in the annotated photographs below) which included: external damage to both the left and right horizontal stabilisers. fracture of the composite structure around the rear horizontal-to-vertical stabiliser attachment points. fracture of the front spar web. cracking of the horizontal-to-vertical stabiliser attachment support ribs. cracking of the attachment support structure. cracking and delamination of the skin panels at the rear spar.. Following these findings, ATR required that both the horizontal and vertical stabilisers should be replaced before release for any further flight. An analysis based on data from the QAR showed that at the point of control disconnect, the Ultimate Load on the horizontal stabiliser had been exceeded by almost 50% for less than a second. It also showed that the Limit Loads for the vertical load on the horizontal stabiliser, the asymmetric moment on the horizontal stabiliser, the bending moment on the wing and the engine mounts had all been exceeded and that the vertical load on the wing had been reached. In the earlier stages of the Investigation, the ATSB was not aware of any other in-flight pitch disconnect occurrences on ATR 42/72 aircraft so that it was considered existing procedural risk controls would be effective in maintaining a sufficiently low probability of a recurrence. However, when ATR responded to a request for details of any other pitch disconnect events of which they were aware, it became clear that there had been at least three other similar events where simultaneous opposing pitch control inputs had led to a ‘breakout’ of the pitch control system in flight. It was noted that two of these events remain under investigation by “other international agencies” so that verified details are not yet available and it appears that the circumstances surrounding the third event are not fully understood. Once it became known that there had been other in-flight pitch disconnect occurrences, none of which had been the result of following the QRH response to a jammed control system,