it became clear that the likelihood of an inadvertent in-flight pitch disconnect was higher than had first been considered. It was therefore determined that a Safety Issue existed as follows: Inadvertent application of opposing pitch control inputs by flight crew can activate the pitch uncoupling mechanism which, in certain high-energy situations, can result in catastrophic damage to the aircraft structure before crews are able to react.. Safety Action taken has included the following: ATR has: Comprehensively revised FCOM content on “Procedures and Techniques - Flight Controls - Pitch”. Revised FCOM and QRH “Procedures following failure - Flight Control - Pitch Disconnect”. Created a new Job Card for a Detailed Visual Inspection (DVI) to be carried out after any reported pitch system disconnect in flight. Revised the existing Job Card dedicated to the re-clutching of the pitch uncoupling mechanism to require action in accordance with the new DVI requirement after any report of a pitch system disconnection in flight. Revised the AFM Supplement on ‘Ferry Flight with Pitch Elevators Disconnected’. The Company has also contacted all Operators who have previously reported an in-flight pitch disconnect to advise them to carry out the new DVI procedure.. Comprehensively revised FCOM content on “Procedures and Techniques - Flight Controls - Pitch”.. Revised FCOM and QRH “Procedures following failure - Flight Control - Pitch Disconnect”.. Created a new Job Card for a Detailed Visual Inspection (DVI) to be carried out after any reported pitch system disconnect in flight.. Revised the existing Job Card dedicated to the re-clutching of the pitch uncoupling mechanism to require action in accordance with the new DVI requirement after any report of a pitch system disconnection in flight.. Revised the AFM Supplement on ‘Ferry Flight with Pitch Elevators Disconnected’.. The Company has also contacted all Operators who have previously reported an in-flight pitch disconnect to advise them to carry out the new DVI procedure.. Virgin Australia Regional Airlines has: Reviewed and revised (where necessary) policy and procedures associated with descent speeds, handover and takeover procedures, overspeed recovery and on-ground pitch disconnects. Updated maintenance requirements following a pitch disconnect.. Reviewed and revised (where necessary) policy and procedures associated with descent speeds, handover and takeover procedures, overspeed recovery and on-ground pitch disconnects.. Updated maintenance requirements following a pitch disconnect.. The Safety Issue identified has been deemed to be of sufficient magnitude to warrant the release of the Interim Report on which this summary is based and this was published on 15 June 2016.