and when the prompt led the crew to realise their error, a go around was initiated from 46 feet agl. Two seconds later, the 737 passed abeam the runway threshold with just over 850 metres to run to the position of the opposite direction DHC8. The 737 overflew the DHC8 with a 230 feet vertical separation. The final stages of the approach are shown on the two flight path profiles below: It was noted that at the time of the occurrence, actual forward visibility would have been variable because of the prevailing haze and affected by the into-low-sun (21.4ºelevation) direction of the approach to runway 25 already commented on by a previously landed aircraft. This would have been less than the 737 pilots were anticipating and "such that a visual approach was not appropriate as per the Canadian North Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)" - although not to an extent that earlier recognition of the line up error should have been unduly difficult. Nevertheless, on the available evidence, the actual weather conditions had not been VMC. In addition, it was observed that "an unstable approach was continued" and that the crew "did not adhere to standard procedures, which required the monitoring of all available cues during the approach and landing". This was attributed to the fact that both pilots had been looking out the window during the late stages of the approach whereas monitoring by the PM would have been expected to focus on looking inside. It was also noted that the TWR controller had estimated the visibility as higher than that being reported by the AWOS based on their observation of a feature not depicted on the observers visibility chart. As a result, although TWR SOP required that the variable intensity approach lighting 2 should be on at level 4 intensity whenever daylight visibility was less than 4 miles, it had not been - although the PAPIs had been on. It was concluded that this had contributed to the failure to recognise their error until prompted by the DHC8 crew. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors A visual approach was conducted in weather conditions below visual flight rules limits, which resulted in the flight crew experiencing visual illusions and inadvertently identifying Taxiway J as Runway 25. Perceptual confusion occurred during the routine task of identifying the runway. The position of the taxiway south of Runway 25 and its squared-off end, which resembles the end of a runway, contributed to the flight crew identifying Taxiway J as Runway 25.. The controller had assessed the visibility as higher than reported by the automatic weather observation system and, therefore, did not turn on the approach lighting. This contributed to the flight crew not identifying Runway 25.. The flight crew did not adhere to standard operating procedures, which required the monitoring of all available cues during the approach and landing. With both flight crew members looking out the window during the late stages of the approach,