An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was, however noted that "the occurrence was not accurately and promptly reported to the TSB" and that "several days elapsed before the TSB acquired sufficient data to fully understand the severity of the occurrence." Whilst the eventual download of FDR data was successful, the relevant CVR data had been overwritten making it impossible to review crew interaction during final approach. It was noted that the Captain, who was the PF for the approach, had approximately 10,000 hours total flying time including 500 hours on type and that the First Officer had approximately 3800 hours total flying time including about 600 hours on type. Both pilots were familiar with Fort McMurray and had flown there since the opening of a second (southern) parallel taxiway to provide access to the new passenger terminal some four months earlier. It was found that, based on the report of VMC and light winds on the ATIS prior to descent, the crew had briefed for a visual approach to runway 25 with the approach aids set for the ILS. They had initially accepted radar vectors and speed control but had not checked the new ATIS notified as current which gave a visibility of 2.5 miles in haze (the latter being attributable to forest fires in the destination CTZ). The AP and A/T remained engaged as the aircraft captured the ILS LLZ still above the Instrument Landing System (ILS) GS and as the FAF was approached, the aircraft began to level at 3000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings (equivalent to about 1800 feet aal) as a result of the crew having left 3000 feet in the selected altitude window with the altitude acquire mode armed. The A/T increased thrust to maintain speed and soon afterwards the "runway environment" was visually acquired and the Control Wheel Steering (CWS) facility used to manoeuvre the aircraft to the left to line up on what was thought to be runway 25 (but was actually the recently opened southern parallel taxiway 'J') and to increase the rate of descent. With the aircraft at 690 feet agl and close to the applicable Reference Speed (Vref), it was cleared to land whilst descending at 1600 fpm and still 1.7 dots above the ILS GS. Ten seconds later, passing 400 feet agl and descending at about 1200 fpm, the AP and A/T were disconnected. After a further 6 seconds, with the aircraft still aligned with taxiway 'J', the EGPWS annunciated a Mode 5 'Glideslope' Alert as the aircraft descended below the glideslope. The crew asked ATC to "confirm that the runway was clear at this time" and the response was affirmative. A few seconds after this, the crew of a departing Air Canada Express Bombardier DHC 8-400 taxiing on taxiway 'J' in the opposite direction in accordance with instructions issued by the GND Controller transmitted on the TWR frequency that the approaching 737 was lined up with the taxiway. The 737 was at 85 feet agl