An Investigation was carried out by the ATSB. It was was established that, with the aircraft commander as PF, the aircraft had entered Runway 16R via Taxiway ‘G’ with the intention of performing a rolling take off from that intersection using reduced thrust. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data showed that as the aircraft neared this intersection, both engine thrust levers had been advanced together but whilst the left engine N1 had increased to 28%, the right engine N1 had remained steady at 20% RPM, equivalent to Idle. The aircraft had entered the departure runway a groundspeed of 16 knots with the PF advancing the thrust levers and pressing the TO/GA button as the aircraft turned right onto runway heading with 30° still to go to the runway heading. At this point, the left engine N1 was 41% and the right engine N1 was at 24% with no stabilisation in engine acceleration at 40%. Whilst the thrust levers then moved forward equally towards the take-off thrust setting, engine thrust continued to increase more rapidly on the left engine because of its higher initial N1, and the aircraft continued turning to the right. The PF applied maximum left rudder input, but was unable to prevent the aircraft from turning past the runway heading and so retarded the thrust levers to Idle to reject the take off attempt. It was found that just prior to the rejected take off action, the left engine N1 had reached the take-off setting of 98% whereas the right engine N1 had only reached 64% and that a maximum groundspeed of 30 knots had been attained. It was also found that the aircraft commander had not appreciated an increasing thrust asymmetry and had instead attributed difficulty in maintaining directional control as a problem with the nose-wheel steering and reacted accordingly with, eventually, maximum left nosewheel steering tiller deflection before the aircraft stopped. The trajectory of the aircraft and the corresponding FDR parameters are shown on the diagram below taken from the ATSB Investigation Report. The Investigation focused on the nature of acceleration (spool up) on the engines and included the following content, quoted verbatim, and the referenced “Figure 4” reproduced below, in the Investigation Report: “High bypass turbo-fan engines of the type found on modern Boeing 737 aircraft do not accelerate in a linear manner when thrust is increased. The rate of acceleration increases as N1 increases (Figure 4), which was demonstrated by the characteristics of the engines during the acceleration sequence in this incident. The FDR readout depicts an expanded 25-second period across the engines’ thrust changes, showing recorded values of engine fuel flow and fan speeds, comparing the acceleration characteristics of the engines from idle. The red lines depict the characteristics of the right engine that commenced accelerating from an idle N1 setting. The blue lines depict the characteristics of the left engine that commenced accelerating from a higher initial N1 setting. The brown lines represent the acceleration of the right engine, moved 4 seconds earlier