The event was reported to the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC) by Air Niugini the same day but they “did not reveal the full extent of aircraft damage”. Further enquiries by the AIC two days later established that the aircraft had sustained significant damage and that panels had been lost at sea and an Investigation was immediately commenced. Recorded data from the FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had 24,381 hours total flying time including 5,217 hours on type and the First Officer had 1,257 hours total flying time, all but 242 of them on type. It was found that after the explosion, the crew had reduced airspeed to not more than 130 knots and descended to remain below 15,000 feet in accordance with the applicable QRH drill for open main gear doors. A full examination of the consequences of the tyre explosion within the closed wheel well disclosed that some panels had been lost from the engine at the time of the explosion and that the nacelle area had been extensively damaged as a result of the tyre exploding up through the top of it (see the illustration below). The inner left main wheel was disassembled and the tyre removed and sent to the tyre manufacturer in Thailand for further examination to determine the cause of the failure. The NDT of the wheel hub found that it was undamaged. A detailed examination of the tyre found no sign of any manufacturing anomaly but the nature of the damage provided clear evidence of hard impact damage attributable to contact with FOD at specific locations on the outer side wall of the tyre. It was considered that the casing plies in the impacted area of the affected tyre had fractured after departure from Port Moresby and the fracture had then propagated from the outer-facing tyre sidewall along the cord direction to the tread area and then to the inner-facing sidewall. The significantly damaged and weakened tyre casing and the increasing pressure differential between the inside of the tyre and the steadily reducing atmospheric pressure had then caused the tyre to blow out explosively. The Investigation noted that the tyre had exploded during the second sector of the day and that the aircraft had arrived at Port Moresby from Bulolo where the aircraft had night-stopped. Prior to departure from Port Moresby, the aircraft had been inspected and released to service by the duty licensed engineer and an external inspection had been performed by the flight crew. Both inspections required examination of the external condition of the wheels and tyres to confirm their airworthiness. Given the finding that FOD had been the cause of loss of tyre integrity and that the Port Moresby runway had been routinely subjected to inspection during the morning of the takeoff including soon after it, attention had turned to the 1460 metre-long gravel surface strip at Bulolo. A detailed inspection of the condition