of this strip six days after the event found that just under a year earlier, a major part but not all of the runway had been compacted with coarse gravel, but that since then, continuous exposure to the weather elements had led to the erosion of the gravel surface which had exposed “large embedded stones at several locations along the runway”. In several places, depressions in the runway surface were also evident. It was noted that the Bulolo aerodrome was operated under a 5 year licence which was due to expire in June 2018. Under this arrangement, the Licensor retained responsibility for administrative matters and “support” of the Licensee and was expected to “maintain and comply with all relevant safety regulations under Part 139 of the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) Civil Aviation Rules (CARs)”. For its part, the Licensee was obliged to carry out and pay for maintenance of the airport facility and its runway and to carry out and complete “specified airport works”. The latter had included the removal of vegetation identified (by the Licensee or CASA) as hazardous or potentially hazardous to aircraft using the airport and in particular “grading and compacting of the runway surface” so that it was “maintained to a standard in accordance with CASA requirements and the CARs”. It was determined that: the FOD impact damage which had weakened the left inner main wheel tyre occurred at Bulolo.. it is likely that this FOD damage occurred when a jagged rock impacted the non-serial sidewall of the No 2 tyre during the landing at Bulolo on 3 August 2017.. the Bulolo airport licensee had neglected its primary responsibility of properly maintaining the airstrip to provide for safe landings and takeoffs of aircraft, in particular those aircraft operated by Link PNG aircraft.. Safety Action taken during the Investigation and known to it was noted to have included the non-renewal by the CASA of the Aerodrome Operating Certificate required under Part 139 of the CARs following its lapse soon after the investigated event. The Final Report was approved on 4 January 2018 and subsequently published. No Safety Recommendations were made.