on it and showed that one of the fuel tubes was cracked and displaced. The unit was then sent to the manufacturer’s facility for further examination. A test to simulate its operation with thrust set to flight idle indicated that the breach found would have leaked fuel at a rate of around 14kg/minute. When part of the outer casing of the unit was removed, the cracked tube was visible - see the illustration below. It was found that the GE-90-115B engine had a history of leaking fuel tubes in its MFOHEs despite this component being assigned an unlimited life with no periodic inspection requirements. Investigation of the cause of cracked tubes eventually concluded that a likely cause was variation in their crimping due to the use of hand rather than machine tools which could make some tubes vulnerable to cracking caused by stress concentrations created at the support plate hole edges (again, see the MFOHE illustration below). However, on the basis that the actual damage and consequences of these occurrences, which had included a minor fire in 2014, was not 'serious', the issue of SB 79-0034 in December 2014 only required the removal of the MFOHE for modification at the next scheduled off-wing engine maintenance input. The engine involved in the investigated event had been overhauled 9 months prior to the issue of the SB and had not reached the next scheduled input when the accident occurred. Subsequently, in 2016, GE discovered that unintended diffusion bonding - "a process whereby similar or dissimilar metals can join under high temperature and pressure through the transfer of atoms at the interface between the metals" could occur during the MFOHE manufacturing process and could weaken areas where there was close contact between the fuel tubes and the support plates thus identifying another potential origin of leaking fuel tubes. Given the identification of the MFOHE fuel leak as causal and an understanding of the effects it would have had on the affected engine, the indication of an abnormally low oil quantity during the investigated flight without concurrent oil temperature or oil pressure indications significantly different from normal was reconsidered. It was found from data recorded during the flight that there had been "a sudden increase of engine oil quantity from 21 to 25 units about 14 minutes into the flight" but this elevated reading had only continued for about two seconds before starting to fluctuate and eventually decreasing rapidly to the 1 unit observed by the crew all within a three minute period. It was found that this could be explained by the float in the engine oil tank - used to detect oil quantity - functioning almost normally at first but then, as the fuel circulating through the engine oil system began to foam, it quickly created a mixture of foam and fuel that together had insufficient density to support the float, which then sank to the bottom of the tank causing the low quantity indication. The crew reported that prior to first