fuel / 90% oil mixture when using a combustible gas detector". Three further aspects of the event were reviewed: The decision of the crew not to action the FUEL LEAK checklist was inappropriate given the indicated difference in fuel on board. However it was accepted that this checklist must be "performed with both engines maintained at the same power setting" and that they had set the right engine to idle power setting "in response to the vibration felt as advised by Technical Services personnel" and that there was no applicable procedure for a fuel leak check with the engines at different thrust settings.. The decision to return to Singapore rather than divert en route was based on the diagnosis that there was a faulty oil quantity indication. Since the right engine oil system appeared to be operating normally, it was reasonable to assume that it was safe to continue operating the aircraft for the duration of the return.. The decision not to evacuate was considered at least questionable, although it as accepted that "making a decision to evacuate is not always straightforward". The Operators FCTM was found to recommend that "in a situation that a persistent smoke or a fire which cannot positively be confirmed to be completely extinguished, the safest course of action typically requires […] evacuation". However, it also recommends that "pilots should utilise all available sources of information in making a decision regarding evacuation" and that "key factors to be considered include the urgency of the situation (e.g. possibility of significant injury or loss of life if a significant delay occurs)" and that "in case of doubt, an evacuation should be considered". The Manual also highlights the potential dangers of evacuating into an unknown outside environment where "fire may be spreading rapidly from spilled fuel or other flammable materials, which may endanger the people who have left the aircraft or are still on the escape slides". However, it was observed that "in this occurrence, there were a number of resources that were not used by the flight crew but which could have been of help" which included turning on the taxi camera system, leaning out of the right side flight deck emergency escape window and actively seeking information from the cabin crew.. Whilst accepting the potential influence of the absence of any warning from the aircraft's fire detection system, it was noted that the crew had "depended on the Fire Commander as the sole source of information". It was noted that a narrowing of focus in stressful situations to the extent that alternatives are passively ignored is a well documented phenomenon and that since checklists cannot cover every possible emergency and abnormal situation, "it is therefore all the more critical that pilots develop the ability to always consider alternatives and other resources when they encounter a situation that is not dealt with by any checklist". The Conclusions of the Investigation were formally summarised as follows: The fuel leak in the occurrence flight was a result of a