An Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) and subsequently published under the auspices of the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB) which was formed on 1 August 2016 and comprises the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) and the Marine Safety Investigation Branch (MSIB). FDR, CVR and QAR data were downloaded and all were of good quality. Video footage from airport operator and ARFF vehicle cameras were also available and these were particularly useful in helping to establishing the sequence of events. It was noted that as the aircraft was climbing to its cruising altitude, weather was encountered which necessitated avoidance manoeuvres. Subsequently, about half an hour after take-off and level at FL 300, it was noticed that the EICAS oil quantity showed 17 units for the left engine but only 1 unit for the right engine. The crew also noticed that the right engine oil pressure was fluctuating between 65 and 70 psi and the right engine oil temperature was 10°C higher than the left engine. Both oil pressure and temperature were within the normal operating range. The crew was unable to find a procedure that addressed the low engine oil quantity situation and initiated contact with Engineering Control. After a series of discussions with them and Technical Services personnel, it was agreed that, in the absence of any other abnormal indications, it would be safe to continue the flight. However, shortly after these conversations had finished, an unusual vibration was felt in the control column and the flight deck floor. It was found that this vibration disappeared when the thrust setting for right engine was reduced. At about the same time, a "burnt smell" was detected in the flight deck but it very quickly disappeared. Engineering Control were advised of the vibrations and it was decided that the aircraft should return to Singapore with the right engine operating at idle power. During this exchange with Engineering, the senior cabin crew advised of a burnt smell detected in the cabin, especially in the forward area where wet towels had been distributed to passengers to hold over their nose and breathe through. In response, the right engine bleed system was switched off. The aircraft was turned around and the descent to 17,000 feet (which would have been required for single engine operations) was commenced. Once level, the right engine thrust was reduced to Flight Idle. When the cabin crew reported that the burnt smell in the cabin was still present, the right air conditioning pack and re-circulating fans were switched off and soon after this, the smell "subsided". When still about 90 minutes from Singapore, the EICAS 'FUEL DISAGREE' message appeared and the crew consulted the corresponding Checklist. This "suggested four scenarios in which a fuel leak should be suspected" and when the flight crew should perform the FUEL LEAK Checklist, one of which was when the Fuel Remaining figure based on tank contents was less than the FMS 'Fuel Calculated' figure based on independent