cracked tube within the MFOHE of the right engine. Fuel leaked into various areas of the engine through the core of the engine and the fan duct.. When the thrust reverser was deployed during landing, the conditions at the area aft of the turkey feather seal of the core exhaust nozzle resulted in hot surface ignition of the fuel that had leaked from the MFOHE into the various areas of the right engine.. As the fire developed, it propagated towards the forward section of the engine and entered the core of the engine through the fan booster inlet.. The methods that were used to detect fuel leakage into the engine system by the operator and engine manufacturer were not able to detect the fuel leak that resulted from the cracked tube within the MFOHE when it occurred in that event flight.. The engine manufacturer issued SB 79-0034 to address the issue of possible fuel leak in the MFOHE. The deadline for incorporating the SB was determined using the (FAA process known as) Continued Airworthiness Assessment Methodologies. The action called for by the SB was not performed on the occurrence engine as the SB was issued after the engine’s last maintenance.. In the course of the Investigation, the engine and MFOHE manufacturers have identified that diffusion bonding can potentially cause any tube in the MFOHE to crack.. The flight crew did not execute the steps in the FUEL DISAGREE checklist correctly.. The flight crew depended on the fire commander as their sole information source when deciding whether an evacuation was needed. Several other resources which could have aided them in making their decision were not utilised.. Safety Action taken during the conduct of and known to the Investigation included the following: General Electric has developed an enhanced engine monitoring algorithm that can detect a MFOHE fuel leak using post-flight data processing of engine oil system consumption, temperature and pressure. They have also developed an enhanced algorithm which is able to detect a MFOHE fuel leak in-flight based on the engine oil system temperature, pressure and quantity and this has been incorporated into the Company's overall condition monitoring system. In both cases, any operator affected will be alerted.. Boeing has revised the Aircraft Condition Monitoring Function software in-flight procedure to incorporate the engine manufacturer’s enhanced algorithm to detect a MFOHE fuel leak in-flight. They have also developed an interim in-flight procedure to be used in the event that an in-flight MFOHE fuel leak is suspected which is intended to minimise the possibility of a fire after landing and this information has been disseminated to all affected operators.. Singapore Airlines has completed implementation of SB 79-0034 to upgrade the affected MFOHEs on its GE90-115B engines and to date has not recorded any instances of leaks in the modified components.. The Singapore Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Service has made changes to its communication protocols to require its personnel use appropriate radio communication phraseology and tone in the delivery of key messages when communicating