methodology which was the case by a margin of 4 tonnes. However, after considering the unusual situation they were in - one engine at idle thrust and no longer on the flight planned route - and making some approximate calculations of their own, the crew "concluded that the FUEL DISAGREE Message was a spurious one and that there was no need to proceed with the FUEL LEAK Checklist". After dumping 41.5 tonnes of fuel to bring the landing weight within the AFM maximum, an uneventful approach was flown to a touchdown 4 hours 25 minutes after take-off. Then, "about 20 seconds after the thrust reversers on both engines were deployed, the occupants in the cabin heard two loud bangs, accompanied by two flashes, originating from the right engine area. At the same time, the flight crew heard a soft thud". ARFF personnel who were on precautionary standby for the landing saw fire at the right engine and informed TWR who informed the flight crew and told them to stop the aircraft on the runway at RET E7. No engine fire warnings were annunciated in the flight deck. The first ARFF tender arrived at the aircraft after about a minute and began discharging foam at the right engine. The Fire Commander and the Captain quickly established direct contact on the designated emergency radio frequency. On being told that the fire crews were "still trying to contain the fire", the Captain asked for confirmation that an emergency evacuation from the left side should be commenced but was told to standby by the Fire Commander who reported afterwards having been confident that the fire would not affect the fuselage and could be brought under control. After about three minutes, this had been achieved, although there was a brief flare up three minutes after that which was quickly dealt with. Disembarkation of all occupants began 20 minutes after landing using mobile stairs positioned at door 1L and took 20 minutes. Substantial heat damage to the aircraft included to the core of the right engine and to portions of its cowlings as well as to the right wing area directly behind and outboard of the engine. There was no damage to the fuselage or left wing, nor to the right side cabin windows closest to the fire. A small area of the runway surface measuring about 2.5 metres x 1.5 metres was found to have been damaged by a fuel-fed fire beneath the right wing. Once it was possible to begin examination of the remains of the right engine, it was quickly found that the oil tank was full of jet fuel and that fluid samples taken from various engine oil drain locations also contained jet fuel. As fuel was also found in other parts of the engine, the Main Fuel Oil Heat Exchanger (MFOHE) was removed for further testing and examination. Preliminary pressure testing confirmed that there was an internal leak between the oil and fuel flow circulation paths. A CT scan was performed