noticing the low oil quantity indication, they had been focused on weather avoidance manoeuvres which it was observed would have made it easy to miss the indicated oil quantity which occurred prior to the appearance of the low level indication. It was also concluded that the slight but sustained increase in the oil temperature indication which had accompanied the low oil quantity indication could be accounted for by the fact that fuel is not as efficient as oil for engine lubrication and had leaked into the oil system at a much higher pressure (between 400 and 1,600 psi) than of the engine oil (about 100 psi) and would have quickly displaced much of the oil in the system. It was considered that the spread of fuel throughout the engine which would have occurred once the leak became significant would have continued throughout the return to Singapore but the absence of fire whilst the aircraft was airborne could be attributed to "the high velocity of the airflow over the exterior of the engine which prevented both the ignition and sustained combustion of the leaked fuel". However, as the aircraft landed and the thrust reversers were deployed, the airflow over the core exhaust nozzle would have been significantly reduced with the area just aft of it experiencing the most significant airflow at the same time as fuel accumulated in the fan duct was distributed over a wide area of the lower wing surface. The Investigation concluded that "the disrupted airflow, the mixture of accumulated fuel on the core exhaust nozzle and fuel in the airflow would have been sufficiently heated to the point of ignition". The absence of any fire warning on the flight deck was explained by the fact that a fire at the exterior of the engine is highly visible, and no fire detection elements are located outside the engine cowlings so that the flight crew can expect to be alerted to such a fire only when it is seen by either those in the cabin or a person outside and near enough to the aircraft - in this case the ARFF commander who "swiftly alerted the Control Tower who in turn alerted the flight crew". In terms of any opportunity there might be to detect the early stages of a MFOHE leak, it was found that the pre-flight check specified in the AMM involved engine oil servicing. This requires removal of the engine oil tank cap "and sniffing with the nose for fuel odour". The technician who did this check prior to the accident flight stated that he had not detected any fuel odour. It was noted that an AMM alternative to sniffing with one's nose was use of a combustible gas detector. The engine manufacturer reported having conducted an informal study in which it was found that whilst "a person was generally able to detect fuel odour in the case of a 50% fuel / 50% oil mixture, the presence of fuel could be detected in a 10%