with flight crews.. A total of seventeen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation in two batches, one issued early in the Investigation and one at its conclusion. On 25 July 2016, 4 Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that General Electric as the holder of the engine type certificate, should review the need to accelerate the implementation of the main fuel oil heat exchanger service bulletin to ensure no hazardous effect or fire can arise as a result of fuel leakage into the engine oil system. [R-2016-001]. that the FAA should require the engine manufacturer, as holder of the engine type certificate, to review the need to accelerate the implementation of the main fuel oil heat exchanger service bulletin to ensure no hazardous effect or fire can arise as a result of fuel leakage into the engine oil system. [R-2016-002]. that Boeing should review the need for interim operational procedures in the event a flight crew encounters a similar fuel leak situation in-flight. [R-2016-003]. that the FAA should require the aircraft manufacturer review the need for interim operational procedures in the event a flight crew encounters a similar fuel leak situation in-flight. [R-2016-004]. On completion of the Investigation, a further 13 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Singapore Airlines should review its training programme to develop its pilots’ ability to always consider alternatives and other resources when they encounter a situation that is not dealt with by any checklist. [RA-2017-012]. that Singapore Airlines should ensure that its pilots are able to correctly perform the actions called for in the emergency and non-normal checklists. [RA-2017-013]. that General Electric should conduct in-depth studies to understand if cracks may develop in the crimped areas of other tubes over time. [RA-2017-0014]. that the FAA should consider requiring the engine manufacturer to conduct further in-depth studies to better understand if there can be other ways the MFOHE can fail over the expected operating lifespan. [RA-2017-015]. that General Electric should evaluate the need to periodically inspect the internal components of the MFOHE. [RA-2017-0016]. that the FAA should consider requiring the engine manufacturer to evaluate the need for periodic inspection of the internal components of the MFOHE. [RA-2017-017]. that Boeing should review the use of a combustible gas detector as the preferred means of fuel detection during engine oil servicing instead of relying on maintenance personnel’s sense of smell to detect fuel odour. [RA-2017-018]. that the FAA should consider requiring the aircraft manufacturer review the use of combustible gas detectors as the preferred means of fuel detection during engine oil servicing instead of relying on maintenance personnel’s sense of smell to detect fuel odour. [RA-2017-019]. that Singapore Airlines should consider the detection of fuel during engine oil servicing by using combustible gas detector as the preferred method, instead of relying on maintenance personnel’s sense of smell to detect fuel odour. [RA-2017-020]. that the CAA Singapore should consider requiring Singapore’s airline operators to use combustible gas detector to detect the presence of fuel