suppression system removed electrical power from the recirculation fans, which prevented further arcing and damage to the structural carbon fibre beam, support brackets and wiring.. even though there was a significant amount of soot and electrical arcing, de-energising the electrical circuit manually before sufficient current went to ground negated the Electrical Load Control Unit from tripping.. it was likely that once the electrical circuit involved was no longer live, the smoke had also stopped.. on this occasion, discharging the forward lower deck hold fire bottles, although procedurally correct, had nil effect because the source of the electrical arcing was in the sealed zone between the cargo ceiling panel and the passenger floor compartment, not in the hold itself.. an incorrectly routed electrical wiring harness had led, over several years, to it chafing against the forward hold ceiling liner retainer screws with electrical current from the chafed wire then dispersing through the passenger floor carbon fibre beam through which it passed.. the electrical current generated sufficient heat for 14 of the cargo ceiling ‘PEEK’ resin standoff brackets to be heat damaged and several areas of the structural carbon fibre beam to be chafed and delaminated.. the smoke generated from the arcing was of such a magnitude that it migrated through the forward hold ceiling liner into the forward cargo compartment and activated the forward cargo fire detection system.. Safety Action taken by Boeing as a result of the event and known to the Investigation prior to its completion was noted as having included the following: Issue of a Service Bulletin recommending operators of all Boeing 777 aircraft up to and including aircraft line number 1527 to inspect for and correct similar conditions to those that led to the investigated event - wire bundles in lower deck holds chafing on ceiling liner nut plates, warning that if this service bulletin is not followed “wire chafing can result in a short circuit and a system failure”.. Additional spacing will be added to new aircraft when wire bundles are in close proximity to ceiling liner screws.. All new aircraft with effect from production line number 1529 are being inspected for correct installation of wire bundle runs.. The Safety Message derived from this Investigation was formally recorded as follows: “Despite complex systems of design and manufacturing, training, and quality control, errors do occur during manufacturing that may not be apparent for some time. In this case, the aircraft was manufactured 4 years prior to the incident. While this was a serious incident, the severity of the damage sustained was minimised through regulatory design requirements, material composition, system protections and crew actions. In response to this, and four other incidents, the aircraft manufacturer utilised their system of communication to alert all operators of the issue and took actions in an effort to prevent reoccurrence. Regardless of this, operators and maintenance providers are another line of defence for detecting errors. Due diligence during scheduled aircraft maintenance and defect rectification will assist with ensuring that aircraft systems meet