An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that with the relief crew in charge of the aircraft, a burning smell had been detected coming from an air vent. After checking with cabin crew in the forward galley that there was no similar burning smell there, two other members of the cabin crew were asked to enter the flight deck and they confirmed the presence of a burning smell there. At around this time, a fire warning was activated accompanied by an EICAS message indicating that the location was the forward cargo hold. The corresponding Check List was completed and, a MAYDAY declared and a diversion to Adelaide, the nearest suitable airport, was commenced. Soon after this, the primary flight crew, who had just completed their scheduled rest period, re-entered the flight deck and were briefed on the situation and then, as planned, assumed control. The relief flight crew remained on the flight deck to provide assistance. A rapid descent to FL 125 was made and ATC were advised that, if smoke or fire from the forward cargo hold was confirmed by emergency services on inspection after landing, they would order an emergency evacuation of the aircraft on the runway. Almost 50 minutes after the burning smell had initially been detected, an uneventful landing was made at Adelaide. After the aircraft had stopped on the runway, airport emergency services carried out a general inspection of the exterior of the aircraft in the vicinity of the forward hold and advised the flight crew that they had not observed any signs of smoke or fire emanating from the aircraft. The aircraft was then taxied clear of the runway and stopped on the exit taxiway where a more detailed external inspection of the aircraft using a thermal imaging camera was conducted. This found no hot spots which might have indicated that there was an on-going fire in the forward cargo compartment and on receipt of this information, the Captain decided that a precautionary rapid disembarkation was appropriate. This was achieved in a controlled manner using mobile boarding steps. Once the contents of the forward hold had been removed, the hold was inspected for evidence of fire by maintenance engineers. A small quantity of soot was found between a fibreglass ceiling panel and some fibreglass joint sealing tape and when the panels in that area and below it in the hold side wall were removed, more soot was found and further inspection identified heat damage and a chafed 115-volt electrical wire in a wiring loom which supplied power to the right lower flight deck recirculation fan. This chafing had enabled the wire core to come in contact with a ceiling panel retainer screw where it passed through the stand-off brackets and carbon fibre floor beam. After temporary repairs to the wiring had been made and floor beam damage evaluated, regulatory approval was given for a non-revenue position flight back to the UAE for further inspections and permanent