repairs. Floor beam, web and wiring soot-covered and damaged shown with the ceiling panel open. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was subsequently found that the 115 volt wire bundle involved had been incorrectly routed and that it was this which had eventually led to it coming into contact with the screws and nut plates used to attach the cargo-ceiling panel to the ceiling standoff clips. Heat damage was found to have occurred to the electrical wiring, to fourteen of the cargo ceiling panel standoff clips and to sections of the carbon fibre beam web and beam flange in the vicinity. The latter were also found to be between 6 and 7 percent delaminated in three locations due to electrical current tracking. Boeing determined that the incorrect position of the wiring loom was likely to have occurred during assembly of the aircraft in 2013 and noted that this was the fifth incident involving cargo hold wire chafing and arcing in Boeing 777 aircraft known to them but the first which had triggered the cargo hold fire warning system in flight. The cause of all five of these incidents had been incorrect installation of the wiring loom involved during manufacture. It was noted that in the event being investigated, the Electrical Load Control Unit (ELCU) which is supposed to trip and disable the wiring to the recirculation fan wiring system if it is subjected to differential or overcurrent loading had not done so. Since this ELCU was subsequently found to be functioning correctly, it was suspected that the chafed wire may have been intermittently shorting to earth through the panel stand-off clips because the insulation properties of the material they were made of - polyetheretherketone resin (PEEK) - had prevented sufficient current reaching the ELCU to trigger its trip threshold. It was also suspected that when the crew armed the forward hold fire switches as part of the prescribed response to the EICAS fire warning, the chafed wire within the affected loom had been de-energised, thereby preventing further current flow and short circuiting. It was also noted that materials used in the construction of the space between the passenger cabin floor and the lower deck cargo hold ceiling such as electrical wire and cable insulation are required to be (at least) self-extinguishing and that the cargo liner panels themselves are an integral part of passive lower deck hold fire protection. Boeing advised having received reports of five separate in-service events where a ceiling liner screw in the forward cargo compartment was found in contact with a wire bundle, resulting in a short to ground that damaged cargo ceiling standoffs, the wire bundle, and the floor beam in some cases. It was noted that wiring looms which do not have the correct clearance from the ceiling liner screws, can result in chafing causing exposed conductors and shorting. the flight crew identified a burning smell in the flight deck and completed the appropriate actions to manage the situation.. arming the forward cargo fire