This introductory article summarises SKYbrary’s resources for continual learning about human factors in aviation as of 2020. The subject remains a fascinating field of knowledge that influences risk management and the prevention of aircraft accidents and incidents. Caren Wenner, manager of human factors and statistics at Sandia National Laboratories in the United States, recently said in a conference presentation: “Structurally sound aircraft plummet to Earth, ships run aground in calm seas, industrial machines run awry, and the instruments of medical science maim and kill unsuspecting patients, all because of incompatibilities between the way things are designed and the way people perceive, think, and act. (Casey, 1993)” When humans perish or suffer serious injuries in a crash, troubling questions inevitably arise about threats, errors and circumstances that destroyed the aircraft. How did this tragedy happen if those responsible ostensibly knew all about safety of flight? What broke down among individuals and organisations? Did failures to recognise risks inexplicably occur? How could experts lose their situational awareness? What distracted their attention from priceless lessons learned? Human factors knowledge — when properly learned, applied and respected — holds the keys to reasonable answers. At the least, “HF” concepts, principles, insights and common language help people collaborate and speak truthfully about how to mitigate risks, and in the worst case, to logically overcome catastrophes. Twenty years ago, Curt Graeber, then chief engineer, Human Factors Engineering, at Boeing Commercial Airplanes, predicted focal points for human factors engineers. In Boeing AERO, Graeber said, “Despite rapid gains in technology, humans are ultimately responsible for ensuring the success and safety of the aviation industry. They must continue to be knowledgeable, flexible, dedicated, and efficient while exercising good judgment. … Because technology continues to evolve faster than the ability to predict how humans will interact with it, the industry can no longer depend as much on experience and intuition to guide decisions related to human performance. … By continuously studying the interface between human performance and commercial airplanes, Boeing continues to help operators apply the latest human factors knowledge for increased flight safety.”