A Commission for Investigation of an Aviation Occurrence was appointed by order of the Minister of Transport. It was found that the TWR controller had not issued the instruction to the A320 to hold clear of the runway whilst expecting an immediate take off using the correct terminology and also that the A320 crew had failed to read it back fully, but had not the been challenged to do so by TWR. It was noted that the runway involved, runway 27, was a recently opened one, displaced to the east of the former runway which had "changed the operational conditions". A new Terminal had been constructed at the same time and was located "in such a way that it hides about 300 - 320m of the runway in the observation sector of the air traffic controller to the East". In the absence of compensatory arrangements, this had made the task of the TWR controller more difficult. It was found that pilot line training had been taking place on the A320 with a Training Captain as aircraft commander accompanied by two First Officers. However, during the investigation Air France submitted documentation which it was considered that showed that neither First Officer had "possess(ed) type rating for A320 aircraft on the day of aviation occurrence" and noted that on the day the Official Report had been finalised "the Commission hadn’t receive any answer from Air France why the two first officers had no type rating for A320 aircraft in their licenses on the day of the aviation occurrence" and had "assumed the two First Officers were trainees" with "no safety pilot onboard". The formally stated Conclusions of the Commission were as follows: The air traffic controller at Sofia Tower was hampered in looking after aircraft movements in the manoeuvring area of Sofia Airport visually from their workstation.. The technical equipment at the workstation in Sofia Tower is of poor quality and this hampers the ATCO.. The workstation at Sofia Tower should be assessed from ergonomic point of view.. The ATCO at the workstation in Sofia Tower didn’t require full acknowledgement of a basic instruction , which is a violation of air traffic service procedures.. The crew of A320 aircraft didn’t maintain awareness of the traffic situation at Sofia Airport The commander of the A320 aircraft didn’t correctly recollect the circumstances which led to the conflict situation created by the crew.. During the flight planning the requirements of JAR-OPS 1.940, Para (a), p.1 & 3 were not met:. - The two pilots had no type rating for A320 aircraft; - There was no safety pilot on board. The Commission concluded that the Main Cause of the incident was "inattention by the TWR ATC controller and by the crew of A320 aircraft during movement on the manoeuvring area of the airfield". Accompanying Causes were identified as: The tower of Sofia Airport doesn’t correspond to the new layout of RWY 27 and Terminal No 2.. The technical equipment at the workstation in Sofia Tower is