Pushback occurrences are those which whilst the aircraft is being pushed off the gate and positioned in the taxi lane to either taxi under its own power or be towed to another location. The most common occurrences involve the pushback aircraft striking another aircraft, object or vehicle but that aircraft can also be struck by other aircraft or vehicles manoeuvring on the apron. Some of the more common occurrences include: Use of inappropriate equipment - use of incorrect towbar or inappropriate tug can result in the aircraft being struck and damaged by the tug as it manoeuvres. Commencing pushback prior to retracting the Passenger Boarding Bridge - this can result in door and fuselage damage. Commencing pushback without clearance or in the wrong sequence - commencing push without clearance or not in accordance with the cleared sequence could result in collision. Pushing back without wing and tail "walkers" - the tug operator cannot adequately judge the wing and tail clearances of a large aircraft when conducting a pushback. Use of the appropriate number of guides is essential to prevent incident. Inappropriate engine power settings during pushback - whilst normal engine start during pushback is routine, actions, such as a cross-bleed start, which involve high power settings should not be undertaken until the push is complete. Doing otherwise could result in the tug operator losing directional control of the aircraft, shearing of the towbar safety pin and/or collision of the aircraft with the tug or other object. Simultaneous pushback from close or adjacent gates - gate proximity and configuration can result in loss of separation and possible collision of aircraft during concurrent pushback. Commencement of taxi before equipment is clear - In many cases, it is not possible to see the connected pushback equipment and crew from the flight deck. Crews must ensure that all equipment has been disconnected and moved to a safe location and that all personnel are clear prior to commencing taxi.