at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) inform flight personnel, the air training centre staff and ATC officers of the results of this investigation at their subject-oriented debriefing meetings.. that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) considers the possibility of expediting the Russian Federation’s transition to flight operations on QNH.. that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) draws the attention of organisations engaged in the testing of aviation personnel for their compliance with the ICAO Language Proficiency Requirements to the need for enhanced monitoring of these rating / examining these activities, as well as the need to further develop measures to exclude the assignment of the ICAO language proficiency levels to persons, whose competence does not meet the corresponding requirements.. that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) draws the attention of the air navigation service providers to the need for enhanced monitoring of responsibilities of instructor personnel who are engaged in the officers’ simulator training, inter alia, of the adherence to the R/T rules in English.. that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA), in association with Roshydromet and the State ATM Corporation, organise training for ATC and meteorological services officers on the procedure for communicating information on windshear to flight crews.. that the Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA), in view of the position of the aircraft manufacturer that the Boeing 737-800 operational documentation assumes that pilots’ previous experience of operating multiengine jet aircraft means that they are familiar with the basic systems and basic airmanship relevant to such aircraft, assesses the risks of pilot type rating approval if such an approval is the first jet multi-engine aircraft in the pilot’s career (and) if required amend the current regulations (and) assess the applicability of this safety recommendation in respect of other aircraft types.. that Flydubai conduct pilot training on the specific aspects of the operation of the manual stabiliser trim.. that Flydubai considers the practicability of changing the HUD Model 4000 changing to the Model 6000 STC ST02522SE) to equip both pilot positions.. that Flydubai, in association with the aircraft and HGS manufacturer, considers the practicability of developing additional instructional guidelines on use of the HUD at the different stages of flight.. that Flydubai considers the practicability of elaborating their pilot training programmes to allow for the incorporation of practical familiarisation (training) in upset conditions, including zero and negative g states.. that Flydubai considers the practicability of amending their OM to include the criteria for determining psychological incapacitation of a pilot (in flight) and the respective recommended actions in such circumstances.. that Flydubai considers the practicability of elaborating their SOPs to include a requirement for the PF to callout the next intended manoeuvre (for example Go-Around, Windshear Escape Manoeuvre).. that Flydubai considers the practicability of elaborating their SOPs to include a requirement to monitor of the duration of stabiliser trim inputs and the current stabiliser position.. that Flydubai evaluates the possible risks associated with the partial blocking of the PFD when there is