followed by the near-zero and negative g as a steep (40°) descent developed. After 500 feet of this descent, the airspeed had increased to 280 knots and was still rising. The CVR data at this time showed that the First Officer realised that the hazardous situation was emerging and had “desperately, with the increasing anxiety in his voice”, tried to get the Captain to pull back on the control column to recover the situation and prevent an accident. However in the absence of any response, the Investigation concluded that by this time, the Captain had no longer heard the First Officer’s calls and “had fully lost the control of the situation, as well as the capability to control the aircraft”. For a few more seconds, it was calculated that had the control column been placed in a fully back position and kept there, then “the aircraft could have been recovered from descent with a sufficient height margin” but although the First Officer eventually began to pull on the control column, ground impact was only 6 seconds away. An EGPWS PULL UP warning occurred although too late for any response to have been effective at the prevailing 18,000 fpm rate of descent. Impact occurred close to and on the intended landing runway with a nose down pitch of about 50° and a forward speed of approximately 340 knots just one minute after the go around had been initiated. The resultant explosion and fire which occurred completely destroyed the aircraft and killed all on board. The Cause of the accident was determined to have been “an incorrect aircraft configuration and piloting which was followed by the aircraft commander’s loss of situational awareness in night IMC and resulted in a loss of control of the aircraft and its impact with the ground”. A total of 10 Probable Contributory Factors were identified as follows: the presence of turbulence and gusty wind with the parameters, classified as a moderate-to-strong “windshear” that resulted in the need to perform two go-arounds;. the lack of psychological readiness (not go-around minded) of the Captain to perform the second go-around as he had the dominant mindset of landing at the destination aerodrome, formed out of the “emotional distress” following the first unsuccessful approach (despite the runway having been in sight and the aircraft stabilised on the glide path, the Captain had been forced to initiate go-around due to the windshear warning activation), concern on the potential exceedance of the duty time to perform the return flight and the recommendation of the airline on the priority of landing at the destination aerodrome;. the loss of the Captain's leadership of the crew after the initiation of go-around and his “confusion” that led to the impossibility of the on-time transition of the flight mental mode from “approach with landing” into “go-around”;. the absence of a requirement to announce the type of manoeuvre intended when initiating a go-around in the aircraft manufacturer documentation and the airline OM;. the crew’s uncoordinated actions during the second