2009 and 2013 during which time he achieved a command on type. He then qualified as a First Officer in the A320 and worked as a First Officer on that type before joining Flydubai in August 2014 and, after type training covering the 737-300/900, flying as a First Officer on their 737-800 fleet. It was established that the two pilots had not flown together previously nor had either of them flown to Rostov-on-Don before, although the Captain had made 14 previous flights to Russian Federation airports. Eight of those flights had been made since his promotion to Captain. The operator’s Operations Manual (OM) noted the relatively shallow glidepath angle at Rostov (2° 40’) and the necessity to confirm whether QNH or QFE would be used for airport vertical clearances by ATC and required the Captain to perform the approach, landing and takeoff. It was noted from the CVR that the two pilots had conversed operationally exclusively in English but non-operationally, including with a member of the cabin crew, at times in Spanish. The History of the Flight Pre-flight information provided to the crew was as would be expected with the exception that a SIGMET for the Rostov-on-Don FIR which forecast severe turbulence south of 48° N and west of 48° E from ground level up to FL150, an area including the airport, was not provided. The nominated alternates were Volgograd and Trabzon (Turkey). With indications that the First Officer had acted as PF until almost the end of the cruise, made at FL 360, the flight appeared to have proceeded uneventfully. The first relay of the actual weather and runway in use at Rostov was provided by Rostov Control whilst the flight was still at FL 360 and this gave relatively normal conditions except for BKN CB at (the equivalent of) 2,950 feet and a TEMPO of a reduction in visibility from 5km to 1000 metres in a rain shower with runway 22 in use. Still at FL 360, the flight was transferred to another Rostov Control frequency where the controller advised them of the severe turbulence SIGMET but on query from the crew also stated that “no aircraft in the specified area had reported turbulence”. A few minutes later, the flight requested descent and was cleared to FL 190, which was commenced. Due to the time which elapsed due to holding after an initial unsuccessful approach at Rostov (detailed below) it was noted that the time period covered by the CVR did not include the crew briefing for approach and landing. On requesting further descent as the aircraft passed FL 220, the flight was transferred to Rostov Radar and on checking in there was re-cleared to FL 060 and then, as FL 060 was approached was transferred to Rostov APP where re-clearance to 600 metres on QFE 990 - the equivalent of 2250 feet on QNH (the airfield elevation being 259 feet) - was given continuing on the STAR already being followed. Since the operator’s altitude reference system when