and moderate windshear”), to make a second approach. With the corresponding preparations, including a landing briefing having been completed, ATC was advised accordingly and a descent clearance was given. As descent began, the crew noted that the reduced VREF compared to the first approach would give a consequently bigger gap between it and the approach flap 30 VFE if a Windshear Escape Manoeuvre was flown and the Captain said that if another windshear warning occurred, he would respond with the Escape Manoeuvre (unchanged configuration and maximum thrust) rather than fly a normal go around. It was also agreed that ATC would be advised that if the approach was discontinued, a climb to FL 080 would be required and this was done and acknowledged. The descent and vectoring onto the runway 22 ILS LLZ was uneventful and the aircraft became established at a range of 11.5 nm level at an altitude of 2250 feet QNH and was transferred from Radar to TWR. A landing clearance was given with the surface wind velocity given as from 230° at a speed (equivalent to) 23-35 knots. Descent on the ILS GS began at a range of 7nm and after 26 seconds, at an altitude of 2165 feet QNH, the Captain disengaged the AP without giving a reason (which was not required under operator SOPs based on Boeing documentation). Thereafter, he flew the aircraft manually by reference to the HUD whilst the First Officer monitored his actions on his EFIS displays. At 1960 feet QNH, the A/T was disengaged too and landing flap 30 was selected, following which the landing checks were run. As the aircraft passed the 1000 feet QNH, the Captain’s response to the auto-callout was “stabilising now” with the speed slightly above target but reducing and with ILS deviations within the required tolerance. However, as soon as the target approach speed of 153 knots was reached, the combination of an increase in thrust, the Captain’s forward pressure on the control column and gust of wind caused the airspeed to jump 15 knots in one second and in the next two seconds to 23 knots. The First Officer called “check the speed” and the Captain followed this immediately with the call “go around” and set TO/GA (full) thrust as the First Officer acknowledged the call. The go around was initiated from (the equivalent of) 1100 feet QNH with the speed just within flap 30 limits. It was noted by the Investigation that “it cannot be clearly established if the Captain perceived the abrupt increase of speed readings as one of the signs of the windshear encounter”. However, it was noted that according to the QRH, a 15 knot increase in IAS when below 1000 feet represented “an unacceptable flight path deviation” which might be “one of the signs of a windshear encounter or as the ordinary sign of an unstabilised approach”. The Investigation “assumed that in advancing thrust levers to full thrust the Captain had ‘in his mind’ initiated the Windshear Escape Manoeuvre,