significant forward deflection of the control column and takes measures in mitigation (if required).. that the FAA and Rockwell-Collins consider the practicability of conducting additional flight testing of HGS to include all the anticipated operating conditions and the entire range of g of the aircraft with these systems installed.. that the FAA and Rockwell-Collins, taking into account the views of experts in ergonomics and aviation psychology, consider the practicability of improving the presentation of information on the HUD in order to mitigate the risk of its erroneous interpretation.. that the FAA and Rockwell-Collins, in association with the designers and manufacturers of aircraft equipped with the HGS, consider the practicability of development of the additional guidance on the use of HUD at different stages of flight.. that the FAA and other certification authorities (EASA, IAC Aviation Register, FATA etc.) consider the practicability of amending the applicable regulations with provisions on the mandatory flight assessment of pilot flight parameter indication systems to cover the entire operating range of aircraft which have such systems installed.. that the FAA and other certification authorities (EASA, IAC Aviation Register, FATA etc.) consider the practicability of amending the applicable regulations that determine the procedure for STC issue for systems providing the indication systems to pilots, with the requirement to the manufacturer of the equipment in question to have the hardware/software package available to reproduce the indication as per the FDR data in real time and in the scope, sufficient for the investigation of the aircraft accidents and incidents.. that the Boeing Company considers the practicability of amending the 737NG FCTM Low Altitude Level Off - Low Gross Weight section with more detailed information on the criteria that the pilots should follow to determine the point, when the maximum thrust should be reduced, including go around performance in windshear.. that the Boeing Company considers the practicability of implementing design changes of the stabiliser control system to reduce the risk of pilots setting the stabiliser in-flight to an out-of-trim position.. that the Boeing Company considers the practicability of elaborating SOPs to require the PF to specify the type of go around manoeuvre to be flown (for example ‘go-around’ or ‘windshear escape manoeuvre’).. that the Boeing Company, in association with FAA, assess the possible risks arising if sight of the PFD is partially restricted when there is considerable forward deflection of the control column and take measures to mitigate such risks if necessary.. that the Boeing Company, taking into consideration the information given in the FCOM in respect of the statement that the control column actuated stabilizer trim cutout switches stop operation of the main electric and autopilot trim when control column movement opposes trim direction, in which the term “movement” is ambiguous, considers the practicability of introducing additions and amendments to the FCOM and/or the FCTM to explain the stabiliser control sequence on the Boeing 737 aircraft under different conditions and considers the applicability of this safety recommendation for other aircraft families.. that the Boeing Company consider the practicability