KCAS with the flap lever still at 30° (although with the flaps at 25° due to the automatic load relief), the Captain re-engaged the AP and A/T and the landing gear and flaps were selected up. On transfer to Radar, the flight was instructed to maintain FL 050 and informed that it was now number 2 for another approach. Weather avoidance then followed and the Captain eventually decided, since there was considerable fuel remaining consequent on the operator’s fuel tankering policy, that rather than make a further approach straight away, he would wait to see if the aircraft ahead, an Aeroflot SU95, landed. This flight then made a go around from 1970 feet due to windshear. The Captain decided to take up a hold and await an improvement in the conditions, aware that the available fuel was considerably greater than that required for the preferred destination alternates of Volgograd and Mineralnye Vody, both about 45 minutes flight time away and where a check had confirmed that the present and forecast weather conditions were fine. Whilst manoeuvring under radar control to take up a hold clear of adverse flying conditions, ATC advised that the Aeroflot SU95 had made a second approach which had also ended in a go around due to windshear and then a little later that it had made a third approach and go around and followed this by diverting to Krasnodar. On reaching a suitable holding position the crew requested a climb to FL150 so as to remain clear of what were reported to be moderate icing conditions and once there set the best endurance holding speed of 210 knots. Whilst in the hold, the Captain contacted Company by SATCOM and obtained concurrence with his proposed choice of Mineralnye Vody as the most suitable diversion should this be necessary after one further approach and subject to continuing to hold as long as possible before making this approach if required. The crew then prepared for a further approach and possible go around and for the diversion as agreed if necessary. Various flight deck discussions on what might be described as underlying concerns were evident from the CVR. These included the fact that the flap speed exceedance during the go around meant that a special inspection would be required before further flight and the prospect of being out of hours to operate the return flight to Dubai and having to nightstop in either Rostov or Mineralnye Vody as well as the possibility that if they diverted, they might be required to position empty back to Rostov. The Investigation formed the view that the Captain was strongly motivated to land at Rostov despite being aware that another predictive (or reactive) windshear warning on approach would prevent this. After approximately 1 hour 45 minutes holding the Captain decided, having assessed the apparent weather conditions, which included no further pilot reports of turbulence (although the latest Rostov METAR obtained from the TWR controller had a plain language addition of “on final severe turbulence