below altitudes which use the standard pressure setting is based on the use of QNH and feet, pilots must use conversion tables provided. The Investigation noted that, although after this re-clearance, the crew had mistakenly set the QFE on their altimeter subscales, this had no actual effect on the flight before it was corrected to the QNH equivalent of 1000 other than a slightly higher glideslope interception than intended but concluded that this served to show that “the use of QFE instead of QNH at Russian Federation airports as used in practically all other countries, presents extra risks”. Clearance for an ILS approach to runway 22 was subsequently given by Radar and the aircraft became fully established with evidence that the Captain was using his HUD monitored by the First Officer using conventional instruments. The go around altitude of 600 metres QFE was set (correctly) to the equivalent QNH of 2300 feet. Initially the AP and A/T remained engaged but as the aircraft entered increasing turbulence, the AP disconnected (it was unclear whether this was due to an intentional action on the Captain’s part or a result of the “intensified turbulence”). FDR data showed that the required flight path was maintained accurately with the A/T still engaged. The Captain was recorded as having the runway in sight at a range of just inside 4 nm but this was followed almost immediately by a predictive windshear warning - ‘GO AROUND, WINDSHEAR AHEAD’. Since this was not a warning that windshear had actually been encountered, the QRH-required response was to perform either the ‘Windshear Escape Manoeuvre’ (in which the configuration remains unchanged and maximum thrust is “aggressively applied”) or the normal go around procedure in which it was possible to use a reduced thrust when initiating the go around as well as making the usual configuration changes. At 1,100 feet aal with a recorded 160 KCAS, the Captain initiated a ‘Windshear Escape Manoeuvre’ and as the First Officer advised ATC of the go around, with only 1200 feet to climb before the go around stop altitude of 2,300 feet was reached, the ALT ACQUIRE mode was almost immediately activated. With the ‘windshear ahead’ alert still displayed, thrust was not reduced and the Captain began to move the control column forward to reduce pitch and made a corresponding 4 second stabiliser trim input. The effect was an increase in speed which soon reached the VFE (maximum flap extended airspeed) for flap 30°, the unchanged approach setting, which triggered the automatic load relief retraction of the flaps to 25°. Climb continued above 2,300 feet without clearance and the Captain reduced thrust from 101/102% N1 to 83% N1 in response to the exceedance. With the windshear warning still displayed, further climb was requested from ATC and the flight was re-cleared to (the equivalent of) 2,950 feet QNH and after a further crew request mentioning the windshear warning to (the equivalent of) 5,000 feet QNH. As the aircraft climbed through 3,750 feet with a recorded 176