particularly given that, if he perceived the speed jump in question as associated with an actual windshear encounter, this very manoeuvre is prescribed in the QRH without an alternative”. However, the evidence suggested that in the absence of any clarification beyond the Captain’s “go around” call, it was possible that in almost immediately offering, in a questioning voice “flaps 15?”, the First Officer may have believed that it was his overspeed alert alone which had led to the Captain deciding to go around, especially as the Captain (who should have made the call himself if he was making a normal go around) immediately accepted. This point of confusion in the flight was identified as “most probably” having been “a turning point in the chain of the events”. TWR were immediately advised of the go around and instructed the flight to contact Radar although no contact was subsequently made. The maintenance of maximum thrust as gear was retracted and flaps set to 15° at what was a reduced aircraft weight compared to the first go around led to an even greater increase in the pitch-up moment than had occurred in the earlier go around. This required a pushing force on the control column of up to 23 kg which was then continued for more than 40 seconds whilst the aircraft remained out of trim. FDR data showed that the required 15° pitch up had not been reached initially and that thereafter the achieved pitch had ceased to follow the pitch command bar. The aircraft continued to be flown out of trim indicating that the Captain was “getting behind the aircraft”. Within less than 20 seconds from the beginning of the go around, the First Officer had begun repeatedly prompting the Captain to fly the required 15° nose up. However, “having focused the attention on maintaining pitch, both pilots had completely lost the awareness of the airspeed” which gradually increased to 200 knots, the limit for flaps 15º at which point the load relief system set them to 10º. It was concluded that they were effectively demonstrating ‘tunnel vision’ with the number of parameters being monitored and analysed at a time rapidly decreasing. It was considered that a “critical situation” had existed within 40 seconds of the go around beginning. The aircraft reached a maximum of around 3,350 feet completely out of trim at which point the Captain began an exceptionally sustained (12-second) nose-down electric stabiliser trim input. The Investigation’s recreation of the HUD image as this trimming input commenced showed that the TO/GA pitch target line would have been higher than the aircraft reference symbol and that “most probably, the Captain was seeking to “relieve” his pushing force on the control column, rather than to transition the aircraft to nose down” although he did concurrently return the control column to the neutral position. The result was the rapid (around 6°/second) decrease of pitch and the aircraft quickly transitioning from climb to descent with significant negative ‘g’ (up to - 1.07 g)