An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. Recorded engine data covering the start which was taking place at the time the shear pin failed was obtained from the PCMCIA card in the Fight Data Interface Management Unit. It was noted that the tow was being performed for the aircraft operator by a ground services contractor. It was established that departures from gate 318R required the aircraft to be positioned by a push back tow followed by a pull forward tow so that the aircraft could begin taxiing on Apron taxiway 5 from the position identified as TRP ‘N’. The illustration below shows the pushback/pull forward lines marked on the apron surface (and required to be followed for A320 push-pull towing from gate 318R in the Airport Operator’s Aerodrome Manual) and the estimated actual pushback and pull forward track. A standard three-man ground crew team was used - a supervisor in contact with the flight crew, the tug driver and a wingman. The manoeuvre proceeded uneventfully until the tug was being turned to the right to align the aircraft with the taxiway at TRP ‘N’, the flight crew having been previously cleared by the headset operator to start the right engine. As this start was being carried out, the tow bar shear pin failed and the nose of the aircraft began to overtake the tug. The headset operator immediately instructed the flight crew to shut down the engine because of the perceived risk to the tug driver which they did. Although the tug driver attempted to stop the tug, it was pulled and rotated as the aircraft continued to move forward. The aircraft then turned slightly to the right still attached to the tug via the tow bar and came to a stop with the tug wedged against the right hand side of the starboard engine cowling. The headset operator informed the aircraft crew that a collision (which they had been unaware of as they had not been looking outside the flight deck and the impact of the aircraft had been “hardly noticeable”) had occurred and asked them to set the parking brake. The tow bar shear-pin, which is a protection against mechanical overload of the tow bar, was found to have failed leaving only the head of the pin in place. The detached lower part of the shear pin was not located. It was noted that the tug being used was appropriate to task and was being used with the driver facing the aircraft for the push back and so the pull forward was conducted with the vehicle in reverse and its driver looking over his shoulder to see where they are going. With the aircraft nosewheel steering disconnected, the maximum steering angle is +/-95° either side of the aircraft centreline and this range is marked on the aircraft as a reminder to tug drivers towing aircraft. CCTV data showed that towards the end of the pull forward the aircraft and tug moved in a manner that would