be consistent with a failure of the shear-pin prior to aircraft nose overtaking the tug and that it could be estimated that after this point, the aircraft had continued forward one full aircraft length. The Investigation considered whether there had been any factors which might have increased the chances of the tow bar shear-pin breaking as follows: The Right Engine Start. Engine data indicated that the maximum rotational speeds reached during the start were 54.9% N2 and 16.5% N1 at which point the start was stopped in response to the call from the headset operator. The engine manufacturer advised that nominal engine speeds at Ground Idle were approximately 60% N2 and 19% N1 at which speed the resulting forward thrust “should have been less than 700 pounds”. The Ramp Surface Conditions. It had been raining at the time of the investigated event and the ramp surface was wet. There was no evidence of surface contamination “other than water”. The Ramp Slope. It was found from a ramp survey document that the area where the event occurred had a down-hill slope of approximately 1% which was in accordance with the applicable EASA specifications and guidance material. The integrity of the shear-pin. The shear-pin which broke was a genuine part of the correct specification and there was no evidence that its pre-break condition had led to it breaking when it did. The conduct of the tow. CCTV data confirmed witness statements that the pull forward had been conducted “at a slow walking pace” throughout with the towbar angles achieved not appearing to exceed the applicable limitations for an A320. Pushback and pull forward ground track not in accordance with marked lines. Although the tow did not follow the marked apron guidance line applicable (only) to A320 aircraft, the Investigation was satisfied that the deviation did not result in the exceedance of the applicable aircraft type ground manoeuvring limitations but did result in more acute turning angles by the tractor as it approached Apron Taxiway 5. It was noted that the ground handling contractor involved handles other aircraft types departing this gate which are not required to follow the apron guidance line and information provided to the Investigation indicated that it may have become “custom and practice” for the contractor’ ground crews to manoeuvre all aircraft off. None of these factors were considered contributory to the shear-pin breakage and it was noted that shear-pins sometimes fail under normal load conditions. It was noted that that the shear-pin merely aligns the towbar with the towbar head to which the tug is attached but that without this constrained alignment, it would have been impossible to perform the preceding pushback manoeuvre. It can therefore be concluded that, for undetermined reasons, the shear-pin did fail during the latter stages of the pull forward manoeuvre. The summarised Findings of the Investigation included the following: During the pushback and pull forward the aircraft did not follow the manoeuvring line for Stand 318R but the manoeuvres performed did not appear