position TWR controller was likely to have been a relevant context for his error and that more active oversight from the OJTI may have been required. However, evidence of effective oversight during the duty was evident and it was concluded on the available evidence that his “distraction” from effective oversight which allowed the Student Controller’s clearance error to go unnoticed was collectively a consequence of: Excess confidence in the abilities of the student controller.. Lack of experience as an instructor, since it was his second day acting in that capacity.. Lack of experience of the Assistant present in the TWR, who was on his first day in the job.. Excessive attention to the Assistant, to whom he was giving explanations at the time of the incident.. The overall Conclusion of the Investigation in respect of the ATC aspects of the event was documented as follows: The takeoff instruction was given to the aircraft after establishing visual contact with only a part of the runway (threshold), without the student checking the runway in its entirety and without being able to process the information that was reflected in the strip board, which indicated that the runway was occupied.. There were signs that the student was exposed to an excessive workload, which affected his attention span and his ability to carry out tasks that he normally performed with meticulous attention to detail.. The tower was operating in single-position.. The runway inspection vehicles were not being supervised and monitored in the same way as the aircraft at the airport were.. At the time of the incident, the instructor did not exercise the oversight duties assigned to him, though he had done so earlier.. The assistant carried out an action involving the strip board that resulted in the instructor failing to supervise the instructions given by the student at the time of the incident.. The instructor was overconfident in the student’s abilities due to the latter’s good training record.. The instructor’s relative inexperience contributed to his being distracted at the time of the incident.. The Cause of the event was formally documented as "the Boeing 737 aircraft was issued an incorrect takeoff clearance by the Tower when the runway was occupied by two runway and apron service vehicles that had previously been cleared to enter the runway”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The possible excessive workload for a student controller.. The single-position configuration in the tower.. The lack of effective supervision by the instructor at the time of the incident.. The use of Spanish to communicate with the vehicles, which prevented the crew of the aircraft from understanding their content.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that FERRONATS, as the control tower service provider at Alicante Airport, incorporate the results and findings contained in this investigation report into its training modules for instructors, controllers and assistants in order to reinforce the following aspects: For controllers, in respect of checks prior to authorising the use of