holding point and this time they were instructed to wait. There were two departing aircraft at the runway 10 holding point and three more starting engines on stand. The two aircraft waiting at the holding point were cleared for takeoff in turn and once they were clear, the vehicles were again cleared to enter the runway and this time were able to acknowledge the clearance and proceed. Twenty seconds after this, the Norwegian 737-800 was given clearance to line up and wait on runway 10 and after a further 1½ minutes was cleared for takeoff as it was about to enter the runway as previously cleared. Immediately the clearance was correctly acknowledged, the Student Controller asked the next aircraft waiting to depart if they were ready and on receiving an ‘affirmative’ response cleared it to “line up and wait behind”. By the time this had been acknowledged, it was 20 seconds since the Norwegian 737-800 had been cleared for takeoff and it had begun to roll. At the first opportunity to communicate with TWR, the vehicle driver, who had heard the takeoff clearance being given, called to remind ATC that they were on the runway - the 737 accelerating through 38 knots. Three seconds later, the Student Controller responded instructing the 737 to “reject takeoff” which was acknowledged and the OJTI then took over the position and repeated the instruction, which was again acknowledged. The illustration below shows the aircraft position as each transmission was made. The maximum speed reached as the aircraft initiated its rejected takeoff was 88 knots for two seconds and it was concluded that the crew response had been “immediate and complete”, allowing the aircraft to slow sufficiently to exit the runway at the C2 RET. From the perspective of the two vehicles, they were driving along the runway conducting an inspection which was expected to take up to four minutes. It involved them deviating close to any FOD seen so as to, as much as possible, recover it either without getting out of the vehicle or if this was necessary, not then getting too far from it. In this way, they were able to continuously monitor the radios. Both drivers heard the takeoff clearance being given and “their reaction was immediate and similar - to vacate the runway as quickly as possible”. By the time the driver who was communicating with the TWR was able to get a response, the aircraft was 1500 metres away and accelerating quickly towards his vehicle but as the vehicle entered taxiway C2 to clear the runway, there was still 1350 metres separation from the approaching aircraft although it had not yet been instructed to reject its takeoff. As the vehicle cleared completely onto C2, the aircraft was still 1100 metres away from C2 at a speed of 86 knots and was about to begin slowing down. The vehicle which was directly communicating with TWR was the closer of the two vehicles to the aircraft throughout the episode. The Investigation