noted that although the vehicle driver had communicated with TWR entirely in Spanish as usual, this had not prevented either driver from understanding the controller’s English language takeoff clearance. On the other hand however, the controller’s use of Spanish when clearing the vehicles to enter the runway had prevented the departing aircraft crew from awareness of this and “if this instruction had been given in English, it may have made it more likely for the aircraft crew to detect the conflict and not just the vehicle drivers”. In this respect, it was noted that “there is no requirement to use English in communications between controllers and airport vehicles that are not aircraft (and) there is not even a requirement for controllers to communicate with all aircraft crews in English, since Spain decided not to apply the 2016 requirement to use only English in these communications”, a requirement that would otherwise have been applicable to Alicante because it had more than 50,000 international IFR movements per year. It was noted that this language use problem “has already been identified and decisions have been adopted” although what this remark meant was not clarified. In seeking to understand how the Student Controller had forgotten issuing clearance for the inspection vehicles to enter the runway and then issued a conflicting takeoff clearance, it was noted that excellent visibility prevailed and that the TWR controller working position allowed “complete visibility” of the runway. According to both the Student Controller and the OJTI, the manual strip board had been correctly configured. This was considered to have presented two potential explanations for the oversight: The takeoff clearance was given without looking at the strip board (that is, looking outside), or. The takeoff clearance was given while looking at the strip board (that is, looking inside).. It was assessed that the first of these would have meant that the student had not visually scanned the full length of the runway and the second would have meant that he had not assimilated the information presented on the strip board. Radio communications showed that the takeoff clearance had been issued as the aircraft was entering the runway to line up and wait as previously cleared and it was therefore considered likely that the controller was looking at the aircraft which indicated a focus on the runway threshold rather than its full length. In respect of the strip board, it was assessed that during the line up clearance process, the Student Instructor must have had the 737 strip in his hands. He would also have had to subsequently write the takeoff time on it, which meant that “at some point his eyes must have focused on the bay and specifically on the area of the runway designator, but without taking in the information it was showing (despite the presence of the strip for the vehicles, in a conspicuous colour, immediately above)”. It was considered that the increasing workload to which the Student had been subjected after taking over as the single