An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Relevant CVR data were recorded over during the subsequent flight but the QAR provided useful data and a recording of communications on the TWR frequency and relevant CCTV footage was also available. It was noted that the Captain, a 37 year-old German national who had been PF, had a total of 8,304 flying hours, all but 203 hours had been on type and that the 30 year-old First Officer, a French national, had a total of 1,428 flying hours which included 1,008 hours on type. The 34 year-old Student Controller had recently been licensed as such and was part way through his basic training after being assigned to Alicante TWR some 2½ months previously. He had completed 96 hours of on-the-job training (OJT) and had almost completed Phase 3 of this validation training. His 40 year-old Instructor had a total of 4 years’ experience as a controller, all obtained at Alicante TWR. He had been an Instructor for just three weeks at the time of the event under investigation and it occurred on his second day as an Instructor, his first full day in that role having been the previous day with the same Student Controller. An Assistant tasked with administrative support duties was the only other person present in the control room at the time. The Instructor and Student had taken over TWR duties half an hour prior to the event under investigation. The Instructor had decided that for a short period to begin with (which in the event turned out to be 10 minutes) traffic levels were sufficient to justify operating separate GND and TWR positions so he took GND and the Student took TWR. When the separate GND position was discontinued, the plan was that the Student would continue in the TWR position with the Instructor supervising. During the next 20 minutes, there were 10 departing aircraft and one arriving aircraft. Two vehicles, with which communications would take place in Spanish, were also going to carry out a routine inspection of the airport’s only runway, 10/28, and made their first call to TWR shortly after the Student took over the TWR position. These vehicles were going to carry out the inspection task in tandem with one of the vehicle drivers taking responsibility for all radio communications with TWR and the other driver monitoring. They were cleared to the runway 28 holding point C9 in preparation for their inspection which would, according to the applicable procedures, take place in the opposite direction to that in use. On arriving there, they were instructed to hold position but a couple of minutes later, they were given permission to enter the runway but the frequency then became too busy for the driver to acknowledge the clearance and the vehicles therefore did not proceed. When the Student Controller asked where the vehicles were 2½ minutes later, he was told that they were still at the