the partial or complete loss of transmission and/or reception of digital information from the controlling equipment. Outcomes for these occurrences varied, depending on whether the aircraft crashed immediately, flew away, or auto-landed (either on land or in water) with three quarters of them being classified as accidents. A single Contributing Factor was identified based on the findings of the Investigation as follows: Shortly after take-off the compass failed rendering the aircraft uncontrollable, disabling the Return to Home function and resulting in the collision with a building.. One Other Factor that increased risk was also identified: The remote pilot did not follow the emergency procedures outlined in the operations manual and did not comply with the operating limitations outlined in the Civil Aviation Safety Authority approval.. Safety Action taken by the UAV manufacturer as a result of this event was noted to have included updating the User Manuals of a number of products, including the Inspire 2. These changes provide additional guidance on use of the fully manual attitude flight mode in the event of compass interference. The following Safety Message was formulated following the conclusion of the Investigation: While the reliability of Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPAs) is generally high, they are not infallible. Occurrences reported to the ATSB indicate that UAV fly-away occurrences are not rare. It is therefore important that pilots ensure they are familiar with and well drilled in emergency procedures, as well as being proficient in flying in all flight modes. In the case of a UAV fly-away, whether it is due to a compass failure or loss of signal, there may only be a few seconds in which a pilot can take avoiding action. In the event of a compass failure, switching to the fully manual attitude flight mode may assist regaining control of the RPAS. Whereas, following a loss of signal to the UAV, the last remaining risk control to prevent a fly away are built-in design features such as the Failsafe Return to Home. Remote pilots are also reminded that adhering to operational guidelines and limitations remains important for ensuring the safe operation of UAVs. This is particularly true in populated areas, where risks are potentially elevated. Adhering to the limitations and guidance provided by the regulator will ensure these risks remain as low as reasonably practicable. The Final Report was released on 23 June 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.