An Investigation into the event was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Flight data logs were recovered from the UAV controller by the operator and provided to the ATSB. Other flight data logs were also recovered from a Secure Digital (SD) card mounted on-board the UAV. The intended area of operation was within the aviation regulator CASA’s Restricted Area R405A which meant that a UAV operator wishing to operate in the area was required to apply for a permit. Such an application had been made and approved and the approval conditions included a radius of operation within 30 metres of a defined location. All flight was also to be not higher than 90 feet above surface level and no operations were permitted within 30 metres of the shoreline of Cockle Bay or within 30 metres of, or over, any vessel not directly associated with the authorised flights or in such a way that the master of any vessel under way would have to take avoiding action. It was noted that this permit did not exempt the UAV operator from the general conditions applicable to such flying which prohibited operation over a populous area, within 30 metres of any person not directly associated with the flying and all beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) operations. The UAV was being used to fulfil a contract for aerial photography and videography above the water of Cockle Bay at Darling Harbour. After being advised by the client that the subject was ready, the pilot set up the UAV within the Cockle Bay marina and after completing pre-flight checks then completed an uneventful first flight lasting just over 17 minutes. After about half an hour, the client advised that a further flight was required and fully-charged batteries were installed and pre-flight checks again completed. Recorded data from the controller which had been used showed that the UAV had initially climbed to about 65 feet agl during which time the pilot reported that the UAV’s retractable legs were raised. The UAV then proceeded in a westerly direction towards the centre of Cockle Bay but approximately 8 seconds of take-off and having only travelled about 5 metres, its pitch attitude decreased to 24° nose down and it rapidly accelerated whilst maintaining direction, altitude and pitch. The last data point recorded by the controller was 184 metres from the take-off location as the aircraft approached the western side of Cockle Bay (see the illustration below). At this point the UAV was at 85 feet agl and travelling at its maximum speed of 50 knots. Heading and speed data recovered from the UAV was consistent with the controller data with a slight difference in altitude data considered likely to be due to one data set using GPS altitude and the other using barometric altitude. The UAV flight path from recorded on-board flight data (red) and from the controller (green). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Following the cessation of controller-recorded data, on-board recorded data from the UAV