showed that it had continued at its maximum speed on a relatively constant heading and altitude for another 150 metres until it hit the window of a hotel which resulted in it being destroyed and coming to rest on a balcony below the window. The window glass was found to have been 10.38 mm bronze-laminated glass compliant with the applicable manufacturing standard. The pilot’s recollections of the loss of control broadly corresponded to the available flight data in respect of the uncommanded pitch change and acceleration soon after takeoff. They reported having immediately recognised that the behaviour of the UAV was abnormal but attempts to control it had no effect and added that when it was about 30 metres away, the controller screen had frozen and then gone black. Having subsequently lost sight of the UAV, the pilot called the Chief Pilot and the Chief Executive and was subsequently advised by the former that the UAV had collided with a hotel on the western side of Darling Drive. The pilot then proceeded to the hotel involved to brief hotel staff and the attending police officers before returning to Darling Harbour to complete the task using a back-up UAV. It was noted that the data transmission system between the controller and the UAV had two independent channels, one for data upload and one for data download so that it was possible for one signal to be lost while maintaining the other. The manufacturer’s analysis of the flight data showed that a number of control inputs made by the pilot were received by the UAV for the duration of the entire flight indicating that the upload signal was maintained. However, the UAV had not responded to any of these inputs. The data showed that when the UAV became airborne, the compass was functioning normally but about a second after takeoff, the compass had been “subjected to strong magnetic interference” of unknown origin. Thereafter false signals sent from the compass to the UAV’s Internal Measurement Unit (IMU) had caused its accelerometer measurements to become unstable leading to the loss of directional control. Although the UAV had a “failsafe” ‘Return To Home’ (RTH) function designed to prevent a flyaway in the event of a problem with signals from the controller, this was dependent on the correct functioning of the compass. However, since the signal upload link was therefore functional, the RTH function would not have been triggered. Also, since compass failure was the origin of the control problem, that alone would have rendered the RTH function inoperable. The manufacturer did observe that, as per the User Manual, control could be switched manually from the normal fully automated ‘P’ mode which the pilot had been using to the fully manual ‘A’ Mode would have allowed control of the UAV to be regained. The Investigation reviewed the ATSB database and found that in the four year period 2017-2020 over one thousand UAV occurrences had been reported of which 94 had been classified as occurrences caused by