line snowplough crossed the runway holding position followed by the fourth stopping just past the runway holding point. The runway was then closed and the planned snow clearance operation was commenced whilst the CRJ200 completed a 2nd ILS approach and landed without further event on runway 24R about 15 minutes later. It was not possible to determine the exact height to which the aircraft descended but it was concluded that it “may have been as low as 107 feet agl”. The width and length of the vehicles overflown was recorded but their height was not. The Investigation found that between 2001 and 2019, there had been an average of 9.1 runway incursions per year (in the case of 2019, the events counted did not include December) which were not attributed to either pilots or controllers with no evidence that there was any reducing trend. The four main ways to mitigate the risk of runway incursions were considered: Runway Incursion Monitoring and Conflict Alert System (RIMCAS) - the software was available but had not been activated because there were not enough radar towers to support radar triangulation calculations.. Overrun Monitoring - was only available for runway 06L and only activated during LVO.. Illuminated Stop Bars - were only available for runway 06L and only activated during LVO.. RWSL - there were no current plans to install this system.. More generally, it was observed that “the TSB is concerned that the rate of runway incursions in Canada and the associated risks of collision will remain until effective defences tailored to address identified hazards are implemented at airports and in aircraft, vehicles, and air traffic service facilities across Canada”. In this particular incursion, no evidence was found of any driver or controller fatigue or physiological factors but it was evident that the application of driver prospective memory had been ineffective and considered that this “could be explained by two possible factors: distraction and insufficiently salient target cues”. It was considered of note that once the Convoy Lead had entered the runway, three other vehicle operators had followed “out of habit, as they are trained that this is their primary responsibility” and that “none of them stopped in time, took action to prevent or reduce the severity of the incursion, or alerted the Convoy Lead to the incursion over the radio”. It was also considered that it was of considerable significance that the applicable convoy procedures required only one supervisory person, the Team Leader, to take responsibility for compliance of the convoy with ATC instructions without being required to be driving the first vehicle to enter any runway. Nevertheless, it was accepted that such a requirement “may not eliminate the risk of runway incursion by the team leader or supervisor themselves”. Finally, the opportunity for ATC to make use of the phrase ‘Hold Short’ when issuing instructions that direct ground vehicles to runways was noted as a possible way to reduce the chances of an incursion. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing