An Investigation was carried out by the Transportation Safety Board of Canada (TSB) using recordings of relevant communication and radar data. The snow clearance convoy involved was made up of 6 snow clearing vehicles and a pickup truck driven by the Team Leader who was responsible for communications with the GND controller and the convoy. In accordance with working procedures, the driver of one of the six snow clearing vehicles was designated as the Convoy Lead. The Team Leader had been a full time employee of the airport operator for 8½ years and had been working in the unit providing snow clearance throughout that time, having been a Team Leader for 2 years. The Convoy Lead was employed in the unit only for the winter season but was on his third consecutive period of such seasonal employment in the unit. All the other vehicle drivers were seasonal employees. All convoy vehicles had two radios, one for communication with ATC and the other for internal communications for use during tasks or when travelling to or from them. There was no evidence that communication on either of these frequencies had been anything but normal in the period leading up to the incursion. It was noted that “the Team Leader is normally the only one who communicates with ATC” although all airside vehicle operators receive comprehensive training on radio communications as well as on convoy transit and aerodrome procedures. Given the varying experience levels of seasonal employees, less experienced drivers “are often placed behind the Convoy Lead, in the convoy’s 2nd and 3rd positions” and are thereby led and followed by more experienced drivers. There was no low cloud but prevailing weather conditions included a visibility of 2000 metres in light and drifting snow in sub zero conditions. The CRJ crew reported that they had only begun to gain visual contact with the runway environment as they descended through 400 feet agl. The TWR controllers on duty subsequently stated that they had no sight of the runway 24L threshold area and could only see any vehicles and aircraft in its vicinity on their corresponding ground (A-SMGCS) and air radar displays. All convoy vehicles were fitted with a Vehicle Locator Transmitter (VLT) but the one fitted to one of the vehicles in the middle of the convoy was inoperative, an allowable defect for vehicles not at either the front or the back of a convoy. It was established that the snow clearing team had completed work on runway 24R and had been advised to position to runway 24L and expect to be tasked with snow clearance work there. GND control issued a transit clearance to the convoy which would get it to the holding bay at the beginning of runway 24L.The Team Leader, who was at the rear of the convoy having been - as required - the last vehicle to exit the runway, took the clearance but when he only read back part of the ATC instruction, the Convoy Lead, who had heard