the (lengthy) ATC instruction on his radio, “had then read back the instruction to the Team Leader over the internal convoy frequency” in order to “expedite and minimise radio communications on the GND frequency and to ensure that the Team Leader knew that the Convoy Lead had understood the instructions”. A subsequent discussion between the Convoy Lead and the Team Leader confirmed that the latter had not read back the clearance in full and also included whether the ATC instruction had included a requirement to “hold short” of the runway on reaching it or not. In fact it had not, but the Team Leader “reconfirmed” his readback to the GND controller and added the requirement to hold short of Runway 24L on reaching, which the GND controller then acknowledged. As the convoy proceeded, the Team Leader remained at the rear. The route followed by the snow clearance vehicle convoy. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The GND controller monitored the progress of the convoy at intervals. After five minutes, the convoy had reached position 3 on the illustration provided above and the Convoy Lead reported having begun to “plan the convoy formation and path along Runway 24L based on the snowfall intensity and the wind direction”. At this time, the CRJ200 had just been cleared to land on runway 24L. As the convoy reached its clearance limit, the 24L Holding Bay, the CRJ200 was approximately 1.3 nm from touchdown. Half a minute later, the Convoy Lead crossed the runway holding point and continued onto the runway followed by the vehicles in position 2 and 3. The aircraft now had 0.3 nm to run and was at “approximately 157 feet agl”. The TWR runway controller saw the incursion on his ground radar display and the CRJ 200 flight crew saw the convoy partly on the runway and partly in the holding bay and immediately initiated a go-around. As they did this, the TWR runway controller instructed the aircraft to go around. It was noted that “neither the Team Leader nor any of the other convoy vehicle operators alerted the Convoy Lead to the runway incursion over the radio”. Six seconds after the flight crew had read back the instruction to go around, “the Convoy Lead reached the runway centreline and the aircraft flew directly over his vehicle”. Two seconds later, the GND controller informed the Team Leader that an incursion had occurred. Until hearing the sound of the aircraft overhead, “no one in the convoy was aware that a runway incursion had occurred” and the Team Leader, who was approaching the entry to the holding bay subsequently stated that he had been “expecting to see the Convoy Lead perpendicular to the runway, stopped in the holding bay” but instead saw this vehicle on the runway as the aircraft flew over. Once established in the go around, the CRJ200 flight crew confirmed that they had seen the snowploughs and ten seconds after the Convoy Lead had reached the runway centreline, the third in