This Regulation introduces a number of amendments to the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The scope of Regulation 216/2008 is extended to include: the design, maintenance and operation of aerodromes; the design, production and maintenance of aerodrome equipment; ATM/ANS; the design, production and maintenance of systems and constituents for ATM/ANS, as well as personnel and organisations involved in the above fields. The Regulation does not apply to: Two new annexes to Regulation 216/2008 have been added, specifying “Essential requirements for aerodromes (Annex Va) and “Essential requirements for ATM/ANS and air traffic controllers” (Annex Vb). The essential requirements for aerodromes cover: Aerodromes and aerodrome equipment as well as the operation of aerodromes shall comply with the essential requirements set out in the annex Va and, if applicable, Annex Vb. A certificate shall be required in respect of each aerodrome. By 31 December 2013 the European Commission shall adopt implementing rules specifying non-essential, however important elements of the requirements of this Regulation related to airdromes, such as: conditions for issuing, maintaining, amending, suspending or revoking certificates for aerodromes and certificates for aerodrome equipment; conditions for operating an aerodrome in compliance with the essential requirements; responsibilities of the holders of certificates, etc. The scope of the essential requirements for ATM/ANS provided at Annex Vb to the Regulation covers: Provision of ATM/ANS shall comply with the essential requirements set out in Annex Vb and, as far as practicable, Annex Va. ATM/ANS providers shall be required to hold a certificate. Certification of providers of flight information services is left at the discretion of EU Member States. By 31 December 2012 the European Commission shall adopt implementing rules specifying non-essential, however important elements of the requirements of this Regulation related to ATM/ANS, such as: the conditions for the provision of ATM/ANS in compliance with the essential requirements; the conditions for issuing, maintaining, amending, suspending or revoking the certificates of ATM/ANS service providers; the responsibilities of the holders of certificates; the conditions and procedures for the oversight of service providers, etc. The extension of European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) competence with regard to ATM/ANS includes: Air traffic controllers as well as persons and organisations involved in the training, testing, checking or medical assessment of air traffic controllers, shall comply with the relevant essential requirements set out in Annex Vb. Air traffic controllers shall be required to hold a licence and a medical certificate appropriate to the service provided. The competency of air traffic controller training organisations, OJT instructors, aero medical examiners and aero medical centres in relation to the issuance of licences and medical certificates to controllers shall be recognised by the issuance of a certificate. By 31 December 2012 the European Commission shall adopt implementing rules specifying non-essential, however important elements of the requirements of this Regulation related to air traffic controllers, such as: The extension of EASA competence with regard to air traffic controllers' certification includes: