This Regulation introduces a number of amendments to the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The scope of Regulation 216/2008 is extended to include: the design, maintenance and operation of aerodromes; the design, production and maintenance of aerodrome equipment; ATM/ANS; the design, production and maintenance of systems and constituents for ATM/ANS, as well as personnel and organisations involved in the above fields. The Regulation does not apply to: systems, constituents, personnel and organisations carrying out military, customs, police, search and rescue, fire-fighting, coastguard or similar activities or services;. aerodromes, controlled and operated by military;. ATM and air navigation services provided by military.. Two new annexes to Regulation 216/2008 have been added, specifying “Essential requirements for aerodromes (Annex Va) and “Essential requirements for ATM/ANS and air traffic controllers” (Annex Vb). The essential requirements for aerodromes cover: physical characteristics, infrastructure and equipment;. operations and management;. aerodrome surroundings.. Aerodromes and aerodrome equipment as well as the operation of aerodromes shall comply with the essential requirements set out in the annex Va and, if applicable, Annex Vb. A certificate shall be required in respect of each aerodrome. By 31 December 2013 the European Commission shall adopt implementing rules specifying non-essential, however important elements of the requirements of this Regulation related to airdromes, such as: conditions for issuing, maintaining, amending, suspending or revoking certificates for aerodromes and certificates for aerodrome equipment; conditions for operating an aerodrome in compliance with the essential requirements; responsibilities of the holders of certificates, etc. The scope of the essential requirements for ATM/ANS provided at Annex Vb to the Regulation covers: use of airspace;. services, including: aeronautical and meteorological information, ATS, CNS, ATFM, airspace management and airspace design;. systems and constituents;. qualification of air traffic controllers, including: theoretical knowledge, practical skills; language proficiency; training and examination and medical fitness;. service providers and training organisations.. Provision of ATM/ANS shall comply with the essential requirements set out in Annex Vb and, as far as practicable, Annex Va. ATM/ANS providers shall be required to hold a certificate. Certification of providers of flight information services is left at the discretion of EU Member States. By 31 December 2012 the European Commission shall adopt implementing rules specifying non-essential, however important elements of the requirements of this Regulation related to ATM/ANS, such as: the conditions for the provision of ATM/ANS in compliance with the essential requirements; the conditions for issuing, maintaining, amending, suspending or revoking the certificates of ATM/ANS service providers; the responsibilities of the holders of certificates; the conditions and procedures for the oversight of service providers, etc. The extension of European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) competence with regard to ATM/ANS includes: conduct of inspections and audits of the organisations it certifies;. issue and renewal of certificates of organisations located outside EU, responsible for providing services in the airspace over EU territory;. issue and renewal of certificates of organisations providing pan-European services;. the power to amend, suspend or revoke