A drug can be defined as any chemical substance that has an effect on living tissue but is not used for food. Drugs are used on or administered to humans as: Drugs can generally be classified into two broad categories—licit and illicit. Licit drugs are often referred to as medications, and illicit drugs are sometimes called “recreational” drugs. This distinction can be blurred when drugs that are legal if prescribed by a doctor are used without medical need or authorization. Alcohol and caffeine are the most widely used drugs. It is legal to consume alcohol in most locales, but the effects of the misuse of alcohol on transportation safety can be enormous. Many everyday beverages and food products such as coffee, cola and chocolate, contain significant amounts of caffeine. All pilots should know that all medications, even those seeming to be “light,” contain active components with desirable therapeutic benefits but also unwanted and often unpredictable side effects. Such side effects can vary widely across individuals depending on personal sensitivities and the pharmacokinetics of the drug. A drug that can relieve symptoms or cure a condition in one pilot may cause a violent and life-threatening allergic reaction in another. Flight can also alter the effects of medications. For example, the metabolism of a drug may be altered by flight-induced conditions including mild hypoxia, dehydration and jetlag. The undesirable effects of a drug are also sometimes delayed until well after the drug is taken. Care must especially be exercised when a drug is new on the market or taken in combination with other medications because little may be known about the resulting effect on flight safety. The following table identifies families of widely-used medicinal drugs, both prescription and over-the-counter (OTC), that are known to have negative effects on alertness, sensory performance, judgement, cognitive and/or psychomotor abilities. As such, these drugs, even when prescribed by your personal doctor, may not be compatible with safe flight unless approved by a flight surgeon. Note: This table is not meant as a list of drugs for self treatment. It is also not intended to be a comprehensive list of all drugs that can affect flight safety. It is provided to give examples of commonly used medicines that, although beneficial in preventing or curing illness and injury, can be detrimental to the safe performance of a pilot’s duties. Drugs that induce sleep, sometimes called soporifics. In general, hypnotics are central nervous system depressants. Barbiturates and benzodiazepines are frequently prescribed hypnotics. Smaller doses of these same drugs may be used as sedatives. Alcohol is included in this drug family. Daytime sleepiness Fatigue Risk of dependence These drugs include antihistamines and nasal decongestant pills and sprays. Many are sold OTC. Skin or oronasal allergy Vision trouble Postural trouble Vertigo These are often combinations of antihistamines, decongestants, cough suppressant and pain relief medications sold OTC and widely advertised. Influenza Mild nose, ear or throat infections Fatigue Vertigo Vision trouble Digestive trouble Bowel irritations Dry mouth As prescription drugs, these can