include lorazepam (Ativan®), clonazepam (Klonopin®), alprazolam (Xanax®), and diazepam (Valium®). Non-benzodiazepines and barbiturates are also in this group. Fatigue Impaired memory Cognitive difficulties Impaired judgement Disorientation and vertigo Loss of coordination An antidepressant, is a psychiatric medication or other substance (nutrient or herb) used for alleviating mild or severe depression. These medications are now among the drugs most commonly prescribed by psychiatrists and general practitioners, and their effectiveness and adverse effects are the subject of many studies and competing claims. Depression by itself and the unwanted effects of these drugs are incompatible with safe flight. Smoking cessation Fatigue Headaches, tremor Impaired memory Cognitive difficulty Nausea Diarrhea An antibiotic is a chemical compound that inhibits or abolishes the growth of microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi or protozoans. Fever Nausea Allergic reaction Diarrhea The information in the table above is just a summary to indicate the wide range of medications used today and their possible adverse effects. It must also be remembered that taking medications in combination or with alcohol can change both the nature and intensity of the deleterious effects. Remember that all medications are potentially dangerous and that you should not fly after intake of a drug unless the flight surgeon has prescribed it or checked its efficacy and tolerability. Many drugs, although illegal to consume or possess, are nevertheless widely used. Other drugs that have legitimate medical uses can be abused if not taken as prescribed by a doctor or taken for non-medical purposes. People seek a “high” or escape from reality by abusing substances such as: Cannabis (marijuana) - not illegal everywhere. Psilocybin mushrooms. Opium. Heroin - illegal in most countries. Cocaine. Morphine. Methamphetamine (meth).. Almost all illicit drug use leads to some level of impairment that is detrimental to safe flight. Illicit drug use is not only dangerous but also can ruin a flying career. As a pilot, you should never use illicit drugs. Contrary to popular belief, alcohol acts as a depressant not a stimulant. What is often mistaken for mood elevation from alcohol (e.g., loud speech, aggressive behaviour) is actually a result of its disinhibiting effects. As one drinks, alcohol first affects judgement and removes inhibitions and then degrades psychomotor performance. Blood alcohol concentration (BAC) is the measure typically used to indicate a person’s degree of impairment. BAC is the weight of alcohol in grams per 100 ml of blood. The time for a person to reach a peak BAC after consuming alcohol varies depending on the rate of absorption of the alcohol into the bloodstream. This absorption rate can be influenced by body build and size, age, gender (females tend to be affected more than males), whether food has been taken with the alcohol and the type of drink. On average, alcohol is eliminated from the body at the rate of about one standard drink (a BAC of about 0.03) per hour. However, the elimination rate of alcohol can vary greatly by individual depending on factors such as gender, body mass and drinking frequency.