pain relief medications sold OTC and widely advertised. Influenza Mild nose, ear or throat infections Fatigue Vertigo Vision trouble Digestive trouble Bowel irritations Dry mouth As prescription drugs, these can contain codeine and some antihistamines. OTC versions without codeine are also available Fatigue Digestive trouble Muscle relaxants help relax muscles, ease pain, and reduce stiffness. "Drunk" feeling Fatigue An analgesic (colloquially known as a “painkiller”) is any member of a diverse group of prescription and OTC drugs used to relieve pain. They include paracetamol (acetaminophen), the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates (aspirin), narcotic drugs such as morphine, synthetic drugs with narcotic properties such as tramadol, and various others. Digestive trouble Risk of dependence There are a variety of anti-inflammatory drugs including the NSAIDs (discussed above), anabolic steroids and corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone). Anabolic steroids have been used by athletes to build body mass and improve performance. Sleepiness (occasionally) Hyperactivity Severe withdrawal reactions Some relatively new prescription drugs are available to treat or prevent migraine headaches. These include Topiramate (brand name Topamax) and Fiorinal, a combination analgesic medication consisting of aspirin, the barbiturate butalbital and caffeine. Frequent migraine Sleepiness Lethargy Impairment of fine motor skills Vision abnormality and transient or permanent vision loss Fatigue Dizziness Insomnia Anxiety Depression Digestive trouble Dependency A class of drugs that are used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). There are many classes of antihypertensives, which—by varying means—lower blood pressure to reduce the risk of stroke, coronary heart disease and the likelihood of dementia, heart failure and mortality from cardiovascular disease. Fatigue Sleepiness Decreased tolerance to accelerations Headache Dizziness Confusion Dry mouth Fainting, seizure or convulsions (rare) OTC medicines such as Immodium® and prescription drugs such as Lomotil®, which act to stop diarrhea and thereby reduce the chance of dehydration. Sleepiness Vertigo Many OTC and prescription drugs are directed at reducing stomach acid to help cure heartburn caused by ulcers or Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD). Vertigo There are numerous drugs both OTC (e.g., Dramamine®, Bonine ®) and prescription (e.g., Antivert®) that reduce nausea from motion sickness or illnesses such as middle ear infections. Pilot trainees may be particularly interested in these drugs if they develop symptoms as they adapt to flight conditions. Decreased glare resistance Blurred vision Sleepiness Headache Dry mouth Antimalarial drugs are designed to prevent or cure malaria. Some antimalarial agents, particularly chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, are also used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus associated arthritis. There are many prescription anti-malaria drugs currently on the market. Convulsions Visual problems Fatigue Vertigo Nausea Diarrhea Melatonin is a hormone found in all living creatures from algae to humans. Melatonin can be found in the general health supplement market. (While widely promoted as a “cure” for jet lag, a definitive medical study of this use and its safety has yet to be completed) Inflammation in people with nocturnal asthma Loss of balance The anti-anxiety or anxiolytic drugs include the benzodiazepines, which are prescribed for short-term relief of severe and disabling anxiety. Common benzodiazepines