turn 74º to the west which put it on a new trajectory that converged with that of the Ryanair flight descending into Seville with both aircraft still likely to be in the Seville SM4 sector when their tracks would now cross. Approximately one minute before the loss of separation, when the Ryanair 737 would have been clear of the Malaga bound aircraft had the latter remained on the same track as it had at transfer (the Seville SM4 controller’s expectation) the Ryanair aircraft was cleared to continue descent to FL 130 and handed over to Seville APP. At this point, the aircraft was still approximately 20 nm from the sector boundary and passing FL 190. Shortly after the clearance to continue to FL130, and now working Seville APP, the aircraft increased its rate of descent to around 3,200 fpm whilst the Malaga-bound aircraft, now subject to delaying action, was descending through FL 161 at approximately 1,000 fpm. Thirty seconds before actual the loss of separation, the distance between the two aircraft reached 1.7 nm as their vertical separation was reducing through 1,700 feet and a preductive STCA was activated. Although both aircraft were still within the control area of responsibility of the Seville ACC SM4 sector, the Controller there had transferred communications with both flights to the next sectors in advance. Both aircraft were not only no longer working Seville ACC but each was now on a different frequency which belonged to different units. This STCA activation was initially noticed by the Malaga APP controllers, who then mistakenly called the Seville Central sector (which the Ryanair 737 had left five minutes previously to ask if they could see their aircraft and received the response that they could but did not add that it was no longer under their control. However, the Seville Central sector controller then contacted both the Seville MA4 sector controller and the Seville Airport controller to advise them of the Malaga APP controller’s concern as to whether they were aware of the Air Europa aircraft. The MA4 sector controller replied (incorrectly) that the flight was “no longer under his control” and it was found that “until that moment, he had not made any move to prevent a loss of separation despite the fact that the required minimum separations were breached whilst both aircraft were within his designated AoR". The MA4 sector controller did then call the Seville Airport controller on the hotline to tell him to stop the descent of the Ryanair 737 but no evidence was found of any response from them and “in any case, the minimum distance between the two aircraft occurred just a few seconds later” so it would have been very difficult to prevent the loss of separation at that stage. The final stages of the loss of separation are shown in the illustration below. The tracks of both aircraft with their lateral and vertical separations at the timed points and (in blue) the elapsed time positions for the Ryanair 737 from