1300 UTC. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Malaga APP controller then instructed the inbound 737 to “turn south and accelerate its descent” in an attempt to prevent a loss of separation advising of the crossing Ryanair 737 and asked the crew to report when they had it in sight. They responded that although they were not visual with it, they could see it on on their TCAS traffic display. Sixteen seconds before the loss of separation, the two 737s were on convergent headings 1.6 nm apart with a track difference of 6º and with vertical separation reducing through 1,500 feet as the Ryanair 737 passed FL 169 and the Air Europa 737 passed FL 154. At that moment, the Ryanair 737 checked in with Seville APP and was cleared to continue descent to 4,000 feet QNH “despite the predictive STCA warning of insufficient separation between the aircraft”. Almost immediately, the STCA activation changed to an actual loss of separation with the two aircraft now 1.5 nm and 800 feet apart. Fifteen seconds later, the CPA of 1.3 nm at the same level was reached as the Air Europa 737 passed behind the Ryanair 737. It was apparent that the Malaga APP controller’s request to the Air Europa 737 to increase its rate of descent was of no assistance because at the time the Ryanair 737 had been only 600 feet above and was already descending at a much higher rate whilst the Air Europa crew had already begun to reduce their rate of descent from about 1,400 fpm to less than 400 fpm. This meant that by the time they actioned this instruction, the two tracks had already crossed and the prescribed minimum distance had been restored. As both flight crews subsequently stated, no TCAS TA or RA activations occurred on either aircraft. The Investigation examined the traffic situation in the Seville ACC MA4 sector around the time of the early ‘transfer of communications’ with the Air Europa 737 to Malaga APP and found that the system for assessing the movement of aircraft in the sector and the percentage of the system's maximum workload which this represented registered 40%. It was therefore concluded that controller workload was not a factor, It also looked at the Letter of Agreement (LoA) between Seville ACC and Malaga APP which had been effective since 31 May 2018 and included arrangements for a transfer of control to be effected other than when at the boundary of the respective Areas of Responsibility (AoR). These stated that "communications transfers of control other than at such boundaries will imply the transfer of control of the traffic, which must be transmitted when the aircraft is free for ascent in the case of take-offs, for descent in the case of arrivals and for turning in both situations”. The expressions “free for descent” and “free for turning” were both qualified in the LoA by “unless otherwise agreed, the transferring unit continues to be responsible for the separation within its AoR".