The Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) carried out an Investigation using recorded ATC data. It was noted that the Air Europa flight crew consisted of a 39 year-old Captain with a total of 12,100 hours flying experience which included 6,276 hours on type and a 24 year-old First Officer with a total of 2,050 hours flying experience all except 305 hours of which were on type. The Ryanair flight crew consisted of a 46 year-old Captain with a total of 8,500 hours flying experience and a 37 year-old First Officer with a total of 395 flying hours. The 46 year-old Seville ACC MA4 sector Executive Controller had held a licence for 13 years and the 48 year-old Seville ACC MA4 sector Planning Controller had held a licence for 16 years. The 47 year-old Malaga APP Executive Controller had held a licence for 13 years and the 43 year-old Malaga APP Planning Controller had held a licence for 15 years. The 56 year-old Seville APT Executive Controller had held a licence for 21 years and the 48 year-old Seville APT Planning Controller had held a licence for 17 years. The only sector which handled both aircraft was the Seville ACC MA4 sector. The relative positions of the three sectors plus the Seville Airport (LECSAPT) sector are shown on the illustration below. About 40 minutes before the conflict occurred, an Airbus A320 aircraft not directly involved which had just landed on runway 13 at Malaga advised that it “needed to remain on the runway to have its tyres checked” and although TWR offered it runway 12, the crew refused so that runway 12 had to become the runway in use. The Air Europa 737 was heading south and was the next inbound aircraft for Malaga from the north and was notified of the runway change by the Seville ACC MA4 sector controller at around the same time as the sector also took over control of the Ryanair 737 inbound to Seville and heading west on a crossing track relative to the Air Europa 737. During the following few minutes, the Seville MA4 Controller planned to achieve separation between the two aircraft vertically by instructing the Ryanair aircraft to descend above the descending Malaga bound aircraft as the latter vacated flight levels. Then, approximately three minutes before the loss of separation and with 15 nm to go to the point where Malaga APP airspace extended to FL145, he transferred the Malaga-bound aircraft (the lower of the two) to Malaga APP as it passed FL178 for FL150 (the latter level being the lowest available in the Seville ACC SM4 sector when over the Malaga APP sector. The ground tracks of the two aircraft involved showing the ATC sectors in the area. [Reproduced from the Official Report] However, because of the runway change at Malaga, as soon as the Air Europa flight had checked in with Malaga APP, the controller there (unknown to the Seville SM4 controller) instructed it to