current protection system. The airline had informed its pilots of this information but no corresponding change had been made to the applicable volume of the Operation Manual. Since the APU fire detection system did not trigger a fire warning even though the flames made contact with the fire detector sensing element, tests were carried out. These showed that the APU fire detector sensing element met all of the authorities’ requirements and, apart from one test, it passed all tests included in the element manufacturer’s testing regime. It was concluded that the insufficient exposure of the sensing element to the flames was probably the cause of the absent fire warning. Inspection of the APU indicated that it had already been in poor condition and partly damaged before the fire. Its performance was also degraded. The investigation was not able to associate the poor condition of the APU with the indicated failure (APU GCU FAIL), the failed second start attempt or the fire. The Investigation concluded that several simultaneously occurring circumstances exacerbated the severity of the incident. The pilots were occupied with the APU generator’s coupling failure, the unexpected activation of the over current protection feature and the failed APU start. These held their attention and slowed their response to the fire. The power failure also made the cabin attendant’s work more difficult, slowing down passenger exit as the normal cabin lighting was inoperative. Also, the pilots did not comply with the aircraft manufacturer’s instructions in respect of the over current protection warning. With airport closing time imminent, ATC did not notice the fire and was not informed of its occurrence. No airport alarm was given, nor did the airport RFFS unit on site react to the situation during the fire. The Final Report of the Investigation as issued on 2 February 2010 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: C8/2008L Airliner fire at Kemi-Tornio aerodrome on 11 December, 2008 It contained four Safety Recommendations, one to the Aircraft Manufacturer and three to the Aircraft Operator: The APU fire detection system did not trigger a fire alarm even though the fire detector sensing element was exposed to flames. The aircraft manufacturer is advised to ensure that the APU fire detection systems on the E-145 aircraft display fire alarms in a sufficiently precise and reliable manner in different kinds of fire situations.. The airline had not included the aircraft manufacturers over current protection feature AOM revisions in its E-145 OM-B. The airline is advised to always ensure that the manufacturer’s AOM revisions are included in its OM-B.. The mechanics did not receive all pertinent information with regard to the aircraft’s faults and airworthiness after the incident. The airline is advised to ensure that the pilots record all appropriate information in the aircraft technical logbook with regard to faults, incidents and observations that may impact flight safety or an aircraft’s airworthiness.. There were shortcomings in Multi-Crew Coordination as well as in compliance with Standard Operating Procedures and the OM-B. The airline is