A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Finland on the basis that the occurrence was a ‘multiple malfunction of one or more aircraft systems seriously affecting the operation of the aircraft.’ The Investigation established that when the APU was started after landing, the generator did not couple to the aircraft electrical system despite a reset attempt. The pilots decided to shut down and restart the APU in order to couple the generator to the electrical system. At the same time as the second start attempt, a fire broke out in the APU. However, no fire warning was displayed in the cockpit. The APU did not start on the second attempt. As the left engine was being shut down the electrical system’s over current protection feature activated, leaving some of the bus bars without power. After the right engine was shut down the aircraft lost almost all electrical power. The pilots did not notice a ground crew loadmaster trying to inform them using correct hand signals of the fire. Immediately after the cabin door was opened the loadmaster came into the flight deck to report the fire. Since no fire warning was displayed in the cockpit, the captain went out to inspect the situation. After having returned to the cockpit the captain discharged the APU fire extinguisher bottle, which put the fire out. Neither the cabin attendant nor the passengers were informed by the pilots of the fire. The passengers left the aircraft in a nearly normal fashion during the fire. Once the fire was out, the pilots had concentrated on the electrical problem. The air traffic controller was not informed of the fire, nor did the controller notice it. After the fire had been extinguished the aerodrome’s rescue unit came to the aircraft to observe the situation. The burned APU was not inspected before the aircraft was towed to hangar for the night. The pilots reported the events to the Operator and requested technical assistance for the following day. The pilots did not record all of the faults or occurrences in the aircraft technical log. The mechanics restored the electrical system, made a visual inspection of the APU and deactivated the APU in accordance with the manner prescribed in the aircraft Minimum Equipment List (Minimum Equipment List (MEL)). After this, the aircraft was pronounced airworthy again and a ferry flight to Helsinki followed. There, inspections were made in accordance with regulations. Heat induced damage was found and the aircraft was grounded. The aircraft manufacturer was asked for repair instructions to restore airworthiness and these were duly received. Only on arrival in Helsinki did the pilots filed an Occurrence Report with the Operator and with the authorities. No other flight safety reports were filed. AIB Finland was informed of the incident over three days after its occurrence. The Investigation noted that in 2007 the aircraft manufacturer had published an AOM revision which included changes and instructions for pilots in respect of the activation of the over