An INS usually requires an initialisation process that establishes the relationship between the aircraft “frame” (the reference axes) and the geographic reference (position and orientation). This process is called alignment. Alignment usually requires the aircraft to remain stationary for a period of time in order to initialise fully. Alignment times vary depending on the technology in use and the accuracy required from the INS. Alignment will normally require the input of certain data from another system or from a manual entry. Some types of INS can align while “in motion” with the aid of GPS, but performance is then usually reduced or degraded; but it can still provide a useful attitude reference. Accurate alignment is essential if the INS is the sole means of navigation for any length of time without external position updates available. Alignment can be achieved independent of any external data; this is known as self-alignment. Or, the alignment process can be speeded up with data supplied from a GPS or other systems, and even manual entry. Vertical acceleration due to gravity is always perpendicular to the Earth’s surface and this provides the vertical reference, allowing output of attitude. Position the INS can detect Latitude during the alignment, however it will require and accurate Longitude input. Usually the system memory will contain the position where the INS was last shut down, and as long as the aircraft has not been moved this position can be used to speed up the alignment. Once the vertical reference is attained, and the aircraft remains stationary, the only movement to be detected is the Earth’s rotation (roughly 15 degrees per hour). If the heading is known, then the velocity detected by the INS will determine the local Latitude. True North if the Latitude is known then by detecting the Earth’s rotation the system is able to align with True North. This alignment of position and orientation is an iterative process, each relying on the progress of the other.