A clear and universally agreed upon definition for the term “Inertial Navigation System (INS)” is not possible. On the one hand the term INS is used as a blanket description for a wide variety of navigation sensors and systems of different design; and on the other hand, it is also used to describe a specific version of these sensors and systems! The term has also changed over the years as the technology has improved. What can be said with confidence is that all these systems work on a similar principle and for the same purpose. Below is a list of commonly used terms that are used colloquially and interchangeably by pilots (if not by all designers, manufacturers and engineers) to mean very much the same thing, with differences in some of the detail. Where necessary two or more definitions are provided. Inertial Navigation a form of “Dead-Reckoning” that relies on accelerometers and gyroscopes to detect acceleration and velocity respectively along 3 perpendicular axes. An approximate 2 or 3 dimensional position can be constantly determined in relation to a known starting point, velocity and orientation. also a term used to refer to the whole subject: theory, design, technology, and application. Dead Reckoning a type of navigation from a known starting point and then by using vector information (direction and speed) against a clock, an estimate of the current position can be made. An INS will calculate a continuous dead-reckoning position. Position accuracy is dependent on the accuracy of vector information and the time since the last “known” position. Inertial Platform refers either to the self-referencing gyro-stabilised platform on which the accelerometers are mounted, or refers to the aircraft, or the neutral aircraft position (pitch, roll and yaw axes), to which a strap-down inertial navigation system is firmly attached. Inertial Reference System (IRS) refers to a solid-state unit of three Ring Laser Gyros detecting accelerations in 3 dimensions; they may also contain quartz accelerometers. Inertial Reference Unit (IRU) refers to a computer that integrates IRS outputs and provides inertial reference outputs for use by other navigation and flight control systems, including the Flight Management System (FMS). Gyroscope/Gyro has traditionally referred to mechanical spinning gyros set within gimbals and frames allowing a platform to be stabilised in space regardless of the motion of the aircraft. nowadays the term Gyro usually refers to a solid-state Ring Laser Gyro (RLG), which is predominantly used in modern aircraft INS. several other types of Gyro are available, such as: Hemispherical Resonating Gyros (Wine Glass Gyros), which use hollowed out quartz resonators in which harmonic standing wave rotations are measured.. Tuning Fork Gyros use electrically driven quartz tuning forks on a silicon chip; movement will twist the forks and this changes the capacitance between the tines proportional to angular movement, which can be measured.. MEMS (MicroElectricalMechanical) Gyro.. Vibrating Wheel Gyro.. Cylindrical Vibratory Gyro.. Piezoelectric Gyro.. Inertial Navigation System (INS) traditionally (1960’s and 70’s) referred to a self-contained navigation system utilising a gyro-stabilised platform for dead-reckoning, and with a