been insufficient time for the flight crew to issue a ‘brace brace’ command prior to the touch down but an order to evacuate was given by the aircraft commander once the aircraft had stopped. The evacuation alarm (not a mandatory requirement on the aircraft) was later also found to have operated satisfactorily in all except one cabin location. It was found that during the aircraft evacuation actions taken by the flight crew, the engine fire switches had been operated (by the First Officer) prior to the engine cut off switches (by the aircraft commander) contrary to the requirements of the aircraft manufacturer checklist. The effect of this was that 6750 kg of fuel had leaked out of the engines until the valves were manually closed. The existence of SB 777-28-0025, which had not been incorporated on the accident aircraft but which had the effect of causing the fuel valve involved to shut upon operation of the corresponding engine cut off switch even if the fire switch had been pulled, was noted. A fuel flow restriction upstream of each of the HP fuel pumps was confirmed by signs of fresh cavitation in both pumps. This restriction was also established as having been downstream of the forward boost pump connections into the fuel manifolds. After tests, it was concluded that the restrictions had most probably occurred at the face of the Fuel Oil Heat Exchangers (FOHEs). Tests showed that increasing the fuel flow could cause accreted ice to be released from the walls of the fuel pipes and that this ice would then be able to obstruct fuel passage through the face of the FOHE. It was found that it was not possible for ice to cause the fuel flow restrictions evidenced as having occurred during the accident flight in way other than other than at the FOHE. It was concluded that the engine rollbacks which occurred had been a direct result of lack of available fuel to meet the commanded thrust setting and that ice obstruction at the FOHE was the definite cause of fuel starvation at the right hand engine and the probable cause of the same at the left hand engine. It was noted that: “current certification requirements do not address the scenario of ice accumulation and release within fuel systems.” The Formal statement of Probable Causal Factors for the fuel flow restrictions which led to the accident was follows: Accreted ice from within the fuel system released, causing a restriction to the engine fuel flow at the face of the FOHE, on both of the engines.. Ice had formed within the fuel system, from water that occurred naturally in the fuel, whilst the aircraft operated with low fuel flows over a long period and the localised fuel temperatures were in an area described as the ‘sticky range’.. The FOHE, although compliant with the applicable certification requirements, was shown to be susceptible to restriction when presented with soft ice in a high concentration, with a fuel temperature that is