An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB with the involvement of various assisting parties including Boeing, Rolls Royce and the NTSB. The DFDR, CVR and various component Non Volatile Memory (NVM) recorded on the Quick Access Recorder (QAR) was available, and the combination of sources helped the development of the findings on causation of what was soon established to have been fuel starvation. The QAR buffer caused the loss of 45 seconds of data prior to the accident outcome but, critically for the investigation, the NVM provided a record of the position of each Fuel Metering Valve (FMV), a parameter which was not recorded on the DFDR fitted. In respect of the fuel loaded, it was determined that there had been sufficient on board and that neither the fuel temperature at loading nor the fuel temperature during the flight had been unique or outside of the certificated operating envelope of the aircraft. However, a data mining exercise showed that the accident flight was “unique amongst 175,000 flights (in) having a low cruise fuel flow and a high fuel flow during approach while at a low fuel temperature”. At 800 feet agl, and approximately 2 nm from touchdown following a ‘monitored approach’ in accordance with Operator SOP, the First Officer had become PF. At 720 feet agl, the right engine suffered an uncommanded thrust reduction to 1.03 EPR with fuel flow 6000 pph and then seven seconds later the left engine suffered a similar uncommanded thrust reduction to 1.02 EPR with fuel flow 5000 pph. At this point, both engine FMVs had moved to fully open and both EECs had been demanding maximum fuel flow for more than two seconds to no effect. This occurred 48 seconds before the subsequent touchdown and with the AP still engaged. The PF had intended to disconnect the AP at 600 ft but did not do so as he had become distracted by the engine rollback. As the AP attempted to follow the ILS GS, the airspeed reduced but when a manual restoration of thrust was attempted, there was no response. At 240 feet agl, the aircraft commander retracted the flap from 30° to 25° which it was calculated had increased the distance to touchdown by about 50 metres. At 200 feet agl the stick shaker had activated and, as it became obvious that a touchdown short of the runway threshold was inevitable, the aircraft commander made a ‘MAYDAY’ call to ATC three seconds before touchdown. At the operation of the stick-shaker, the PF had pushed forward on the control column and the AP disconnected. The aircraft struck the ground at a recorded 2.9g and at a rate of descent of about 1400 fpm some 330 metres short of the Runway 27L threshold and then slid 372 m before coming to rest. It was noted that the APU had not been running when thrust was lost and that a subsequent attempt to start it had not been completed prior to touchdown. There had