the aircraft passed 2010 feet agl and a 'SINK RATE PULL UP' Warning was activated 12 seconds before the end of the recording. The CVRs did not record any conversation after the First Officer had left the flight deck. A simulation of the final 12 minutes of the flight based on FDR data was flown in a Level D Full Flight Simulator. It was noted that "the behaviour of the simulator was very close to the parameters recorded […] on the FDR". It was considered that all the evidence displayed clear intent to set up a high speed collision with terrain which would destroy the aircraft. Given this conclusion, an attempt was made to investigate his personal circumstances and investigators travelled to Mozambique. Whilst there, they interviewed the family members and friends of both pilots and discovered that the Captain had been through a number of ‘life experiences’ which had included: Separation from his first wife on which the divorce process had not been completed after almost 10 years of separation.. The death of a son who died in a car accident in a suspected suicide in November 2012. The Captain was reported as not having attended his son’s funeral.. The Captain’s youngest daughter had recently undergone heart surgery in a South African hospital.. It was noted that “although information on the financial and insurance position of the Captain was requested via the Investigation’s Mozambique Accredited Representative”, it proved impossible to obtain this information prior to the completion of the Investigation because of significant “bureaucratic and legal/judicial” hurdles. The non-receipt of signals from an ELT after the crash was found to be due to a break in the co-axial cable which linked the unit to the external antenna. It was considered that devices containing an integral antenna would be more reliable. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the crash was "the inputs to the auto flight systems by the crew member believed to be the Captain who remained alone in the cockpit when the person believed to be the Co-pilot requested to go to the lavatory (which) caused the aircraft to depart from cruise flight to a sustained controlled descent and subsequent collision with the terrain". One Contributing Factor was also identified: The non-compliance to company procedures that resulted in a sole crew member occupying the flight compartment.. Upon completion of the Investigation, the following 6 Safety Recommendations were made: that the Mozambique Civil Aviation Authority should come up with a mechanism to ensure that the procedure of two people in the flight deck is adhered to at all times as laid out in LAM’s Manual of Flight Operation Chapter 10.1.4, Page 5 of 36, Edition 3 Revision 8, (Absence from Flight Deck). [001/2015 LAM]. that the ICAO should establish a working group that should look into the operation and the threat management emanating from both sides of the cockpit door. [002/2015 LAM]. that the ICAO should establish standards that implement recommendations of the working group, formed under