An Investigation was carried out by the Namibia Directorate of Aircraft Accident Investigation (DAAI). A brief Preliminary Report was released on 18 December 2013 and ongoing progress was detailed in an Interim Report released on 1 December 2014. The two CVFDRs installed in the aircraft were recovered from the accident site on 30 November 2013 and subsequently downloaded successfully at the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Recorded flight data relevant to the Investigation was obtained from both units and the data recorded by each ‘pair’ of recorder units was found to be identical. Both CVR and FDR units contained data up to impact - 2 hours in the case of the CVRs and approximately 141 hours in the case of the FDRs. ATC recordings of both radar surveillance and voice communication were also available. It was established that the aircraft had been in normal communication with Gaborone ACC when, at mandatory reporting point EXEDU, Namibian radar recordings showed that the aircraft had "commenced a sudden descent from (its) cruising level of FL380" without advising ATC. Just over 6 minutes later, as the aircraft was descending though 6600 feet amsl, radar and voice contact with the aircraft were lost by air traffic services and 15 seconds after that and one hour 50 minutes since take off, the aircraft impacted terrain at 3390 feet amsl. Examination of recorded flight data indicated that: The aircraft was operating normally and there was no evidence of any mechanical faults.. Minutes before the crash, the First Officer left the flight deck in order to use the toilet and only the Captain remained there.. The descent was initiated by changing the FMS mode and manually re-setting the altitude preselect from 38000 feet to 4288 feet, then to 1888 feet and finally to 592 feet - the latter being well below ground elevation.. One minute after the descent began, the A/T was disconnected manually then re-engaged and the thrust levers automatically retarded to idle in response to the prior selection of FLCH mode and a target altitude requiring significant descent.. The airspeed was manually changed several times until the end of the FDR recording and remained close to Vmo.. The speed brake handle parameter indicates that it was commanded to open the spoiler panels and remained in this position until the end of the recording.. During all these actions, there were audible low and high chimes as well as repeated banging on the flight deck door by the First Officer attempting to re-enter the flight deck.. The AP remained engaged throughout the descent made and the cabin remained pressurised. The data showed that the angle of attack during the descent was not indicative of a stall and that the use of speed brake had ensured that a high rate of descent could be sustained with the AP engaged without exceeding Vmo, which would have resulted in corrective action by the AP to avoid excessive speed. The achieved rate of descent was around 10,000fpm. EGPWS Alerts began as