- see the picture of that to the right hand engine below - was found to have been similar for both engines. The Investigation identified two issues in respect of the decision to continue with the flight to Sydney, firstly the “durability” of the affected (left hand) engine and secondly “the unknown performance of the aircraft if the right engine had failed during the remainder of the flight”. It was noted that the decision to continue the flight was based on a tacit assumption that the only development en route was likely to be a further deterioration in the thrust available from the left hand engine. However, since subsequent examination of the right hand engine had found that it had also sustained damage due to the bird strike, there was, albeit unknown to the crew, a theoretically increased risk of failure of that engine during the continued flight. It was recognised that the tactical decision in respect of the continued safe operation of the aircraft was based upon a limited amount of information and had been made in a limited amount of time. It could be seen to have been made without a full appreciation of the extent of potentially significant damage and therefore also of the potential risks to the safe completion of the flight. It was considered that had Qantas provided appropriate operational guidance, the crew would probably have returned the aircraft to Melbourne. In respect of the failure of airport bird watch strategies to detect the flock of birds involved and warn ATC accordingly, the Investigation noted that monitoring was not continuous and that the solution to better risk management probably lay in the real-time bird detection technologies currently being developed. Safety Action taken by Qantas by introducing a new flight operations policy for all twin engine aircraft types was noted as follows: “Any time a bird strike to an engine (or engines) is known to have occurred AND there is obvious sign of engine damage, then a landing at the nearest suitable Airport should be accomplished. It noted that obvious signs of engine damage may include: increased vibration (either indicated or felt), a change in engine parameters that is not normal for the phase of flight, or significant difference in the parameters between engines.” The 'Final Report Aviation Occurrence – 200605807 of the Investigation was released on 29 June 2007. No Safety Recommendations were made