An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that the birds had numbered between 20 and 50 and had all been a small species of cockatoo called a Corella. It was considered by the airport operator and by wildlife experts consulted that, as these birds had not been feeding within the aerodrome boundary and the species was not usually locally evident, they had probably arrived in search of food because of a drought which was known to be prevailing in their normally resident area. It was found that after immediately after the bird encounter, the left hand engine vibration indication had risen to 4.5 units and been accompanied by a change in the sound of the engine and a slight vibration through the airframe. However, the corresponding EGT value for this engine had not changed from the pre-strike value and there had been no changes to any of the engine indications for the right hand engine. In the absence of clear operational guidance as to acceptable vibration limits for continued flight, Company maintenance were contacted and advised that provided vibration could be kept below 2.0 “they were not concerned”. A reduction in climb thrust by about 10% produced a vibration reading of about 1.3 units. The approximately one hour flight was uneventful thereafter and was as a precaution conducted at a lower than normal cruise altitude of 29,000 feet so as to remain below the AFM single engine operating ceiling. For the descent to destination, the crew operated the left engine to flight idle as a further precaution and conducted an uneventful asymmetric thrust approach and landing. It was noted that the context for this crew response had been that following a bird strike “the procedures to be carried out by flight crews were based upon the indications of any damage noted on the aircraft’s instrumentation and warning systems, and good airmanship”. In respect of resilience of the engine as installed to the circumstances encountered, it was noted that bird ingestion should “not cause more than a sustained 25 percent power or thrust loss or require the engine to be shut down”. However, subsequent enhancements to the requirement, which were not applicable to the incident aircraft engines, were noted to have added a specified minimum ‘run-on’ period of 5 minutes after bird ingestion damage on the basis that this time period was “representative of the time required for an aircraft to return for landing following bird ingestion during takeoff or climbout”. A subsequent examination of the aircraft by maintenance showed that the birds had struck the nose of the fuselage, the nose and right main landing gear, the wing leading edges, the engine pylons and both left and right engines. The damage to the aircraft was determined to have been minor, except for damage to the leading edges of 4 to 5 blades on both engines and blockage of the pre-cooler on the left engine. The extent of leading edge fan blade damage