An Investigation was carried out by the Transportation Safety Board of Canada (TSB). The accident helicopter was fitted a Solid State MPFR (Multi Purpose Flight Recorder) which recorded both Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data. Recovery and data download was successful with the exception of an absence of recording from about 44 seconds before impact until just under 2 seconds from impact. Useful data was also successfully recovered from the Non Volatile Memory of both FCCs, both EECs, the HUMS, the Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) and the Maintenance Data Computer. The Investigation did not find evidence of any pre-existing condition that would have prevented normal operation. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had gained a command on type with the Operator 16 months prior to the accident and had accumulated 5997 total flying hours which included 1061 hours on type. The First Officer had joined the Operator just over a year prior to the accident following military service as a rotary wing pilot and had 2854 total flying hours which included 94 hours type. It was established that 13 minutes after levelling off at the intended cruise altitude of 9000 feet QNH approximately 54 nautical miles from the St. John's, a main gearbox oil pressure warning light had illuminated. An emergency was declared and a descent, and diversion back towards St. John's was commenced. The descent was continued to level at 800 feet QNH where an airspeed of 133 KIAS was maintained. Ten minutes later, approximately 35 nm from St. John's, the flight crew reported that they were ditching and less than a minute later, the helicopter struck the water in a slightly right-bank, nose-high attitude banked to the right with a low forward speed and a high rate of descent. The fuselage was severely damaged and sank quickly. It was found that all occupants had survived the impact but all except the only survivor had drowned prior to the rescue of that survivor approximately 1 hour and 20 minutes after impact occurred. The water surface temperature was 0.2°C No signals were detected from either the aircraft ELT or the Personal Locator Beacons (PLBs) worn by the occupants of the helicopter. The use of PLBs is not required by Canadian Regulation but east coast offshore operators require them to be carried by both pilots and passengers. The ones carried by occupants of the accident aircraft were designed to be automatically activated to transmit on 121.5 MHz when immersed in fresh or salt water and remaining near the surface but since 1 February 2009, the COSPAS-SARSAT satellite system has not monitored this frequency, instead monitoring only newer technology 406 MHz PLBs and ELTs. Seven days after the accident, the wreckage was recovered and transported to St. John’s. The decision by the aircraft commander to attempt a return to St. John’s was reviewed given that the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) response to an MGB failure is “land immediately”. It