was considered that “the decision to land or ditch immediately could hinge on the pilots' interpretation of the "land immediately" definition and their assessment of the risks associated with landing immediately versus prolonging flight to reach a more suitable landing area”. It was noted that one factor which may influence a pilot's decision-making process is the consideration of a helicopter's run-dry capability before control may be lost. It was considered that “in the offshore environment, the decision to ditch or prolong flight will weigh heavily on a pilot who must consider the risks of both options” and unless they have had “repeated exposure to similarly dangerous situations, the stress of a potential ditching scenario could have a significant adverse effect on his/her ability to properly assess the situation, resulting in less effective and potentially disorganized attempts to consider alternative solutions”. Given the reliability of modern helicopters, such exposure is unlikely and in addition, pilots will often succumb to confirmation bias in which the focus of an individual will be primarily on “cues that support the most desired course of action” and this results in many offshore helicopter pilots trying to make it to shore unless they are faced with “compelling indications of a catastrophic failure such as unusual noises and/or vibrations”. Examination of the evidence led to the finding that the MGB had continued to operate for approximately 11 minutes after a sudden and total loss of lubricating oil pressure. Examination of its components showed damage due to frictional heating caused by the continued operation without oil. This frictional heating had “led to the plastic collapse of the tail take-off pinion's teeth, eventually causing the loss of drive to the tail rotor shafts”. It was found that two of the three MGB filter bowl assembly titanium studs had sheared allowing the filter bowl to displace’ possibly as the result of damage to the studs during the removal or installation of the filter bowl. The Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally recorded as follows: Galling on a titanium attachment stud holding the filter bowl assembly to the main gearbox (MGB) prevented the correct preload from being applied during installation. This condition was exacerbated by the number of oil filter replacements and the re-use of the original nuts.. Titanium alloy oil filter bowl mounting studs had been used successfully in previous Sikorsky helicopter designs; in the S-92A, however, the number of unexpected oil filter changes resulted in excessive galling.. Reduced preload led to an increase of the cyclic load experienced by one of the titanium MGB oil filter bowl assembly attachment studs during operation of CHI91, and to fatigue cracking of the stud, which then developed in a second stud due to increased loading resulting from the initial stud failure. The two studs broke in cruise flight resulting in a sudden loss of oil in the MGB.. Following (an occurrence in Australia) Sikorsky and the Federal Aviation Administration (Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)) had relied on new