requirements were not sufficient to prevent progression to corrosion-related fatigue fracture”. It was considered that since the same PF shaft is fitted to all PW100 series engines and that “there are other PW100 series operators conducting maritime surveillance activities” it was considered that the risk of similar failures extended beyond both the aircraft operator and aircraft type in the current investigation. It was concluded that “the circumstances of this occurrence illustrate the importance of specific guidance and criteria on how to assess corrosion” which would also have provided the OEM with awareness of engines in the global fleet that are most at risk of sudden failure due to this cause. Three Contributing Factors, one of which was defined as a ‘Safety Issue’, were identified as follows: The power turbine shaft of the aircraft’s right engine fractured due to fatigue cracking, resulting in secondary damage and engine failure.. The fatigue cracking in the engine’s power turbine shaft had initiated from corrosion pitting, which probably resulted from prolonged low-altitude operation in a marine environment.. The power turbine shaft in Pratt & Whitney Canada PW100 series engines operating in certain marine environments is susceptible to corrosion pitting, which can grow undetected between scheduled inspections. This increases the risk of shaft fracture resulting in engine failure. [Safety Issue: AO-2019-060-SI-01]. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Pratt and Whitney Canada takes safety action to address the risk of corrosion-related fracture of the power turbine shaft in its PW100 series engines. [AO-2019-060-SR-43]. On the basis of the findings of the Investigation, the ATSB formally documented a Safety Message as follows: The corrosion-related fracture of the power turbine shaft of the aircraft’s engine in this occurrence highlights that corrosion pitting that exceeds repair limits on safety-critical components should be a warning sign to manufacturers, maintainers, and operators that the existing maintenance strategy may not be effective. Additionally, manufacturers should provide guidance and criteria to maintenance organisations for assessing and reporting corrosion on safety-critical components. This enables identification of whether the maintenance strategy is effective or if changes are required to reduce the risk of in-service failures. The Final Report was released on 10 March 2021.