An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) based on an examination of the failed engine, the data from the CVR and FDR and flight crew statements. It was established that in preparation for the start of the takeoff, the power levers had been moved towards the takeoff position against the brakes but as takeoff power was reached a loud bang was heard. In response, the Captain returned both power levers to the flight idle position and instructed the First Officer to inform ATC of their “engine issue”. The controller acknowledged the call and reported having seen ‘smoke’ coming from the right engine and informing the emergency services. The Captain then checked the right engine instrumentation and observed that “the torque gauge had failed” and that the propeller RPM gauge indicated zero but that other indications for the gas core of the engine such as fuel flow appeared normal. He instructed the First Officer to shut down the engine and after confirming that the aircraft brake, hydraulic and electrical systems were functioning normally, the aircraft was taxied to the company maintenance facility using the remaining engine. Debris described as “metal fragments” was subsequently discovered behind the position of the aircraft when the failure occurred. After the right engine had been removed from the aircraft, it was possible to see that all the second-stage Power Turbine (PT) blades had separated from the disk (see the first illustration below) and that although it was not possible to rotate the PT assembly, the propeller shaft could be turned freely. The engine was taken to the OEM facility for a detailed examination and the findings included the following: The diffuser case, which contained the LP centrifugal impeller, showed corrosion at several locations (see the second illustration below) and the LP impeller blades showed leading edge erosion.. All PT stage 1 and stage 2 blades had fractured through tensile overload (see the third illustration below). The PT shaft was fractured in two locations (see the first illustration below) with the inner diameter next to one of these fractures showing corrosion pitting (see the fourth and fifth illustrations below). A rear view of the removed engine showing the second stage power turbine damage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Diffuser case showing areas of corrosion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The two Power Turbine disk assemblies showing all blades sheared off. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Metallurgical analysis of the PT shaft showed that it had fractured at the position marked ‘A’ in the next illustration below due to the corrosion pitting on its inner surface which had reduced the thickness of the material to 25% below the minimum requirement. It was concluded that the other fracture, which showed signs of bending rather than torsional overload, had been secondary. The OEM stated that in its view, the PT shaft corrosion was a result of the engine’s marine operational environment resulting from low level surveillance tasking by the operator’s contractor.