It noted that during normal engine operation, some of the air flowing through the compressor is delivered to the inside of the PT shaft via internal and external tubes and both seals bearings and cools the PT stage 1 and stage 2 disks. Corrosion protection for the internal surface of the PT shaft is provided by an aluminium coating applied during manufacture and noted that although it had not been possible to evaluate the condition of this coating near the fractures, “there were no other indications, such as de-lamination, which would suggest the coating had been incorrectly applied”. They also indicated that in-service experience indicated that “the aluminium coating had historically provided good corrosion protection”. The Investigation noted that the PT shaft did not have a fixed operational service life but was subject to on-condition maintenance at each engine overhaul which included cleaning, inspections and, if applicable, repairs. Each of these “cleaning” processes involved the removal of the internal aluminium coating as part of the cleaning process and its re-application after inspection and the completion of any required repairs. Any corrosion observed on the shaft was evaluated against the repair limits and if within limits, it could be repaired; otherwise it was replaced. The applicable engine TBO depended on whether the operator’s engine maintenance activity was based on a fixed time schedule (every 8000 hours) or ‘on condition’, as was the case with the aircraft operator involved. Such on condition maintenance had to be conducted in accordance with a detailed OEM-determined schedule and meant that the TBO of an engine could be extended beyond the normal 8000 hours subject to its condition. However, it was noted that this maintenance programme to extend the TBO did not include any additional tasks in respect of the PT shaft. The fractured Power Turbine shaft - fracture ‘A’ was the primary corrosion-caused fracture. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The two parts of the Power Turbine shaft at fracture ‘A’ showing corrosion pitting on the inside. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The failed engine was manufactured in 2000 and had been fitted to various DHC-8 aircraft in the operator’s aerial surveillance fleet throughout its life. Its original PT shaft was removed during the engine’s first overhaul at 13,547 hours in March 2011 because of deep corrosion pitting on the shaft inner surface which was beyond repair limits and was replaced with a newly manufactured one which had accumulated 12,254 hours before the fracture being investigated. The OEM confirmed that this shaft fracture was the first to have occurred in service. The Investigation found evidence of two other instances of the PT shaft internal corrosion in PW100 series engines which had developed undetected between scheduled overhauls, also at the operator of the aircraft under investigation. These engines had been similarly exposed to a low level marine operating environment and the corrosion found had been similarly assessed as a result of this with all three cases considered to collectively demonstrate that “the existing protective coating and maintenance