50 feet with the aircraft descending rapidly. At 40 feet, airspeed was decreasing through Vref - 5 and "the PM noticed that the power had been reduced to near flight idle and that the aircraft was descending rapidly (approximately 900 feet per minute)". He "called for the addition of engine power seconds before the aircraft touched down" but the PF only did this after rapidly pitching nose up first. The pitch attitude during touchdown at 3.05g exceeded the value at which a tail strike could be expected to occur with the landing gear oleos depressed and thus fuselage/runway contact occurred. It was found that the Operator's pilot training already covered pitch awareness in relation to arresting excessive descent rates below 100 feet agl and that the generalised requirement to maintain a stabilised approach as defined below the specified 'gate' was clearly stated in relevant SOP. The DHC8 -400 Aircraft Operating Manual was also noted to specifically include the statement "DO NOT exceed 6° nose up during landing flare to avoid the fuselage contacting the runway". However, it was noted that whilst Porter Airlines' SOP defined call-outs to be made by both the PF and the PM, it did not outline PM duties or what the PM should be monitoring throughout the different stages of flight. It was also found that SOP at the time did not make it clear what approach angle should be flown on a visual approach if it is to qualify as stabilised when using visual glide slope indicators such as the PAPI. It was noted that the only defined parameter that made the accident approach unstable below 500 feet was when the indicated airspeed dropped below Vref at 90 feet. It was considered that "if SOP do not clearly define the requirements for a stabilised visual approach, there is an increased risk that continued flight could result in a landing accident". It was noted that as a result of a previous investigation into a 2011 fatal accident at Resolute Bay the Board had identified the need to reduce the incidence of unstable approaches that are continued to a landing and made a corresponding recommendation (A14-01) to Transport Canada (TC). It was noted that TC's response relied on existing SMS requirements to effectively mitigate the risk yet indicated that OFDM would not be mandated. It was noted that SMS had already been in place for several years and that "the incidence of unstable approaches has not (yet) been effectively addressed". A review of past similar events found that this occurrence was Porter Airlines' second aft fuselage strike on landing. The previous one at Ottawa in 2009 had also followed a mishandled landing of a DHC8-400 by a very low experience First Officer at night, although in this case, he was still undergoing line training with a Company Training Captain. The Investigation also noted that even though the DHC8-300 is 7 metres shorter than the DHC8-400, their risk of sustaining a tail strike if over-rotated during landing was