An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR). It was noted that damage caused by the tail strike required the replacement of an area of fuselage skin and a number of structural stiffeners and longerons prior to return to service. The PF for the flight was the First Officer. It was found that he had been on line less than two months in his first airline job after considerable experience flying light aircraft as single pilot and light twins as a co pilot. He had 134 hours experience on the aircraft type involved, including training time and had flown on only 4 other days in the month of May prior to the accident. The Captain was experienced both generally and on the aircraft type and was one of Porter Airlines' Training Captains, although he was not operating in that capacity on the investigated flight. It was established that the aircraft had been cleared for a visual approach to Runway 30 at destination. The applicable Reference Speed (Vref) calculated by the crew for the approach was 121 KIAS. The normal approach briefing was given prior to descent and as the PF had limited experience on the aircraft, he was reminded by the PM that the DHC-8-400 is a (relatively) heavy aircraft compared to those on which he had done most of his flying until very recently and that "there was a need to slow the aircraft down and get it stabilised on the approach". Checklist action was completed throughout in accordance with Company SOPs. Once the Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems (3°) was visible, it was used to guide the descent and it was noted that there had been minor oscillation about the PAPI-indicated glide path which were actively corrected using a combination of slight pitch and power changes. As the approach continued, the PM divided his attention between monitoring the aircraft instruments and the visual approach. At the 500 feet stabilised approach gate, the 'stabilised' call was correctly made by the PM. Soon afterwards, the aircraft began to get high. A slight nose-down pitch was applied and the indicated airspeed began to increase, but the aircraft continued to drift above the glide path. As the aircraft passed 250 feet, the indicated airspeed had reached Vref +10 and the aircraft was about to go sufficiently high to enter the '4 whites' PAPI zone. In response, the power was reduced to Flight Idle, the nose pitched slightly down and as a result airspeed began to decrease rapidly and the descent rate increased. The PM "did not notice the power reduction, the rapid airspeed reduction, or the increasing descent rate". As the aircraft passed 90 feet, airspeed went below Vref and the PF reacted by beginning to pitch up and marginally increased the power to 7% torque - just 2% above the Flight Idle setting. The Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) automated countdown of height began at