similar. Bombardier awareness of the problem for both variants was considered to have been evidenced by their production of a dedicated pilot training video. This not only highlights the importance of controlling an excessive rate of descent near the ground by increasing power, it also points out that "an increase in power will increase airflow over the wings directly behind the propellers and, therefore, increase lift even if forward velocity does not change". In respect of Causes and Contributing Factors' it was formally concluded that: Neither crew member identified that the airspeed had dropped below landing reference speed; the flight no longer met the requirements of a stabilised approach, and an overshoot was required.. The pilot monitoring did not identify the decreasing airspeed and increasing descent rate in time to notify the pilot flying or intervene.. In response to the warning by the Pilot Monitoring to add power, the pilot flying pitched the nose up beyond the limits stated in the standard operating procedures and the manufacturer's pitch awareness training.. The high rate of descent coupled with the high nose-up attitude of the aircraft resulted in the hard landing that compressed the struts and allowed the tail to strike the runway.. In respect of Risk, it was concluded that: If standard operating procedures do not clearly define the requirements for a stabilised visual approach, there is an increased risk that continued flight could result in a landing accident.. If standard operating procedures do not clearly define the duties of the pilot monitoring, there is an increased risk that unsafe flight conditions could develop.. Safety Action taken by Porter Airlines as a result of the accident was noted to have included the following: a revision to pilot training in respect of pitch awareness so as to emphasise the need to arrest high descent rates with power and not pitch. an overall review of training for training captains and line pilots. a review of the use of flap settings on approach. the provision of further clarification on the stabilised approach procedure. a re-emphasis to crews of the hazards associated with night-time operations. The Final Report was authorised for release on 28 January 2015 and officially released on 12 February 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made.