An Investigation was carried out by the South African CAA Accident and Incident Investigation Division (AIID). Relevant recorded flight data was available from both the SSFDR and the SSCVR. It was noted that the 36 year-old Captain had a total of 8,895 hours flying experience of which 7,035 hours were on type and the 29 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,157 hours flying experience of which just 81 hours were on type. It was established that shortly after entering South African airspace at the border with Zimbabwe level at FL 340, there was a sudden loud bang and a yaw to the right which based on flight deck indications was immediately associated with the failure of both left hand side engines (the outer number 1 and inner number 2). The crew followed the prescribed procedures and a MAYDAY was declared to ATC. This prompted a review of emergency landing options in the surrounding area and the South African Air Force Base at Makhado (FAVM - see the route map below) was placed on precautionary standby. Data from the CVR showed that crew had effectively focused on retaining full control of the aircraft and it was considered from the evidence that they had “demonstrated good airmanship as they worked together and focused on taking control of the aircraft during an emergency situation”. After stabilising the aircraft, talking to company maintenance control and “making a careful evaluation of the aircraft’s controllability and stability given the emergency conditions” the crew decided that the flight to the originally intended destination, which was about 240 nm away, should be completed and advised ATC accordingly. The cabin crew were kept fully informed by the flight crew and in turn they kept the passengers fully informed. Passenger reports stated that at the time of the failure “sparks had been observed coming from the number 2 engine exhaust” but there were no further signs of continuing distress from either of the failed engines and it was noted that both engine fire extinguishers had been discharged by the crew as a precaution during their initial response to the failures. The remainder of the flight was completed without further event and ATC allocated a dedicated en route radio frequency until passing the flight direct to the Johannesburg APP frequency. On arrival at Johannesburg, it was possible to confirm that damage to the aircraft had been limited to the two engines involved and to the number 1 engine pylon. It could be seen from the damage that the number 2 engine left-hand side casing had been ripped open by the fourth turbine wheel which was found embedded in the exhaust casing with its retaining nut in between the turbine disc and the exhaust ribs. All turbine blades on the wheel assembly had broken off and some had clearly been ejected towards the casing of the number 1 engine and penetrated it. It was subsequently found that some of this debris had damaged the number 1 engine FADEC box (which