had shut the engine down) as well as other engine components and fuel, oil and hydraulic lines. The four-module engine had been installed on the aircraft in 2013. The maintenance schedule was found to require that the fourth-stage turbine rotor disc assembly fitted to the LP turbine shaft in the combustor turbine module must be replaced after every 16,600 cycles. The AMM allows this task to be accomplished with the engine on wing. Maintenance records showed that this assembly had been replaced on 27 July 2017 with a fully serviceable overhauled unit. The number 2 engine was a “post SB ALF/LF 72-1030-configured” engine whereas it was found that the installation of the new assembly had inadvertently been made using the AMM procedure for “pre SB ALF/LF 72-1030-configured” engines. The significant difference between the two procedures was that the post mod installation procedure differed from the pre mod one in respect of the required dimension checks to ensure correct installation of the assembly. The potential indirect consequence of this was that the turbine rotor wheel slowly backed off the shaft due to the progressive slackening of its retaining nut and eventually separated from its LP turbine shaft assembly altogether, taking approximately 320 hours and 248 cycles in service to reach the point of separation. The two most likely explanations for the slackening of this retaining nut were considered to have been either “overspeed ring mis-stacking” or “improper torque application”. The Probable Cause of the investigated event was determined as “the number 2 engine LP turbine retaining nut becoming dislodged resulting in the fourth-stage turbine rotor disc disengaging from the LP turbine shaft and compromising the turbine casing (after which) turbine debris from the number 2 engine struck the number 1 engine, causing an un-commanded shutdown and resulting in the catastrophic failure of both these engines”. A Contributory Factor during prior maintenance was also identified as “either the incorrect application of torque settings or improper installation due to a possible mis-stacking of the over-speed ring”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Director for Civil Aviation (DCA) publish an advisory operator alert to ensure that the correct dimension check guidance is used during the on-wing fourth turbine rotor disc assembly maintenance procedure for post-SB ALF/LF 72-1030 engines as contained in the Engine Maintenance Manual (EMM) pending revisions to be made to the guidance in the AMM in this regard.. The Final Report was completed on 13 February 2018 but preparation for release was not completed until 10 April 2019.