As developed and deployed at major airports in the USA, a RWSL system is a fully automatic, advisory safety system which provides direct alerts to both vehicles and pilots independently of the normal traffic control system operated by ATC. Its objective is to reduce both the number and severity of runway incursions and thereby prevent runway collisions. It is designed to be fully compatible with existing procedures. Early versions of the system had two elements, Runway Entrance Lights (RELs) and Take Off Hold lights (THLs). Runway Intersection Lights (RILs) were subsequently added and now the intention is to integrate the three RWSL elements with the Final Approach Runway Occupancy Signal (FAROS) system which will provide runway occupancy alerting to aircraft on final approach indicating that it is unsafe to land by automatically changing the PAPIs from a steady illumination to an intermittent one. The FAROS system is described separately. RWSL and any similar systems are generically identified by ICAO as Autonomous Runway Incursion Warning Systems (ARIWS). Specifications for such systems are provided in Annex 14. A graphic of showing a typical application of the three 'baseline'; elements of the RWSL system is shown below. In summary, the principles are that: RELs warn that it is unsafe to enter/cross a runway. THLs warn that it is unsafe to take off from a runway. RILs warn that it is unsafe to cross a runway intersection. A typical deployment of a RWSL system (FAROS element not shown). Diagram prepared by MIT Lincoln Laboratory. It is important to note that activation of RWSL components is completely independent of ATC clearances and their activation as a backup safety net against human error bears no relation to the presence or absence of an ATC clearance. However, when RWSL indications contradict clearances, pilots and vehicle drivers are expected to priortise response to the status lights. Conversely, the absence of RWSL indications does not equate to an ATC clearance to proceed. It is routine to see these indications cycling between illuminated and extinguished as the relative disposition of traffic changes.