The RWSL concept was first discussed in 2002 and once it had been validated, the task of development and overseeing the initial operational trials of its various elements was then passed to the MIT Lincoln Laboratory sponsored by the FAA under a USAF Contract. A study of the 167 most dangerous (defined as an actual miss distance of less than 100 feet) runway incursions in the USA between 1997 and 2000 at 100 of the busiest airports which involved at least one large passenger jet was carried out by the Lincoln Laboratory. They found that a RWSL system might have prevented or mitigated the consequences of around 75% of these. Successful operational evaluations of prototype RWSL systems installed at Dallas/Fort Worth and San Diego airports from 2005 led to the 2009 installation of an Lincoln Laboratory-designed RWSL system built by the ARCON Corporation at Los Angeles followed by a similar installation in 2010 at Boston. The Lincoln Laboratory then worked with FAA suppliers, in particular prime contractor ARCON Corporation, to complete technology transfer of the RWSL system. ARCON took on responsibility for the development of location-specific algorithms based on the surveillance data available at each airport where an RWSL system was to be installed and was responsible to the FAA for the implementation, monitoring and maintenance of each system. The technical specifications of RWSL installation are stated in FAA AC 150/5340-30J, Appendix G. At present, only the installation of RELs and THLs is described. The procedures for RILs are detailed in the Engineering Brief issued by the FAA Airports Division. The airports selected for installation all have ASDE-X surface radar installed which simplifies the data acquisition requirements for the RWSL system. The lead location for production deployment of the RWSL system has been designated by the FAA as Orlando FL. RWSL is currently installed at Seattle-Tacoma, San Francisco, Los Angeles, McCarran, Phoenix Sky Harbor, George Bush Intercontinental, Minneapolis-St Paul, Chicago O'Hare, Detroit Metropolitan, LaGuardia, Newark, John F. Kennedy, Baltimore/Washington Thurgood Marshall Airport, Washington Dulles, Charlotte Douglas, Orlando and Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood. Generic guidance for ATM managers and supervisors on the operation and periodic checking of the RWSL system has been issued and appropriate pilot and vehicle driver awareness and training activity will be delivered at each airport in the programme.