that he had “wanted to take control of the aircraft and follow the missed approach procedure but due to the Captain’s over-confidence in continuing and the age gap, had disregarded it.” Damage the front of the fuselage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Damage to the aft fuselage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Probable Causes of the Accident were formally documented as failures by the flight crew: Poor decision-making for acceptance of the risk of high-speed landing;. Un-stabilised approach against the normal flight profile;. Poor CRM on the flight deck; and. Poor judgment and not accomplishing a go-around after performing an unstabilised approach.. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Loading of 5 tons more fuel than required which increased the landing distance required.. Decision to make a landing on RWY 13 with tailwind.. Inability of the First Officer (PM) to take control of the aircraft and execute a go around.. A total of nine Safety Recommendations all included as items on a list with the reference SR No 981107 CPZ were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation upon its completion as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) require all operators to provide more guidance and enforce further training for pilots and dispatchers regarding the company's fuel policy and the assumptions affecting landing distance/stopping margin calculations, to include use of aircraft ground deceleration devices, wind conditions and limits, air distance, and safety margins.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) submit a formal request to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Islamic Republic of Iran to correct the runway strip dimensions in the Iran Aerodromes Bylaw in accordance with ICAO Annex 14.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) update the information on Mahshahr airport in the Iranian AIP.. that Caspian Airlines perform Line Operations Safety Audits (LOSA) on both Flight Crew and Cabin Crew.. that Caspian Airlines correct the Simulator Lesson Plans used in flight training based on the findings of this Investigation.. that Caspian Airlines expand and improve their OFDM system.. that Caspian Airlines improve communications between their Operations Department and all crew members in respect of flight planning (roster) notifications.. that Mahshahr Airport follow Iran CAO aerodrome requirements for ANS, control of obstacles and review of Instrument Approach procedures.. that the Iran Airports and Air Navigation Company provide training guidelines for ATS personnel about the agreed coordination between neighbouring ATS units.. The completed Final Report was published on 1 September 2020.