The most important part of the observation report is the narrative. If the observer provides a rich narrative, any other weaknesses in the observation report can be overcome by extracting information from the narrative. The narrative must provide the contextual information about what occurred during the observation. The narrative should tell the “story of the observation” in an objective manner. Judgemental interpretations and language should be avoided. Rather, observers should describe what they observed and only what they observed. The narrative must speak to all of the threats, errors and undesired states observed during the course of the observation. Three pieces of information should be provided for each threat, error and undesired state in the narrative: Description. A description of each threat, error and undesired state should be given.. Response. The observer should indicate how/if the event was either detected/acted upon and what action, if any, was taken to manage the situation. Outcome. How was the event resolved? What impact did the event have on operations?. In addition to providing the above information on all threats, errors and undesired states, the observer should provide additional contextual information that may be relevant. Such information may not qualify as threats, but may serve as a general update to the traffic picture. Airlines or aircraft types should be identified which could help identify trends or sources of threat. Narratives are best written using short paragraphs with frequent use of time stamps to allow the reader to locate logged threats, errors and undesired states within the narrative. Time stamps also allow the reader to sequentially follow the events that occurred during an observation. The logged threats, errors and undesired states should form the core of the narrative. The narrative should then provide additional contextual information that is descriptive in regard to the TEM components. Furthermore, there may be additional contextual information unrelated to TEM components that could aid the reader's global understanding of what was occurring in the working environment during the observation.