An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Malaysian Air Accident Investigation Bureau. Relevant data were recovered from the CVR and a transcript of ATC communications was available. The 37 year-old Captain had a total of 7,039 hours flying experience including 582 hours on type and the 61 year-old Co-Pilot had a total of 6,309 hours flying experience including 663 hours on type. It was found that during the night period when the accident occurred, four controllers had been on TWR duty with just one combined position open between 0001 and 0600. Having commenced duty at 2300 hrs the previous day, the controllers had agreed that each would consecutively man the combined position for consecutive 90 minute periods per shift, an undocumented system known as ‘Break Shift’. It was noted that such a shift was “not published in any document as an approved ATC Tower manning system”. A vehicle containing a team of three airport authority contractors had been granted access to the runway to repaint the white centreline markings. This team had no means of communicating with ATC or awareness of TWR communications with aircraft. They were accompanied by an escort vehicle whose driver, an airport authority electrician, was responsible for communications with TWR using a walkie-talkie on a discrete frequency. He also had no listening access to the TWR controller’s air traffic frequency and was parked 1200 metres from the runway 15 threshold facing the direction of aircraft use and was about 120 metres from the separate vehicle which the contractors had used to access the runway. Shortly after 0300L, and following over two hours without any aircraft movements, which was why the painting team had been granted access to the runway by ATC, an inbound Bombardier Challenger 300 was cleared to land on runway 15, the occupied runway, without any action being taken by ATC to instruct the contractors and their escort to vacate the runway. At a late stage in the approach of the aircraft, the leader of the contractor’s team saw the landing lights of the aircraft and realised that it was going to land. Recognising the imminent danger, all three workers in the contractors team boarded their vehicle and it was driven clear of the runway. Whilst making a 360 degree turn, the driver saw that the escorting vehicle was still in position on the runway and reported having flashed the headlights several times to try and attract the attention of the escort vehicle driver but observed no response. As the aircraft was rapidly getting closer, the driver then drove clear of the runway and stopped on taxiway ‘F’. Soon after touchdown following an approach in CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) conditions with the Captain as PF, the aircraft was decelerating though around 100 knots when both pilots became aware that the aircraft must have hit an obstruction and an exclamation by one of them - “we hit something” - was recorded on the CVR. The Captain stopped the aircraft on the runway adjacent