lighting which might indicate the presence of vehicles on the runway, the controller cleared the flight to land. The apparent absence of lights on the two vehicles which were still on the runway was noted as being contrary to the applicable Regulations which were found to state that all vehicles permitted to enter active runways must be equipped with a rotating beacon “with its colour and characteristic as may be determined by Director General”. The recommendation in ICAO Doc 9870 ‘Manual on the Prevention of Runway Incursions’ that all vehicles on an active runway should be in radio communication with runway controller on the same VHF frequency as that used by aircraft taking off or landing on the same runway was also noted. Whilst neither the controller in position nor the pilots of the landing aircraft saw any lights on the escort vehicle and such a light was not visible on a pre impact CCTV playback, it was noted that the painting contractors had stated that the vehicle was displaying a light. The Investigation was unable to determine the intensity of the light bulb used for the beacon installed on the escort vehicle because of the extensive impact damage to both the light and its switches. It was also found that there was “no written specification on the minimum intensity required for the beacon light to be used by vehicles operating within the manoeuvring area” and there was no other similar vehicle in use at the airport which could have been inspected. The Probable Cause of the Accident was determined as "incorrect information of vehicle activities on the runway handed over to the taking over controller led to the landing clearance given without realising the runway is occupied". Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia ensures that shift manning, especially during low traffic density, takes into consideration human fatigue as recommended in the ICAO Doc 9966 'Manual for the Oversight of Fatigue Management Approaches’. Any amendment or changes of shift manning need to be officially published.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia and Malaysia Airports need to coordinate an effort to ensure that the means of communication between ground vehicle operating within the manoeuvring area and Air Traffic Controller is in accordance to ICAO Doc 9870 - ‘Manual on The Prevention of Runway Incursion’, Chapter 4, Paragraph 4.2.6 which require the use of VHF radio.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia and Malaysia Airports add a specific Chapter or Annexes in the existing SOP listing the specification of vehicle to be used for manoeuvring area including vehicle accessories which need to be installed. For example, the intensity of beacon light to be used on vehicles, coordination phraseology between ATC and driver, etcetera.. The Final Report was issued on 2 December 2020.