to taxiway ‘F’ to allow the Cabin Crew to carry out a visual inspection which found that the left wing was badly damaged. Since there was apparently no consequence for continued taxiing of the aircraft, it was decided to continue to taxi in to the assigned parking bay and on arrival there all passengers were disembarked for immigration clearance. An external inspection of the left wing found that its leading edge had sustained severe damage in a collision with the escort vehicle with metal parts from the roof of the latter impaled on the wing. The airport RFFS attended the impact location and found the vehicle badly damaged and with its entire roof missing and slightly further along the runway than it had been before the impact. Its driver was found trapped in the driver’s seat with severe head injuries. He was removed from the vehicle and taken to hospital but died as a result of his injures the following day. The following three pictures show the relative positions of the landing aircraft and the two vehicles prior to and at impact with the various runway access points identified. The two vehicles in their initial stationary positions. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The contractors’ vehicle facing the landing aircraft begins to exit into taxiway ‘G’. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft left wing hits the escort vehicle which was facing in the direction the aircraft landed. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The initial duty controller in position from 0001 cleared a vehicle to enter the threshold area of Runway 15 at 0050 to accomplish lighting maintenance work. Ten minutes later, two more vehicles - an escort vehicle and a maintenance vehicle carrying three contractor employees - were also cleared to enter the runway so that the latter could paint the runway centreline. All communications between the lighting and escort vehicles and the TWR controller were through the walkie talkie - the contractor’s vehicle had no means of communications with TWR controller. At 0130, the second controller took over the position and was briefed about the three vehicles on the runway. At 0215 the lighting maintenance vehicle advised vacating the runway on completion of his tasks. However, the second controller then erroneously recorded in the tower logbook that all maintenance work on the runway had been completed and all vehicles had vacated the runway despite the fact that the two vehicles and four persons involved in the centreline painting were still on the runway. At 0300, a third controller took over the position and the handover with the information that there was no work in progress on the runway (as recorded in the log book) and there was also no indication of ‘Work in Progress’ as a reminder on the flight progress strip bay at the Tower console. At 0308, the inbound aircraft reported on a 9 mile final on the ILS for runway 15 and after looking out on the runway to check on any abnormal activity or unusual