further examined. CVR data confirmed that there was a direct connection between the fumes perceived by the pilots and the presence of the Cessna Citation ahead of them on the ground. It was noted that the centrelines of the Citation engines, which are mounted on the rear fuselage, and that of the A320 engines is at an approximate height of two metres above ground level. The relative location of the two aircraft and the prevailing calm wind conditions were undoubtedly conducive to the formation of a concentration of exhaust gases in front of the A320 engine intakes and were this effect to have been greater in the case of the left A320 engine, a greater primary source concentration in the flight deck may have resulted. Burnt jet fuel exhaust is made up of CO2, H2O, N2, O2 and SO2 and in certain combustion conditions may also contain nitrogen oxides (NOx), CO, unburnt hydrocarbons and volatile organic compounds (VOC). It was observed that NOx has a distinctive acrid smell and SO2 a distinctive “stinging” smell and noted that the crew statements characterised the fumes they had experienced as both “acrid” and “acidic”. However, it was recognised that these may not necessarily be the chemical compounds which caused their symptoms. In particular, CO was noted to have effects consistent with those experienced, can result in incapacitation and is without smell. The negative result of the blood tests carried out at the hospital could be explained by the time which had elapsed before the sample was taken and by both pilots’ intake of mask-sourced oxygen which could have eliminated or considerably reduced the rate of carbon monoxide in the blood. It was also noted that Netjets had assisted in establishing that there was no evidence of any airworthiness issues such as oil leak which could have resulted in the exhaust fumes emitted by the Citation engines being in any way abnormal. The Investigation reviewed a number of studies relevant to the continuing prevalence of occurrences in which flight crew performance is reported to be negatively affected by contaminated cabin air: In May 2014, the BFU Germany published a review of over 600 events between 2006 and 2013 involving smoke, fume or odours. This found that although 180 of the events “had an impact on the health of those affected”, none of these had significantly impacted flight safety. The review included Safety Recommendations on improving the identification of and response to cabin air contaminants which may be hazardous to health, the standardisation of notification procedures, related improvements in aircraft type certification processes and research by a suitably qualified institute into the possible link between fume events and the long term health impacts.. Statistics compiled by the UK CAA in respect of almost 1,700 fire, smoke and fumes occurrences reported during a two year period commencing in late 2014 which found that 5% may have been related to engine bleed air and in 10% no aircraft related cause was found and the focus was on