for the remainder of the flight. Just over 20 minutes after takeoff, and having levelled at FL290, the Captain declared a PAN and requested a diversion to Marseilles, specifying that it was because of crew incapacitation which was approved with a subsequent request to squawk 7700. With runway 31 in use but the wind calm and ‘CAVOK’ (cloud and visibility OK) being reported, the crew asked if they could land on runway 13. This was also arranged and radar vectors to the ILS for that runway were subsequently provided. Whilst intercepting the ILS LOC, the Captain and First Officer were recorded discussing their respective states and whilst both said that they felt a little better, they decided to keep their oxygen masks on. A stable approach was flown with the AP remaining engaged until 195 feet agl and the landing was uneventful. The emergency services were in attendance on the apron and both pilots reported that they had “continued to feel nauseous” despite opening their side windows. They were both then taken directly to hospital, from where, after ‘normal’ results from a blood test and a short period of monitoring, they were discharged two hours later. The blood test showed no evidence of carbon monoxide poisoning, the samples were not kept and no other toxicological analysis was carried out. It was noted that the general medical care available had not included any provision for detailed medical investigations into the cause of the condition presented or retention of biological samples taken because this was, in line with normal procedures, only done if it was judged to have a bearing on the immediate treatment required. This situation meant that data potentially useful to the Investigation was not obtained. Both pilots reported that “nausea and dizziness alternating with periods of respite nevertheless continued for several days”. The Investigation was able to provide a potential explanation as to why the effects experienced were confined to the occupants of the flight deck by comparing the supply of air bled from the engines and/or APU to the passenger cabin with that to the flight deck. It was noted that the A320 air supply system was of a design generally typical of almost all those installed in pressurised aircraft in current service. In more detail: Filtered bleed air is mixed with previously-filtered re-circulated cabin air in an approximate ratio of 60:40 with the selected air temperature having very little effect and the mix being identical for the flight deck and cabin air supplies.. The origin of the bleed air in each case differs in that 60% of the air fed to the flight deck comes from the left engine air conditioning pack and 40% is re-circulated cabin air whereas the 60% of the bleed air fed to the cabin comes from both the left and right engine air conditioning packs with a greater proportion coming from the right engine pack.. The airflow per seat is slightly higher in the flight deck than in the cabin both on