An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, based on downloaded FDR and CVR data, recorded ATC data and crew statements. It was established that with the Captain acting as PF, the aircraft had taxied to runway 05 at Geneva behind a Netjets Cessna Citation Excel. It had then been stationary behind this aircraft at the holding point with the wind calm for almost four minutes until it was cleared to line up and take off. The distance between the two aircraft whilst stationary was approximately 70 metres. Once the Citation had departed, the A320 was then similarly cleared to line up and take off. Shortly after the landing gear had been retracted, the flight crew were recorded discussing “the thick exhaust gases emitted by the Cessna Citation” which had disappeared when the Citation had lined up. The Captain remarked that he “felt almost nauseous because of them” and the First Officer confirmed that it was a very strong smell. Soon after this, whilst climbing through FL100, the Captain asked the Geneva APP controller what type of Cessna Citation was ahead of them but was informed that there was no traffic ahead of them at that time. The Captain replied that there had been a Cessna Citation in front of them on departure and that he intended to file a report due to fumes on the flight deck. The First Officer then told the Captain that he also felt “unwell and intoxicated” and ATC advised that the aircraft ahead at departure, which had taken a different route thereafter, had been a Cessna Citation Excel. Half a minute later, the Captain was recorded telling the First Officer that he did not feel well and suggested to increase the air intake. The flight was then transferred to Marseilles ACC and was cleared to climb to FL290. The SCCM was called to the flight deck to check if there was any evidence of a similar problem in the passenger cabin but he advised that there was not. The First Officer then said that the exhaust fumes from the aircraft which had been in front of them whilst taxiing out had made him feel physically ill and the Captain then asked the SCCM to both leave the flight deck open and to remain in close proximity and “keep an eye on both him and the First Officer”. Less than five minutes later, the Captain told the First Officer that he was starting to feel nauseous and on the latter’s suggestion, the Captain donned his oxygen mask. The First Officer then briefly left the flight deck to use the toilet facility and on his return remarked that he was now feeling a little better but had previously felt very nauseous. A discussion then took place about a suitable diversion should the situation worsen and Marseilles was selected. Seven minute after the Captain had donned his oxygen mask, the First Officer did likewise and they both kept them on