the ground and in the air and flight deck air is renewed approximately every minute whereas passenger cabin air is renewed approximately every two to three minutes.. The principal possible source of air contamination other than the Citation exhaust fumes (or other potential external causes of which there were none) was acknowledged as the engine bleed air from which the cabin air originates, which was explored to the extent possible. In any aircraft turbine engine, seals are installed to confine the lubricants of the rotating parts and it is generally acknowledged that wear or damage to these seals may allow small quantities of lubricants to enter the bleed air in the compression system after which part of this pyrolysed lubricant can then pass through the pressurisation system and enter the cabin. The primary lubricant, engine oil, includes around 3% Tri Cresyl Phosphate (TCP), a small proportion of which may, when pyrolysed, become Tri ortho-Cresyl Phosphate (ToCP), ortho-isomers of the TCP and neurotoxic organophosphorus compounds. Although there is no scientific consensus on the matter, it was noted that some studies have suggested ToCPs could be the cause of some cabin air contamination events. Although such contamination may be accompanied by a smell of “wet socks”, this is often imperceptible and in the absence in many cases of this or any other perceptible smell, such an occurrence can only be identified by detecting associated symptoms. In an attempt to seek more enduring evidence which would indicate the possibility of TCP or ToCP contamination, it was noted ToCP fixes itself to certain plastics and may leave traces in air filters. Samples were therefore taken from the aircraft avionics and air conditioning filters, the flight deck sun visors and flight deck seat table but specialist laboratory testing was negative for all the samples. It was noted that hair is the only biological material capable of fixing substances of interest at the time of contamination since it retains them for several weeks or months. Samples of the potentially contaminated hair strands were taken from all four aircrew after sufficient subsequent growth had occurred (seven weeks after the event) to be able to compare the part of a hair strand which would have been exposed to contamination with a part of the same strand which had since emerged from the scalp. Appropriate analytical toxicology techniques were used but no substances of interest were found in quantities which would correspond to a one-off significant exposure such as during the flight concerned and although contaminants identified included TCP, the concentration was only at levels typical of normal environmental pollution with no differences between the quantities observed in the “before” and “after” hair sections. The possibility of a TCP or ToCP contamination source was therefore excluded, although it was accepted that this did not rule out the possibility that the pilots were contaminated by some other substance inducing effects similar to those encountered and which rapidly disappeared. The likelihood of exhaust gas contamination from the Citation efflux was therefore