an external origin. No meaningful conclusion could be reached in 36% of the reports.. The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has taken the view that, in general, the evidence available shows that cabin air quality is similar or better than that in normal indoor environments and that there is no scientific evidence of any link between exposure to cabin air contaminants and subsequently reported health symptoms. A study it commissioned in 2014 defined a method of measuring cabin air contamination and used this to conduct measurements during the 12 month period beginning in July 2015 on 69 flights which included 8 different aircraft/engine combinations. All except eight of these flights were on aircraft with conventional bleed air systems, the exceptions were those on Boeing 787 aircraft. No occupational exposure limits were exceeded on any of these flights. A second study investigated the toxicity of engine oil contamination via the aircraft bleed air system and concluded that whilst neuroactive products are present, “their concentration in the presence of an intact lung barrier is so low that it did not represent a major concern for neuronal function”. The final reports of both of these studies were published in March 2017.. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: Despite the wide range of actions undertaken, the Investigation was not able to factually identify what caused the flight crew’s symptoms and physical discomfort. The hypothesis of them having inhaled an excessive quantity of carbon monoxide, contained in exhaust gases emanating from the Cessna Citation which had been in front of the A320, is consistent with the information collected and can explain the symptoms observed (dizziness and nausea). Nitrogen oxide and sulphur oxide compounds present in exhaust gases may also have contributed to the acrid and irritating odours smelt while taxiing. However, it cannot be excluded that the crew were intoxicated by another substance which either quickly disappeared or which was not specifically searched for in the samples taken from the aircraft as to date, not identified, even in the most recent studies. Toxic substances were searched for in the hair samples using the most effective, innovative techniques to date. The BEA believes that the use of these techniques on matrices such as saliva, blood or urine, sampled as quickly as possible after the symptoms, and in particular as soon as possible after landing, would increase the chances of detecting a wider range of potentially toxic substances. A safety investigation into flight crew incapacitation caused by the inhalation of toxic products could provide information by trying to establish the link between the presence of chemical compounds and the symptoms reported by crew members. This action is in addition to other areas of study and research which may be carried out by other organisations. The occurrences for which safety investigations are opened must be targeted in order to optimise the use of substantial investigation resources. The criteria for undertaking the investigation should include the salience of the symptoms and the presumed accessibility of factual