The event was investigated by the Safety Investigation Authority Finland (SIAF). Sufficient data was obtained from ATC radar, voice and from STCA recordings and no aircraft data recorder was sought. However, problems were encountered in obtaining recorded data from the ANSP traffic management system which is used to plan the preliminary approach sequence. It was noted that a succession of explanations about why this was not available had been received from Finavia. Initially they had been told that it was “not recorded” and but subsequently that although there was recorded data, there was “no operational data used by air traffic controllers”. Then, after the Investigation had received confirmation from the manufacturer of the equipment that actually it did retain a recording of operational data, Finavia stated that “due to a technical malfunction at the time of the occurrence, this information was not available”. It was noted that the TWR Supervisor had decided that the “desired sequencing for arriving traffic was 5nm”. It was established that a Norwegian Boeing 737-800 inbound from Alicante and the A320 were both tracking towards the approach to landing runway 04L from the southwest with the Boeing ahead. The responsible controller in the ARR-E position had decided to bring the Embraer 190, which was approaching from the south, onto the 04L ILS between the two. Speed control instructions were used but it became apparent that, although they had been followed by all three aircraft involved, with the A320 eventually flying as instructed at minimum speed, the minimum separation could no longer be maintained and the A320 was instructed to go around when 4nm from the threshold. Subsequent examination of the radar recording showed that the separation between the three aircraft on final approach had been less than the target 5nm throughout. By the time the A320 was instructed to go around, the Embraer 190 was already on TWR-W frequency and had been advised to expect a late landing clearance. At a range of 0.5nm, the Embraer crew requested a landing clearance but the TWR-W controller advised that the runway was still occupied (by the landed Boeing 737, which had been previously instructed by TWR-W to “turn to the right” when convenient). The TWR-W frequency was then busy for 16 seconds because of an exchange between the controller and the 737 crew about their reasons for using the full runway length. At the conclusion of that exchange, the controller issued a landing clearance to the Embraer crew who responded by advising that they had already commenced a go around. The Investigation noted that this landing clearance had been issued prior to any transmission from the 737 crew that their aircraft was clear of the runway. Shortly afterwards, the TWR-W controller, having observed that the Embraer was too close to the A320, then instructed the former to turn right but after the TWR Supervisor pointed out that the Boeing 717 was departing from the parallel runway 04R, this instruction was changed back to runway heading. About ten seconds