missed approaches and non-standard go-around clearances in the ATC Operations Manual are “difficult to understand and presented in a somewhat unsatisfactory manner”.. although operations with one runway for arrivals and the other for departures, i.e. segregated parallel operations, are normal at Helsinki, they are not as tightly regulated through Operations Manual procedures as the relatively rarely used system of independent parallel approaches.. It was determined that under the ESARR 2 severity classification, the investigated event met the criteria for a 'Serious Incident' (A). In respect of Probable Cause, the Investigation found that: The Serious Incident between the (A320) and the (E190) developed when, after having told the (A320) to go around, the arrival controller cleared it to maintain heading 040. As a result, the (E190) no longer had sufficient airspace for flying a missed approach procedure in accordance with the published procedure.. The Serious Incident between the (E190) and the (B717) developed when, after the E190 had aborted its approach, the TWR controller first cleared it to fly heading 050 and a little later heading 040. As a result of this the (E190), flying on the extended centreline of RWY04L, flew too close to the (B717) that had departed from the adjacent parallel runway.. Contributory Factors were identified as including: The arrival controller’s delayed decision making (when) an un-typical traffic situation (prevailed). The failure of the TWR and APP controllers to prioritise their tasks. Shortcomings in coordination between ATC working positions. Four Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: (1) that Finavia Corporation should augment the Helsinki-Vantaa AT Ops Manual with an operational instruction (for response to) an STCA Alert. (2) that Finavia Corporation should take measures which make it possible to use the SMR at Helsinki-Vantaa ATC to ascertain that the runway is free when clearing an aircraft onto the runway after another one which has landed/departed. (3) that Finavia Corporation should specify and augment the instructions in the Helsinki ATC Ops Manual as regards missed approaches and non-standard go-around clearances. (4) that Finavia Corporation specify the instructions on segregated parallel operations with regard to when the criteria of segregated parallel operations are no longer met. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 27 January 2014 and subsequently made available in English translation.