later, the STCA activated because of the reducing 2nm separation of the Embraer from the A320 which was flying 80 knots faster at the same altitude, 3000 feet. No action was taken by the TWR-W controller but, ten seconds later, the ARR-E controller instructed the A320 to commence a left turn onto heading 335°. The minimum separation (CPA) between these two aircraft was 1.5nm when both were at 3000 feet. Some 35 seconds after the first STCA activation and approximately 20 seconds after the CPA between the Embraer and the A320, a second STCA activation was generated by the proximity of the Embraer and the Boeing 717 which had just taken off from runway 04R as they flew parallel at a lateral separation of 0.9nm reaching a CPA when both at 3000 feet. These two aircraft flew parallel for 1 minute and 10 seconds until the ARR-E controller, to whom the Embraer had been transferred, turned the aircraft left at 3000 feet. The STCA activation continued until the 717 passed 4000 feet in the climb with the controller responsible for it, RAD-W, although aware of the proximity and having noticed the resulting STCA activation and alerted the TWR-W controller, took no action to increase separation by turning the 717 to the right. It was noted that when the TWR-W controller queried with the Norwegian 737 crew why they had been unable to use an exit earlier than the end of the runway when their initial guidance from TWR-W was changed from exit “when convenient” to “expedite” later in the landing roll, the crew had cited the fact that the runway surface was slippery. This statement was consistent with the frozen deposits observed and braking action measured in respect of the runway shortly before the aircraft landed. It was noted that although the prevailing weather was snow showers which led intermittently to loss of visibility from the TWR, in the presence of Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System this had not been a relevant factor in respect of the investigated events. A review of the actions of all the flight crew involved did not find any evidence that they had contributed to the two loss of separation events in any way. In respect of the actions of the controllers, it was considered that: controllers are not sufficiently familiar with the features of STCA alerts and noted that the EUROCONTROL document “Guidance Material for STCA” requires that training should include operational instructions during STCA alerts.. as well as functioning as an aid to assist the safe control of traffic, it appeared that the SMR may also have been being used to establish that a runway was free without confirming this over the radio. In this respect, it was noted that “using the SMR does not alter the air traffic control’s separation responsibilities, nor can it be used to ascertain that the runway is free when clearing an aircraft onto the runway after another one has landed / departed”.. the instructions on