Safety auditing is an element of safety management which subjects the activities of airline operators/service providers to a systematic critical evaluation. An audit may include one or more components of the total system, such as safety policy, change management, SMS as a whole, operating procedures, emergency procedures, etc. The aim is to disclose the strengths and weaknesses, to identify areas of non-tolerable risk and devise rectification measures. The outcome of the audit will be a report, followed by an action plan prepared by the audited organisation and approved by the regulator/supervisory authority. The implementation of the agreed safety improvement measures shall be monitored by the supervisory authority. Safety audits are used to ensure that: Safety audits are carried out by a single individual or a team of people who are competent (adequately qualified, experienced and trained) and have a satisfactory degree of independence from the audited organisation or unit. The frequency of the audits depends on the regulatory/management policy. For example some State authorities may conduct annual safety audits; others may consider that a full safety audit is only necessary at a few years interval. Ad-hoc safety audits may be conducted to verify the compliance of a particular system component or activity, or may be initiated following an incident. In accordance with ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) safety audits are to be conducted on a regular and systematic basis. Usually the frequency and scope of safety audits is fixed in a dedicated annual safety audit (inspection) programme of the responsible authority/organisation. Safety audits are one of the principal methods for fulfilling the safety performance monitoring requirements. Often audits are integrated, i.e. they include not only safety but also other business processes and performance areas, such as quality, capacity, cost efficiency etc. All audits should be pre-planned and supporting documentation (usually in the form of checklists) of the audit content prepared. Among the first steps in planning an audit will be to verify the feasibility of the proposed schedule and to identify the information that will be needed before commencement of the audit. It will also be necessary to specify the criteria against which the audit will be conducted and to develop a detailed audit plan together with checklists to be used during the audit. The conduct of the actual audit is essentially a process of inspection or fact-finding. Information from almost any source may be reviewed as part of the audit. The techniques for gathering the information include: The results from the safety auditing present evidence of the performance and the general condition of the organisation’s SMS. Audits which limit observations to items of regulatory non-compliance are of limited value, because they will not encourage the audited organisation to act proactively. The audit report should be an objective presentation of the results of the safety audit. The key principles to be observed in the development of the audit report are: According to ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual safety auditing is a proactive safety management activity which provides