of control and whether more height above terrain when it occurred might have made recovery of control by the pilot possible. Significantly, no airworthiness issues were found that could have had any influence on the sequence of events prior to the accident. Attention turned to the known susceptibility of the A350 to a phenomenon known as servo transparency and whether it might have been the underlying reason for the loss of control. By elimination of other possible scenarios based on evidence collected, it was considered that “the margin to enter servo transparency was very small due to the high mass and speed” and that this may even already have occurred at the time of the last recorded data. Certainly, if the helicopter had not entered servo transparency at this time, “only small corrections to the flight controls” would probably have been enough to result in it, particularly since it was recognised that the recorded “slight right turn” would have increased the probability of servo transparency being entered. A detailed comparison of the final 20 seconds of recorded manoeuvres of the first and second flights whilst in similar positions/flight stages (see the illustration below) was made. On examining these data, it was noted that whilst the helicopter had been heavier during the first flight, its ground speed had been lower. However, on the first flight, it had levelled out after a similar descent sooner, which meant there had been not enough time for the speed to reach a critical level for servo transparency. It was therefore suspected “only small margins (had) prevented the helicopter from entering servo transparency during the last recorded seconds of the first sightseeing flight”. It was noted that other AS350 accidents triggered by servo transparency under similar load and forward speed conditions had required only “a slight correction with the cyclic”. The final recorded ground and vertical speeds of both the first and second flights. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that if servo transparency had indeed occurred at a low height, it would have been difficult to recover from it because to do so, it would have been necessary to “lower the collective pitch control to reduce the load on the main rotor” which would have brought the helicopter even closer to the ground. The Investigation considered that “the challenges that servo transparency entail appear to be under-communicated among AS 350 pilots in Norway” and noted that the AFM did not provide a means to determine under what conditions servo transparency is most likely to be encountered and noted that after an AS350 B3 fatal loss of control event in Norway in 2011 which was also likely to have been the result of servo transparency at too low a height to recover from, had noted that the helicopter was “not equipped with technical aids that give advance warning, or prevent reaching, the maximum load on the main rotor” which is a key facilitator of servo transparency. It was noted that in September 2021, Airbus