pitch (nose down) given in the operator’s procedures for sightseeing flights” was subsequently found. The reconstructed tracks of the ferry flight and both the initial and accident sightseeing flights. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The flight proceeded much as the previous one until it neared the festival site when the final recorded data available showed a significant change in the rate of descent and an increase in the ground speed. It appeared that the helicopter was descending in a slight right turn at a low altitude above the terrain immediately before the accident occurred with the last recorded data showing that it was below 300 feet. Terrain impact at what was assessed to be both a low ground speed and a low vertical speed occurred whilst the helicopter was heading towards upward sloping terrain north of the last documented flight path after it had changed course by almost 180°. Whilst it was apparent that both the tail and main rotors had been rotating at impact, it was noted that despite the relatively low energy impact, it had been sufficient to “rip open the fuel tank, separate the tail boom from the fuselage and misalign the engine and main gearbox” and it was clear that a fierce fuel-fed fire had begun almost immediately and was likely to have been the primary cause of all the fatalities. A comparison of the reconstructed vertical profile of the final part of the accident flight and that from the corresponding part of the earlier flight is shown below. The total flight time of the accident flight was between six and seven minutes. The final part of the accident flight (yellow) and the corresponding part of the first flight (blue). [Reproduced from the Official Report] An assessment of the wreckage and the accident site suggested that the pilot had been manoeuvring the helicopter as impact became unavoidable and had been conscious and close to regaining control when it occurred. This ruled out a high energy impact as the primary cause of the fatalities which were assessed to have been the consequence of the fire which followed. This highlighted the fact that although the helicopter involved was almost new, it was not required by the prevailing type certification requirements to have a Crash Resistant Fuel System (CRFS). Within the European regulatory system, these regulations only mandate a CRFS for helicopters whose initial type certificates were issued from October 1994 - after the one for the accident helicopter type - despite a considerable and worldwide history of otherwise avoidable fatalities in Airbus AS50 accidents in recent years. Editors Note: Having finally begun delivering all new AS50 helicopters with a CRFS from October 2020, Airbus has also made a retrofit CRFS kit for in-service AS50 B3 helicopters available as an optional modification. The assessment that terrain impact had been ‘low energy’ and that what appeared to be recovery action by the pilot was being attempted at impact led to a focus on what might have caused the apparent loss