impacted the sequence of events. At the last recorded position the helicopter was in descent and in a slight right turn. The helicopter was heavily loaded. The Norwegian Safety Investigation Agency (NSIA) believes the flight control hydraulic system may have reached its limit during the manoeuvring, and thereby triggered servo transparency. Based on the last recorded altitude data, the helicopter had insufficient altitude above the terrain for the pilot to regain control in time. The helicopter was almost new but was not fitted with a crash resistant fuel system (CRFT or CRFS). Since this can be excluded as a high-energy accident, the NSIA believes that such a protection system could have reduced the possibility of a fire where all the passengers died. A total of 12 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Safety Investigation Agency requires that all helicopters, new and used, delivered or imported to Europe be equipped with crash resistant fuel systems in accordance with CS 27.952 or CS 29.952, regardless of their type certification date. [2022/01T]. that the European Union Safety Investigation Agency does not permit commercial passenger flights by helicopters not equipped with crash resistant fuel systems in accordance with CS 27.952 or CS 29.952, regardless of their type certification date. [2022/02T]. that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority ensures when approving procedures (SOP) for commercial air transport operations that the helicopter operator’s risk assessment involves aspects related to the use of helmets by pilots. [2022/03T]. that the European Union Safety Investigation Agency requires the AS 350t Type Certificate Holder Airbus Helicopters to establish a technical solution preventing or giving advance warning of servo transparency, for helicopters that are sensitive to this phenomenon. [2022/04T]. that the European Union Safety Investigation Agency review instruction and continuous training on the AS 350. This is to ensure that the training includes attention training that enables early recognition and recovery from a servo transparency situation based on the UPRT principles. [2022/05T]. that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority review instruction and continuous training on the AS 350. This is to ensure that the training includes attention training that enables early recognition and recovery from a servo transparency situation based on the UPRT principles. [2022/06T]. that Helitrans A/S revise its standard procedure for sightseeing flights in general, and for AS 350 flights in particular, to better reflect the challenges related to flight altitude, mass and speed. [2022/07T]. that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority through its leadership of various safety forums for inland helicopters, raise awareness of the challenges related to flight altitude, mass and speed in general, and to the AS 350 helicopter type in particular. [2022/08T]. that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority develop and publish a standard for commercial air transport operations with single engine helicopters. This should pay special attention to sightseeing flights. The standard should include guidance to develop the underlying risk assessment and a description of the operation for SOPs with accompanying requirements for (a) qualification