A comprehensive Investigation was carried out by the Norwegian Safety Investigation Authority (NSIA). It made extensive use of flight tracking data captured by the helicopter operator’s GNSS-based system and data commercially captured by a third party. Tracking data was not available for the minute immediately before the helicopter crashed because it entered airspace which was within an ADS-B shadow. Although the helicopter was fitted with an Appareo Vision 1000 recorder, its memory unit was not crash protected and was severely damaged by the impact and the fire which followed. The 27 year-old Pilot had a total of 256 hours flying experience in helicopters of which 17 hours were on type, all obtained during the 2019 summer season. He had been issued with a Swedish CPL(H) in 2016 and had first been employed on a summer season contract by Helitrans the following year. In May 2018, he completed AS350 type rating training which included “a demonstration of and familiarisation with the servo-transparency phenomenon, a known manoeuvring limitation in the helicopter type”. This type rating was obtained without a Full Flight Simulator (FFS) being used as this “was not strictly required” although the Investigation did find an independent assessment from 2012 that concluded it was very realistic and of very definite value for pilot type training. In 2019, he was again employed by Helitrans on a summer season contract flying EC120 and AS350 helicopters and in the five months up to the time of the accident had flown 50 hours with passengers in either the EC120 or the AS350 after passing a Line Check valid for both types on 20 April 2019. Pilots at the operator characterised the accident pilot as “a meticulous, structured, calm and cautious person (who gave) no indication that he flew in an unsafe manner”. In the early afternoon, the accident helicopter was positioned from the company base at Alta Airport to the festival site from where the sightseeing flights were going to be offered. During this 7 minute flight, the left hand front had been occupied by another more experienced company pilot who had earlier completed some sling load work on a different AS35 and was going to act as loadmaster for the sightseeing flights. The left seat in this particular helicopter had been configured specifically for sightseeing flights so the flight controls had been removed to allow a total of five passengers to be carried. The prevailing weather conditions including visibility were good. The first ten minute long sightseeing flight was subsequently completed uneventfully and when the second took off, again fully loaded with more fuel than necessary to safely complete the planned short flight which it was noted would have given a high (but within limits) load on the main rotor. The second flight followed a similar route (see the illustration below) and pattern of height variation as it continued on an elongated right hand circuit to the northeast of the festival site. During the flight, evidence that “the helicopter exceeded the limit value for