Helicopters had presented the European Union Aviation Safety Agency with “a roadmap” for a technical solution intended to warn to the pilots prior to encountering servo transparency. Given that the accident scenario was considered to have originated in the handling of the aircraft, the training and experience of the pilot was examined further. Since qualifying as a professional pilot, his experience had been accumulated erratically through intermittent fixed term contracts to the extent that the Investigation considered him to have been “inexperienced”, particularly so in respect of the AS350 which, as already noted, he had flown for only 17 hours. However, it was also noted from comparison with other independently investigated AS350 servo transparency events that a pilot’s considerable type experience and currency alone were no defence against the scenario believed to have been key to this accident. More universally important was considered to be the effectiveness of training. It was found that the accident pilot’s type conversion training at Airbus Helicopters had been conducted only on the aircraft despite the availability of a full flight simulator on which it would have been possible to effectively demonstrate the servo transparency phenomenon associated specifically with this type. Instead he was only “briefed” on this subject. It was noted that after the previously referenced 2011 Norwegian AS 350 accident, the question of simulator training for AS 350 pilots was considered and its use during initial and recurrent training was identified as very effective and particularly so in terms of demonstrating servo transparency. Since then it was noted that an AS350 Level ‘D’ simulator had become available in Helsinki and the Norwegian CAA has advised its intention to ensure that Norwegian operators take advantage of this. However, even with clearly beneficial use of such a simulator, the Investigation was of the opinion that “in addition to practical simulator training, more knowledge and understanding is required in this area.....especially for pilots flying helicopters equipped with simple hydraulic systems”. It was considered that such pilots need to recognise that under certain circumstances, safety margins may shrink faster than expected. This view was informed by the fact that the accident pilot’s recent manufacturer type conversion training had meant that among the operator’s pilots, he had the most updated knowledge of servo transparency. Nevertheless, on both sightseeing flights, he had: exchanged altitude for speed when the helicopter was close to its maximum authorised mass.. chosen to fly at an altitude above the terrain that reduced or eliminated the safety margins should anything unexpected occur.. Finally, in respect of the particular ‘demands’ of sightseeing flights, it was considered that one potential aspect of this accident was undoubtedly that such flights can result in inexperienced pilots being more easily influenced by their passengers and feeling greater strain than more experienced pilots might in similar circumstances. Conclusion as to Cause and Consequences On completion of the Investigation, the following “Main Conclusion” was formally documented: The Investigation has not revealed technical faults or irregularities relating to the helicopter that could have