According to ICAO DOC 4444 "PANS ATM" strategic lateral offsets should only be authorised in en-route oceanic or remote continental airspace. The routes or airspace where application of strategic lateral offsets is authorised and the procedures to be followed by pilots, should be promulgated in aeronautical information publications AIPs(s) by the concerned State(s) or, as applicable, by the authorised ANSP(s). Furthermore, PANS ATM specifies that the strategic lateral offset shall be established parallel to the designated ATS route at a distance of 1.85 km (1 NM) or 3.7 km (2 NM) to the RIGHT of the centre line relative to the direction of flight. These two "track" options become available in addition to the track centreline, not instead of it. All ATC route clearances are made without reference to the lateral offset option and flight crew do not need to obtain permission from ATC to use these offset tracks or advise ATC of their decision to do so. If there are areas of radar surveillance, within trans-oceanic or remote continental areas, designated for lateral offset procedures, then it is expected that aircraft will be allowed to initiate or continue offset tracking in exactly the same way as the rest of the designated area. If obstacle clearance considerations or other reasons apply, ANSPs are required to restrict the use of strategic lateral offsets. Lateral offset cannot be operated if parallel route centrelines are less than 30 nm apart. Aircraft flying offset tracks must have automatic offset tracking capability - something which is routinely provided in most modern Flight Management Systems. Flight crew are expected to determine the most suitable track using the best traffic information sources available to them. These may include RTF, ACAS, visual acquisition and ADS-B. Communication with other aircraft in the vicinity using the air-to-air frequency 123.45 MHz may also facilitate useful co-ordination. The advent of TCAS has provided an important safety net against loss of separation hazardous to aircraft safety, but still requires TCAS functionality on at least one aircraft of a conflict pair and properly function altitude encoding SSR function for both, which cannot be monitored by ATC in areas beyond radar cover, making the reduction of risk by lateral offset especially relevant. Position Reports by HF or by SATCOM through Oceanic Control Areas which are generally manned by non specialist staff provide only very limited tactical surveillance capability for ATC. The procedures to be followed when applying strategic lateral offset should not be confused with the weather deviation procedure. Note that these contingency procedures only apply if the crew is unable to obtain an ATC clearance to deviate for weather. In that circumstance, if a deviation of more than 5 nm from the ATS route centreline occurs during a tactical avoidance manoeuvre, standard risk management actions are prescribed. Aircraft on an easterly track clearance are expected to descend 300 ft if they have deviated to the left and climb 300 ft if they have deviated to the right. Aircraft on a westerly track clearance are