Engine failure. Failures of more than one engine on the same aircraft and failures which are not confined to the engine, excluding compressor blade and turbine bucket failures.. Fires. Fires which occur in flight including those engine fires which are not contained in the engine.. Terrain and obstacle clearance incidents. Occurrences which result in danger of collision or actual collision with terrain or obstacles.. Flight control and stability problems. Occurrences which have caused difficulties in controlling the aircraft, e.g. aircraft system failures, weather phenomena, operation outside the approved flight envelope.. Take-off and landing incidents. Incidents such as undershooting, overrunning, running off the side of runways, wheels-up landing.. Flight crew incapacitation. Inability of any required flight crew member to perform prescribed flight duties as a result of reduced medical fitness.. Decompression. Decompression resulting in emergency descent.. Near collisions and other air traffic incidents. Near collisions and other hazardous air traffic incidents including faulty procedures or equipment failures.. This list can be expanded further in accordance to the examples given in ICAO Annex 13 regarding the description of serious incidents. The list below, extracted from ICAO Annex 13, is not exhaustive and only serves as guidance to the definition of serious incident. Aborted take-offs on a closed or engaged runway.. Take-offs from a closed or engaged runway with marginal separation from obstacle(s).. Landings or attempted landings on a closed or engaged runway.. Gross failures to achieve predicted performance during take-off or initial climb.. Fires and smoke in the passenger compartment, in cargo compartments or engine fires, even though such fires were extinguished by the use of extinguishing agents.. Events requiring the emergency use of oxygen by the flight crew.. Aircraft structural failures or engine disintegrations not classified as an accident.. Multiple malfunctions of one or more aircraft systems seriously affecting the operation of the aircraft.. Fuel quantity requiring the declaration of an emergency by the pilot.. Failures of more than one system in a redundancy system mandatory for flight guidance and navigation..