measured at 10 second intervals was also available from anemometers located at each end of Bogotá’s two parallel runways. In the ten minutes prior to the takeoff the runway 13R (and runway 13L) threshold wind speed was stable at around 2 knots and from a direction which varied between 360° and 210°. However, at the same time, at the other end of the takeoff runway, whilst the wind direction had hardly changed, it had steadily increased to a headwind component of almost 20 knots by the time of lift-off. It was observed that awareness of differences in wind velocity between the two ends of a runway in the period around the takeoff “could alert both flight crews and controllers to the possible presence of windshear”. However, whilst ATC had continuous real time access to this data, it was noted that although fight crew had equivalent access whilst in their flight briefing room, once they had left it, they were reliant on ATC to relay it when relevant. The aircraft was equipped with both predictive and reactive windshear detection systems. Whereas the reactive system, which relies mainly on angle of attack and the wind velocity sensed by the aircraft systems, had functioned as would be expected, the complimentary predictive system had not. The latter analyses weather radar returns as a means to estimate air movement ahead of the aircraft and then derives a risk factor based on the wind velocity sensed by the aircraft but it was not possible to determine why it was not activated because “the parameters taken into account by the system were not recorded and because it was not possible to determine the weather conditions with enough accuracy”. The existence of various ground-based systems which can detect the presence of windshear close to an airport was noted. These include LLWAS, TDWR and LIDAR but Bogotá is not equipped with such systems. Air France all fleets OFDM data was found to have recorded 21 takeoff or initial climb windshear events in a 32 month period ending on the date of the event under investigation which represented an approximate rate of occurrence of 1 per 33,000 flights with the windshear experienced during the investigated event being both the greatest in terms of tailwind variation and the one occurring at the lowest height. However, it was noted that Air France has not recorded any other windshear events at Bogotá in the 39 month period ending in March 2018. The Conclusions of the Investigation were, in summary, as follows: Risk Management for takeoff windshear. When a headwind component suddenly changes to a tailwind component and is associated with a downdraft before or shortly after the rotation as was the case in this event, the consequent reduction in airspeed and lift creates a risk of loss of control which may lead directly or indirectly to collision with terrain or obstacles. When rated rather than reduced thrust has been set for the takeoff as in this case, there are few options available which