After being initially informed of the event by Air France, preliminary data analysis by both Air France and Airbus led the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, to classify it as a Serious Incident. The Colombian Safety Investigation Authority (GRIAA) were informed, asked to delegate the investigation to the BEA and agreed to the request. Relevant recorded ATC, meteorological and flight data were available. The flight crew involved, all of whom were present on the flight deck for the takeoff under investigation, consisted of a Captain and two First Officers. As their performance of the takeoff was not considered relevant to the subject of the investigation, their pilot experience was not recorded. The general context of the flight was as usual for Bogotá which is at a high altitude - 8,360 feet amsl - so that even with a 3,800 metre long runway, the takeoff performance of the A340-300 is sensitive to changes in the wind, temperature and runway condition. Whilst the crew were preparing the flight, it became clear that the prevailing weather conditions at that time meant that with the required fuel load, none of the four tonnes of checked baggage could be carried and they were advised by the airline’s operational control centre to delay the departure until conditions improved. Eventually this occurred, in particular a decrease in the ambient temperature from 18°C to 15°C which was enough to allow the flight to carry all the baggage. Following engine start, the flight was cleared to taxi to the holding point for runway 13R. After waiting there for about ten minutes, the crew decided to shut down two engines to conserve fuel but as they did that, TWR controller asked if they could take off with a storm present at the airport to which the crew responded that this was not possible. A discussion then took place in Spanish between the same controller and an Avianca flight during which the controller said that from his position, he could not see the storm. However, this flight accepted a takeoff clearance and when subsequently asked by the controller, its crew reported only the presence of rain at the end of the runway without mentioning anything else. In the absence of any instructions from the controller, the A340 crew who had not understood the exchanges between the controller and the Avianca flight because they had taken place in Spanish, asked the controller for an explanation and in response were cleared to line up on runway 13R although the crew reminded him that they would have to restart the two engines which had been shut down earlier. The A340 Captain reported that his crew had monitored the path of other aircraft which had taken off on the Navigation Display (ND) and had observed that none of them had altered their heading immediately after takeoff which, had they done so may have indicated the presence of a storm. Almost 20 minutes after arriving at the runway 13R hold, the A340 crew