will restore normal safety margins. If automatic flight envelope protection is available, particularly against excessive angle of attack, then the crew are able to apply full nose up control input without the risk of stall. However, the main opportunity to limit these risks occurs before such windshear is encountered. The extent of hazardous windshear at Bogotá. No data on the prevalence of windshear at Bogotá are available and long haul takeoffs from the airport often occur at the limit of an aircraft’s performance. In addition, this airport is not equipped with equipment to detect windshear. A study of the prevalence and nature of windshear at Bogotá would enable a decision on if and how risk mitigation might be achieved. Communication of windshear risk to flights by air traffic control. Pre flight briefing information available to the flight crew did not contain any message indicating the presence of windshear. In addition, the aircraft Predictive Warning System (PWS) did not detect the windshear despite its strength, its location on the aeroplane’s axis and the presence of rainfall. The crew were therefore reliant mainly on information from ATC prior to beginning their takeoff. Safety Action taken by Air France as a result of the Investigation of this event was noted as having included restricting maximum takeoff weight on the basis that had windshear occurred after V1, the aircraft would have then been late in reaching VR. By reducing the risk which may arise in the event of a longer than expected takeoff roll, the aircraft control risk associated with hazardous windshear during takeoff was also indirectly reduced. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority of Colombia (Unidad Administrativa Especial de Aeronáutica Civil) assess the number of windshears per year at Bogotá El Dorado airport, their strength and the conditions conducive to their appearance. [FRAN-2019-035]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Colombia (Unidad Administrativa Especial de Aeronáutica Civil) assess, according to the results of the above-mentioned study, the relevance of equipping Bogotá El Dorado airport with systems designed to detect these phenomena and warn the air traffic control of them. [FRAN-2019-036]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Colombia (Unidad Administrativa Especial de Aeronáutica Civil) ensure that a procedure is set up by the Bogotá air traffic control unit with the aim of supplying crews, in the take-off clearances, with the wind measured at the two thresholds of the runway in service when the weather situation is such that windshear is likely (in particular in the presence of storms, towering cumulus or cumulonimbus close to the airport) and that the Bogotá airport aeronautical information service warns operators of the risk associated with these particular situations. [FRAN-2019-037]. The Final Report was published simultaneously in English translation and in the (definitive) Spanish language version on 16 December 2019.