reported that they were ready for takeoff which the controller acknowledged and asked them to remain there. A couple of minutes later, a clearance to line up behind a departing Avianca flight was given. After becoming airborne, the crew of this flight reported (in Spanish) that they had experienced “quite heavy rain on the last quarter of the runway” but this information was not relayed in English by the controller and shortly afterwards, the A340 was cleared for take-off. The Captain subsequently reported having observed the wind sock indicating a complete calm at the time of take-off which was consistent with the subsequently-obtained and similarly timed reading from the anemometer at the threshold of runway 13R. During the takeoff roll, onboard equipment does not allow the headwind component to be sensed until around 110 KCAS. Thereafter, the headwind component sensed was recorded as increasing from 3 knots to 11 knots by the time VR (138 knots) was reached. On reaching VR, the PF initiated rotation with a side stick input of around three-quarters of maximum deflection. Between the start of rotation and the moment when the main landing gear became airborne, the 11 knot headwind component changed to a 12 knot tailwind component and the calibrated airspeed decreased by 6 knots. After lift-off, the initial rate of climb was imperceptible as the tailwind component continued to increase to 25 knots. Pitch attitude remained between 11° and 13° and in the first six seconds airborne, the calibrated airspeed decreased to a minimum of 128 knots which was 13 knots below Lowest Selectable Speed (VLS). Only at this point did the Flight Management Guidance and Envelope Computer (FMGEC) detect windshear and generate a reactive windshear warning. The height above the runway remained stable at around 5 feet despite the PF continuing to apply the same nose-up input which resulted in a 13° pitch angle. The annotated path of the aircraft during and immediately after lift-off. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The angle of attack continued to increase and ‘Alpha Prot’ was activated and remained active for four seconds until the sensed tailwind component began to decrease. Thereafter, the calibrated airspeed and rate of climb started to increase. The upwind runway threshold was overflown at 58 feet agl thus exceeding the 35 feet agl regulatory requirement and safely clearing referenced climb out obstacles. After 21 seconds airborne, the reactive windshear warning ceased with the aircraft at 193 feet agl and pitch decreasing through 13° and five seconds after this the V2 of 145 KCAS was reached passing 258 feet agl. Before leaving the frequency, the crew reported the windshear to the controller and the crew of the next flight for takeoff decided to hold their position for three minutes as a precaution. The remainder of the A340 flight was completed without further event. The BEA recreated the takeoff based on recorded flight data - see the animation below. In addition to the sensed wind velocity available from recorded flight data, recorded wind velocity