path ahead, and avoid abrupt braking.. Steering. Tug drivers should avoid abrupt turning of the steering wheel as this is a skid trigger, and should observe gentle and gradual steering at all times during towing.. Avoid braking or slowing down in a turn (or on a curve). During towing, tug drivers should not brake during turning or when navigating a curved path, and should instead decelerate gradually while still on the straight path in anticipation of the turn (or curve) ahead. Tug drivers should slow down sufficiently before the turn (or curve) and release brakes before going into the turn (curve). They may apply a little power as they enter the turn in order to have better control of the vehicle.. Recovery from skid (regaining traction). Tug drivers should remain calm, and carry out the appropriate counter-intuitive measures of releasing brakes and steering into the direction of the skid to regain traction. After traction is restored, and having regained control of the tug, drivers should then add power and then drive off so as to avoid “jack-knifing”.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Singapore Airport Operator provides comprehensive guidelines for pushback operations covering pushback hazards and accident prevention for use by the GSPs to develop operational practices accordingly. [RA-2017-25]. that Silk Air's Ground Service Provider includes the following additional topics in the initial and recurrent training curriculum: The effects on pushing aircraft with engines operating The effects of aircraft weight and too high a towing speed on aircraft pushback. [RA-2017-26]. The effects on pushing aircraft with engines operating. The effects of aircraft weight and too high a towing speed on aircraft pushback. [RA-2017-26]. that Silk Air's Ground Service Provider should develop a checklist for aircraft pushback operation so that the ground operation activities are safely, efficiently, and consistently accomplished. [RA-2017-27]. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 27 April 2017.