stop 5 seconds after impact and the flight crew applied the parking brake. As the aircraft engines were still running, the tug driver then moved the tug to a “safe distance from the aircraft” for safety reasons. The flight crew eventually shut down the engines and after a visual inspection and assessment of the aircraft damage, it was towed back to Bay F41 by another tug and the passengers were disembarked there. Structural damage to the aircraft affected an area of approximately 280 cm by 60 cm on the lower left front fuselage just behind the radome. The towbar broke near the end that was connected to the tug’s tow hitch (see the illustration below) and the tug itself sustained damage to its right hand door and mirror and to the 60°- angled stop plate of its tow hitch. It was noted that the GSP manoeuvre supervisor had been employed by them for 8 years and had been task-qualified for three years and that the GSP tug driver had been employed by them for 37 years and working as a tug driver for 25 years. Data from the tug’s IVRD confirmed that its speed had been increasing during the pull forward and had reached 6 knots approximately 23 seconds before it hit the aircraft after which no more speed data was recorded. This recorded speed was consistent with the forward speed of the aircraft recorded by the FDR at about the same point and these data indicated that the speed of the aircraft had gradually increased to and then remained at 7 knots until impact. It was found that the weight of the tug was about 12 tonnes and noted that a post-accident inspection of it had not found any defect which could have contributed to what happened. Similarly, it was established that the integrity of the towbar had not been compromised by “material defects, corrosion or fatigue” and that its failure was attributable solely to stress beyond its design limits. It was found that the AIP entry on tug manoeuvring of loaded in-service aircraft included the push-pull manoeuvre from F41 and engine starting during it up to idle thrust but “did not prescribe how many engines may be started during the pushback (or) any speed limit for pushback, or pushback with pull forward”. The Airport Operator had issued a ‘Ground Operations Safety Manual’ (GOSM) which “defined the ground handling safety standards for the GSPs” and this required that aircraft should not be pushed back at a speed of more than 5 kph (equivalent to 2.7 knots) and even more slowly if the surface condition was wet. It did not specify if this speed limit was also applicable to a pushback followed by a pull forward or specify how many aircraft engines could be started during a pushback. The SilkAir Boeing737 Flight Crew Operations Manual was found to state that engine starts may be carried out during pushback, or pushback followed by pull forward so that “other than the restrictions