The primary defence against hazardous bird strikes stems from the requirements for continued safe flight after strikes which are included in the general airworthiness requirements of the Aircraft Type and Aircraft Engine Type Certification processes. However, these requirements are not a complete protection and are also mainly focussed on large fixed wing transport aircraft. The relevant design requirements for smaller fixed wing aircraft and helicopters are very limited. The article on Aircraft Certification for Bird Strike Risk provides more detail on this subject. The opportunities to mitigate the risk of hazardous bird strikes in the first place are centred on airports, because this is where the greatest overall volume of conflict occurs, and because this is where management and control of the hazard is most easily achieved. However, there are two problems with this approach: The airport-centred bird strike risk is rarely confined to the perimeter of any particular airport. Many of the most hazardous strike encounters - those with large flocking birds - take place so far from the airport that the airport operating authority will often have little real influence over the circumstances.. The basis for managing bird strike hazard at and around airports is considered in more detail in the article on Airport Bird Hazard Management Establishing and monitoring levels of bird activity is important and a critical part of this process is the recording of bird strikes at the local level. This then provides the opportunity to build up larger databases and to share the information. Guidance on effective measures for establishing whether or not birds, on or near an aerodrome, constitute a potential hazard to aircraft operations, and on methods for discouraging their presence, is given in the ICAO Airport Services Manual, Part 3. Further detail is provided in a number of State-published documents which are useful beyond their jurisdictions and are referred to under Further Reading in the above-mentioned article on Airport Bird Hazard Management. Tactical defences against hazardous bird strikes for those who operate and fly transport aircraft are reviewed in the article Operators Checklist for Bird Strike Hazard Management