equivalent of 1 dot low on the procedure vertical profile (half scale deflection indicated). In response to this call, the Captain immediately announced "continue". The First Officer followed this with "ah (in Korean), runway not in sight," and the Captain responded (in Korean) with "wait a second". By this time the recorded (but not notified) touchdown RVR was 450 metres. The Captain then repeated "wait a second" (in Korean) and instructed the First Officer to begin reading out the radio altimeter heights which he began to do in Korean, calling "500" 7 seconds later, then "400", "300", "200" and "100" at intervals of around a second - an indication that the aircraft was passing over the sharply rising terrain present a short distance before the runway. At the "100" call, the Captain announced "no runway, go-around" and the First Officer responded "Yes (in Korean) Go-around". As the aircraft was rotated to a go around pitch attitude and TOGA thrust set, the automated radio height call of "40" was annunciated with the rate of descent rate down to "almost zero". The rear of the fuselage struck surface approach lighting located 360 metres from the landing threshold of the runway and almost immediately after this the aircraft landing gear and engines collided with 6.5 metre-high runway 10 localiser antenna. Thereafter, the aircraft slid onto the 3,000 metre-long 60 metre-wide runway before exiting it to the right after about 1,160 metres and eventually stopping on a south easterly heading approximately 1,480 metres from the threshold, about 140 metres south of the runway centreline and just 20 metres from the southern airport perimeter which abuts a steep cliff. As the aircraft continued to move after the second major impact, the cabin crew "saw oxygen masks dropping from the ceiling (and) as it became dark in the cabin (began) continuously shouting at passengers to brace for (further) impact". When the aircraft came to a final stop, the Purser found the flight deck door open and asked the Captain "if the aircraft was alright" but in response was told to "close the door and wait outside". (The Investigation found that is highly probable that the PA and interphone systems in the cabin were unable to work and the cockpit door was unlocked and left open most probably due to damage of the electrical systems.) The Purser then heard a "tense call" from the rear-stationed cabin crew and as it "seemed that smoke was coming up in the rear, she decided that emergency evacuation was required" and initiated it. All exits except one of the four at the over wing positions were then used and a staff passenger assisted. When the RFFS arrived at the site approximately two minutes after the accident, it was confirmed that there was no fire and that "most of evacuated occupants were heading for the International Terminal Building" with the Cabin Crew "providing guidance with a megaphone for evacuated occupants who were near the aircraft". The Purser confirmed that after the evacuation