An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board. Data from the FDR and 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation. It was noted that the 47 year-old Captain had accumulated 8,242 total flying hours including 1,318 hours on type. The First Officer had accumulated 1,588 total flying hours of which all but 290 hours were on the A320. It was also noted that the flight during which the accident occurred was the first time the two pilots involved had flown together. It was established that the flight had been uneventful until part way through the approach at destination. It was noted that the runway involved (28) was situated on the side of a hill slope with flat terrain around 1,000 below preceding the landing runway threshold and that because of this, it was not unusual for fog to form and drift onto parts of it when light winds from the direction prevailing at the time of the accident caused damp air to rise from the river valley to the south of the runway - see the illustrative diagram below. The aircraft was cleared for a RNAV(GNSS) - i.e. Baro-VNAV - non precision approach to runway 28. The applicable procedure specified a minimum RVR of 1,400 metres and a minimum height for the acquisition of visual reference as 433 feet above the landing runway threshold (Height Above Threshold - HAT). The runway had been clearly visible as the aircraft had passed approximately 1,700 feet above the HAT and the aircraft had been stabilised in accordance with SOP, but soon after this the forward view of the runway had begun to progressively deteriorate. As this began to occur, ATC advised an RVR of 1,700 metres and one second later, an RVR of 1,400 metres was found to have been recorded, although no further update was passed to the aircraft. With the aircraft passing approximately 1,000 feet HAT, the Captain, acting as PF had disconnected the AP and the FD and continued flying manually. Below 700 feet HAT, with the forward view continuing to slowly deteriorate such that it was not known whether the PAPIs would have been visible, recorded data from the FDR showed that the aircraft had begun to deviate slowly but consistently below the 3° vertical profile specified in the approach procedure. Twelve seconds later, the First Officer remarked that "it looked a bit ambiguous due to cloud" and the Captain subsequently followed with "For now, in sight, so I will continue to go." By this time the recorded (but not notified) touchdown RVR had dropped to 550 metres. The automated '100 above' call - at which point the First Officer recollected afterwards having been able to see the runway - occurred 5 seconds later but was followed by him saying (in Korean) "wow, getting invisible in a second". By the time the MDA for the procedure was reached and the automated "Minimum" call occurred, the aircraft was found to have been the