was complete, she had seen three fire engines on the left side of the aircraft but that "neither instructions nor support were provided". The CVR recording ceased following the second (main) impact and the FDR recording ceased before the aircraft left the runway. The recorded touchdown RVR at the time of the accident was 350 metres and it had been below 1,400 metres for at least 90 seconds. The impact caused extensive damage to the approach lighting and the ILS antenna and to various parts of the aircraft including its fuselage lower surface, side and tail and to both wings, both landing gear assemblies, both engines and the left hand engine pylon and both horizontal stabilisers. It was confirmed that the accident aircraft had been fitted with EGPWS and that no annunciation of alerts from this system had occurred prior to ground impact. The failure of the First Officer to call for a go around at MDA as well as the failure of the Captain to do so anyway were considered to be evidence of inadequate CRM. It was considered that the evident lack of assertiveness by the First Officer might reasonably be attributed to the manner in which the Captain exercised his command of the aircraft. The Investigation also found that: the prescribed Company minimum RVR for any non precision approach flown by a Category 'C' aircraft was 1,600 metres - 200 metres above that permitted by the AIP and shown on the approach plate used. Neither of the pilots involved appeared to have been aware of this documented restriction.. Company procedures stipulate that the flight crew must "promptly respond" to any emergency notification from the cabin crew and that "if flight crew members do not take appropriate necessary measures in the situation where emergency evacuation is required, the Purser shall direct and execute it".. Airport records indicated that since 2008 there had not been any "full-scale emergency exercise under the assumption that an accident occurred at night or in an adverse condition equivalent to at night".. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: While the aircraft was making an approach to RWY 28, the Touchdown RVR decreased rapidly to as low as 350 metres. After that, the value recovered and returned to the value of more than 1,800 metres. It is probable that the RVR value decreased locally and transiently because fog flowed into and around the touchdown point of RWY 28 from the south and passed by in approximately five minutes.. The pilots' approach briefing was not in accordance with Operator SOP.. The Captain did not commence a go around when the previously acquired and prescribed visual reference was lost or when it was not available on reaching MDA. Descent was then continued without useful external visual reference and the aircraft continued to descend below the procedure vertical profile.. During the final stages of the approach, the First Officer followed instructions from the Captain which were contrary to SOP and Regulations and failed to call