for a go around.. The Operator FCOM requirement that for an RNAV(GNSS) approach, the AP/FD must remain selected unless the prescribed visual reference for landing is obtained at MDA was not followed - they were de-selected earlier and at a time when there were already signs that the initially available visual reference ahead was deteriorating.. Although the requirement to report deteriorating RVR to approaching aircraft in PANS-ATM is to do so "to the extent possible" without further elaboration, it was concluded that it would have been desirable for the TWR to have broadcast further RVR readings after the one of 1,700 metres provided when the aircraft was still more than 1,000 feet above runway elevation.. Lack of coordination between the attending RFFS and the Cabin Crew who had initiated the emergency evacuation meant that guidance for the evacuated passengers was not adequate.. Safety Action as a result of the accident and known to the Investigation included the following: The Korea Office of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Land Infrastructure and Transport issued Asiana Airlines with 9 'Notices of Improvement' and 5 'Recommendations' to rectify matters which were considered to have contributed to the accident and corresponding action by the airline followed.. the Japan Civil Aviation Board carried out a review with Japanese airlines to examine possible revision to the rules and regulations on the updating of rapidly changing RVRs and their reporting to aircraft.. the Japan Civil Aviation Board decided to implement enhanced measures to ensure the appropriate provision of RFFS in the case of an emergency.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was that "the aircraft undershot (the intended landing on runway 28) and the Captain (took action to) execute a go-around but collision with Aeronautical Radio Navigation Aids located ahead of the landing threshold occurred before a climb was established". Likely Contributory Factors were identified as follows: the Captain continued the approach without executing a go around when the position of the aircraft relative to the runway could not be continuously identified by visual reference at and below the applicable approach minimum (MDA). The First Officer, as Pilot Monitoring, did not make a call-out of 'go-around' immediately when he could no longer see the runway at MDA.. In continuing the approach without executing a go around when the position of the aircraft could not be identified by visual references which should have been in view and identified continuously at and below MDA, the Captain did not comply with the regulations and SOP.. It is probable that the education and training on compliance of rules in the Company provided to the pilots was insufficient.. Since the First Officer did not make an assertive call to go around, it is probable that CRM did not function appropriately.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows that the Ministry of Land Infrastructure and Transport, Republic of Korea should supervise action by Asiana Airlines to re-emphasise and reinforce the significance of compliance with company