of the 214 passengers who was waiting in a queue to use lavatory L3 (see the illustration below) lost their balance and fell to the floor sustaining an avulsion fracture to their right foot. Another was sitting down in lavatory R4 and sustained a lumbar compression injury as a result of their upper body being “strongly squeezed longitudinally”. Both passenger injuries were classified as being “serious”. The remainder of the flight was without further event and aircraft landed at its destination just under half an hour after the sudden and brief turbulence episode. The cabin locations of the two slightly injured cabin crew and the two seriously injured passengers. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Satellite imagery (see the illustrations below) showed that the turbulence encounter had occurred on the edge of a large area of rapidly building convective cloud. It appeared likely that the ATC requirement to change track to avoid a Restricted Area had compromised the effectiveness of the intended avoidance manoeuvre since compliance meant that there was insufficient time to provide an alert to passengers and cabin crew to secure themselves. The area of convective cloud. [Reproduced from the Official Report] An Infrared Image showing the route. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation tentatively concluded that approved requests for weather avoidance are more likely to be continued or a suitable alternative agreed if the initial request indicates how long a modified track is likely to be needed for and noted that this may assist pre-emptive use of the seat belt signs and direct alerting of both all cabin crew and all passengers thus reducing the risk of injury. The Probable Cause of the investigated injuries was determined as “the encounter with violent turbulence when flying close to a Cumulus cloud top which resulted in two passengers who were not in their seats sustaining serious injuries”. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator as a result of this event and known to the Investigation was noted as having included the making of an in-flight safety video to visualise specific examples of conduct at the time of encountering sudden turbulence in order to alert passengers to the potential risk to their safety. The Final Report was adopted by the JTSB on 22 January 2021 and published in both English translation and the definitive Japanese version on 18 February 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.