It was established that as they got nearer to their destination, the flight crew were “paying attention to the weather conditions” because they were aware that thunderstorms could be expected around Beijing at their expected arrival time. Whilst still in the cruise over Inner Mongolia, they reported having observed by visual observation and on their weather radar that there were locally developed Cb clouds and associated strong returns en route between waypoints ‘DABMA’ and ‘SABEM’ (see the illustration below) and so a deviation for weather avoidance was requested and approved from ATC to fly a radar heading 230° from waypoint ‘UPNAT’ to fly to the south of the weather. The flight ground track (white) and the deviation (red). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Having changed its heading, the flight was reported to have been in “thin clouds” spreading to the south of the main weather radar returns and since there were no on track weather radar returns or turbulence the Captain continued with the seat belt signs off. Shortly after the deviation had begun, ATC instructed the flight to begin descent to 3,600 metres (approximately11,800 feet). Two and a half minutes later, ATC instructed the flight to route direct to waypoint ‘GITUM’ and continue descending to reach 3,600 metres by that point in order to avoid a Restricted Area which required a right turn. The aircraft entered cloud during the descent but the crew stated that there were no returns on the weather radar although they were apparently aware that “cumulus clouds were gathering down below” and so the SCCM was called to the flight deck and advised to expect that the seat belt signs would be turned on soon as some turbulence was expected later in the descent. Immediately after the SCCM left the flight deck, the Captain temporarily stopped the descent and maintained level flight at 5,500 metres between cloud layers with the aim of remaining clear of the towering cumulus visible below but then reportedly realised at once that it would not be possible to do so and so he turned on the seatbelt signs less than a minute after the SCCM had left the flight deck. Almost immediately violent turbulence was encountered as the aircraft reportedly “closely skimmed the cumulus cloud top”. The SCCM stated that just as they reached the forward galley after leaving the flight deck, the seat belt signs had come on and this had been quickly followed by “intense turbulence” before they had had time to warn the other members of cabin crew that the seat belt signs would be turned on soon because of expected turbulence or make a PA announcement to alert the passengers. Data on the EAFR recorded vertical acceleration fluctuating between +2.16g and +0.37g for just two seconds. Out of the nine cabin crew, only the SCCM had time to sit down while the others were in any case away from their stations attending to passengers and two of them lost their balance and sustained minor injuries. One