"he was shocked and he even became upset and let out a scream when he realised what had happened". It could not be established exactly where the 767 had commenced its go around but landing performance assumes that aircraft will be at 50 feet above the runway as they cross the threshold. Much of the Investigation was taken up with a detailed review of ATC procedures, especially since there had been a very similar runway incursion incident in 2012 at the time of the morning runway configuration change at Barcelona it when a GND controller had also cleared a departing aircraft to cross runway 02 as another aircraft was about to land on it with corresponding Safety Recommendations made. Also, another very similar incident had occurred since this one - a 2015 event in which a GND controller had again cleared a departing aircraft to cross runway 02 as another aircraft was about to land on it but in this case, had not switched off the stop bar when the aircraft crew stopped at the stop bar and queried the clearance. The Investigation was advised by the ANSP that "consideration is being given to allowing only the (TWR- runway) controller to turn off the stop bars" but this statement did not clarify whether the idea was to pass control of stop bars on non-active runways to these controllers or cease their use for such runways. The Human Factors aspects of the controller errors made were also examined with reference to the SHELL and GEMS (Generic Error Modelling System) models. The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the Serious Incident had been "a series of mistakes made at various control posts that were not detected in time due to a lack of coordination and due to the fact that they occurred during the night time to day time runway configuration change that takes place at the airport every day at 07:00". Two Contributory Factors were also identified: that the (Aerolineas Argentinas) flight was not scheduled at its usual time. that the takeoff (of the Aerolineas Argentinas aircraft) was (to be from) a non-preferred runway, which the forced it to cross the active runway on three occasions.. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation because although "a number of areas for improvement that would normally be the subject for safety recommendations" were identified, it was considered that both Airport Operator AENA and ANSP ENAIRE had already implemented the changes that would have been the subject of such recommendations. Nevertheless, the Investigation decided to publish the text of the 7 Safety Recommendations which, had it not been for the action taken whilst the Investigation was in progress, would have been issued for information purposes. They were as follows: that AENA analyse the possibility of changing the parking stands allocated to larger aircraft so as to minimize the number of times these aircraft must cross the runways en route to the thresholds for takeoff.. that ENAIRE establish mechanisms to