the change to day time runway configuration would have taken place by the time take off would occur). The Captain took over control temporarily so that the First Officer could reprogram the FMS. They were asked to "cross runway 02 without stopping and then to turn right onto taxiway M and to stop at holding point M5". One minute after this, the 767 crew were cleared to land on runway 02 by TWR at exactly the same time as GND cleared the A340 to "cross runway 02 where it intersects taxiway M" so as to continue taxiing towards the holding point for runway 25R. Two minutes after this, the A340 crew had reached M5 but, since the stop bar was lit, queried this with GND. In response, the controller switched off the stop bar and cleared the aircraft to continue. As the aircraft entered the runway, the Captain reported having switched on the strobe lights and asked the crew to check if they were "clear" since "with the 110ยบ angle between taxiway M and runway 02, he was unable to see clearly to their right". At that moment, he stated that the First Officer and the relief pilot who was occupying the supernumerary crew seat behind him (i.e. the two pilots were on the right hand side of the flight deck) warned him of an approaching aircraft on short final. He stated that this had "caused him to accelerate his crossing of the runway" and noted that "the (same) two pilots then told him that the aircraft had gone around". The rest of the taxi to holding point M1 for runway 25R, was reported to have been "uneventful, with no remarks from GND control". The 767 Captain subsequently stated that in the vicinity of 1,000 feet aal, "he had noticed an Airbus A-340 approach the holding point for runway 02" i.e. to the left of the runway. He reported that "when he realised the A340 was not going to hold short of the runway and that it was continuing to taxi, he decided to go around" and that ATC had been notified accordingly. He estimated that they had been "between 200 and 300 ft agl" at the time a go around was initiated but with no FDR data, there was no data on the actual separation achieved. The Investigation noted that the height of the A340 tail plane is just over 55 feet. Radar recorded position data showed that "the minimum horizontal distance separating (the two aircraft)" as the A340 began to enter the runway during the incursion was 1.15 nm and the minimum vertical distance separating them at that time was 200 feet. The TWR controller in position at the time stated that "when (the 767) was over the threshold, he saw it go around and as he followed it visually, he stood up and looked to his right. It was then that he saw (the A340) crossing runway 02 where it intersects with taxiway M". He added that