When air traffic is avoiding Cumulonimbus (Cb) cells, particularly in congested airspace, the workload of the controller increases significantly. In such scenarios the increase in workload is caused by: Non standard traffic flow – the traffic flow is irregular and not easy to anticipate because of: the changing intensity of cells, both vertically and horizontally (for further information see the article "Lifecycle of the Thunderstorm)" the situational awareness of the flight crew and routing decisions they take based on the display on their weather radar (for further information see the article "Weather Radar: Storm Avoidance)" the altitude of aircraft, the onward routing of the aircraft, the training and experience of the flight crews, and operator’s procedures.. the changing intensity of cells, both vertically and horizontally (for further information see the article "Lifecycle of the Thunderstorm)". the situational awareness of the flight crew and routing decisions they take based on the display on their weather radar (for further information see the article "Weather Radar: Storm Avoidance)". the altitude of aircraft,. the onward routing of the aircraft,. the training and experience of the flight crews, and. operator’s procedures.. Reduction in available airspace – controllers will have less airspace volume available for conflict resolution tasks with a consequent impact on sector capacity;. New conflict points – new random crossing points are likely to occur as a result of the disrupted and non-standard traffic patterns thus increasing workload associated with conflict detection;. Increased frequency occupancy time – radio-communication is likely to be prolonged due to the necessity to clarify the details associated with the avoidance actions as well as revised onward routing clearances. Usage of non standard RTF is likely to increase;. Increased verbal (telephone) coordination – telephone coordination with adjacent sectors or ATS units is likely to increase due to the necessity to coordinate the details associated with the avoidance actions (change of routes and flight levels);. Rapidly changing situation – isolated Cb cells can quickly evolve into a squall line and make navigation through the line of Cbs increasingly challenging for the pilots;. Degradation of RVSM capability – convective weather conditions are associated with moderate to severe turbulence, hence it might be advisable to downgrade the RVSM airspace and introduce 2000 ft vertical separation in areas with reported severe turbulence;. Lack of information about traffic in own sector (not on frequency) – situations may arise when traffic deviating from its planned/cleared flight route, due to bad weather, penetrates (or flies close to the boundary of) another sector’s airspace without prior notification of the controller in charge of that sector who is not aware of the crew’s intentions;. Limited applicability of radar vectoring - use of radar vectoring to resolve potential traffic conflicts might be limited due to crew inability to maintain the required headings. This is a very significant factor in busy environments where controllers rely heavily on radar vectoring to provide separation;. Limited applicability of speed control - pilots may not accept speed increase instructions due to turbulence;. Airspace constraints -