Trust is a concept that has been recognised to be critical for the acceptance and adoption of new technologies. However, it is not unusual. In the 21st Century most parts of our lives involve trusting our lives, finances, even relationships to technology. In aviation, trust in technology has been ubiquitous for many years, e.g. ILS, Autopilot and Autoland. Driverless trains are increasingly common in the world’s airports and cities; but perhaps, the pilotless passenger plane is a step too far at this time (2013). It is only natural that when new technologies are introduced, a degree of mistrust is guaranteed, and one could argue – essential - depending on the associated risk, and the degree of human-technology interface. It can be argued that a pilot is always in a position to “disconnect” the autopilot and intervene; however, as technology becomes increasingly complex and integrated, timely intervention requires appropriate levels of situational awareness - for example the loss of AF447 in the South Atlantic in 2009[5]. Pilot trust in future Air Traffic Management (ATM) systems needs to be cultivated, because they have much less “control” and “input”; and ATM is one area of aviation that is increasingly becoming more automated. This, too, raises questions for the trust of air traffic controllers in increasing numbers of automated tools intended to increase situational awareness, reduce workload and provide early warning of conflict (if not avoidance of conflict). Automated systems may even relieve some controllers of those tasks that are associated with the identity of “being an air traffic controller” i.e. talking to pilots. Naturally humans do not trust anything that appears to threaten their job, or threaten to change their job for the worse. References for further reading on this specific subject of trust in future ATM systems are given below. Building trust in new technology, organisations and systems takes time and follows its own process, but the following steps can be considered as useful, if not essential, in building this trust: