Getting others to trust you is one of the key foundation stones of leadership and effective team participation[2]. In aviation this leadership starts with the national aviation authorities and filters down to fellow team-members. Within an organisation, the senior management, cannot build a safe and effective workplace culture without first building and maintaining trust between themselves and their employees. Rules and Regulations spell out the requirements for senior managers to take responsibility and be accountable for under-performance; however, mere compliance alone does not build trust. Trust is a “two-way-street”[3]. In this sense, workers need to be provided with adequate and appropriate resources (i.e. that they can trust), and they need to know that they can rely on their managers (and the Company) to support them and maintain confidences. It may be very easy to detect an organisation where little trust exists between managers and workers, through its performance. However, there are also positive markers which can be observed. Trust is made visible by open and honest communication between people in the organisation at all levels, where responsibilities are taken up, errors are admitted, feedback is sought and received well, and, assertiveness is encouraged and seen as positive. To sum all this up, a Culture of Trust exists when all personal interactions are unguarded. One of the first goals to consider when improving organisational and operational safety is to improve the quantity and quality of occurrence reporting. In particular, self-reporting of personal errors (slips, lapses and mistakes) and also deficiencies in the organisation and resources; i.e. Human and Organisational Factors. What often prevents workers from reporting such occurrences and deficiencies is the perception (real or otherwise) that: no one will listen and nothing will change, i.e. it’s a waste of time. if things do change they may be “drastic” and no one will thank the reporter; in fact no feedback will be provided. relationships with managers and colleagues will be harmed and the reporter will be a marked person. the reporter will be punished i.e. given less responsibility and pay, or even fired.. Building and maintaining trust is essential to break-down these perceptions, and this is achieved through demonstration that self-reporting and highlighting organisation deficiencies does not lead to negative consequences. In a trusting organisation, reporting is encouraged, supported, provided for and rewarded; furthermore, feedback is provided, changes are explained and workers are involved in the analysis of reports. To assist organisations achieve such unguarded interaction between management and staff, regulations require the establishment of a Just Culture[4].