curriculum were technical capacity exist to do so. It should be borne in mind that the simulator curriculum in force has been scientifically developed and that adding hydroplaning as a discipline should not jeopardise training in critical emergency conditions that could affect the safety of the flight.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Traffic Services Division of the SACAA should correct, without delay, the errors described below on the George aerodrome chart as published on the SACAA website and in the AIP: (i) The runway slope on the chart reflects the values + 0.04% or - 0.04% SLOPE, depending on what runway direction is applicable or considered. The values should be amended to read + 0.4 % or - 0.4%. The values should be corrected on two places on the chart, alongside the runway display and in the SLOPE column at the bottom of the chart. (ii) On the left-hand, lower side of the chart, the latitude value is given as 35° 00’ S. This position was found to be an error and should read 34° 01’ 00” S.. (i) The runway slope on the chart reflects the values + 0.04% or - 0.04% SLOPE, depending on what runway direction is applicable or considered. The values should be amended to read + 0.4 % or - 0.4%. The values should be corrected on two places on the chart, alongside the runway display and in the SLOPE column at the bottom of the chart.. (ii) On the left-hand, lower side of the chart, the latitude value is given as 35° 00’ S. This position was found to be an error and should read 34° 01’ 00” S.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that Part 139 of the Civil Aviation Regulations of 1997 and its associated SA-CATS-AH document is revised to ensure compliance with the provisions and international best practices as contained in ICAO Annex 14, volume I and associated documents.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division must amend the regulatory requirements to ensure that all reference code number 3 and 4 runways have a 300 m RESA or a means of stopping aircraft that provides an equivalent level of safety as called for in ICAO Annex 14, paragraphs 3.5.1 and 3.5.2.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division be strengthened to ensure that adequate skills and knowledge are available to ensure that there is comprehensive safety oversight of the certification of aerodromes and the maintenance of certification standards. This could include the establishment of an office that deals primarily with runway safety. Ultimately, this office should be responsible for all runway safety initiatives.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that clear guidance material is drafted for the aviation industry on the use of fog-spray and seals on licensed runways in South Africa.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division should compile a detailed checklist of