available.”. Non-compliance with ICAO Standard 2.9.6 of ICAO Annex 14, volume I, Aerodromes: “A runway or portion thereof shall be determined as being slippery when wet when the measurements specified in 10.2.3 show that the runway surface friction characteristics as measured by a continuous friction measuring device are below the minimum friction level specified by the State.”. Although ICAO Standard 10.2.3 of ICAO Annex 14, volume I, Aerodromes: “Measurements of friction characteristics of a runway surface shall be made periodically with a continuous friction measuring device using self-wetting features” were met, no corrective action in the form of NOTAM was issued (in a timely manner) to ensure aircraft safety was not jeopardised as called for in ICAO Annex 14 even though the test data was available.. Non-compliance with ICAO Standard 10.2.4 of ICAO Annex 14, volume I, Aerodromes: “Corrective maintenance action shall be taken when the friction characteristics for either the entire runway or a portion thereof are below a minimum friction level specified by the State.”. There were inadequate procedures within the regulating authority to prioritise and analyse the results of the runway friction test conducted 30 days prior to the accident in question by an external service provider.. A significant contributory factor to this accident was the failure by the appropriate role-players to take immediate remedial action following the 6 November 2009 CFME test results [these were the tests carried out on completion of the runway rehabilitation work]. These results were found to be below the minimum friction.. Safety Recommendations were issued both during and on completion of the Investigation. During the Investigation, it rapidly became clear that one of the factors involved was the condition of the runway surface. This resulted in the issue of three Interim Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Commissioner for Civil Aviation (CCA) issue a NOTAM restricting the use of runway 11/29 at FAGG by large transport aircraft (> 5 700 kg) when the runway is wet. that the Commissioner for Civil Aviation (CCA) ensure that the recommended NOTAM remains in force until such time as adequate friction/texture treatment, such as grooving, has been implemented over the entire runway length and width. that the Commissioner for Civil Aviation (CCA) requires that the ACSA [the Airports Company of South Africa] conducts a risk assessment on the lack of a RESA on runway 29 at George and if found necessary, incorporates some form of arresting mechanism.. Eighteen additional Safety Recommendations were included in the Final Report as follows: that the Director of Civil Aviation require the Air Safety Infrastructure Division to establish its own runway friction test division, or establish an independent agency that would acquire its own runway friction test apparatus that meets ICAO doc 9137 requirements. This should be done to ensure that independent friction tests are conducted regularly at all licensed aerodromes to ensure compliance.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires the regulating authority, in collaboration with Part 121 operators, conduct a feasibility study into adding hydroplaning to the simulator