The work carried out was essentially a short-term holding action and had involved crack sealing and the application of ‘fog spray’ sealant. The Investigation reviewed all aspects of this work and its effects on runway surface friction in depth and found a range of non compliances with the provisions of ICAO Annex 14 In respect of landings on slippery runways, it was noted that the South African Airlink Operations Manual “offered advice for operation on slippery runways, but did not specify how flight crews should make performance decisions on wet runways that “may be slippery when wet”. The table in the manual required knowledge of braking action before slippery runway calculations could be made”. In respect of the provision of a Runway End Safety Area, it was noted that as George was a licensed aerodrome, and the runway dimensions met the requirements of a code number 4 aerodrome, ICAO Annex 14 prescribed as RESA at least 90 metres long should be present beyond the end of each runway. However, it was found that the AIP Aerodrome Chart for George did not show a RESA at the time of the accident. It was further noted that: “the distance from the end of the runway to the perimeter fence was approximately 278 m and the terrain sloped down towards the road at a 5° angle. The fact that the pilot managed to avoid the ILS localiser antenna 223 m beyond the runway end (163 m past the stop-way end) limited the damage to the aircraft and the injuries to its occupants, which could have been much worse. Had a RESA been constructed for runway 11 in accordance with the ICAO requirements, an obstacle-free overrun area, free of hazardous ruts, depressions, and other surface variations, would have extended almost to the perimeter fence.” The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as: “The crew were unable to decelerate the aircraft to a safe stop due to ineffective braking of the aircraft on a wet runway surface, resulting in an overrun.” The following Contributory Factors were also identified: The aircraft crossed the runway threshold at 50 ft AGL at 143 KIAS, which was 15 knots above the calculated Vref speed.. Although the aircraft initially touched down within the touchdown zone the transition back into air mode of 1.5 seconds followed by a 4 second delay in applying the brakes after the aircraft remained in permanent ground mode should be considered as a significant contributory factor to this accident as it was imperative to decelerate the aircraft as soon as possible.. Two of the four main tyres displayed limited to no tyre tread. This was considered to have degraded the displacement of water from the tyre footprint, which had a significant effect on the braking effectiveness of the aircraft during the landing rollout on the wet runway surface.. Non-compliance with ICAO Standard 2.9.5 of ICAO Annex 14, volume I, Aerodromes: “Information that a runway or portion thereof may be slippery when wet shall be made