An Investigation was carried out by the AAID of the South Africa CAA. The DFDR and 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and successfully replayed. The BCU NVM was also downloaded and reviewed. During the course of the Investigation, two Interim Reports were published, on 22 December 2009 and on 8 May 2010. It was noted that the aircraft had made an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 11 at George with the aircraft commander as PF. Aspects of the approach had not met stabilised approach criteria but at 500 ft aal, the airspeed was in the vicinity of Reference Speed (Vref), thrust was normal and land flap 45º was in transit. Thereafter, speed increased to reach 143 KIAS when passing over the landing threshold compared to the applicable Vref of 129 KIAS and initial touchdown on the 2000 metre slightly up-sloping runway was made with a slight bounce at a speed of 132 KIAS followed by a slight bounce at the latter end of the TDZ after which the ground spoilers automatically deployed. Braking action was ineffective with the anti skid units acting. As the end of the runway approached, the PF realised that the aircraft was not going to stop on the paved surface and steered it to the right to avoid colliding with the ILS localiser antenna structure sited on a concrete base 163 metres beyond the 60 metres paved stopway which followed the end of the runway. Once clear of this significant obstruction, he had steered the aircraft back to the extended runway centreline, colliding with the approach lights for runway 29 while doing so. He had then attempted to ground loop the aircraft to avoid colliding with the perimeter fence, but this was unsuccessful and the aeroplane continued straight ahead before crashing through it and coming to rest on the adjacent public road just beyond. It was found that the aircraft had left the runway at a speed of slightly over 50 KIAS and had then travelled for a distance of 278metres until reaching the fence. Towards the end of the runway, the Parking/Emergency Brake had been applied to no useful effect by the PNF although they did not recollect this action, which is contrary to Operations Manual procedures unless normal brake system failure occurs. The final stopping position is as shown on the diagram below taken from the Official Report. Following the accident, a Notice To Airmen was issued restricting the use of the runway at George when wet. On 26 May 2010, 1800 m of the runway length, excluding only 100 m at each threshold, was resurfaced with a “20mm thick ultra-thin friction course (UTFC)”. Following this intervention, the NOTAM was cancelled. It was noted that from 16 July to 6 November 2009, the runway and taxiways at George Airport had been subjected to a rehabilitation process to correct poor surface condition and had been intended to maintain the integrity of the pavement for the following five to six years.