the civil infrastructure for aerodrome audit inspections.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the certifying authorities consider, following a feasibility study, amending the landing safety margin of 1.917 (1.92) during wet weather operations for aircraft above 5 700 kg not equipped with thrust reversers.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division should, in compliance with the recommendations of ICAO Annex 14, volume 1, attachment A (guidance material supplementary to Annex 14, volume 1) section 7: Determination of friction characteristics of wet paved runways, define the minimum friction levels and publish it in the AIP as a minimum standard. This guidance material should be complied by the SACAA and be made available to all stakeholders.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division should, in compliance with the recommendations of ICAO Annex 14, volume 1, chapter 2: Water on a runway, develop guidance material that should be made available to all industry stakeholders. It is essential that the State provide clear guidelines on the inspection of wet runways.. that the Director of Civil Aviation requires that the Air Safety Infrastructure Division should, in compliance with the recommendations of ICAO Annex 14, volume 1, attachment A, section 8, list the constant friction-measuring devices that are approved by the SACAA and set out the limitations of these.. that South African Airlink should place the emergency evacuation placard in the form of a placard on the ceiling of the cockpit, allowing for quick access should the situation require.. that South African Airlink should implement a procedure in the operations manual (SOPs) whereby cockpit crew are encouraged to request the water depth on the runway from ATC during wet weather operations.. that South African Airlink should consider retro-fitting thrust-reverser systems on their fleet of Embraer 135 aircraft.. that South African Airlink consider revising its operations manual - aircraft SOPs, as it lacks significant information. It does not designate who is to deal with certain important inspections and tasks, and fails to provide flight crew with clear guidelines on when a go-around should be performed.. that South African Airlink consider revising its technical log sheet to accommodate a signature, date, time-stamp and comment column, to filled in and signed off after each transit check (external safety inspection) is performed by a crew member and/or maintenance engineer.. that South African Airlink encourage flying crew to perform go-arounds whenever there is any doubt that the approach and subsequent landing might jeopardise the safe operation of the flight. Detailed statistics should be kept of all go-around’s to ensure that flying crew does not become complacent in their assessment and execution of the approach and subsequent landing.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published in August 2012.