to the extent that animal ingress to the airport was possible and a wildlife hazard to aircraft existed". It was noted that there had been three other runway incursion accidents at Indonesian airports since the beginning of 2008 which had been attributable to the consequences of broken perimeter fencing. Safety Action taken by the Djalaluddin Airport Authority following the accident was reported to have been: Temporary repair of broken Airport fences.. Planning for installation of new Airport fences in fiscal year of 2014.. Increase in the frequency of security oversight from 10 to 30 times prior to takeoff and landing.. Education of local people to support the safety of aircraft operation by several methods including the installation of precaution placards in conjunction with the local government authority.. The Investigation determined that the Contributing Factors to the accident were as follows: Some fences at the north and south of the runway along about 500 meters were broken and some parts were not installed with the fences.. The failure of the Djalaluddin Airport Authority to take action on the broken perimeter fences identified in Government Audit Report issued in July 2013 prior to the accident.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Djalaluddin Airport Authority should repair any broken fencing which permits animals, people or unauthorised vehicles to access the runway to remove the extreme hazard which would exist in such a situation.. that the Djalaluddin Airport Authority should ensure that the requirements in the Aerodrome Manual, especially the section on wildlife hazard management is properly implemented.. that the Director General of Civil Aviation should ensure that the Djalaluddin Airport Authority acts in accordance with the requirements of any Aerodrome Certificate Holder under the terms of CASR 139.011. that the Director General of Civil Aviation should ensure that the responsibilities of an Aerodrome Certificate Holder under the terms under CASR 139.011 in respect of runway incursion risks associated with absence of perimeter fencing are met at other airports where similar accidents have occurred.. that Lion Air should broaden hazard identification and risk assessment to ensure the safe operation of their flights.. The Final Report was released on 2 April 2014.