Flight Planning. The weather briefing (SIGMET charts) will show areas of predicted Cumulonimbus activity and the crew have the opportunity at this stage to plan a route to avoid it. Equally, particularly in the tropics, Cumulonimbus intensity and development is greater at certain times of the day; use local knowledge of climatology and plan schedules to avoid those times. There remain a number of defences once airborne: Weather radar: All larger aircraft are likely to be fitted with weather radar and it is frequently required in accordance with aircraft certification and Operating Regulations. It is important to fly with the system switched ON. You can’t avoid what you can’t see and entering what may appear to be thin cirrus cloud reduces you to Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) when there could be embedded Cb within the cloud, even if it is not forecast. Routing: A Cb should be cleared by a minimum of 5,000 ft vertically and 20 NM laterally, to minimize the risk of encountering severe turbulence. Use weather radar for in-flight avoidance or following the “line of least risk”, but be aware that a large cloud can absorb a great deal of the radar energy which may therefore not penetrate all of the way through the storm. This can give a false impression that there are no Cb cells beyond the cell immediately ahead of the aircraft. Speed Reduction: All aircraft have in their Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) a Design Manoeuvring Speed (VA) for full scale flight control deflection and usually a specified Rough Air Speed (Vra). If during flight, rough air or severe turbulence is encountered, reduce the airspeed as recommended in the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) to minimise stress on the aircraft structure. Beware, however, of reducing airspeed too much; a compromise between flying slowly enough to minimise the stresses on the airframe and flying fast enough to be protected against inadvertent stall and loss of control due to wind shear will be required. Cabin Preparation: Warn the cabin crew and passengers in plenty of time, thus giving adequate notice for the cabin crew to make the cabin secure, seat and check passenger restraints and get themselves seated with harness fastened.