An Investigation was carried out by the Korean Aircraft and Railway Accident Investigation Board (ARAIB). It was noted that Daegu was a military airport which handles civilian traffic. It was also noted that the aircraft was being operated with the aircraft commander, an Instructor Pilot, in the co pilot seat and the First Officer in the left hand seat taxiing as PF. It was established that the aircraft had been cleared to taxi “straight ahead” along the full length of the parallel taxiway, which, about half way along, had a brief deviation to the right for a short distance to increase separation past a building (for the re-located PAR) recently constructed quite close to the original straight line of the taxiway. Whilst this deviation was clearly marked by the yellow taxiway centreline, there was no other visible cue for the deviation and the deviation rejoined the straight line of the original taxiway a short distance further on. The accident aircraft failed to follow the deviation and its left wing hit the building. The taxi route is shown on the diagram below taken from the Official Report: The detail of the deviation at the PAR site is shown in a second diagram also taken from the official report: It was noted that the change to the taxiway had not been advised by Notice To Airmen or Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) and was not published in the State AIPs. No special caution had been provided by ATC to alert the crew to the deviation from the straight line depicted on their charts. The Investigation determined Probable Cause as: “While taxiing, the flight crew did not fully perform “Pilot’s obligation for caution” such as being negligent in watching for all directions and verifying ground markings.” It found that a number of factors, quoted below verbatim from the official report, contributed to the errors made by the flight crew: The flight crew was taxiing without knowing the information on the curved taxiway and obstacles (PAR building). The control tower’s “Taxi straight ahead” instruction to Aircraft 5054 when the aircraft entered the parallel taxiway where the curved taxiway was located. Non-installation of a taxiway edge marking which would enable the flight crew to recognize the pavement surface not to be used by aircraft..