Noting that Safety Action during the course of the investigation included the provision of edge markings for the curved taxiway and appropriate communication made through the State AIP, no safety recommendations on these matters were deemed necessary. However, 8 Safety Recommendations were made as follows and are re quoted verbatim from the official report. To China Eastern Airlines The following items should be reflected in flight crew training and flight operation Procedure: Non-essential conversations should be avoided during critical phases of flight below 10,000 feet including taxi;. Aircraft should not be operated in a negligent manner bringing on danger to human life or property, and flight crew should always stay vigilant for potential collisions while operating on the movement area of an aerodrome, regardless of the type of flight or the class of airspace;. In order to ensure the safety of aircraft wing tips ideally during taxi, the aircraft should always keep the taxiway centerline, and as safety guidelines during taxi, when separation from obstacles is in doubt, hold the aircraft, and assign a wing-walker;. The Captain is in direct charge of controlling an aircraft, having the final authority. If ATC issues a clearance that would cause flight crew to violate a rule or regulation, or it is deemed that the aircraft would be in danger by following the clearance, flight crew should request an amendment to the clearance from ATC, and requesting the amended clearance is the responsibility of flight crew. (AIR F0601-1). To Busan Regional Aviation Administration (Civil Aviation Safety Authority) A review is urged on a method to establish a system preventing the omission of aeronautical information collection related to civil aviation, by designating the personnel to be in charge of aeronautical information notification for each aviation facility of the military aerodrome used by civil aircraft, and assigning the responsibility to each airport representative office for collecting aeronautical information on competent military aviation facility. (AIR F0601-2). A review is urged on a method for the civil controller to practically contribute to the safe operation of civil aircraft, by re-emphasizing the compliance with the principle and purpose of the agreement between the organizations concerned on the civil controller allocated in the control tower of the military aerodrome used by civil aircraft, or by re-examining the necessity of allocation of the civil controller to the control tower. (AIR F0601-3). To the Korean Air Force A review is urged on a method to amend the installation standards of aviation facilities including taxiways of military aerodromes used by civil aircraft, in order to meet international civil aviation standards. (AIR F0601-4). A review is urged on a method to amend the items on the issuance of NOTAM in flight information service regulations by referring to civil aviation regulations pertaining to NOTAM, in order for the handling personnel to understand the items on the issuance of NOTAM accurately. (AIR F0601-5). A review is urged on a method to positively apply the air traffic control phraseologies and standards prescribed in air traffic control procedures