General information: Severe damage or fuselage break-up Reduced likelihood of occupant survival. Severe damage or fuselage break-up. Reduced likelihood of occupant survival. Considerations and specifics in RFFS procedures depend on the crash scenario. Some notable examples are: Wide-bodied aircraft These aircraft are sturdier than the others thus increasing the chances of survival. Therefore, every large piece of the wreckage needs to be carefully checked. Strategic and tactical problems in rescue and fire operations are compounded by the large size of the aircraft and high number of occupants.. These aircraft are sturdier than the others thus increasing the chances of survival. Therefore, every large piece of the wreckage needs to be carefully checked.. Strategic and tactical problems in rescue and fire operations are compounded by the large size of the aircraft and high number of occupants.. Hillside crashes The aircraft is likely to break apart. The aircraft may cartwheel and, as a result, the main structural components may be torn off and scattered over a wide area. Occupants may be thrown from the aircraft before it comes to rest. Therefore a thorough and wide-ranging search should be carried out for casualties. Aircraft fires may be difficult to reach thus limiting firefighting for preventing the fire from spreading. Fuel may flow downhill quickly or be scattered over a large area thus increasing the challenges for the firefighters as the fire may spread unexpectedly fast.. The aircraft is likely to break apart.. The aircraft may cartwheel and, as a result, the main structural components may be torn off and scattered over a wide area.. Occupants may be thrown from the aircraft before it comes to rest. Therefore a thorough and wide-ranging search should be carried out for casualties.. Aircraft fires may be difficult to reach thus limiting firefighting for preventing the fire from spreading.. Fuel may flow downhill quickly or be scattered over a large area thus increasing the challenges for the firefighters as the fire may spread unexpectedly fast.. Crashes involving structures Generally, a crash into a building creates a more complex situation than a crash into the ground or water. Structural damage to the building might occur that could cause it to collapse. A thorough search and evacuation of the buildings should be done. This task becomes more complicated due to the unknown number of people in the buildings. Sightseers should be kept as far away from the area as possible. Rescue personnel should prohibit smoking and take precautions to eliminate other sources of ignition. Fuel leaks are very likely to occur thus further complicating the situation e.g. by contaminating the waterways. Efforts should be made to minimize such events and to notify the respective authorities. Fires may be widely separated and may spread rapidly because of scattered fuel, severed gas lines, damage to electrical systems, etc.. Generally, a crash into a building creates a more complex situation than a crash into the ground or water.. Structural damage to the building might occur that could cause it to collapse.. A thorough