to advise you that we’re on an active runway”. The 737 declined the take off clearance and the TWR controller said “standby radio silence until I talk to you”. Then, despite a further call from the 757 clearly stating that they were on 23 right (sic) and could get clear by taxiing straight ahead onto ‘K’ and get off the runway”, the TWR controller again cleared the 737 to take off and the Captain again declined “till we figure out what’s going on down there” The TWR controller responded that “..he’s not anywhere near the runway” having appeared to be confused by the 757 crew’s use of ‘23R’ rather than ‘23L’ to describe their position and ignored the report of an aircraft taking off. After about two minutes, the TWR controller finally appeared to work out what was happening and the 757 was eventually routed off runway 05R onto ‘K’ then ‘K1 then onto runway 16, crossing runway 05R again and eventually turn left onto runway 23R[1] before turning right on ‘T1’ to the apron. The 737 advised that it would not accept take off clearance until the 757 was at the gate. When this location of the 757 was confirmed, the 737 was given a take off clearance by the TWR controller for "23L" which was corrected to "05R" after the crew had read it back without a runway designator. The actual proximity of the 757 to the departing 727 could not be reliably established but it was noted that the sound of the 727 could be “clearly heard” in the background of the ATC recording of the 757s transmission of their ‘on runway’ position report. Because of a number of other equally serious runway incursion events had also occurred in 1999, following the 13 June 2000 Public Hearing, the NTSB issued a total of six Safety Recommendations to the FAA aimed at collectively addressing the demonstrated runway incursion risk. These covered: the requirement for an runway collision alerting system providing a direct and timely alert to pilots.. more rigorous ATC procedures for the issue of runway crossing clearances and clearances for departing aircraft to line up and wait.. adoption of ICAO PANS-ATM phraseology by ATC for runway and ground movement operations excluding “conditional phraseology.”. the need for controllers to “speak at reasonable rates when communicating with flight crews, especially those whose primary language is not English.”. The exact text of these Recommendations is available on SKYbrary: NTSB Runway Incursion Safety Recommendations A-00-66 to A-00-71 Since the Investigation, the configuration of taxiways in the area where the conflict occurred has been changed, as can be seen from the current aerodrome chart above. EDITORS NOTE: ^ Runway 05L/23R mentioned in the account above which is not shown on the incident diagram was only used as a taxiway at the time and was subsequently re-designated as taxiway ‘V’ as per the current aerodrome chart..