Although the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) investigated this complex and serious incident, for reasons that have not been established, no formal official report of the Investigation was ever published. However, all the pertinent factual information was officially released during a subsequent overall review by the Board of runway incursions in which this event was one of four examples of serious runway incursions which occurred in 1999 and were detailed at a Public Hearing dedicated to the subject on 13 June 2000. The account provided here is based on information provided at that hearing and on the FAA R/T Transcript of the event. It was established that TWR ATC service was being provided by the same controller throughout the time of the investigated event and noted that there was no surface movement radar at the airport at the time. During the incident, the reported vertical visibility of 100 feet and the reported horizontal visibility of 400 metres did not appear to change and the Runway Visual Range (RVR) for the runway in use was noted to have varied between 370 metres and 430 metres. The 757 had exited runway 05R to the left after landing and been given and accepted a clear taxi instruction to follow taxiways N and T to report crossing runway 16 (which was not in use but would indicate proximity to the apron). Just under two minutes after this clearance had been acknowledged, TWR cleared a FedEx Boeing 727 to take off from runway 05R. Nine seconds after this clearance had been acknowledged, the 757 called “(C/S) on November by the runways here we don’t see the uh are we cleared to cross straight ahead on November?” to which the TWR replied “affirmative cross runway 16 join taxiway November Tango on the other side” and this was acknowledged. At this point, it was subsequently deduced that the 757 was actually at the intersection of taxiway ‘B’ and runway 16 having taken a hard left turn off taxiway ‘N’ onto taxiway ‘B’ contrary to clearance. Then, just over a minute after the 727 had acknowledged its take off clearance, the 757 called again with “we’re approaching kilo here uh um --- somebody just took off”. Having realised that the 757 was not on its cleared route, the TWR controller told it to stop without having worked out where it was even though the crew followed up with “we are currently on a runway and I’m looking out to the right with kilo uh we need to go on the kilo taxiway” and then unequivocally “…we are on 23 right (sic) intersection 16 and we did not connect on November we are by kilo to our right and we just overshot kilo we did not see it”. The TWR controller did not acknowledge this and less than 30 seconds later, she cleared a Metrojet Boeing 737-200 which was about to enter the runway to take off on 05R to which the 757 responded with “ma’am I’m trying