The Investigation as delegated by the Gabinete de Prevenção e Investigação de Acidentes com Aeronaves e de Acidentes Ferroviários (GPIAAF) to the UK AAIB who then carried out a Field Investigation into this Serious Incident. By the time the AAIB became aware of the event relevant CVR data had been overwritten and the FDR was not downloaded as the aircraft operator provided equivalent data from the QAR. CCTV recordings of the takeoff were also obtained. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight involved, had approximately 16,000 hours flying experience of which approximately 8000 hours were on type. Corresponding details for the First Officer were not given. The same crew operated the previous flight from Manchester to Lisbon and had then had a 1 hour 20 minute turnround during which they prepared for the return flight. As required by SOPs, both pilots used their EFBs to calculate the required takeoff performance data and cross-checked their results. During this process, both pilots independently selected what they believed to be the intersection of the departure runway 21 and runway 17/35 as the position likely to provide the shortest possible takeoff distance likely to be offered and calculated that a FLEX (flexible temperature) takeoff would be possible. In fact they had instead both selected the full runway length and their identical error was not picked up during either the initial calculation or during the pre-takeoff check of performance. The aircraft subsequently pushed back from its parking gate and, since the crew had not requested a full length departure on start up as required in that case, was cleared to taxi for a departure from the U5 intersection with runway 21, the automatic default in the absence of any other request. The TORA/TODA from this position was greater than the intersection of the two runways which the crew believed they had calculated performance from but 1395 metres less than the full runway length which they had actually used. The Captain stated that “the takeoff initially seemed normal but both flight crew realised there was something wrong as they saw the red and white alternate lights of the last 900 m of the runway”. TOGA thrust was not then selected and the aircraft subsequently became airborne with only 110 m of the runway remaining. During the flight the crew advised that they had recognised what had happened and had reported it to the operator after completing the flight. The takeoff runway annotated with the calculated and actual start of takeoff and the point airborne. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Recorded flight data (see the illustration below) showed that the calculated V1 (162 knots) was reached 44 seconds from the beginning of the takeoff following a 1,775 metre ground roll with approximately 570 metres of runway remaining ahead of the aircraft. Five seconds later, the aircraft became airborne approximately 110 metres from the end of the runway. It was calculated that at the speed the aircraft was travelling over