the ground, this distance would have been covered in approximately 1.3 seconds. One second later, whilst still over the paved surface of the runway, the aircraft achieved the regulation screen height of 35 feet for a dry runway and crossed the airport boundary at a height of 225 feet agl. The data confirmed that TOGA thrust was not selected at any point. It was noted that the objective of the EFB takeoff performance calculation is to find the maximum takeoff weight or the maximum takeoff thrust reduction (referred to as ‘FLEX’ on this aircraft type) that would, for a given runway and intersection, take into account all the regulatory requirements and the ambient conditions. If, as in the full length case for runway 21 at Lisbon, the runway length is not limiting, a range of valid V1 speeds may be available which allows the calculation process to select a V1 which provides performance margins on both the accelerate-stop and the accelerate-go cases. As might be expected, this process generated a V1 which was significantly higher (162 KIAS) than that which would have been generated for the U5 intersection (142 KIAS) since all the distances involved were 1,395 metres less. The ASD which would have been applicable to a takeoff commenced for a full length takeoff was found to be 2,995 metres whereas the ASD available from the U5 intersection was only 2,410 metres. It was noted that “these figures suggest that, had the aircraft been required to stop from near V1, a significant overrun of up to 585 metres could have occurred”. As is evident from the inset photos of the area just beyond the end of the runway in the illustration below, it was noted that there were “several obstructions beyond the runway that could have caused significant damage to the aircraft and its occupants should an overrun have occurred”. The takeoff with QAR data annotated showing progress along the length of runway used with the overrun area inset. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The airport was “unusual in that it used named ‘Positions’ to designate the available takeoff points on the runways (whereas) it would be more commonplace for an airport to use taxiway nomenclature to describe takeoff points”. Whilst this use of ‘Positions’ is limited to the AIP and not replicated in signage and they are “not generally referred to by ATC”, the AIP is the source used by commercial chart companies to generate the publications which aircraft operators use. With runway 21 in use, the preferred departure point for all aircraft, except heavy jets, was ‘Position U’, which was the intersection of the runway with taxiway U5. Pilots must advise ATC on start-up if they require the full length of the runway for departure with this usually only being necessary for heavy aircraft. Access to the runway for a full length departure was made from taxiway S4 which was designated as ‘Position S’. At the time of the investigated event, taxiway S1 was part of the