parallel taxiway to the south east of runway 17/35 on the terminal side, taxiway S2 was a continuation of S1 and taxiway S3 was parallel to the southern end of runway 03/21 on its southeastern side and joined taxiway S4 which provided access to the full length of runway 21. These four separately-identified taxiways were collectively referred to as taxiway ‘S’. On the following illustration, the blue line shows the taxiway ‘S’ route to the full length of runway 21 which crosses runway 03/21 between taxiways S1 and S2 so that there were therefore two points on Runway 21 where Taxiway ‘S’ intersected the runway. As a result of investigating two almost identical Serious Incidents at Lisbon less than five months before the one now under investigation (see below) it was noted that the UK AAIB had made Safety Recommendation 2020-03 in January 2020 in an attempt to mitigate the risk of further confusion relating to takeoff positions for runway 21 at Lisbon. The Lisbon Aerodrome Chart with Taxiways S1, U5 and S4 highlighted (the blue line shows how the full length of runway 21 is reached via taxiways S1/S2/S3/S4). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the individual EFBs for each pilot were mounted in a cradle which allowed it to remain connected to an aircraft system power source but on the day of this event, the cradle on the Captain’s side had been removed as it was broken. The Captain stated that this meant that whilst it “was difficult to use the EFB when it was connected to the aircraft power supply without the usual cradle [...] disconnecting it from the power supply meant only a very short time of operation as the battery was unable to power it for any length of time”. This situation resulted in the EFB having to be hand-held which made use of it “challenging”. UK CAA oversight of EFB use in flight decks was noted to be based on completion of a form to confirm compliance of an initial introduction or a significant change. EasyJet had installed EFBs on its fleet prior to the introduction of this form in July 2019 so had already been granted approval but it had been required to complete one as an ad hoc audit requirement in late 2019. This was noted to have identified a number of deficiencies including the absence of any programme to ensure replacement of EFB batteries, the absence of procedures to ensure the serviceability of EFBs before flight, report any unservisability and notify crews accordingly and the absence of any general maintenance procedures and dispatch guidance for unserviceable elements of the EFB. The EFB in use at the operator for takeoff performance calculation required that the pilot identified the runway and the point on it from where the takeoff was to begin. There were only two points available on runway 21 at Lisbon, ‘Position U’ and ‘Position ‘S’. These are named in the software as PSNU and PSNS. It was