found that at the time of the event, a NOTAM about an obstacle in the runway 21 climb-out which affected the takeoff performance calculation had resulted in the data supplier adding two more temporary takeoff positions for the runway labelled PSNUTMP and PSNSTMP. The crew reported that they had discussed the likely takeoff point and decided that they could use the S1 intersection if necessary, from which there was a shorter TORA than from U5. They had then made the performance calculation using PSNSTMP as the selection for the S1 intersection despite the fact that S1 was not an approved intersection for departure from the runway. This decision contrary to the applicable procedures was not further explained. Whilst it was not possible to explore the incorrect use of the EFB function or the failure to then trap the duplicate error by application of checking SOPs, the Investigation noted that in respect of EFB performance calculations generally, “pilots performing cross-checks often fail to notice errors or differences when the figures are unexpected and incorrect calculations can lead to insufficient thrust, and therefore acceleration, during takeoff”. In terms of then recognising that the acceleration being achieved was below normal, it was noted that “humans are poorly adapted physiologically to discriminate between slightly different acceleration rates”. EasyJet had recorded two almost identical Serious Incidents involving its Airbus A320s departing Lisbon runway 21 less than 5 months prior to the one under investigation this time, both of which had been the subject of a UK AAIB Field Investigation published on 16 January 2020 On 24 April 2019, the aircraft became airborne 400 metres before the end of the runway and on 7 May 2019, the aircraft became airborne 350 metres before the end of the runway. In the first event TOGA thrust was not set as the end the runway was approached but whether this was also the case in the second event was not recorded. Both these earlier events occurred in daylight, in contrast to the latest one. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: The aircraft took off using incorrect performance data for the intersection used. A selection error was made in the EFB calculation which led the crew to believe that they had calculated performance information for a departure from S1 when in fact they had selected the full length of the runway. In this case, as in the two previous identical incidents, the final barrier of checking the runway distance in the performance calculation against the aerodrome ground chart failed to prevent error. Human performance limitations mean it is difficult for pilots to recognise and react to the performance error once the takeoff has begun, so robust adherence to procedures is a key defence against such incidents occurring. The following Safety Action was noted to have been taken as a result of the Investigation findings: Lisbon Airport: after advising that it intended to rename taxiways to remove the risk of confusion between the Taxiway ‘S’ crossing of