A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board (DSB). The FDR was not downloaded but relevant data from the QAR was read out and “made available to the Investigation” in an unspecified format. To the extreme concern of the Board, the fact that the crew had then made a runway takeoff and completed the flight meant that relevant CVR data had been overwritten and important evidence as to how the inattention of the crew had culminated in a taxiway takeoff attempt had thereby been lost. In this respect, it was noted that the applicable regulations required that: In the event of a serious incident, the Captain is responsible for deactivating the flight recorders immediately after the flight is completed.. The aircraft operator should establish procedures to ensure that flight recorder recordings are preserved for the investigating authority. The procedures should include instructions for flight crew members to deactivate the flight recorders immediately after completion of the flight and inform relevant personnel that the recording of the flight recorders should be preserved. These instructions should be readily available on board.. Whether a rejected takeoff which is not then immediately followed by a successful one is still a single ‘flight’ for the purposes these regulations is unclear. The Transavia OM Part ‘A’ was found to state as guidance that “flight crew (must) not erase the CVR after an incident/accident (but must) inhibit it immediately to avoid erasure and only stop (it) in flight when deemed necessary to secure data”. As with the regulations above, this text does not provide useful clarity in the case where a rejected takeoff is followed immediately by a successful one. It was noted that the fight crew pairing was the standard Captain and First Officer who were both “fully qualified to fly the Boeing 737-800”, contrary to the Board’s previously longstanding practice, no information was given as to the age and experience of the pilots involved. However, it was noted that the Captain had been operating from the airport for almost 20 years and the First Officer for about three years which meant that “they were both familiar with the infrastructure of the airport”. The aerodrome controllers on duty were the TWR controller and the GND controller with the TWR controller designated as the Supervisor and covering departures from runway 18C and landings on runway 18R. He had decided to use taxiway W5 to get traffic which had landed on runway 18R across departure runway 18C before continuing on taxiway ‘D’ to avoid a longer route to the terminal. The flight was instructed to taxi for a runway 18C departure in normal night visibility via taxiway ‘C’ (see the illustration below). The flight, with the First Officer acting as PF, had been given a slot but was ready to taxi in good time and the crew were "not in a rush”. The aircraft entered taxiway ‘C’ with no aircraft ahead of it and taxied north. As it passed abeam taxiway W4 the GND