had investigated a previous parallel taxiway night takeoff at Amsterdam which occurred in 2010 which also involved a locally based (KLM) flight crew familiar with the airport, in that case resulting in the aircraft completing the takeoff without any problems. It was considered that although the airport infrastructure and system of operational control was complex, the taxi route followed in this case “cannot be described as complex”. However it was noted that “use of a runway and a parallel outer taxiway for departing traffic from that runway involves the risk, although small, of assuming the inner taxiway is the runway”. It was broadly concluded that the “environmental cues enhanced the perception of the crew that they were lined up on Runway 18C, instead of on Taxiway D” which represented a confirmation bias. It was also clear that “cues such as the yellow, thin and continuous centre line marking and green centre line lights, were not recognised by the flight crew as cues of being on a taxiway”. The break in the centreline introduced on taxiway C1 near to its junction with taxiway ‘D’ was considered likely to have been a significant factor in the suspected confirmation bias mechanism. It was noted that both the non-standard taxiway centreline breaks on taxiway C1 had been introduced as part of a wider scheme to reduce the risk of runway incursions during low visibility by having some centrelines leading to another taxiway instead of to a runway. It was noted that this deviation from the applicable regulated multinational aerodrome standards had been identified as non-compliant and a justification for this to the agency concerned has not yet been accepted. A wider reason why the event had occurred was identified as a failure to act on previous relevant DSB Safety Recommendations made after the 2010 event following which a 2012 Risk Assessment “did not provide clear guidance on how to mitigate the risk of taxiway takeoffs (and) a clear, structured and integral follow-up of the outcomes of this report did not take place”. It was found that “over time focus and resources shifted to the risks involved in pushback operations (and) the commitment to act upon the risk of taxiway takeoffs was neither followed nor challenged”. It was observed that as a result, actions which could have followed the investigation of the 2010 event “were not developed further and therefore could not help prevent reoccurrence of taxiway takeoffs”. Three specific Contributory Factors were identified in respect of this Serious Incident as follows: The use of outer Taxiway C in combination with an early issuance of the takeoff clearance, introduced a risk of taxiing incorrectly.. The TWR controller issued the takeoff clearance when prompted by the crew with a ready for departure notification. Thereafter he shifted his attention to other traffic and did not observe the line-up of the aeroplane on Taxiway D. Based upon the operational situation and his expert judgement, the runway controller did not perceive his reduced focus on the Boeing 737-800 as