a risk, especially because it concerned a home-based carrier.. When taxiing from Taxiway C towards the holding position of Runway 18C, the taxiway centre line markings did not provide continuous guidance, as the design of these markings was focused on preventing runway incursions during low visibility operations.. Safety Action taken as a result of an internal review by interested airport parties which followed this event resulted in designation of taxiway ‘D’ as the standard routing for traffic departing runway 18C at night and restoring the previously removed section of taxiway centre line marking between taxiway ‘C’ and runway 18C. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that Transavia develop new procedures, or clarify existing procedures, that guide flight crews to consult with their airline at the earliest convenient moment, about abnormal situations that have had or may have significant flight safety implications, such as an aborted takeoff from a taxiway. Communicate to flight crews what range of occurrences are meant by these situations.. that All Dutch Airlines replace or upgrade existing cockpit voice recorders currently in use to accommodate for a storage capacity of at least 25 hours on aeroplanes with a certified maximum takeoff mass of more than 27,000 kg and with a certificate of airworthiness issued after 31 December 2001, before 2028.. that the International Air Transport Association encourage their members to replace or upgrade their existing cockpit voice recorders currently in use to accommodate for a storage capacity of at least 25 hours on aeroplanes with a certified maximum takeoff mass of more than 27,000 kg and with a certificate of airworthiness issued after 31 December 2001.. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency mandate that EU-registered commercial air transport aeroplanes, with a certified maximum certificated takeoff mass of more than 27,000 kg, and with a certificate of airworthiness issued after 31 December 2001, to be equipped with a cockpit voice recorder capable of retaining recorded data for at least 25 hours; implement this requirement as of 1 January 2028.. that the Integral Safety Management System Schiphol foster a work environment at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol that encourages the stakeholders of the Integral Safety Management System to challenge each other about decisions that have had or may have significant safety implications.. The Final Report was published on 25 May 2022.