controller instructed it to contact TWR and on doing so when the aircraft was near taxiway ‘C2’, the Captain advised that the flight was ready for departure and the controller responded by issuing a clearance to line up on runway 18C and take off. The ground track of the aircraft prior and during the attempted taxiway takeoff. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft turned left onto taxiway ‘W1’ and then left onto taxiway ‘D’ and immediately commenced takeoff. The Captain made the 80 knot call and having been alerted by the GND controller, the TWR controller immediately looked at his ground radar display, saw what was happening and “instructed the flight twice to stop immediately and hold position”. At the time this instruction was given, the aircraft was between W2 and W3. The captain took over control and rejected the takeoff with the aircraft coming to a stop just beyond taxiway ‘W5’. Only after being informed that they had been attempting to take off from a taxiway did the pilots realise what they had done. The cabin crew and the passengers were told that the takeoff had been rejected due to a flight deck warning. The controller asked if attendance of the RFFS was required in the event of excessive brake temperature or any other reason and the Captain replied that this was unnecessary. The pilots stated that having discussed what had happened, they had “judged that they were able to continue the flight” and advised the controller that they wanted to try again and were instructed to “take the first opportunity to turn and return to ‘W1’". The flight subsequently took off normally from runway 18C. The Captain was recorded as saying that he had tried unsuccessfully to “contact Transavia” but how he had done so, whom he had attempted to contact and what he had intended to say were not recorded. It was noted that no part of the airport has controllable taxiway centreline lighting. It was additionally found that taxiway centreline marking in the area where the crew turned onto the taxiway they erroneously believed was the runway was normal bar two intentional 11 metre long breaks in the ‘C1’ taxiway centreline (see the illustration below). One break was at the beginning of the route from parallel taxiway ‘C’ to taxiway ‘C1’ and the other was where a left turn onto taxiway ‘D’ diverged from the principal ‘C1’ straight ahead route towards taxiway W1 and the runway. The Captain’s claim that the centreline lighting between taxiway ‘C’ and the Cat 3 holding point on taxiway W1 was not illuminated could not be validated as there was no system which displayed such failures. However ATC had not received any corresponding failure from the 7 earlier departures from runway 18C which had all followed the same access to the runway. The short (11 metre) breaks in the taxiway ‘C1’ centreline leading to taxiway ‘W1’ and the runway. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation noted that the Board