The SKYbrary article "ATC Avoiding Instructions Opposite to TCAS RA" describes controversial history surrounding risk scenarios that require TCAS RA reversals. Notably, some controllers intervened improperly based on their awareness of a TCAS RA (i.e., from an RA downlink). Contributory factors in two influential accidents — the 2001 Yaizu accident and the 2002 Überlingen midair collision — and several serious incidents led to several technological and procedural improvements related to TCAS RA reversals, according to EUROCONTROL. The SKYbrary article "ATC Avoiding Instructions Opposite to TCAS RA" explains the ATC involvement this way: “When a loss of separation is likely to occur or has occurred, the controller will issue instruction(s) to one or both aircraft. These instructions may conflict with a TCAS RA, creating the potential for confusion and the possibility of an inappropriate response." “Such a conflict often arises because of the much more rapid update of relative position available to the flight crew via TCAS [as noted, an update every second] than to ATC with even the best radar-refresh rates [e.g, an update every 4.8 seconds). Controllers must also: “Controller detection of a potential conflict may be delayed due to tasks with other aircraft under control and communications with conflicting aircraft may then also be delayed because of [radio frequency] congestion or misunderstandings between the controller and the pilots.” The SKYbrary article "RA Downlink" explains the potential effect of an TCAS RA reversal this way: “The information presented to the controller might be outdated at the moment it appears on the situational display (due to surveillance latency), which would make it outdated and therefore potentially unsafe. Even if the controller is only using the RA [downlink] “for information” regarding the direction [i.e., sense] of the level change, this information may be not up to date (e.g., due to an RA reversal) at the time it is presented to the controller. Even a delay of a few seconds could be significant.”