Potentially hazardous turbulence in the wake of an aircraft in flight is principally caused by wing tip vortices. This type of turbulence is significant because wing tip vortices decay quite slowly and can produce a significant rotational influence on an aircraft encountering them for several minutes after they have been generated. Jet Efflux and Prop Wash can also hazard the control of an aircraft both on the ground and in the air but, whilst these effects are often extreme, their effects are more short-lived. The origin of counter-rotating wing tip vortices is a direct and automatic consequence of the generation of lift by a wing. Lift is generated by the creation of a pressure differential over the wing surface. The lowest pressure occurs over the upper wing surface and the highest pressure under the wing. This pressure differential triggers the roll up of the airflow aft of the wing resulting in swirling air masses trailing downstream of the wing tips. After the roll up is completed, the wake consists of two counter-rotating cylindrical vortices. Wake Vortex Turbulence The strength of the vortex is governed by the weight, speed, and shape of the wing of the generating aircraft. The vortex characteristics of any given aircraft can also be changed by extension of flaps or other wing configuring devices as well as by change in speed. However, as the basic factor is weight, the vortex strength increases proportionately. Vortices typically persist for between one and three minutes, with their survival likely to be longest in stable air conditions with low wind speeds. Such conditions can extend their survival at higher cruise altitudes beyond that at low level because of the lower air density there. Once formed, vortices will, in almost all cases, likely descend until they decay or in the low level case until they reach the ground if this comes first. Decay of low level vortices will occur more quickly over land because of the boundary layer effect. An across-track wind direction can carry them away from the flight path which the aircraft generating them has followed.