An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Useful Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was available to inform the Investigation. It was found that after engine start, selection of the slats/flaps lever to obtain the required configuration of the wing for take off had led to the appearance of a system fault. A radio call to the Operator’s engineers had produced the advice that the system might require several resets to clear the fault. This reset process involved tripping and resetting the relevant circuit breakers and then moving the slats/flaps lever to check if the slats operated. Each time, the First Officer operated the slats/flaps as directed by the aircraft commander and the indicated repetition eventually produced the desired position of ‘15/15’ free of an ECAM fault annunciation. It was estimated that the First Officer had cycled the slats/flaps lever between positions ‘0/0’ and ‘15/15’ approximately six times. The possibility of the fault recurring on takeoff and the appropriate response, beginning with the cycling of the slats/flaps lever, was discussed. Take off from Runway 08R with the aircraft commander as PF was uneventful but when he called for gear up, the First Officer moved the slats/flaps lever to 0/0 instead. The PF observed an unexpected primary flight display (PFD) indication of airspeed and initially suspected that there was a problem with the airspeed indication, but after checking his PFD airspeed against the standby ASI and confirming that the aircraft was at the pitch attitude and power setting required by the ‘Unreliable Airspeed’ procedure, he noticed that the landing gear selector was still down and so repeated the gear up call. The First Officer had then advised of the previous inadvertent retraction of the slats/flaps and selected the landing gear up. The stall warning system had activated twice during the subsequent 10 seconds and each time the PF reduced the aircraft pitch attitude in response whilst maintaining a positive rate of climb. The aircraft had accelerated to climb speed and the flight then proceeded to destination without further event. FDR data showed that as slats/flaps retraction had commenced, the angle of attack had increased from 5.6º to approximately 8º and, apart from a 3 second period, had remained above 7.5º for the next 18 seconds it took for the retractions to complete. The two recorded stall warning activations occurred during this period with the minimum airspeed at 166 KCAS. The protections relating to operation of the slats/flaps system were reviewed in the light of the aircraft commander’s surprise that it had been possible for the slats to retract completely as “he would have expected the alpha-lock system to prevent slat retraction”. The selectable positions on the lever are 0/0, 15/0, 15/15, 15/20 and 30/40 with the number pairings indicating slat then flap positions. Each lever position has a detent from which the lever must be lifted to initiate a change of position and a blocking baulk is installed at detent 15/0 which prevents any attempt to move the lever straight