An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was concluded that depressurisation of the aircraft had resulted from the sudden and forceful rupture of the fourth one of seven passenger emergency oxygen cylinders located along the right side of the aircraft’s forward cargo hold. The rupture created a hole of approximately 1.5 m x 2.0 m in size in the fuselage skin and another smaller hole in the cabin floor above was made by the majority of the ruptured cylinder as it was then propelled upwards into the passenger cabin immediately forward of the right wing root. The cylinder had then first hit the frame and handle of the R2 door and then the overhead cabin panelling, before dropping back down and through the cabin floor hole. As only the valve assembly from the cylinder was discovered, it was presumed that the remainder of it had then fallen from the aircraft through the fuselage hole, as it was not on board the aircraft after the flight. After the pressure hull had been breached, the cabin, which had been at differential pressure (ΔP) relative to ambient of approximately 12.5 psi lost pressure to reach an estimated minimum differential of 5.25 psi over less than half a minute. This triggered the emergency supplemental oxygen system and deployment of passenger oxygen masks. The emergency descent to 10,000 ft had been commenced promptly and that altitude reached just under 7 minutes after the cylinder rupture. Based on evidence of the trajectory followed by the cylinder after it ruptured, it was deduced that the vertically stowed cylinder had failed by bursting through or around its base, where the calculated stress within the fully charged 1850 psi cylinder would routinely have been at its highest, as illustrated by the diagram below taken from the official report. While it was considered that the cylinder may have been defective, flawed from manufacture or damaged in a way that promoted failure, there was no hard evidence found to support any of these propositions. However, the manner of the failure was characterised as “atypical” and was considered to favour either the presence of a pre-existing defect or the existence of some previous event which had weakened the cylinder and predisposed it to subsequent failure. No evidence was found that would suggest that the procedures documented for the handling, maintenance and operation of the cylinder might have contributed to the risk of its failure and there was no record of the failed cylinder or its related systems sustaining any relevant prior damage. The investigation found no previous instances of the same or a similar cylinder type having ruptured or forcefully failed whilst in service and no evidence that any aspect of the design and construction of the type of cylinder involved should have predisposed it to sudden failure. Other cylinders from the same production batch as the failed item were not found to have any increased risk of a similar premature failure. Overall, the testing and