the main landing gear and the First Officer would simultaneously pull the NLG release handle”. An uneventful ILS approach was flown to runway 27 at Stephenville with the Captain deciding on a landing flap setting of 35° degrees. With the St. John’s group still on the phone, touchdown was made as planned but the partially extended NLG remained as such and when it contacted the runway, it was forced into the up position leaving the aircraft nose to slide on the runway surface. Once the aircraft had stopped about halfway down the runway, the engines were powered down and all occupants left the aircraft using the main passenger door and the forward right emergency exit and were bussed to the terminal building. Damage to the aircraft was limited to crush and abrasion damage to the forward and rear NLG bay doors, abrasion damage to the tyre walls, deformation of the aircraft structure at the NLG door hinge attachment point and abrasion damage to the skin aft of the NLG bay and an adjacent antenna. The aircraft involved was manufactured in 2001 and had accumulated 36,072 flight hours by the time the investigated event occurred. It was noted that the DHC8-300 NLG assembly consisted of two wheels mounted on a trailing arm attached to a gear leg by a link to the internal piston assembly which moves within a bearing contained within the inner cylinder of the gear leg. This assembly is filled with hydraulic fluid and charged with nitrogen gas which is prevented from leaking out by inner and outer ring seals on the bearing. The assembly requires overhaul in accordance with the CMM whichever of 25,000 cycles or 10 years in service comes first. Any wear or corrosion on the inner surface of the cylinder discovered during overhaul may mean that its internal diameter has to be slightly increased and if this occurs, the outside of the bearing must be marked to show that an oversized bearing must be fitted during reassembly to ensure leakage of hydraulic fluid is prevented. Examination of the NLG found that there was evidence of hydraulic fluid leakage and disassembly showed that “correction” of the apparent consequences - a low piston extension height - had been achieved by increasing the nitrogen gas charge. Damage and marks on the NLG tyres and on the aft NLG doors showed that when the landing gear had been selected down, the slipstream into which the NLG had been lowered had unduly compressed the NLG leg because of its lower internal static pressure and had led to tyres becoming jammed in that position rather than normally extending. Further examination of the cylinder found that although it did not have the required external marking to indicate this, it had been given an increased internal diameter during overhaul but still contained a standard-sized bearing. The excessive clearance at the ring seal had reduced its effectiveness and facilitated a fluid leak. The installed NLG leg had completed 6,364 cycles since the last