overhaul and 46, 573 cycles since new, having most recently been overhauled by the OEM almost four years earlier. It was noted that no rework or repair to the inner cylinder was recorded during this most recent overhaul and the records from the earlier overhaul were no longer available. It was noted that five weeks prior to the investigated event, a pilot-reported defect “nosewheel rough on taxi” was rectified by replenishing the NLG leg hydraulic fluid and nitrogen gas pressure in accordance with AMM servicing instructions with no subsequent related defects over 233 cycles. In respect of Daily Checks of the airworthiness of a PAL Airlines aircraft, it was noted that although these are normally carried out by maintenance personnel, when an aircraft night stops at a location where there is no maintenance cover such as Wabush, the only check carried out is an external check by one of the flight crew prior to the first flight of the day. However, Bombardier did not provide a suitable checklist for this purpose and instead “relied on airline operators to determine the specific flight control, fuselage, engine, propeller and landing gear items to be inspected in their pre-flight checklists and what criteria to use when inspecting them”. It was noted that PAL Airlines had an SOP requiring “a thorough pre-flight check during the exterior walk-around inspection” but no corresponding checklist or criteria existed. No NLG anomalies were identified during either of the pre-flight checks conducted by the First Officer on the day of the investigated event nor were any recorded during any other pre-flight checks by pilots or maintenance personnel since the most recent NLG servicing five weeks previously. In respect of fuel endurance, which did not appear to have been actively considered during the flight, it was found that on arrival at Stephenville, the indicated fuel onboard had been recorded by maintenance as approximately two thirds of the required reserve fuel. Examination of the FDR data led to the discovery that the improvised and unsuccessful positive ‘g’ manoeuvring carried out by the Captain in an attempt to release the jammed gear had resulted in the aircraft exceeding AFM airspeed limitations including a significant exceedence of both VLE and VLO. Although the gear extension problem, even when the corresponding QRH procedures could not resolve it, was a relatively minor one, a very considerable time was (unusually) spent by the crew in continuous communication with company management. It was considered that this extended telephone conversation between the Captain and the St. Johns group of PAL Airlines’ managers “had been unusual in that it involved direct contact with company personnel having both operational credentials and management roles, whose opinions would not normally be a part of the crew decision-making process”. It was concluded that insofar as this group of managers “became an extension of the flight crew […] it may have created a permissive environment in which experimentation could replace the following of written checklists”. It certainly disrupted normal flight crew teamwork and added