to re-establish communications on the occasions when signal loss terminated the call. This succession of calls was found to have “lasted more than 66 minutes over the next 71 minutes, approximately until the aircraft touched down at Stephenville Airport”. In the course of this period, the crew briefed the St. John’s group about the problem and the Captain, having changed roles to act as PM, “actioned selected items from ALTERNATE LANDING GEAR EXTENSION checklist” as instructed by members of the group, “particularly the repeated pulling of the nose gear release handle”. Meanwhile, the First Officer acted as PF and maintained radio contact with Gander ACC and Deer Lake FSS. The crew then heard the company traffic reporting a go around at Deer Lake FSS due to poor visibility caused by blowing snow and were diverting. The Captain “decided to perform manoeuvres in an attempt to release the NLG” and made a PA announcement to alert the passengers before resuming the role of PF, disconnecting the AP and making three “abrupt and progressively larger pitch control inputs” without any change. The aircraft was then climbed to 9,600 feet QNH before beginning a descent and accelerating to 185 KCAS whilst making seven consecutive elevator inputs as an alternative way to increase the g loading as a means to release the jammed gear but without success. Although the conditions at Deer Lake had improved in the meantime, it was then decided that the flight would divert to Stephenville, an airport situated on the west coast of Newfoundland, on the basis that it had a longer (3050 metres rather than 2440 metres) and wider (61 metres rather than 45 metres) runway as well as better present weather than Deer Lake. Having received ACC approval for this diversion, the Captain, who had continued as PF then declared an emergency. The First Officer’s smartphone then lost connection with the St John’s group but they remained in communication with the Captain and “continued to discuss the position of the NLG and actions required to lower it” with pulling the NLG release handle and how to do it, required actions to be taken at touchdown and (multiple times) what flap position should be set for landing. The First Officer “attempted to coordinate with the Captain" regarding the descent, approach and landing but the Captain was often communicating with the St John’s group during these attempts which meant that the First Officer had to repeat prompts or questions. The review of the ‘LANDING GEAR FAILS TO EXTEND’ Checklist was carried out primarily between the Captain and the St John’s group with landing considerations such as whether the propellers represented a ground contact hazard and the appropriate flap setting only being “confirmed late in the flight”. It was noted during the Investigation that this information was included in the Checklist anyway as explicit fact or procedure so no discussion was necessary. However, it was agreed that in an effort to free the NLG, the Captain would “intentionally land firmly on