nothing to the applicable QRH response and it was considered that “if crew members are unable to communicate effectively with each other, they are less likely to anticipate and coordinate their actions, which could jeopardise the safety of the flight". The external communication was also likely to have been the indirect cause of both the exceedence of limiting airspeeds during the abrupt ‘experimental’ manoeuvres aimed at un-jamming the nose gear and quite possibly the cause of apparent inattention to fuel endurance prior to commencing and during the diversion. It was also noted that any use of any PEDs on board PAL Airlines’ aircraft except when taxiing in to the gate after flight was expressly prohibited by the OM and that more generally there was no current regulatory guidance covering smartphone use by flight crew on board Canadian aircraft although exemptions from baseline PED use can be requested and may be approved. It was also noted that whilst this Investigation was in progress, Transport Canada published a NPRM which would permit approved use of PEDs such as smartphones by crews in flight. The four formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: For undetermined reasons, a previous repair to the inner cylinder of the nose landing gear shock strut was not designated with a specific permanent marking as required by the approved component maintenance manual, resulting in the installation of a standard size bearing where an oversize bearing was required.. The reduced sealing force caused by the smaller-than-required bearing installation likely allowed the nose landing gear shock strut to leak.. The reduced hydraulic fluid volume, in addition to a possible nitrogen leak, reduced the internal static pressure of the nose landing gear shock strut and allowed it to partially compress when it was in the up position.. The airflow encountered in flight when the nose landing gear was lowered further compressed the nose landing gear shock strut and allowed the tires to impinge on the aft landing gear doors, thereby jamming the nose landing gear in a partially extended position.. A formally-stated Finding as to Risk was also made as follows: The absence of formal in-flight procedures for flight crews to consult third parties using smartphones increases the risk of distraction, leading to a breakdown in crew resource management during critical phases of flight.. If crew members are unable to communicate effectively with each other, they are less likely to anticipate and coordinate their actions, which could jeopardise the safety of the flight.. If pilots delay making a decision to divert, there is a risk that the fuel remaining will be insufficient to provide the flight endurance required to mitigate unforeseen circumstances at the diversion airport.. If aircraft are operated beyond airspeed limitations, there is a risk of compromising flight safety, resulting in injury to the occupants or damage to the aircraft.. If manufacturers require an aircraft inspection of items critical to the safety of flight without providing a checklist of items and inspection criteria, there is a