An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) using data downloaded from the FDR of the aircraft involved but relevant data on the 30 minute CVR had been overwritten and no recording of the exceptional, extensive and relevant use of smartphone communications between the flight crew and their company following their initial discovery of the landing gear extension problem was available. On the day of the investigated event, the aircraft was to operate a flight from Wabush to St. John’s with intermediate stops at Churchill Falls and Deer Lake. The first sector was completed uneventfully as was the second, with the Captain acting as PF, until the aircraft was on final approach for runway 25 at Deer Lake when selection of landing gear down was followed by the illumination of a red ‘gear unsafe’ warning and the absence of a green locked down indication for the NLG accompanied by a number of related cautions including a gear in transit light indication. The Captain responded by re-cycling the landing gear but with the same result and the approach was discontinued. The crew then flew along the runway centreline and asked the FSS (Flight Service Station) to visually check the position of the NLG and were informed that it was “visible but not locked down”. The aircraft was then climbed to enter a holding pattern to allow the crew to “continue to troubleshoot” the problem. The QRH ‘LDG GEAR INOP’ Checklist was then actioned with awareness that it may be necessary to subsequently resort to the ‘ALTERNATE LANDING GEAR EXTENSION’ Checklist which, once it has been completed, prevents retraction of the gear until after a ground reset by maintenance personnel. The crew then heard an exchange between another company aircraft and the Deer Lake FSS which advised of the need to sweep snow off the runway so it was decided to delay completion of the alternate extension procedure until the availability of the Deer Lake runway had been confirmed since transit to an alternate with the gear extended would reduce the maximum range for diversion. The crew then noted that their smartphones were displaying a service availability indication. The Captain, whose headset was Bluetooth-capable and paired to his smartphone, then called Company Despatch at St John’s and a conference call was established with the Chief Pilot, the Director of Flight Operations, the Director of Quality, Safety and Training and a St John’s-based Maintenance Shift Supervisor. The First Officer was then given a phone number of one of the St John’s group so that he could make a video call to them using an application on his smart phone which he then positioned so that its camera showed the flight deck. He too had his phone paired to his Bluetooth headset so he could hear the conversation at the St John’s end of the call. The Captain then made of total of four calls to and received one call from the St. John’s group, the additional calls being required