An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that bird avoidance had been impossible. At the time of impact, the First Officer had been PF but approximately 12 seconds afterwards, the Captain had taken control of the aircraft. Five seconds later he had called for the QRH drill for Dual Engine Failure checklist and this had been commenced whilst an emergency was declared and ATC attempted to assist. The NTSB concluded that “Even though the engines did not experience a total loss of thrust, the Engine Dual Failure checklist was the most applicable checklist contained in the US Airways QRH, which was developed in accordance with the Airbus QRH, to address the accident event because it was the only checklist that contained guidance to follow if an engine restart was not possible and if a forced landing or ditching was anticipated (starting from 3,000 feet)". However, according to post-accident interviews and CVR data, the flight crew had bee unable to complete this Checklist, which had 3 parts and was 3 pages long; although they were able to complete most of part 1, lack of time precluded starting Parts 2 and 3. It was found that the Engine Dual Failure checklist had been designed on the assumption that such a failure would occur at a high altitude (above 20,000 feet). According to Airbus, this was because the majority of flight time was at high altitude and, therefore, a dual-engine failure would be most likely to occur at altitudes above 20,000 feet. Airbus advised that they had not considered developing a checklist for use at a low altitude, when limited time is available before ground or water impact. Discussions with A320 operators and another manufacturer also indicated that low altitude, dual-engine failure checklists are not readily available in the industry. The Investigation noted that, despite being unable to complete the full Engine Dual Failure checklist, the fact that the APU was started improved the outcome of the ditching by ensuring that a primary source of electrical power continued to be available to the aircraft and that the A320 flight control system remained in 'Normal Law' with full flight envelope protection including against a stall. At the time of the bird strike, the aircraft was about 4.5 miles north-northwest of the threshold of runway 22 at LaGuardia and about 9.5 miles east-northeast of the threshold of runway 24 at Teterboro'. During post-accident interviews, both pilots stated that they considered Hudson River as safest landing option given the airspeed, altitude, and position of the aircraft. The Investigation concluded that the Captain’s decision to ditch in the Hudson River rather than attempting to land at an airport provided the highest probability that the accident would be survivable. As a result of the accident, the FAA engine and propeller directorate, jointly with EASA, initiated a re-evaluation of the existing bird-ingestion certification regulations to determine whether new rulemaking was necessary. According to data from the FAA National Wildlife Strike