airplane is equipped with them, to passengers to ensure that the life lines can be quickly and effectively retrieved and used.. (A-10-81) that the Federal Aviation Administration require that aircraft operated by 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, Part 135, and Part 91 Subpart K operators be equipped with flotation seat cushions and life vests for each occupant on all flights, regardless of the route.. (A-10-82) that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, Part 135, and Part 91 Subpart K operators to brief passengers on all flotation equipment installed on an airplane, including a full demonstration of correct life vest retrieval and donning procedures, before all flights, regardless of route.. (A-10-83) that the Federal Aviation Administration require modifications to life vest stowage compartments or stowage compartment locations to improve the ability of passengers to retrieve life vests for all occupants.. (A-10-84) that the Federal Aviation Administration revise the life vest performance standards contained in Technical Standard Order-C13f to ensure that they result in a life vest that passengers can quickly and correctly don.. (A-10-85) that the Federal Aviation Administration conduct research on, and require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, Part 135, and Part 91 Subpart K operators to implement, creative and effective methods of overcoming passengers’ inattention and providing them with safety information.. (A-10-86) that the U.S. Department of Agriculture develop and implement, in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration, innovative technologies that can be installed on aircraft that would reduce the likelihood of a bird strike.. (A-10-87) that the European Aviation Safety Agency modify the small and medium flocking bird certification test standard in Joint Aviation Regulations-Engines to require that the test be conducted using the lowest expected fan speed, instead of 100-percent fan speed, for the minimum climb rate.. (A-10-88) that the European Aviation Safety Agency, during the bird-ingestion rulemaking database (BRDB) working group’s reevaluation of the current engine bird-ingestion certification regulations, specifically re-evaluate the Joint Aviation Regulations-Engines (JAR-E) large flocking bird certification test standards to determine whether they should 1) apply to engines with an inlet area of less than 3,875 square inches and 2) include a requirement for engine core ingestion. If the BRDB working group’s reevaluation determines that such requirements are needed, incorporate them into JAR-E and require that newly certificated engines be designed and tested to these requirements.. (A-10-89) that the European Aviation Safety Agency require manufacturers of turbine-powered aircraft to develop a checklist and procedure for a dual-engine failure occurring at a low altitude.. (A-10-90) that the European Aviation Safety Agency require applicants for aircraft certification to demonstrate that their ditching parameters can be attained without engine power by pilots without the use of exceptional skill or strength.. (A-10-91) that the European Aviation Safety Agency require Airbus to redesign the frame 65 vertical beam on A318, A319, A320, and A321 series airplanes to lessen the likelihood that it will intrude into the cabin during a ditching or gear-up landing and Airbus operators to incorporate