A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft operator provided a copy of the relevant QAR data. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain, who had been acting as PF for the fight involved, had a total of 20,593 hours flying experience which included 12,061 hours on A320 family aircraft. The flying experience of the First Officer was not recorded. Both pilots were starting the final day of a four-day short haul duty period that would consist of just the single sector from Glasgow to London Heathrow and both stated that they had been “well rested” prior to reporting to operate the flight. During the previous three days they had flown A319, A320 and A321 aircraft. The crew stated that as they had “a few minutes to spare”, the Captain had “as encouraged by the operator” allowed a couple of passengers to visit the flight deck. Subsequently, whilst the crew were entering the takeoff performance figures they had calculated on their iPads into the Flight Management Guidance Computers (FMGC), the Senior Cabin Crew Member ( SCCM) asked if they could accept another flight deck visitor. The Captain reported that although he had “ignored the request” in order to focus on the data entry task, “it may have distracted him”. The takeoff was planned using the full length of runway 05 with the surface wind reported as from 080° at 5 knots, the visibility as 2,800 metres in drizzle, the lowest cloud as at 400 feet agl and the runway surface as wet. The result of the performance calculations made was a requirement for flap 1, reduced thrust based on a flex temperature of 49°C and a non-standard acceleration altitude of 1,070 feet. The associated speeds were calculated as a V1 of 139 knots, a VR of 147 knots and a V2 of 151 knots. During the subsequent taxi out, ATC asked if they would be able to depart from intersection ‘F’ as another aircraft was holding at taxiway G with a technical problem but ahead of the recalculation of takeoff figures that this would have required, the other aircraft problem was resolved and so the full length preference was available. As the speed built up during the subsequent takeoff roll, both pilots reported that they had “felt that the aircraft was not accelerating as they expected”, the Captain stating that “something was not right but I could not put my finger on it”. At approximately 100 knots, the First Officer had said “this doesn’t feel right, have we got enough power” and with 2 knots to go till V1, the Captain had advanced the thrust levers to TOGA. Examination of the recorded flight data showed that the aircraft had crossed the upwind end of the runway at 276 feet agl and a reconstruction of the flight path - see below - showed that less than 400 metres of runway remained when the aircraft became airborne. During the flight, the flight crew reported that they