had realised they had both used a flex temperature of 79°C in their takeoff performance calculations instead of the correct figure of 49°C. The takeoff profile flown (red) compared to the intended one (green). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was found that the procedures for takeoff performance calculation require that the PF must read the performance from the printed performance calculation and the PM then reads these into their MCDU. The PF then checks that this entry is correct by reference to their MCDU screen. The Captain was unsure whether he had said ‘79°’ instead of ‘49°’ when reading out the required flex temperature or if he had said the correct number and the First Officer had then inadvertently pressed a ‘7’ instead of a ‘4’ and “highlighted that the 7 and 4 keys are next to each other on the MDCU keyboard”. He stated that he was not sure why he had not spotted the error when checking the First Officer’s input on his MCDU screen, but “thought he may have been looking at the non-standard acceleration altitude”, which was a relatively unusual feature of Glasgow 05 takeoff. The cabin crew call which had occurred during the data checking process was suggested as possible distraction. The Investigation noted that once the error had been made, there were several points in the applicable SOPs where the flex temperature used is checked, including the pre-start checks, the before takeoff checks and in the flight mode annunciator (FMA) review as the takeoff roll commences. However, these checks only require the flight crew to read the temperature and do not represent a validation of its correctness. The Captain reported having subsequently recognised that a flex temperature of 79°C was not typical for an A321 for which it was more usually in the 50s. However, he noted that it would not be abnormal for an A319, a variant on which the crew had flown four sectors during their four day “tour”. It was noted that “the AAIB have investigated many other Serious Incidents involving incorrect takeoff performance figures”. In particular, it was noted that after investigating another similar event involving a Boeing 737-800 departing Belfast International in 2017 which had led to much more serious consequences, the AAIB had recommended that renewed attention should be given by both the FAA and the EASA to supporting the development of technical specifications and technical standards for a ‘Takeoff Acceleration Monitoring System’. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that “the error was likely made due to a combination of brief distraction and entering a non-standard acceleration height (and noted that) the subsequent checks do not require the flight crew to refer back to the source data and, whilst the selected flex temperature was unusual for a A321, it was not usual for the A319 which the flight crew had been operating during the tour”. Safety Action known to have been commenced during the course of the AAIB Investigation was noted to have included the following: British