when calculating regulated takeoff performance are necessarily conservative. In this specific case, the use of wet runway data when the runway was only damp, the fact that the runway was grooved and the rolling takeoff would all have had a beneficial effect relative to calculated takeoff performance had an engine failure occurred near to V1. The formally stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The aircraft began its takeoff roll from the displaced threshold of Runway 26R rather than the beginning of the runway. The crew did not identify the beginning of the runway and instead taxied the aircraft forward to the landing threshold. A combination of an unusual straight-line runway entry, a perceived lack of lighting in the pre-threshold area and the bright threshold lights ahead contributed to the crew not identifying the beginning of the runway. From the point at which the aircraft began its takeoff roll, its performance did not meet regulatory requirements for both stopping and continuing should an engine have failed close to V1. The risks in both cases were significant to the aircraft and its occupants. Safety Action taken by the Airport Operator and/or the ANSP following this Serious Incident and known to the Investigation included but was not limited to: The ANSP committed to raising awareness with their staff about their obligations to report Serious Incidents to the AAIB under a process which had, during this Investigation, already been formally clarified as a result of a similar failure to report by UK ANSP personnel in respect of another takeoff performance-related Serious Incident at Belfast International.. The amendment of the standard NOTAM used to promulgate the closure of the main runway and the use of standby runway 08L/26R to include a more explicit description of the position at which the takeoff roll should commence.. After a review of the arrow markings on the standby runway before the displaced landing threshold on both 08L and 26R which found that they were not in compliance with applicable regulations in that they were too widely spaced, this deficiency was remedied by increasing the number of such arrows from 5 to 8.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 6 December 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.