approximately 600 metres before the end of the runway. The crew subsequently reported that although the takeoff "seemed normal", it had used the full length of the runway and both pilots had commented after getting airborne that "there was not much runway remaining at lift-off". It was noted that the initial part of runway 26R prior to the displaced landing threshold had red rather than white edge lighting and no centreline lighting which corresponded to the applicable regulatory requirements. It also included one bar and some centre lights of the approach lighting system. The displaced threshold had green threshold lights as well as a set of Runway Threshold Identification Lights (RTILS) but the latter were angled such that they were not intended to be visible to an aircraft on the ground. The contrast between the relatively dark area of the runway prior to the displaced landing threshold and that of the rest of the runway was evident from comparative photographs representative of the view from the flight deck taken during the Investigation. It was also noted that ever since the introduction of the northern standby runway in the mid 1980s, there had been a history of crews misidentifying the start of runway 26R which was originally only a parallel taxiway serving the main runway and was still operated as such most of the time. An early response to the misidentification problem was the installation in the early 1990s of the TODA sign at the beginning of the runway. This sign is visible only when the standby runway is in use as an alternative to the main runway - the two runways cannot be in use as such at the same time due to close spacing. However, similar incidents have continued to occur and the Investigation noted that in the 6 months prior to the takeoff being investigated, ATC had recorded at least four other incidents in which aircraft of other operators had not started their takeoff roll at the beginning of the runway 26R TORA. A review confirmed that in the prevailing weather conditions, the 223,813 kg takeoff weight of the aircraft required an ASDA of 2,564 metres which was the same as the ASDA for the full length of Runway 26R, whereas from the point where the takeoff was actually commenced, the displaced landing threshold, the ASDA was only 2,156 metres. Had an engine failed during the takeoff as conducted prior to reaching V1, a rejected takeoff would have been likely and the overrun may have continued beyond the airport boundary which was only around 2,250 metres from the beginning of the takeoff. It was calculated that the aircraft had been about 12 tonnes too heavy for the takeoff made to satisfy regulated takeoff performance criteria. It was also noted that “the TODA was also insufficient to meet regulatory requirements for obstacle clearance should the aircraft have continued the takeoff after an engine failure at V1”. However, it was noted that some of the assumptions which are necessarily made