An Investigation by the UK AAIB was only commenced after it first learned of the event on 14 May 2018 from the UK CAA who themselves had not received a MOR from the aircraft operator detailing the occurrence until 30 April 2018. They in turn had learned of the event only after an internal report raised by ATC had been copied to them and had then evaluated the downloaded flight data against the performance requirements before concluding that it was within MOR reporting requirements. Neither the ANSP nor the airport operator reported the event to the CAA as a MOR and quite apart from MOR reporting requirements, the Investigation noted that, since the event was “a gross failure of the aircraft to achieve its predicted takeoff performance”, there was a statutory requirement to report it as a Serious Incident without delay. It was noted that the 63 year-old Captain had accumulated a total of 18,765 flying hours which included 699 hours on type. No information was provided about the First Officer's experience or which pilot was designated as PF for the takeoff and the pilots were not interviewed. It was found that although the crew were familiar with the airport and its main runway 26L, their use of the standby runway 26R had been "infrequent". It was established that the flight was scheduled to depart 15 minutes prior to a planned switch from the main westerly runway to the standby runway with the corresponding NOTAM advising that the last main runway departure would be 5 minutes before the changeover. The crew had therefore begun re-planning for a departure from the standby runway which, because of its shorter length - a TORA of 2,565 metres rather than 3,255 metres - required a reduction in the originally planned cargo load. The revised loading allowed departure from the standby runway using rated thrust. The re-planning proved well judged as the aircraft did not leave its gate until it was too late to use the main runway. The aircraft was cleared to taxi to holding point P1 on taxiway P and this was followed by clearance to line up on runway 26R after a landing Airbus A320. Once past the holding point, this involved crossing taxiway J and then making a right turn onto taxiway AN which then led directly to the beginning of runway 26R without any change of direction (see the illustration below). The beginning of the runway was marked by a transverse white line and an illuminated sign on the left side giving the TODA from that point. Whilst on taxiway AN, the crew received their takeoff clearance but then failed to recognise where the beginning of the runway was or notice the TODA sign and continued taxi speed for 417 metres until they reached the displaced landing threshold. As the aircraft reached this point, a rolling takeoff was initiated with only a 2140 metre TORA now remaining. The TWR controller observed that the aircraft did not appear to rotate until