The higher risk probability is distributed among general aviation flights conducted outside controlled airspace (in airspace classes, E, F and G where the Visual Flight Rules (VFR) flights are not subject to ATC clearances), or any flights in such airspace and conditions with predominant see and avoid rules and where the ATC assistance to avoid loss of separation (LOS) is limited. The list below consists of several identified conditions when the eyes often tend to turn back to their natural resting state: in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC), when the sky is featureless and visibility is 10 km. or more;. in very dark night with no stimuli outside the cockpit to focus on;. in hazy conditions when the optical properties of the atmosphere alter the appearance of aircraft and terrain;. in bright light and glare when the flight is conducted in very sunny conditions over a cloud layer or the flight course is in the direction of the sun;. flying over snow covered or desert surfaces with predominantly featureless ground characteristics and over large bodies of water; the risk factor is especially high for low level inspection flights and military low flying assignments;. All of the above scenarios are associated not only with LOS but also with controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) risks. In these scenarios the visual detection of traffic and terrain could be hindered by empty field myopia and the healthy human eye can effectively become near-sighted. The danger might not become apparent until it is too late for evasive actions. The hazard of mid air collision contributed by empty field myopia is compounded by the fact that the frontal area of the aircraft profile is small and an aircraft viewed directly from the front, especially flying a head-on collision course, shows little relative movement. This makes detecting the other aircraft by the pilot very difficult. In addition, an aircraft that has a high degree of contrast against the background will be easier to spot, while spotting one with low contrast at the same distance may be hard and sometimes next to impossible.