An Investigation was carried out by the Finnish SIB. ATC radar and R/T recordings and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data from the ATR 72 were available but the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) from the Saab 340 had been overwritten and it was noted that this fact had “significantly hampered the investigation of multi-crew co-operation” on the Saab flight deck. It was established that runways 22R and 22L had both been in use as usual during the busy afternoon period, each controlled by a dedicated TWR controller, TWR-W and TWR-E respectively. Although it had been raining at the time, there was no low cloud and normal daylight visibility had prevailed at the airport so that neither in flight nor surface visibility - the latter observed as 6km - were a factor in the investigated event. The Saab 340 was taxiing for departure from runway 22R and - see the diagram below which shows the complete taxi route taken - had received an initial taxi clearance from TWR-E of “via ‘CL’ cross runway15 taxi to ‘Y’ hold short of runway 22L” which was read back incorrectly as “via ‘Y’ to runway 22L crossing approved” but not corrected by ATC. As the aircraft, having crossed runway 22L, reported that it was approaching holding point ‘WD’, TWR-E told them to contact TWR-W but this instruction was not read back. The crew then mistakenly changed to the frequency of Helsinki Radar where they were told they were on the wrong frequency and directed to call TWR-W. The Investigation considered that it was possible that the landing clearance to the ATR 72 was given whilst the Saab crew were on the wrong frequency and thus could not have been heard. The TWR-W controller was waiting for the Saab to check in on their frequency but when this did not happen, they switched on the red stop bar lights at holding point WD so as to make certain that the aircraft would not taxi onto runway 22R and one minute later, the controller cleared the ATR-72 to land on runway 22R. During the brief absence from both TWR frequencies, the commander of the Saab, acting as PF slowed the taxi speed as the illuminated stop bar ahead, positioned about 80 metres before holding point ‘WD’, was approached. The co-pilot checked in with TWR-W and the controller responded with “one landing” which the co-pilot read back as “Landing”. Having reportedly understood this as a line up clearance, the PF then proceeded to cross the stop bar (which neither pilot subsequently claimed to have noticed) and enter the runway. The co-pilot stated that he had been “uncertain of the clearance” but had not attempted to confirm it with ATC. The PF stated subsequently that the co-pilot had confirmed that the approach was clear by saying ‘right side clear’. However, the co-pilot stated that although this check was normal practice and was carried out with a complimentary check of the Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) display, he had exceptionally not