Pre flight briefing should include a review of airport layouts with which one or both pilots are not wholly familiar with.. Flight Crew and vehicle drivers should ensure that they maintain progressive position awareness whilst undertaking ground movement. For aircraft taking off, a check for the correct take off position by alignment alone cannot provide assurance that the aircraft is on the correct runway (although of course a check against the correct ILS LLZ display - can).. Flight crew should at all times ensure that the cross monitoring by the pilot designated as PM of the actions of the PF is effective, both in respect of detection and response. Similar vigilance and where necessary response should be exercised by supernumerary crew members occupying flight deck seats for take off and landing.. If a straight-in precision approach is expected to be flown to or near to DA before the required viusual reference for a landing is obtained, then an extra check that any radio aid frequency being used is tuned and identified as corresponding to that for the correct runway.. If an offset ILS, any non precision approach (NPA), a circling approach or an entirely visual approach is being flown, the approach briefing should include discussion of how positive runway identification will be accomplished.. Runway Lighting is coloured completely differently to Taxiway Lighting and should provide a normally alert flight crew with an opportunity to distinguish one from the other.. Since runway edge lighting is spaced differently to any runway centreline lighting, line up with reference to the edge lighting should be avoidable.. If ATC have surface movement radar or more sophisticated equipment to track aircraft ground movements, this can prevent an error in runway identification from having a serious consequence. If time permits or if there is are any indications of position uncertainty in respect of a particular aircraft, especially in restricted forward visibility conditions, then active aircraft ground position monitoring is especially valuable prior to the issue of a take off clearance. A-SMGCS can additionally provide a range of alerts where an aircraft fails to follow its issued clearance or it has been given an inappropriate ATC clearance.. The addition of RAAS functionality to ‘standard’ TAWS provides a direct means of confirming that runway identification is correct..