An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board using the FDR data from the DHC8 and radar recordings as the means to determine the relative flight paths as the conflict scenario developed. The location of the conflict was identified as 8nm south east of Sault Ste. Marie airport in Class 'E' US airspace under the control of Toronto ACC. This Class 'E' airspace borders the Class 'D' airspace of the Sault CTZ which extends to 3000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings and has a 5nm radius from the airport plus an extension in the direction of the nearby VOR. The pilots of both aircraft and the controllers involved were all "considered sufficiently experienced for their current roles". It was noted that the Zlin aircraft, with an instructor and student on board was based at Sault Ste Marie and had departed from runway 22 there and eventually left the CTZ to conduct some upper air exercises prior to the subsequent departure of the DHC8 from the same runway. In the absence of any known conflicting traffic, the DHC8 had, in accordance with normal practice been instructed by Sault TWR - manned by a Trainee and an OJTI - to contact Toronto Centre once airborne from runway 22 at Sault Ste. Marie and had done so. Then, having checked in with Toronto passing 2000 feet on a SID requiring continuing ahead until 4000 feet, the DHC8 was given a left turn direct to the next FPL waypoint and climb to FL210 and continued the climb at approximately 1200 fpm. Passing 4000 feet, a TCAS TA alerted the crew to traffic approximately 1000 feet above at 1 o'clock relative at 3nm ahead and it was acquired visually and seen to be a light aircraft tracking in a reciprocal direction. The DH8 was leveled at 4500 feet but soon after this, the crew "noticed the right wing of the light aircraft drop and the aircraft enter a rapid descending turn" and observed that "the flight path of this rapid manoeuvre was diagonally right to left (from their perspective) and had put the two aircraft on a collision course". Almost immediately, a TCAS RA 'Descend' was annunciated but the Captain, as PF, "assessed that due to the flight path of the descending aircraft a descent would not be sufficient" and turned 30° left as an evasive action. Whilst in this turn, the crew saw that the light aircraft had recovered from its rapid descending turn and was passing to their right at the same altitude with approximately 350 - 450 feet separation. Once clear of conflict, ATC were advised of the RA and the traffic encounter which had occurred. The Investigation confirmed that the Zlin light aircraft which had departed Sault earlier had been the conflicting aircraft and that having left the Sault TWR frequency on leaving the CTZ, it was not in contact with or monitoring either Sault TWR or Toronto Centre. The conflict was found to have occurred as a result