ATC units. ACC controllers will not generally route an IFR aircraft through an active CYA." The Sault College Flight Training Unit (FTU) was found to operate a training fleet comprised of 11 single-engine and two twin-engine aircraft. It had published details of "specific designated training areas" in order to de-conflict their own simultaneous training flights from each other and had also issued instructions on "where some specific training manoeuvres could and could not take place" but none of this was known to ATC and it did not provide any guidance on the use of the specified areas for upper air work. Data demonstrating the risk of collision in the Sault St Marie areas was identified as including 15 TCAS RAs "resulting from a risk of collision between an IFR and a VFR aircraft" held in the Transport Canada Occurrence Reporting System for the previous 10 years with "at least 7 of those occurrences involved aircraft operated by Sault College". The College itself had recorded "15 events identified as near miss, close call, or risk of collision" since 2013 with "all 15 of these reports involving 2 VFR aircraft, occasionally 2 Sault College aircraft". In seeking to understand why the light aircraft pilots had failed to notice the proximity below of the DHC8 when carrying out a clearing turn prior to commencing their second spin, it was found that this turn had been combined with a climb to regain altitude which "would have placed (the aircraft) in a nose-high attitude". Failure to sight was considered to be attributable "possibly....to (the position of the DHC8) below the aircraft nose or wing, or due to a lack of anticipation". It was also noted that "given their experience with previously completing upper air work in this area without conflict, the student and instructor did not anticipate spotting a departing IFR aircraft during their scan of traffic in the area prior to the spin." The failure of the ACC controller to notice the potential conflict was considered "possibly due to a combination of clutter between radar targets, dimness of display, and expectation of a lower altitude for the training aircraft". The absence of a Class F Special Use Advisory Airspace (CYA) Training Area near to Sault Ste Marie was considered significant and it was concluded that "if manoeuvres related to flight training take place in controlled airspace that is not specifically designated for such training or known to ATC, there is an increased risk of collision, as these types of manoeuvres can be difficult for controllers or the crews of conflicting traffic to anticipate". The formal documentation of Findings from the Investigation was as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors The altitude portion of the radar target representing C-FANU went unnoticed when the Toronto area control centre (CZYZ) controller cleared JZA7794 direct to the DARID intersection, possibly due to a combination of clutter between radar targets, dimness of display, and expectation of a lower altitude for the training aircraft.. The conflicting traffic was not seen by