of the second of two spin recovery exercises, commenced from 5200 feet two minutes after the DHC8 had turned left following receipt of the direct-to re-clearance from Toronto Centre. The student pilot was reported to have "arrested the spin and the descent at approximately 4500 feet" after which "just as the rotation stopped, the student and instructor both noticed a large aircraft very close ahead and the student banked the aircraft sharply to the left". The sector controller at Toronto ACC had not noticed the conflict. It was found that they had been using their 50 cm x 50 cm radar display at a setting which would enable them to see the whole sector (150 nm x 235 nm). Such setting results on 1 cm screen resolution being equivalent to 6 nm. The controller reported being "used to seeing VFR targets surrounding Sault Ste. Marie" and preferred to have traffic symbols associated with such targets dimmed to the lowest available setting to ensure that IFR targets stood out. He stated that in his experience, such VFR targets were "most often at low altitudes (less than 5000 feet) and generally didn’t conflict with IFR traffic". The Investigation noted that at the point where the "direct-to" re-clearance had been given, the targets for the two aircraft had been separated by 8 nm - 1.3 cm on the screen, reducing to 3 nm - 0.5 cm on the screen just before the TCAS TA had been received, with the target data flags (both showing altitude) overlapping each other as the aircraft passed. The general issue of "busy flight training areas" where upper air exercises are conducted was considered by the Investigation. It was observed that: "Training aircraft completing upper airwork can vary their headings and altitudes frequently and, often, rapidly. For an aircraft transiting the area in which these manoeuvres are taking place, it can be difficult to spot the training aircraft and, once they are spotted, prediction of their future flight paths to ensure separation can be difficult. Similar difficulty can be faced by a controller attempting to point out these training aircraft to transiting IFR or VFR traffic. In Canada, there are a few methods used to address this risk. One method involves placing a training aircraft symbol in the general vicinity of the training area on the applicable VFR navigation chart (VNC) and terminal area chart (TAC). This symbol serves to notify transiting VFR aircraft to be on heightened alert, given the possibility of unpredictable training aircraft in the area. The symbols do not have a defined area, are not depicted on IFR enroute low-altitude charts, and are not generally known to the area control centre (ACC) controllers responsible for the particular sector. Another method involves establishing a block of airspace designated as Class F Special Use Advisory Airspace (CYA). These defined blocks of airspace are ....depicted on both VFR and IFR charts. The blocks often have associated common frequencies and hours of operation, and are known to the relevant