The intangible learning influencers play behind the scenes to allow the act of learning to remember, but tangible learning methods are needed to make learning happen. There are countess procedures for aviation professionals to learn, so to follow are some tried and tested learning techniques: Pace learning - if a learner can take their time to learn then deeper understanding is created. Building on existing knowledge - alternating between 'add-on' learning and new learning will ease the information 'load', so that new information can be learnt in stages. Equally, a learner should seek out teaching methods that break-up the load through mixed training content, by combining visual and text (Mayer and Moreno, 2003). Learning at the right level - training should match the learners' skills to avoid boredom or finding training too challenging (Kövi and Spiro 2013). 'Overlearning' information - repetition is important to avoid forgetting, which is especially key during a stressful in-flight situation. (Nowinski, Holbrook, Dismukes, 2003). Microlearning – to revise a very small amount of specific content that is ideal for learning a new procedure or a list. A learner can incorporate this method themselves by writing sticky notes of key information. These memos can be stuck around the house for example for quick revision each time. Collaborative learning - for engaging and emotion-evoking learning. Students learn deeper if they can directly apply knowledge while learning (Barron and Darling-Hammond, 2008). This includes: Cooperative learning - when different minds come together the varying perspectives give a deeper understanding of the subject, and group learning heightens motivation Problem-based learning - when faced with a problem the learner's existing knowledge will become apparent. The student will be encouraged to study in-depth to find a solution, and the autonomy to come up with new ideas will give a sense of achievement and empowerment Scenario-based learning - the style of training should match an individual's personality or a group's collective traits. Aviation professionals would find action and variation orientated-training the most effective. Cooperative learning - when different minds come together the varying perspectives give a deeper understanding of the subject, and group learning heightens motivation. Problem-based learning - when faced with a problem the learner's existing knowledge will become apparent. The student will be encouraged to study in-depth to find a solution, and the autonomy to come up with new ideas will give a sense of achievement and empowerment. Scenario-based learning - the style of training should match an individual's personality or a group's collective traits. Aviation professionals would find action and variation orientated-training the most effective. Specific memory aids include: Rhymes/melodies - the flow of rhyming and/or melody makes memorising lengthy protocols easier, which is helped along with the happy emotions linked to tunes 'Chaining' technique - this is based on creating simple stories that include a list of keywords to be memorised Mnemonics and acronyms - these are sentences where the first letter is a cue to remember something else, for example: In Clear Deep Rivers And Hot Springs, Fish