An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Accident Investigation (BFU). The FDR and 2 hour CVR were both removed from the aircraft and their relevant data was successfully downloaded. A transcript of ATC communications was also provided. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain held a Dutch licence which included a medical certificate with a limitation requiring “correction for defective distant, intermediate and near vision”. He had a total of 9,394 hours flying experience of which 8,347 hours were on type. Prior to commencing his duty period, he had arrived from the Netherlands by car which had taken almost an hour. The 52 year-old First Officer Captain held a Dutch licence and had a total of 5,365 hours flying experience of which 4,543 hours were on type. Both the Captain and the First Officer were familiar with Cologne-Bonn and had respectively made 14 and 24 takeoffs from the airport in the 90 days prior to the investigated event. This meant that they would have been likely to be familiar with the long term closure of taxiway ‘B’ which would normally be used to get to the beginning of runway 06 from the apron and with the backtrack procedure being used instead. It was additionally noted that “they had known each other for years” and communicated easily in German. The Captain was acting as PF for the takeoff under investigation. The flight was being conducted as the first sector of a crew duty commencing in the early hours. Having taxied to the holding position for runway 06, the TWR controller cleared the flight to backtrack and line up runway 06. As the Captain taxied the aircraft on the centreline, the Before Takeoff Checklist was completed and on reaching the turn pad at the end of the runway, the aircraft began following the lit guidance line provided for the turning manoeuvre. The CVR recording confirmed that about half way round the turn, an unusual sound had occurred which the crew initially assumed was the flight deck door opening but then realised it had been the Captain’s bag falling down behind his seat. He then completed the turn but aligned the aircraft with the runway edge lights. Despite having to await takeoff clearance whilst other aircraft were taking off from the crossing runway 32R, both pilots stated that they had been sure that the aircraft was correctly aligned with the runway centreline and when cleared began the takeoff roll. After beginning to accelerate, the crew reported that they had heard “several blows” to the aircraft and “saw objects flying off, but could not identify them”. Shortly after passing 80 knots (the calculated V1 was 109 knots) the Captain rejected the takeoff without announcing this, which was considered a significant omission. Once the aircraft speed had reduced enough for it to be possible enough to do a 180° turn and exit the runway, which was about 800 metres from its start, this was done and the runway was exited