within Annex 14 Volume 1, ‘Aerodrome Design and Operations’, a standard for runway edge lights that would allow pilots to identify them specifically, without reference to other lights or other airfield features”. The Investigation considered that the Captain’s bag falling to the floor as he was making the necessary 180° turn after backtracking had undoubtedly been allowed by him to create a significant but unnecessary distraction at a point where he should have remain focused on his task of positioning the aircraft. There was no time pressure as it would already have been clear that an immediate takeoff clearance was unlikely. Once the error had been made, the failure to identify it suggested a degree of relaxed complacency in respect of an imminent takeoff which had no particular challenges in respect of the prevailing weather conditions (benign) or runway surface condition (dry). More generally, it was considered that as the possibility of an error such as this cannot be eliminated, the only risk management option is “error-tolerant design”. In this case, that would mean making it less easy to confuse edge and centreline lighting in the absence of other references. The Cause of the Runway Excursion was formally documented as “the crew confusing the left runway edge marking and lighting of runway 06 at Cologne/Bonn Airport with the centre line and therefore aligning the aircraft unnoticed with the wrong runway lighting for takeoff”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as: The low attention level of the crew.. Distraction in the flightdeck during the turning manoeuvre at the beginning of runway 06.. The width of and marking within the turning area at the beginning of runway 06.. From the flightdeck it was difficult to differentiate between runway edge lighting and centre line lighting.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should modify the Standard and Recommended Procedures regarding runway edge lighting in Annex 14 Volume 1 ‘Aerodrome Design and Operations’ to ensure clear distinction from other airport lighting.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 7 December 2020 and released on 22 January 2021.