via the same taxiway which the flight had earlier used to enter the runway for backtrack. After a “short discussion”, the crew taxied the aircraft back to the apron, reportedly still unable to explain the “blows and sounds” which they had heard. The track followed by the aircraft from the beginning of its taxi out until arriving back on the apron. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The subsequent runway inspection found that a total of 9 edge lights had been “torn off or destroyed” and one taxiway light was also damaged. The remains of the lights and their mounts were found scattered across the runway. Consequential damage to the aircraft was found to have been caused to the area of the nose landing gear, below the fuselage close to the main landing gear and to a number of individual propeller blades on both propellers. It was noted that the TWR controller’s workstation was oriented towards the main runway 14L/32R because this runway was the one used by 90% of the airport’s traffic. This meant that whilst it was possible to visually confirm that an aircraft was at the beginning of runway 06, to do so it was necessary to turn around and stand up. However, the distance involved and the lack of reference points mitigated against being able to judge exactly where an aircraft was in relation to the runway centreline when lined up. It was also noted that although ground radar was available, the display showed all runways and taxiways and the depiction of an aircraft on the runway was not true to scale and was often almost as wide as the runway. Intermittent tyre tracks on the turn pad showed the pre takeoff alignment with the edge lights ahead (see the illustration below). The edge light alignment was found to correspond approximately to midway between the right hand runway edge and the left hand edge of the turn pad. It was noted that “due to the taxiway markings from runway to the turn pad, the white line of the runway edge marking on the turn pad was not a continuous line and therefore showed similarities with centreline markings”. This was considered to be of potential significance given that the misaligned line up occurred along this interrupted runway edge marking as well as being approximately equidistant from the edge of the paved surface when on the turn pad. Landing gear marks left during the turnround and line up. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that edge light takeoffs at night are not unknown, the BFU having investigated one such event, also involving an ATR72-200, at Dresden in 2002. Others, including another ATR72-200 event at Karup, Denmark in 2016 and one involving an Embraer 120 at Amsterdam in 2016 were also noted. It was further noted that on completion of another investigation into an attempted edge light takeoff at Biggin Hill in 2014 the UK AAIB made a Safety Recommendation to ICAO to “initiate the process to develop