escape manoeuvre he described, but (it was considered that) the execution of such a manoeuvre would have been consistent with his background and experience". He did comment that he would not be sure of the outcome of doing so at airspeeds as low as 105 KIAS. Although it was impossible to establish why the manoeuvre had been continued despite the aircraft being significantly lower than normal at the apex of the loop, a report commissioned for the Investigation from the RAF Centre for Aviation Medicine identified four possible reasons for this as: The pilot did not check the altimeter.. The pilot checked the altimeter but did not or could not read it correctly.. The pilot read the altimeter correctly but did not accurately recall the minimum height required at the apex of the looping manoeuvre for this aircraft.. The pilot read the height correctly but decided that an escape manoeuvre was no longer possible.. That said, it was considered in this review that if the pilot had not appreciated his height at the apex and believed that it was sufficient to complete the manoeuvre "he would have had no reason to discontinue it or eject". It was also noted that there were significant handling differences between straight-wing aircraft types like the Jet Provost (on which the pilot had far more experience than the Hunter) and swept-wing types like the Hunter and that this may lead to "the possibility that techniques may be transferred inappropriately from one type to another". The display experience of the accident pilot was mainly on the Vans RV-8 and the Jet Provost and although the Harrier he had flown was a swept wing type, aerobatics were not a normal part of his experience on it. It was noted that the flying training syllabus for an aircraft such as the Hunter would be "proposed by the Operator and agreed by the CAA" but that "the exercises were not described in detail and the learning objectives were not specified". Although the purpose of type conversion training is to "transfer skills, knowledge and abilities to the real environment....in this case the pilot was apparently not aware of relevant aircraft performance within a part of the operational envelope that the aircraft could be reasonably expected to encounter, such as the need to recover from a looping manoeuvre at or near its apex at low airspeed". This was considered to be evidence that "initial and recurrent training programs were not an effective control in this case".