It soon became clear that the (loop) accident manoeuvre had not been flown correctly or in accordance with the pilot's recollection of the way he knew it should have been flown. The Investigation arranged for a type-experienced test pilot to examine the difference between the manoeuvre as actually flown and as it should have been flown. It was estimated that prior to the crash the aircraft had entered the accident manoeuvre at a height of 185 ±35 ft before pitching up at 310 ±15 KIAS - significantly less than the minimum entry airspeed of 350 KIAS which was "the speed below which the pilot stated he would normally have abandoned the manoeuvre". In addition, this entry "was also below the minimum height of 500 ft specified in the pilot's DA for aerobatics". It was noted that the CAA had acknowledged in a 1996 Review that "it had become common practice for pilots to descend to their authorised flypast height in the middle of an aerobatic sequence, provided they had completed the aerobatic manoeuvre by the specified base height" whereas the applicable guidance at the time of the accident stated that "all aerobatic manoeuvres....are to be executed above the approved aerobatic display height (with) descent below the approved aerobatic display height to the approved fly-by height permitted once certain of capturing the aerobatic display height". The Investigation found that this guidance was routinely not being followed by display pilots. Flight trials showed that when entered from 200 feet agl at 300 KIAS using maximum thrust, the accident aircraft would have reached between 2,800 feet and 3,200 ft in the manoeuvre flown - higher than the height actually achieved on the accident flight. It was accepted that the variations of thrust below maximum which had occurred during the climb could have been due to an engine fault and gone unrecognised by the pilot but on the evidence available, it was considered just as likely that "the variation in thrust during the accident manoeuvre was commanded by the pilot". The available evidence indicated that the maximum height reached at the apex of the loop was approximately 2,700 ft - 800 feet below "the minimum height that the pilot stated was required" and in addition, the speed at that point was slower than normal at around 105 KIAS. It was concluded that this was the consequence of entering the manoeuvre below the target airspeed and then climbing with less than maximum thrust. The flight trials also indicated that the height actually reached had been the absolute minimum required to complete the second half of the manoeuvre safely. In addition, the height reached would have been reduced by any roll which may have been initiated before the aircraft reached a vertical climb attitude. The pilot stated that if the aircraft had failed to reach 3,500 feet, he would normally "perform an escape manoeuvre by reducing the rate of pitch, increasing the airspeed, rolling the aircraft upright and climbing away". However, "he had not practised the