The Investigation found that there was no mention of Safety Management Systems (SMS) in the edition of CAP 403 'Flying displays and special events: A guide to safety and administrative arrangements' current at the time of the accident and there was "no evidence that the available guidance had led to the adoption of SMS or equivalent practices among the operators of display aircraft, nor was there any such requirement". The CAA Unit with responsibility for regulatory oversight of display flying, the General Aviation Unit (GAU), did not have one either. It was noted that "a culture of safety involves a willingness to communicate safety issues and evaluate safety-related behaviour" yet footage from several flying displays examined by the Investigation "showed low-flying away from the display area and overflight of congested areas that was either not reported or not addressed and was not confined to one pilot, aircraft or venue". A review of the maintenance records for the accident aircraft "indicated shortcomings including non-compliance with mandatory requirements". It was found that "there was no formalised reporting system related to flying displays and the CAA had not implemented previous relevant AAIB Safety Recommendations that it had accepted". Also, "the CAA GAU did not have mechanisms enabling it to determine the effectiveness of its regulations and how they were applied" with shortcomings including the very small number of displays inspected by regulatory staff in 2014 and 2015, misfiling of some 2014 reports and the absence of any process which could "confirm that display organiser risk assessments were of suitable and sufficient quality to ensure that appropriate controls were in place to protect the public". It was apparent that the GAU "relied on informal feedback concerning compliance with DA limits and safety events such as ‘stop’ calls". Evidence that there was an appropriate level of training for those GAU personnel responsible for the monitoring of flying display safety standards through attendance was not found and the extent of this activity was found to be minimal relative to the number of displays authorised - 8 out of 281 in 2014 and 18 out of 254 in 2015. Back in 1996, it was noted that 37 display inspections had taken place and a review published that year stated that "it was intended to maintain that level of inspection for the 1997 season". By comparison, "in the USA, regulatory staff of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) attend every authorised display". Although it did not have any direct causal effect on the accident, the Investigation did find that under a CAA exemption from SERA, the UK had continued to allow "an aircraft taking part in a flying display, air race or contest to fly below 500 feet above the ground or water or closer than 500 feet to any person, vessel, vehicle or structure if it is within a horizontal distance of 1,000 metres of the gathering of persons assembled to witness the event" as previously permitted under the prevailing UK Rules of the Air. Although the EASA