During the Investigation, it was found that there were conflicting views about the ownership of flying display safety. The Shoreham Flying Display Director (FDD) and the organisers of the Shoreham Airshow "believed that the CAA held the risk" and the CAA considered that the risk was held by the organisers and the FDD. The Investigation considered that although the CAA had completed a comprehensive review of UK civil air displays after the accident which listed 29 actions taken or to be taken in respect of the governance of UK flying display activity, "shortcomings in the conduct and oversight of flying displays in the UK in the areas of operation, risk management and maintenance" remained and that there were "areas of flying display activity in which a culture of safety is not well established and a lack of clarity about who owns the associated risks". It was concluded that "the extent of these shortcomings indicates that a more fundamental review of the governance of flying display activity is required" and recognised that "the CAA GAU is unlikely to have sufficient resources to conduct such a review itself while meeting its ongoing regulatory responsibilities" and that in any case it may be conflicted if it attempted it. A comparison between the apparent rate of fatal accidents at flying displays in the USA and the UK showed the 2008-2015 rate in the USA was about half the 1996-2015 rate in the UK. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the Accident was that: The aircraft did not achieve sufficient height at the apex of the accident manoeuvre to complete it before impacting the ground, because the combination of low entry speed and low engine thrust in the upward half of the manoeuvre was insufficient.. An escape manoeuvre was not carried out, despite the aircraft not achieving the required minimum apex height.. Six Contributory factors were also identified as follows: The pilot either did not perceive that an escape manoeuvre was necessary, or did not realise that one was possible at the speed achieved at the apex of the manoeuvre.. The pilot had not received formal training to escape from the accident manoeuvre in a Hunter and had not had his competence to do so assessed.. The pilot had not practised the technique for escaping from the accident manoeuvre in a Hunter, and did not know the minimum speed from which an escape manoeuvre could be carried out successfully.. A change of ground track during the manoeuvre positioned the aircraft further east than planned producing an exit track along the A27 dual carriageway.. The manoeuvre took place above an area occupied by the public over which the organisers of the flying display had no control.. The severity of the outcome was due to the absence of provisions to mitigate the effects of an aircraft crashing in an area outside the control of the organisers of the flying display.. A total of 32 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. 21 of