Aviation Authority specify the information that the commander of an aircraft intending to participate in a flying display must provide the organiser, including the sequence of manoeuvres and the ground area over which the pilot intends to perform them, and require that this is done in sufficient time to enable the organiser to conduct and document an effective risk assessment.. [2016-034] - This Recommendation was not accepted as stated because it was considered that alternative ways of achieving a similar effect were preferable. This response was categorised by the Branch as 'Partially adequate - closed that the Civil Aviation Authority require operators of Permit to Fly aircraft participating in a flying display to confirm to the organiser of that flying display that the intended sequence of manoeuvres complies with the conditions placed on their aircraft’s Permit to Fly.. [2016-035] that the Civil Aviation Authority remove the general exemptions to flight at minimum heights issued for Flying Displays, Air Races and Contests outlined in Official Record Series 4-1124 and specify the boundaries of a flying display within which any Permission applies.. [2016-036] that the Civil Aviation Authority require that displaying aircraft are separated from the public by a sufficient distance to minimise the risk of injury to the public in the event of an accident to the displaying aircraft.. [2016-037] that the Civil Aviation Authority specify the minimum separation distances between secondary crowd areas and displaying aircraft before issuing a Permission under Article 162 of the Air Navigation Order.. [2016-038] that the Civil Aviation Authority require the organisers of flying displays to designate a volume of airspace for aerobatics and ensure that there are no non-essential personnel, or occupied structures, vehicles or vessels beneath it.. [2016-039] - This Recommendation was categorised by the Branch as 'Superseded - closed that the Civil Aviation Authority require Display Authorisation Evaluators to have no conflicts of interest in relation to the candidates they evaluate.. [2016-040] - This Recommendation was not accepted because it was considered that it would be "impractical to achieve in the relatively small air display community and maintain a working display evaluation system" and that the only practicable response was to introduce measure(s) which would a least reduce the risks of conflicts of interest. This response was categorised by the Branch as 'Partially adequate - closed that the Civil Aviation Authority require a Display Authorisation to be renewed for each class or type of aircraft the holder intends to operate during the validity of that renewal.. [2016-041] that the Civil Aviation Authority publish a list of occurrences at flying displays, such as ‘stop calls’, that should be reported to it, and seek to have this list included in documentation relevant to Regulation (EU) No 376/2014.. [2016-042] - This Recommendation was not accepted because it was considered that the best way to foster a Just Culture in the air display community was to develop a positive reporting culture as a means to address potential safety issues before they lead to accidents. This response