them were made whilst it was in progress and the response of recipients to all of these has been received and categorised by the Branch as 'Adequate - closed' unless remarks to the contrary follow specific Recommendations below. A further 11 Recommendations were made upon the completion of the Investigation. These Recommendations were as follows: In the interim Special Bulletin 4/2015 published on 21 December 2015: that the Civil Aviation Authority require operators of ex-military aircraft fitted with ejection seats or other pyrotechnic devices operating in the United Kingdom, to ensure that hazard information is readily available which includes contact details of a competent organisation or person able to make the devices safe following an accident.. [2015-041] that the Civil Aviation Authority review the guidance in CAP 632 with respect to ejection seats and the means by which operators of ex-military aircraft equipped with them comply with this guidance. This review should include: The benefits and hazards of aircrew escape systems in civilian-operated aircraft The use of time-expired components The availability of approved spares The seat manufacturer’s guidance on deactivating its historic products Adoption of a dedicated Maintenance Approval for persons or organisations competent to perform ejection seat maintenance.. The benefits and hazards of aircrew escape systems in civilian-operated aircraft. The use of time-expired components. The availability of approved spares. The seat manufacturer’s guidance on deactivating its historic products. Adoption of a dedicated Maintenance Approval for persons or organisations competent to perform ejection seat maintenance.. [2015-042] that the Civil Aviation Authority establish a process for the effective dissemination of ex-military jet aircraft experience and type-specific knowledge to individual maintenance organisations.. [2015-043] that the Civil Aviation Authority define a minimum amendment standard for the technical publications for each ex-military jet aircraft type operated on the United Kingdom civil register.. [2015-044] that the Civil Aviation Authority require that an ex-military jet aircraft’s maintenance programme be transferred with the aircraft when it moves to another maintenance organisation to ensure continuity of the aircraft’s maintenance.. [2015-045] that the Civil Aviation Authority review the effectiveness of all approved Alternative Means of Compliance to Mandatory Permit Directive 2001-001.. [2015-046] that the Civil Aviation Authority review its procedures to ensure that a ‘Permit to Fly-Certificate of Validity’ is valid when it is issued.. [2015-046] In the interim Special Bulletin 1/2016 published on 10 March 2016: that the Civil Aviation Authority review and publish guidance that is suitable and sufficient to enable the organisers of flying displays to manage the associated risks, including the conduct of risk assessments.. [2016-031] that the Civil Aviation Authority specify the safety management and other competencies that the organiser of a flying display must demonstrate before obtaining a Permission under Article 162 of the Air Navigation Order.. [2016-032] that the Civil Aviation Authority introduces a process to ensure that the organisers of flying displays have conducted suitable and sufficient risk assessments before a Permission to hold such a display is granted under Article 162 of the Air Navigation Order.. [2016-033] that the Civil