The aircraft departed from its base at North Weald and made an uneventful 15 minute transit to just east of Shoreham in good weather and light winds. After flying "parallel to the coast in a gradual descent during which he flew inverted briefly", the pilot rolled the aircraft upright and wings level and descended to 800 feet before making a right turn to line up with the display line to the west of Shoreham runway 02/20. The aircraft then "remained right wing low with the angle of bank decreasing as it descended to 100 feet and flew along the display line" before manoeuvring to approach the display line at an angle of about 25º and at 185 feet agl ahead to pitch up into the accident manoeuvre - a loop with a partial roll intended to adjust the alignment leaving the base of the loop - at an indicated airspeed of approximately 310 KIAS. The climb was entered with an engine speed of approximately 7,500 rpm but this was inexplicably reduced during the climb and did not return to the normal maximum thrust. As the aircraft approached the vertical, the pilot initiated a roll to the left. As it reached the apex of the loop, the aircraft was almost inverted with wings level at a height of approximately 2,700 feet. As the descent began, the earlier roll input had produced a westerly exit ground track along the A27 Shoreham Bypass which was approximately 60° right of the entry ground track instead of the more modest change in alignment which would have got the aircraft back onto the display line as the pilot intended. During the acceleration in this descent, "the nose was raised but insufficient height was available to recover to level flight before it contacted the westbound carriageway of the A27" at around 225 knots with a nose up attitude subsequently calculated to have been 14° +/-3°. On impact, the aircraft collided with "a number of occupied vehicles, pedestrians, street furniture". During the impact sequence, "the external fuel tanks, which were made of phenolic resin reinforced with asbestos, fragmented and the right wing detached" which resulted in the release of "fuel and fuel vapour from the internal and external tanks" being released with explosive ignition following immediately. The aircraft broke into four large sections comprising "the forward fuselage and cockpit; the centre fuselage, engine and left wing; the rear fuselage and tail cone; and the right wing which was found inverted close to the centre fuselage". The accident site in relation to the extended runway centreline is shown on the first illustration below as are the two areas where people had informally congregated to watch the display (annotated as the "secondary crowd" areas). The approximate flight path of the aircraft is shown on the second illustration below. Overall, the available evidence "appeared to show that throughout the flight the pilot was conscious and that the aircraft was responding to his control inputs" and engine instruments visible on a camera