The 51 year-old pilot had accumulated 14,249 total flying hours which included 43 hours on type of which 19 hours had been in the course of 14 displays and the transit to and from them. He had gained his initial flying experience in the Royal Air Force where he had flown 1,122 hours on jet trainers and 517 hours on the Hawker Harrier before leaving in 1994 and obtaining his civil flight instructor rating for single-engine light aircraft and later "joining an airline to operate commercial jet transport aircraft which he continued to fly up to the time of the accident". He began flying the Jet Provost, the ex-military type on which he had accumulated the majority of his military pilot experience, in 2003. He subsequently self-assembled a Vans RV-8 aerobatic light aircraft and obtained his first UK CAA Display Authorisation (DA) in 2008 on it. In 2011, he began training to fly the Hawker Hunter and revalidated his DA approval on the accident aircraft with the Chief Pilot of G-BXFIs Operator. The same Chief Pilot renewed the pilot's DA on a Jet Provost in September 2014. His most recent DA renewal was on a Vans RV-8 two months prior to the accident. It was noted that "under the regime that existed at the time, the pilot was able to renew his DA for all of his approved aircraft categories by renewing his DA in any one of them" so that renewal on the RV-8 "also renewed his DA for the Hunter and Jet Provost" despite the fact that they are in different 'aircraft complexity' categories. The Investigation team was able to interview the pilot on seven separate occasions but "he was not able to describe events on the day of the accident". It was noted that CAA recency requirements to maintain DA validity for a public flying display which itself required an explicit CAA approval were that "a minimum of three full display sequences.....with at least one....flown or practised in the specific type of aircraft to be displayed" must have been flown in the 90 days prior to any such display. In the 90 days prior to the accident, the pilot had flown 33 displays or practice displays, 22 in the RV-8, five in the Jet Provost and six in the Hawker Hunter, thus "exceeding the minimum recency requirements in both total displays and displays on type". For comparison, it was noted that "an RAF display pilot is required to have flown two displays or practice displays in the specific type in the eight days preceding a public display".