it was considered that a combination of these was the only way to increase use. It was noted that the FAA, Transport Canada and IATA had all issued recommendations for seat belt use in recent years. Finally, maintenance personnel found that a clamp had failed and the air supply duct it was securing had been detached from the flow control valve thus signalling an air conditioning system failure. It was noted that on a properly fitted clamp, only about 0.5 inch of thread should be visible on the securing bolt whereas on the failed clamp, about twice this was exposed. It was found that the failed clamp had been removed and replaced during a change of the associated flow control valve 4 weeks earlier. It was also noted that as the result of a series of similar clamp failures in service, an improved clamp design had been introduced on new build aircraft in 2010 and a SB for retrofit made available in March 2011 but not taken up by Air Canada. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: Air Canada flight 088 entered an area of moderate to severe turbulence that was caused by the jet stream traversing the southern coastal mountains of Alaska.. The acceleration forces encountered resulted in passengers who were not wearing seat belts contacting various furnishings and surfaces in the cabin causing a variety of injuries, including one serious injury.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If training material does not contain complete information pertaining to all of the factors that contribute to turbulence, then there is a risk that the best course of action will not be taken.. If flight crews and dispatchers do not receive all pertinent information relating to flight conditions, optimal decisions on a course of action may not be made, increasing the risk of exposure to adverse conditions.. If systems such as an aircraft communications addressing and report system are not utilized to their full capacity, then there is a risk that more detailed information about flight conditions will not be available.. If cabin lighting is not sufficiently bright, then there is a risk that cabin crew members will miss unfastened seat belts due to the lack of contrast of the seat belt material and concealment by blankets.. If there is no visual or audible indicator associated with not wearing a seat belt, then there is an increased risk of non-conformity with respect to seat belt use.. If seat belt announcements do not contain sufficient detailed information on anticipated turbulence, then there is a risk that passengers will not immediately comply and maintain compliance with an instruction to fasten seat belts.. If safety announcements made by cabin crew do not use language that conveys the expectation of compliance, there is a risk that passengers will perceive these announcements to be less authoritative, which may result in non-compliance.. If passenger safety briefings lack information on the effects turbulence can have on individual passengers,