seat. As he returned from the toilet, turbulence subsequently described by the crew as moderate to severe began and he was thrown to the ceiling and then onto the floor. This turbulence lasted 2 minutes and after it ceased, the crew turned 30° to the right and noted an indication that the right air conditioning system had failed. For the next 8 minutes, light to moderate turbulence prevailed before a second 7½ minute period of moderate to severe turbulence occurred. It was reported that it was during the second period of significant turbulence that most passenger injuries were sustained. Once the turbulence had subsided, the operating crew returned and took over with the augmenting crew remaining on the flight to assist. Given that the aircraft now had only one working air conditioning system, a diversion to Calgary to enable medical attention to be given to the injured passengers was preferred to the nearer Vancouver for terrain clearance reasons and this was accomplished without further event. It was found that "most of the passengers who were physically injured were aware that they were required to wear their seat belts, but chose not to, with two others having been asleep without seat belts on and not heard the cabin crew announcement". An analysis of the meteorological situation which had prevailed noted that the SIGMET forecast of severe turbulence covered an area where it was likely that mountain wave activity could be created by the jet stream. It was concluded that when the crew had decided to stay at FL330 to cross the notified turbulence area, the aircraft had happened to be in an area "between prominent mountain ranges where there was less mountain wave activity created by the jet stream". It was noted that the 787 which had been at FL 390 half an hour ahead on the same track had not encountered severe turbulence because it had been able to fly significantly higher than the tropopause, a material factor in turbulence avoidance. It was found that training of Air Canada pilots and dispatchers in respect of CAT weather and jet streams made no specific reference to the conditions which were likely to be produced by jet streams which crossed over mountainous terrain although the likelihood of increased intensity of windshear and CAT in these circumstances is known. The Investigation undertook a detailed review of the issues surrounding non use of seat belts by some of the passengers, noting that most of the passengers were Chinese nationals. It was found that use of car seat belts by drivers in two cities near to Shanghai was less than 50%, their use by front seat car passengers less than 10% and for back seat passengers even lower. These figures compared with a 95% rate for all Canadian car occupants and an 87% daytime rate for all front seat occupants in the United States. The alternative ways of influencing personal behaviour in seat belt use - conformity, compliance, obedience, persuasion and enforcement were reviewed and