by the appropriate hazard detected. Position: Local Time: Detail: 1. 1929:12. Aircraft 10nm south of Williamtown. 2. 1931:21. Aircraft begins descent from 1500 feet. 3. 1931:45. TWR controller asks crew if they were still visual. 4. 1932:30. TWR controller advises they are 6nm south-west of Williamtown and crew request radar assistance. 5. 1932:42. Aircraft at 680 feet - initial heading guidance from the TWR given at 1932:45. 6. 1932:55. TWR controller advises crew to climb the aircraft. 7. 1934:30. Crew requests further guidance from TWR when at approximately 800 feet. 8. 1934:54. Crew advises that they have runway 12 in sight. The Investigation considered that, although the Captain stated that he felt that 'ongoing discomfort' caused by prior illness had "played a part in his reduced attentional capacity and fatigue", overall, "there was insufficient evidence available to determine the extent of…illness or fatigue at the time of the occurrence". It was noted that once ATC detected the unusual tracking of the aircraft, it had been initially kept on the TWR frequency because the crew had confirmed they were visual, the TWR controller had the aircraft in sight and because doing so minimised crew distraction and the creation of increased crew workload. It was further noted that although when the crew then advised that they were still having difficulty sighting the runway, they were advised to "climb" but that this transmission was not prefixed with 'Safety Alert' and did not include an instruction to climb to the applicable Minimum Safe Altitude of 2100 feet. It was considered that these inclusions "may have more promptly enhanced the crew’s situation awareness and alerted them to the potential risk of being at low level in that area". The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that "in the low light conditions and using the visual cues available, the Captain incorrectly identified a coal loading and storage facility as the airport environment and manoeuvred the aircraft for an approach to that location". The Investigation noted a number of other events both in Australia and elsewhere in which aircraft had inadvertently landed or commenced approaches to airports other than those they had been cleared to do so, mainly at night. These included a 2007 event on approach to Dublin, Ireland at night (MD83, vicinity Dublin Airport, Ireland, 2007 (CFIT HF) and two more recent cases in the USA currently under investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was noted to have been: Regional Express have changed their procedures for flights to Willliamtown to proscribe visual approaches. They have also added additional material on situation awareness and assertiveness skills to their pilot training.. Williamtown Air Traffic Control Unit has reminded its controllers of the need to provide assertive Safety Alert instructions, including the provision of minimum sector altitudes and prompt position information to aircraft that deviated from a cleared route, or whose observed position differed from that reported.. The Final Report was published on 13 March 2015.