VFR single engine aircraft on a cross country flight has failed to check the weather forecast and plan en route alternates. When a lowering cloud base is encountered, continued flight is initially made in hilly terrain but by the time the decision to turn back is made, there is hardly sufficient space to carry out a 180 degree turn in the valley and when the aircraft is stalled inadvertently, the necessary height to recover is not available.. The holds of a freight aircraft are incorrectly loaded. The error is not noticed before flight and when the trailing edge wing flaps are lowered during final approach the aircraft rapidly pitches up and stalls with no height to achieve a recovery.. When fumes of uncertain origin (but with no evidence of on board fire) begin to be emitted from the air conditioning system during the cruise, the pilots fail to don their oxygen masks before both become partially incapacitated and as a result end up mismanaging the autopilot inputs so that the aircraft enters a steep dive from which, in their debilitated condition, they cannot recover.. Whilst using a quiet time in the cruise to investigate a minor INS fault which involves changing the selected INS system, the pilots fail to note that their planned action will cause autopilot disconnection and when it does, they fail to hear the disconnect alert. Since they are both heads down, they then fail to notice a slowly increasing bank angle and heading change until the attitude of the aircraft is extreme and recovery is not achieved.. Pitch control is lost en route and the aircraft crashes. The cause is subsequently found to have been maintenance error during a routine ’heavy’ maintenance input two days earlier. Severe weather is entered at night during the cruise with the autopilot engaged; the rate of airframe ice build up is not monitored with the result that there is a sudden autopilot disconnect into uncontrolled flight from which recovery is not achieved before terrain impact.. After the sudden onset of abnormal engine vibration on a twin engine jet transport, thrust on the wrong engine is reduced but as the aircraft then begins a descent, the vibration reduces anyway and it appears to the pilots that their action has had the expected effect. On final approach, thrust is required again as flaps and landing gear are lowered and increased thrust on the faulty engine is selected, resulting in premature descent into the terrain below when no usable thrust is available.. The pilot of a piston-engine light aircraft fails to select hot air for the carburettor when descending with low power set on a warm summer day with high relative humidity; as a result, the carburettor air intake becomes blocked with ice and the engine stops. The terrain available for the necessary forced landing is very inhospitable and the result is a crash and post-impact fire.. After take off in a multi engine transport aircraft, the PF copilot calls for ‘landing gear