The IHR 2005 requires WHO to maintain relationships with its 196 State Parties (i.e., participating national governments as of 15 April 2013), governmental organisations and 11 international bodies of adoption with which the WHO is expected to cooperate and coordinate its activities. Two of the international bodies — ICAO and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) — function as primary links to civil aviation. Regarding one of the WHO’s highest priroties, the IHR (2005) states, in part, “State Parties shall, as far as practicable, inform WHO within 24 hours of receipt of evidence of a public health risk identified outside their territory that may cause international disease spread, as manifested by exported or imported: human cases; vectors [i.e., insects, rodents] which carry infection or contamination; or, goods that are contaminated. … Each State Party shall develop, strengthen and maintain ... the capacity to respond promptly and effectively to public health risks and public health emergencies of international concern.” An example in recent years was the WHO transmitting to ICAO recommended changes to the Health Part of the WHO Aircraft General Declaration. With ICAO’s response received, the WHO revised its Aircraft General Declaration, informed its Health Assembly of final revisions, and replaced Annex 9 of IHR (2005) with the Health Part of the Aircraft General Declaration. ICAO’s website now publishes the Health Part for the aviation community. In this context, the WHO also cooperated with the State Parties, intergovernmental organisations and the 11 international bodies of adoption of IHR 2005 in updating worldwide norms and standards and in coordinating related activities for “ensuring application of adequate measures for the protection of public health and strengthening of the global public health response to the international spread of disease.” According to this agency, these relationships “build and strengthen the capacities of WHO to perform fully and effectively the functions entrusted to it — in particular through strategic health operations that provide support to countries in detection and assessment of, and response to, public health emergencies. As noted, collaboration includes the WHO’s provision or facilitation of technical cooperation and logistical support. The WHO also collaborates, to the extent possible, with State Parties to mobilize financial resources that assist developing countries in building, strengthening and maintaining the capacities required under IHR (2005).