[Reproduced from the Official Report] In the absence of any response and continued descent, the go around instruction was repeated as the aircraft passed 1,400 feet, 600 ft below the correct altitude. This time, the crew responded that they had the runway in sight and were “approaching the glideslope” to which the controller again reminded them that there was no glideslope and again instructed the aircraft to go around which was acknowledged. An ILS approach to Runway 15 was then offered which, under the prevailing light wind conditions, the pilots were able to accept and the aircraft landed without further event. It was noted by the Investigation that at the time of the investigated event, the runway 33 ILS GS had been out of service since 2016 because of unexpected reliability issues which had arisen as a result of work to increase the length of the runway. This meant that the absence of an ILS approach for the airport’s most used runway was unlikely to have been a surprise even to crews making infrequent visits to the to airport. The Investigation was advised by the operator that the trainee Captain had previously flown non-precision approaches without difficulty and also noted that earlier in 2020, the instrument panels in the aircraft involved had been modified and some instruments had changed position. Based on the limited available evidence, only the vertical profile had been mis-flown. It was considered that the flight crew had (assuming they were referring to the correct procedure plate) despite warnings from ATC, been mistakenly expecting to intercept a glide slope. It seemed at least possible that on the second approach the crew may have intentionally commenced a premature descent when in IMC confident that the flight would be in VMC well before the MDA. It was also possible that “the apparently routine nature of ATC height and distance checks may have given the pilots the impression the aircraft was descending in accordance with the correct profile”. It was of significance that the supervising Training Captain had chosen not to intervene which he would have been expected to do if he had considered that the trainee Captain’s deviation from the correct vertical profile was inappropriate or unsafe. It was concluded that “early and unequivocal intervention from those able to see the aircraft was not on the correct profile would have been appropriate”. More generally, it was noted that “non-precision approaches are becoming less common and pilots may be less current in flying them”. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 13 May 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.