A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB based on information provided by the flight crew involved, the aircraft operator and ATC. It was noted that the 44 year-old trainee Captain occupying the left hand seat had a total of 2,512 hours flying experience which included 624 hours on type and was undergoing a Final Line Check to qualify as a Captain on type. Corresponding experience details in respect of the supervising Training Captain, who was also a “senior manager” at the operator, were not recorded. It was established that, with the trainee Captain acting as PF, the aircraft was cleared to descend to 2,000 feet QNH and when 12 nm from touchdown was established on the LOC with clearance to descend further with the procedure (the UK AIP version of which is depicted in the illustration below). Descent from the 2000 feet platform altitude begins at 5.1 nm from touchdown but with half a mile to go, the aircraft was still descending through 2,500 feet. This descent continued until the aircraft reached approximately 2000 feet where it levelled off. When the aircraft was 3 nm from touchdown, it was still maintaining 2,000 feet which put it 660 feet above the correct vertical profile. ATC reminded the crew of this and the need to begin a descent but then, “a few seconds later” the same controller instructed the flight to commence the standard missed approach for the procedure by climbing straight ahead to 3,000 feet. Initially, the aircraft was observed to make a left turn but then returned to the runway heading and was re-cleared to climb to 4,000 feet and provided with radar vectors for a further LOC/DME approach to Runway 33. The aircraft was subsequently established again on the runway 33 LOC at 10 nm and ATC reminded the crew that there was no GS available. The aircraft was cleared to descend with the procedure but then began descent from the 2000 feet platform altitude at 8 nm from touchdown, almost 3nm too early. With 7 nm to go, the aircraft was descending through 1,600 feet and thereby 400 feet below the correct procedure altitude. The controller did pass altitude and range information to the flight but did not warn the crew that they were significantly below the correct altitude. The aircraft continued its descent and after a further mile was passing 1,500 feet, 500 feet below the correct altitude and at this point, the controller “gave the pilots a terrain warning and instructed them to go around”. Editor's Note: Although not mentioned in the Official Report, the METARs for around the time of the two unsuccessful approaches gave the lowest cloud as BKN (broken) with a base at 1100/1200 feet aal which would have been approximately equivalent to 1400-1500 feet QNH. It is therefore possible that visual contact with the intended landing runway may not have been available until around that altitude. The UK AIP LOC/DME approach procedure chart for runway 33 at Birmingham.