It was noted that although runway 06/24 (1867 metres long) was shorter than the other runway at Moncton (11/29 – 2440 metres long) and in the direction used had a downslope of 0.47%, it had an ILS approach. The alternative runway 11 only had a non precision approach with higher minima, although neither cloudbase nor visibility mitigated against use of these minima at the time and the surface wind mean direction was between the two runway alignments It was noted that the aircraft commander as PF had elected to carry out a manual pilot-flown-approach and not a pilot-monitored-approach (PMA). He stated that his decision was based on the fact that the reported weather was above the mandatory weather limits for a mandatory PMA under Cargojet SOPs. The Investigation considered that when the aircraft encountered heavy rain just moments before reaching the ILS decision height, both pilots' attention was probably focused primarily on the runway which may have led to the excessive airspeed, which was sustained until touchdown, going undetected – although no observation was made about the role of the third – but considerably less experienced – crew member in this regard. It was found that the AFM factored wet runway landing distance for the prevailing circumstances was 1826 metres – more than 97% of the LDA. AFM LDR figures for the 727 were achieved through actual flight testing by Boeing plus a 15% safety margin for certification purposes. By comparison, it was noted that the standard method of simply applying a 1.92 factor to the unfactored dry runway landing distance produced an LDR of 1750 metres and thus an apparently greater ‘safety margin’. The latter had, though, been insufficient to allow for the combination of a delayed touchdown point, the higher than required touchdown speed, the slightly downsloping runway and a runway contaminated with standing water. The Investigation observed that “these differences represent several of the variables which, to a certain extent, may typically exist in many landings”. However, there is no requirement for pilots to ensure that a safety margin exists for a planned landing once en route, it was considered that “there is increased risk that pilots will select runways for landing that provide an unacceptable safety margin against runway overrun”. It was noted that aircraft manufacturer’s continue to incorporate reverse thrust credit into their landing distance calculations and although this has been criticised, at the time of the Investigation there was no regulatory prohibition of this practice in North American regulations. In the accident under investigation, the flight crew had factored in the use of reverse thrusters but reverse thrust then had to be reduced in order to regain runway centreline alignment. As a result, the credit that would have been gained by the reverse thrusters was not fully realised, and the landing distance was extended unexpectedly. The use of a reverse thrust credit, when determining landing distance required, increases the risk of overrun if the reverse thrust is not applied and maintained in accordance with