the AFM. The question of whether the onset of aquaplaning was material to the overrun was considered by the Investigation. It was noted that the crew had relied on the use of reverse thrust in accordance with recommended practice after experiencing aquaplaning and weathercocking on touchdown but although the reduction of reverse thrust in order to realign with the runway centreline was in line with recommended practice, it had the effect of increasing the LDR. In addition, the recommendation to release the brakes whilst attempting to regain runway alignment was not followed and it was therefore considered probable that the wheels did not have time to spin up to a sufficient speed to activate the anti-skid braking system for the remainder of the landing roll. Whether or not the recommended release would have provided enough time for anti-skid activation to occur could not be ascertained but it was considered that “it is likely that the higher than required touchdown speed (alone) prevented the flight crew of (the accident aircraft) from being able to stop (their) aircraft within the remaining runway available”. In respect of the selection of runway 06 for landing, it was noted that application of three out of the five available wet runway factors, the projected LDR for runway 06 would have exceeded the LDA while the for the other two, the projected LDR would have provided a safety margin of less than 50 metres whereas the LDR using all of the factors would have yielded an LDR within the LDA on runway 11. In respect of runway surface condition (RSC) reporting it was noted that the RSC report had not been updated to reflect the effect of the onset of heavy rain shortly before the accident landing, nor was this required by regulation. It was considered by the Investigation that “while it is understood that measuring the effects of water on runways presents certain challenges, the lack of clearly defined RSC reporting standards related to water on runways increases the risk of (aquaplaning) and continued overruns”. In respect of the failure of ATC to specifically communicate for information the onset of heavy rain to the approaching aircraft, the Investigation considered that although such action is neither required nor specifically recommended, “if significant changes in weather which could adversely affect aircraft landing performance are not communicated to pilots in a timely manner, there is (an) increased risk of overrun due to unanticipated reductions in landing performance". Related to this aspect of the circumstances, it was also noted that “at the time of the occurrence, there was no requirement to issue a SPECI if light rain changes to heavy rain. However, in November 2010 Amendment 75 to ICAO Annex 3…..took effect. That amendment now requires that a SPECI shall be issued at the onset, cessation, or change in intensity of freezing precipitation, moderate or heavy precipitation, and thunderstorms (with precipitation)”. In respect of the fact that the accident runway was not grooved, the Investigation noted that while it is