widely recognised that grooved runways improve both drainage and skid resistance as well as reducing the risk of aquaplaning and that studies have shown that wet, grooved runways often provide a level of braking only marginally less than dry runways, only three Canadian airports had grooved runways at the time of the Investigation. It was further noted that although the FAA specifically promotes the benefits of grooving, Transport Canada (TC) had yet to issue any similar formal recommendations and there was no related regulatory requirement. It was also noted that “despite claims about the difficulties associated with grooved runway maintenance during the winter, grooved runways are being used without problem in other geographical areas which experience similar weather” and noted that “at least two TC studies have previously identified that there are no major challenges associated with grooved runways in winter conditions”. The Investigation considered that “Canada's high rate of runway overruns versus the U.S. is likely due to the widespread use of grooved runways in the U.S. compared to Canada”. Finally, in considering the range of issues highlighted by the facts disclosed by the Investigation, the Board noted that “Runway overruns continue to pose one of the greatest risks to travelling Canadians” and had already identified the absence of any Canadian regulatory requirement for RESAs (or other engineered systems or structures with equivalent effect) as a key risk reduction measure. The Investigation noted that while TC has indicated its intent to meet the ICAO 90 metre RESA standard set in 1999, this had not yet occurred. It was accepted that the investigated event was an example of one where the overrun on a prepared surface would have resulted in a final stopping position beyond the ICAO 90 metre RESA Standard but still within the limits of the ICAO 240 metre RESA recommendation. Investigation Findings in respect of Risk included the following: There is no requirement in Canada to demonstrate dispatch safety margins for contaminated runway surfaces, using actual contaminated landing distance data or an approved equivalent. As a result, there is increased risk that dispatch safety margins will be reduced due to contaminated runway surfaces.. The current wet runway dispatch factor for Canadian Aviation Regulations Subpart 705 operators does not provide an adequate safety margin to account for operational variables which may exist upon landing. As a result, there is increased risk of runway overrun due to the reduced safety margin when landing on a wet runway.. Current regulations do not require flight crew to ensure that a safety margin exists, based on a calculated landing distance versus available landing distance, using the actual operating and environmental conditions. As a result, there is increased risk that pilots will select runways for landing that provide an unacceptable safety margin against runway overrun.. The use of a reverse thrust credit, when determining landing distance required, increases the risk of overrun if the reverse thrust is not applied and maintained in accordance with the airplane flight manual.. Unfactored landing distances are not