An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was noted that after visually confirming that there was no post-crash fire, the flight crew had pulled the CBs for the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and useful downloads from both were thus enabled and subsequently obtained. It was established that the crew members were all experienced on the aircraft type and familiar with Moncton, although had little experience of landing on runway 06. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been PF for the sector and had elected to land on runway 06 at destination. Following the issue of a landing clearance and the aircraft becoming fully established on the Instrument Landing System (ILS), the AP was disconnected and the landing checklist was commenced. Shortly after this, the aircraft drifted above the ILS GS slightly exceeding half scale deflection before corrective action was taken. As the aircraft crossed the FAF, its altitude was noted to be approximately 50 feet higher than profile after which the aircraft regained and followed the ILS GS until it crossed the runway threshold. At a range of approximately 2nm from the threshold, the runway became visible and at 375 feet aal the aircraft encountered heavy rain. As the decision height (DH) was reached, the wipers were selected on. The aircraft crossed the runway threshold at 165 KIAS and touched down approximately 9 seconds later between 610 and 760 metres from the threshold at approximately 157 KIAS. The automatic speed brakes deployed on touchdown and approximately 3 seconds later, reverse thrust was selected. The aircraft heading then began to veer to the right and in response, reverse thrust was reduced - although the application of manual brakes was not suspended - until the runway direction was regained. However, deceleration was insufficient to bring the aircraft to a stop before it reached the end of the runway and it passed through the 60 metre long paved runway end strip and departed the paved surface with an indicated airspeed of approximately 50 knots before coming to rest in deep mud approximately 27 seconds after touch down. Maximum manual wheel braking was applied shortly after touchdown, and maintained by the flight crew throughout the entire landing roll but did not have the desired effect because of aquaplaning. Evidence of this was subsequently found in the form of reverted rubber marks on the runway showing that the anti skid system had failed to activate even though it was subsequently confirmed to be fully functional, indicating that the minimum wheel speed threshold for system activation was never reached. It was concluded that the overrun had been a consequence of the choice of a short runway on which late touch down - around one third of the way down the runway - was then made at a speed significantly above the applicable Reference Speed (Vref) onto a runway with standing water present and so conducive to the aquaplaning. It was considered that the reduction of reverse