is now used to solve those problems. It enables a more natural visual environment within the aircraft without degrading the color of objects. 4.7 Night Blind Spot Due to the distribution of rods and cones on the retina, if the ambient light is below cone threshold light intensity, a blind spot 5 to 10 degrees wide develops in the center of the visual field. As a result, an object viewed directly at night may not be detected because of the night blind spot and, if it is detected, may fade away. However, since rods are much more sensitive to light than cones, objects can be detected by an exentrical fixation, i.e. looking at the objects under an angle of 17-20 degrees to one side, above or below. Proper education and training are, therefore, essential if maximum effectiveness of night vision is to be achieved. 5 Main refractive eye disorders A myopic individual does not see distant objects clearly without corrective glasses or contact lenses. A slightly myopic or marginally corrected pilot, who may see fairly well during the day, will experience blurred vision at night when viewing blue-green light. In addition, as luminance levels decrease, the focusing mechanism of the eye may move toward a resting position and increase myopia (dark focus). These are important factors when pilots look outside the cockpit during night flying. Special corrective lenses may then have to be prescribed. In hyperopia, nearby objects are focused behind the retinal plane. Objects that are nearby are not seen clearly; only more distant objects are in focus. Corrective lenses must be worn to read instruments and documentation. Astigmatism is an irregularity in the shape of the cornea that may cause an out-of-focus condition. Presbyopia is part of the normal ageing process as individuals gradually lose accommodation capability for nearby objects. When individuals are about 40 years old, their eyes lose the ability to focus on nearby objects. As presbyopia worsens, instruments, maps and checklists become more difficult to read, especially with red illumination. This difficulty can be corrected with certain types of bifocal spectacles. 6 Factors Affecting Vision (From FAA) The greater the object’s size, ambient illumination, contrast, viewing time and atmospheric clarity, the better its visibility. During the day, objects can be identified at a great distance with good detail resolution. At night, the identification range of dim objects is limited, with poor detail resolution. Surface references or the horizon may become obscured by smoke, fog, smog, haze, dust, ice particles or other phenomena, although visibility may be above Visual Flight Rule (VFR) minimums. This is especially true at airports located adjacent to large bodies of water or sparsely populated areas where few, if any, surface references are available. Lack of horizon or surface reference is common on overwater flights, at night and in low-visibility conditions. Excessive ambient illumination, especially from light reflected off the canopy, surfaces inside the aircraft, clouds, water, snow or desert terrain can produce glare that may cause uncomfortable squinting, eye tearing, temporary