4.1 Colour perception Rods include only one type of pigment and enable perception of gray in dim light conditions. There are three kinds of cones, depending on their type of pigment. Each type can be more sensitive to either short (400-500nm), medium (450-630 nm), or long (500-700 nm) wavelengths of light, and are therefore usually called S-, M-, and L-cones. The visual system combines the information from each type of receptor to give different perceptions of different wavelengths of light. Figure 4: Frequency response of rods (R), and S-,M- and L- cones 4.2 Accommodation time Accommodation is the automatic adjustment of the eye’s focal length to the distance of the observed object. Large accommodations are required between objects in the external environment and instruments in a cockpit. This requires considerable time. Eg. To move the eye from scanning the external environment to reading an instrument and returning to clear distant vision takes around 2.39 seconds. At cruise speed, the aircraft would travel about 0.3 nm. The time of accommodation increases with age and depends on light intensity. It is an important factor for pilots of high-speed aircraft. To reduce accommodation and scanning pattern times, instruments should be designed, installed and illuminated to be easily and rapidly readable. 4.3 Visual Acuity Visual acuity is the spatial resolving capacity of the visual system. It is the ability to distinguish small contrasts or small objects at long distances and is essential in flight. Due to the densely packed cones at the fovea, visual acuity is the greatest at the center of fixation. This central part of the visual field within which alphanumeric data can be read, is about a two-degree angle to the eye, and it corresponds at the instrument panel distance to a circle of about 3 cm (1.17 in) in diameter. At a distance of 5 minutes of arc from the center of fixation (paracentral visual field), there is a measurable loss in visual acuity but it is still capable of rapidly attracting the eye. At 10 minutes of arc (1/6 of a degree) from fixation, there is a 25 percent loss of visual acuity. In the peripherical part of the visual field, only large moving or flashing objects are seen. Figure 5: Visual Acuity along the Visual Field The main factors impairing visual acuity are refractive errors, aberrations, illumination and contrast. Dynamic visual acuity is the ability to resolve the details of an object while there is relative motion between the object and the observer. The underlaying mechanism is ocular pursuit, which is capable of maintaining a steady fixation if the angular velocity does not exceed a value of about 30 degrees/s. Our vision is more sensitive for targets crossing our visual field than targets approaching head on. 4.4 Depth perception Principles of depth perception Depth perception is the visual ability to judge the relative distance of objects and the spatial relationship of objects at different distances. As the three-dimensional world projects onto a two-dimentional retina, this projection on its