blindness and reduced visual acuity. Sunglasses or visors can provide protection against external glare and facilitate the view of flight instruments. Sunglasses should have a luminous transmittance of the order of 15 percent (within ISO standards) and a field of view as wide as possible. Refractive eye disorders include as myopia (nearsightedness — impaired focusing of distant objects), hyperopia (farsightedness — impaired focusing of near objects), astigmatism (impaired focusing of objects in different meridians), or presbyopia (age-related impaired focusing of near objects). Self-imposed stresses such as self-medication, alcohol consumption (including hangover effects), tobacco use (including withdrawal), hypoglycemia and sleep deprivation/fatigue can seriously impair vision. Inflight exposure to low barometric pressure without the use of supplemental oxygen (above 10,000 ft during the day and above 5,000 ft at night) can result in hypoxia, which impairs visual performance. Other factors that may adversely affect visual performance include: 7 Visual Illusions during Approach and Landing The previous chapters have provide the necessay background (mechanisms and limitations) to understand the origin of the visual illusions that can be encountered in approach and landing. The Visual Illusion Awareness briefing note provides an overview of typical visual illusions during approach and landing and proposes prevention strategies to reduce their effects. 8 Key points Although all parts of the eye are important for obtaining a good image, the most vital layer for vision is the retina. The retina is essentially a piece of brain tissue that gets direct stimulation from the outside world's lights and images. Depth perception gives the pilot an accurate sense of where objects are in relation to one another and his or her position in relation to those same objects. The brain has to combine various cues given by the eyes to recover the depth, distance and three-dimensional shape of objects There are two types of sensory receptors in the retina -- rods and cones. According to the widely accepted duplicity theory of vision, rods are responsible for vision under very dim levels of illumination (scotopic vision), and cones function at higher illumination levels (photopic vision). Only cones are responsible for color vision. Therefore, at very low levels of luminance, a blind spot develops in the center of the visual field because ambient light is below cone threshold. Scotopic vision is characterized by poor acuity, lack of color discrimination and difficulty in judging distance and depth. Night flying is very different from day flying and requires more attention. The most noticeable difference is the limited availability of outside visual references. Therefore, flight instruments should be used to a greater degree in controlling the airplane. This is particularly true for night takeoffs and climbs. During daylight, one can best see an object looking directly at it, but at night a scanning procedure to permit off-center viewing is more effective. The eye’s adaptation to darkness is another important aspect of night vision. An exposure to bright light after dark adaptation will temporarily impair retinal sensitivity. 9 Additional OGHFA Materials Briefing Notes Visuals Situational Examples: 10