own cannot provide depth information. The brain has to combine various monocular and binocular cues given by the eyes to recover the depth, distance and three-dimensional shape of objects. The two main binocular cues are convergence and stereopsis. Vergence (convergence) refers to the rotation of the two eyes to place the images of an object on the foveas. The degree of convergence varies with the distance of the object and gives a binocular cue to distance and depth: the closer the object is to the observer, the greater the degree of convergence. Figure 6: Vergence Stereopsis is considered to be the most important cue for depth perception in daily life. It is the consequence of the interpupillary separation between the two eyes (6 cm, 2.34 in), which causes each eye to have a slightly different view of the same scene. This separation is called retinal disparity. If two targets are at different distances from the observer, each target will have a different binocular angle (binocular parallax) depending on its distance and the interpupillary separation. The retinal disparity increases with the distance between an object or between several objects. The brain is able to combine these two views into a single 3D image, a process called stereopsis. Figure 7: Principles of Stereopsis Binocular cues are most efficient at short distances. Monocular cues in flight are the biggest contributers to depth perception; other contributors include motion parallax, size constancy, accommodation and pictorial cues. Motion parallax is the apparent motion of two stationary targets at different distances due to a change in observer position. If the observer is moving or if his head is moving from side to side, targets will move in opposite directions relative to each other. The target that is closer will appear to move more quickly and in reverse direction to the observer’s movement, while the one farther way will appear to move slowly in the same direction. Figure 8: Motion Parallax A particular case of motion parallax is the optic flow perceived by our peripheral vision. It is based only on the relative speed of flow through our visual field, which provides an indication of the distance and speed of objects. Figure 9: Optic Flow in Peripheral Vision Size constancy, or the projected retinal image size of familiar objects, is an indication of its relative distance and is most efficient at greater distances, for example during approach. The retinal image shape contributes to perception of orientation relative to the object. The degree of activation of the ciliary muscles during accommodation provides an extra cue for depth perception, but it is more efficient at short distances. Finally, there are also some pictorial cues to depth and shape : Figure 10: Aerial or Atmospheric Perspective Figure 11: Occlusion or Interposition Figure 12: Influence of Shadows on Depth Perception Depth perception during Approach and Landing Aircraft landing studies have highlighted that binocular cues were only effective in the last seconds of landing (Dorfel 1982). The most important cue for spatial orientation