closer when the atmosphere is clear.. Figure 10: Aerial or Atmospheric Perspective Occlusion or interposition is the overlapping of one object by another. Near surfaces overlap distant surfaces. This gives information about depth rather than distance. Figure 11: Occlusion or Interposition Linear perspective, which is based on the fact that distant objects appear smaller and closer to the horizon, and that all object outlines converge to vanishing points. For example: runway outlines and position relative to the horizon.. Highlights and shadows can provide information about an object's dimensions and depth. Humans are used to typical light infal (e.g. from top to bottom), which drives their interpretation of shadows.. Figure 12: Influence of Shadows on Depth Perception Depth perception during Approach and Landing Aircraft landing studies have highlighted that binocular cues were only effective in the last seconds of landing (Dorfel 1982). The most important cue for spatial orientation during final approach are at large distance, size constancy, i.e. retinal runway image size (reflected in distance and height judgment) and shape (which affects slope and judgment). At medium distance, motion parallax (which gives the time history of these factors) becomes the preferable way to perceive depth, with the binocular cues taking over at faily close distance. (Buffett 1986). 4.5 Empty field myopia Empty field myopia is the result of the eye’s reflex to accommodate in featureless environments to their rest position, which corresponds to a focus between 1 and 2m away. The pilot is then functionally short-sighted and would find it difficult to detect a target at the normal far point, since objects at infinity are blurred. This short-sightededness is usually of relatively minor importance since the eye rapidly readjusts when a target becomes visible. To reduce the accommodation time, pilots should look periodically and deliberately at objects at virtual infinity such as the wing tip. Night vision (scotopic vision) 4.6 Dark adaptation Dark adaptation, which is necessary for night vision, is the process by which eyes increase their sensitivity to low levels of illumination. Both rods and cones contain photopigments which, on exposure to light, undergo a chemical change that initiates visual impulses in the retina. Dark adaptation is based on the reverse process, when there is regeneration of photopigments. In the fully dark-adapted eye, photopigment regeneration is complete and retinal sensitivity is at its maximum level. Rods and cones differ in their rate of dark adaptation. Rods require 20 to 30 minutes or longer, in absolute darkness, to attain their maximum sensitivity after exposure to bright light. Cones attain maximum sensitivity in about 5 to 7 minutes. This explains why dark adaptation is not linear. Figure 13: Dark Adaptation Time of Rods and Cones An exposure to a bright light after dark adaptation will temporarily impair retinal sensitivity. The degree of impairment depends on the intensity and duration of the exposure. Brief flashes from high-intensity, white strobe lights, which are commonly used as aircraft anticollision lights, have a smaller effect on night vision because their energy pulses are of