In both the landing roll and after a rejected takeoff decision, thrust reversers have the greatest effect when deployed whilst the aircraft is at high speed. This will correspond to the period when directional control is reliant on rudder inputs rather than nose wheel steering systems. Don’t delay deployment without a good reason (such as correcting runway alignment). Don’t delay deployment without a good reason (such as correcting runway alignment). Depending on the regulatory system under which an aircraft is operated, broadly speaking whether it is European or North American, an allowance for the effect of thrust reverser deployment is likely to be respectively either included in or excluded from the runway performance data which flight crew are instructed to use. Be sure you are aware which assumption is made in the aircraft performance data you are required to use.. Be sure you are aware which assumption is made in the aircraft performance data you are required to use.. The relative benefit of timely thrust reverser deployment is nearly always considerably less than the timely deployment of lift spoilers / ground spoilers / speed brakes. This is because of the way in which the increased pressure on the main landing gear which they create enhances the effectiveness of braking. Note that contrary to the situation with thrust reversers, the effect of lift spoilers / ground spoilers / speed brakes is always included in aircraft landing performance data. Whilst it is important to deploy thrust reversers promptly and check their correct activation, it is even more important to first ensure that the lift spoilers / ground spoilers / speed brakes have deployed correctly.. Whilst it is important to deploy thrust reversers promptly and check their correct activation, it is even more important to first ensure that the lift spoilers / ground spoilers / speed brakes have deployed correctly.. When a landing is being carried out on a wet/slippery and/or otherwise potentially limiting runway, the desire to achieve a touchdown in the touchdown zone can sometimes result in initial runway contact which is even firmer than may have been intended. Whilst it is unlikely that a positive bounce will not result in the instinctive delay of reverser deployment, it is less well known that the selection of reversers during a transitory unloading of landing gear after a firm touchdown can result in a cycling between aircraft air and ground status before consistent ground status is achieved. Many reversers will lock out in transit if this happens and normal deployment with the aircraft in definitive ground status will not be possible until the selector has first been returned to the reverser stowed position. Crew briefing for potentially challenging landings could usefully include reference to the need for reverser deployment to occur without delay but only when lift spoiler / ground spoiler / speed brake deployment has been confirmed - after their manual deployment if necessary, since this will act as confirmation that sustained ‘ground’ status has been achieved.. Crew briefing for potentially challenging