An Investigation was carried out by the BEA France. Recorded flight data was available from both the aircraft involved but relevant recorded voice data had been overwritten. A record of relevant ATC communications was available and interviews with the pilots involved were conducted. All ATC communications were conducted in English. Pilot experience information was not recorded but it was noted that although the E190 First Officer had been designated as PF, the Captain was responsible for taxiing the aircraft due to the absence of a steering tiller at the First Officer position. The TWR position was occupied by an experienced controller who was being supervised by an OJTI in order to qualify at Basel Mulhouse after transferring as an experienced controller and OJTI from Nice. Prior to start up, the E190 crew had requested runway 33 for departure having noted from the ATIS that the surface wind was almost calm and that the runway in use was 15 with the short runway 26 also available for takeoff. They were given a departure clearance based on a runway 15 departure and advised that they would be told later if their runway 33 departure request could be met. When they requested push back, this was approved and the controller advised that a runway 33 departure would be possible and issued a new departure clearance. Meanwhile, the Dornier 328 had already pushed back and, on calling for clearance to taxi for runway 15, (point 1 on the illustration below) requested “a short cut to the left” and was cleared to taxi to runway 15 via the parallel taxiway ‘BRAVO’. Departure from intersection ‘GOLF’ was subsequently (at Point 3) requested and approved. On completion of this exchange, the E190 (at Point 2) requested taxi clearance and having accepted ATCs offer of a runway 33 departure from intersection ‘DELTA’, was cleared to the holding point there. The D328 was transferred from GND to TWR and on checking in (at Point 4) the crew advised that they would be ready on reaching ‘GOLF’ and were cleared for takeoff. About half a minute later (at Point 6), the E190 was transferred from GND to TWR and reminded in non-standard phraseology to “maintain DELTA” which was read back correctly. On checking in with TWR (Point 7) the E190 crew advised that they were ready for takeoff. TWR responded (Point 8) by instructing them to “hold short of runway 33 DELTA” and the crew immediately read back (Point 9) “Line up and wait runway 33 DELTA”. This completely incorrect readback was not noticed by the TWR controller who, on completing his transmission, had looked away and conducted a brief exchange with another departing aircraft and did not notice that the E190 had entered the runway. The supervising OJTI had also looked away and was similarly unaware of the incursion. The E190 Captain subsequently stated that he had been under the impression that runway 33 had become the runway in use and had therefore only looked to the left before