were in force.. ATC had a movement display system which provided a synthetic colour image of aircraft and vehicles on the movement area but this didn’t include runway incursion alerting or easy identification of moving vehicles and controllers stated that it was not sufficiently accurate to allow detection of precise aircraft positions.. The use of “maintain” in place of the ICAO standard “hold short” when the GND controller transmitted to the E190 crew on taxiway DELTA just before passing them over to TWR was a notified French difference. The subsequent “hold short” instructions given by the TWR controller were in accordance with the ICAO standard.. The KLM Cityhopper aircraft was fitted with two identical Digital Voice Data Recorders (DVDR). Only data from DVDR1 was made available to the Investigation and neither it nor DVDR2 contained relevant recorded voice data. KLM Cityhopper discovered that their procedures for ensuring the preservation of recorded data were not fit for purpose because the flight crew procedure was to de-activate DVDR2 whilst the procedure for maintenance personnel required the preservation of data on DVDR1. In this case, the crew verbally requested maintenance personnel to preserve DFDR2 after they arrived in Amsterdam but failed to make a corresponding entry in the aircraft Technical Log or de-activate the unit. In addition, it was found that before taking any action in respect of a DVDR, maintenance personnel were required to get approval from Maintenance Control and be issued with a task instruction and as a result, both DVDRs continued to record. Only when Maintenance Control later learned that the Dutch Safety Board had been requested by the BEA to ensure the recorded data was preserved was any action taken, by which time no relevant voice data remained.. It was determined that the runway incursion resulted from an incorrect understanding of the ATC instruction by the crew of the E190 and the ATC not detecting the read-back error. A partial visual check by the crew, prior to entering the runway, and partial ATC surveillance did not prevent the incursion. Four Potential Contributory Factors were also identified: an inaccurate perception of the crew regarding the runway in use. time pressure and distraction in the cockpit. use of a short taxiway to the runway which left little time for the crew to build an appropriate perception of the actual situation. simultaneous management by the ATC of a VFR flight and another IFR flight leaving from runway 33.. Overall, it was considered that this Serious Incident highlighted the weakness of safety barriers when they are based solely on crew/controller communications and the vigilance of crews and controllers. It also demonstrated that these safety barriers are not always a guarantee against the risk of runway incursion, a problem which is greater at airports such as Basel-Mulhouse where the configuration allows takeoffs in both directions from short intermediate taxiways. It was also considered that the following could have contributed to the prevention of this event: implementation of specific phraseology to reduce the risk of