entering the runway - it was subsequently established that had he looked right, the approaching D328 would have been clearly visible. The crew of the D328, which had already commenced its takeoff from runway 15 intersection GOLF, which gave them 1470 metres to go until reaching intersection DELTA, reported that they had first seen the E190 entering the runway about 300 metres ahead as they neared V1 and were able to get airborne and pass safely over it. They stated that at no time had they considered rejecting their takeoff because they believed this would have greatly increased the risk of collision. Six seconds after the E190 began to taxi onto the runway, the controller saw it (see the relative positions of the two aircraft - Point 10) and transmitted “KLM 1986 maintain position, stop”. This was followed almost immediately by the SRK51crew transmitting “we are airborne, we are airborne, don’t worry” (see the relative positions of the two aircraft - Point 11) before they overflew it. The minimum vertical separation between the two aircraft as the D328 passed over the E190 was subsequently found to have been 380 feet. The Investigation noted that: The E190 crew had the opportunity to recognise that the D328 was also likely to depart at about the same time as they were using the opposite takeoff direction as both aircraft were working GND until the D328 was transferred to TWR. However, the E190 crew did not change to TWR until after the D328 had been given a takeoff clearance on the TWR frequency prior to entering the runway. The E190 flight crew subsequently stated that the Captain had invited an off duty cabin attendant to occupy the flight deck supernumerary seat and that having been provided with a headset, this person had then spoken on the intercom during the taxi out which had constituted a distraction.. The KLM Cityhopper OM included a section on the “sterile flight deck” which included a requirement to “limit intra-flight deck communication to the necessary communication for the operation of the aeroplane and the proper conduct of duties’’.. The arrangements for designating and using the available runways in the local ATC Operations Manual stated that by day, "runway 15 is preferred for landing. Runway 26 is preferred for take-offs (with) runway 33 used only if the tailwind component on runway 15 is greater than 5 knots or at the pilot's request, if traffic permits". This Manual did not contain any specific instruction in respect of allowing opposite direction takeoffs when runway 15 is in use. It was noted that there had been around ten times as many takeoffs on the main runway 15/33 as on the secondary runway 08/26 with the majority of these - in excess of 80% - made in the 15 direction.. Stop bars were installed at all main taxiway intersections with the main runway but except for those at the two runway thresholds, these were not individually controllable and so were only used when LVPs