Lower and Upper Band - The lower band can be seen as the minimal improvement effort needed in order to achieve a significant decrease if the effort is maintained over 2 consecutive years. It can be seen as a short term safety target relative to the current situation. On the other side, the upper band defines the limit above which accident rates become significantly higher than the current average and may indicate the existence of an undermining safety issue. BandWidth - The bandwidth is representative of the quality of the indicator and the measurability of improvement. The higher the bandwidth, the greater the volatility or fluctuations of the accident rate. A bandwidth close or over 100% would mean that the lower band is at 50% or less of the IAMA. The accident rate would need to be improved by at least 50% to be called significant, which is unrealistic. A bandwidth of 30% is the limit above which the accident rate becomes an unreliable indicator. Figure 2 shows the accident rate control chart for the ICAO ESAF region. The bandwidth is 189%. The lower band is at 0.29, which is a totally unrealistic target. This indicator can therefore not be used to measure safety in that region. Accident rate indicator unreliability may be caused by different factors among which: Inappropriate grouping of States indicated by a high disparity of traffic volume among the States of the group, or;. Inappropriate measurement period indicated by a far too low number of events happening during that period.. Figure 2: ESAF accident rate control chart, with bandwidth=189% %b - %b indicates where the accident rate is in relation to the upper and lower band. It is an alert for an upcoming IAMA change. If %b is negative, a significant decrease may be called if %b stays negative for an additional year. If %b is greater than 100%, a significant increase may be ahead. Figure 3 shows the accident rate control chart for the ICAO APAC region. %b is over 100% for 3 consecutive years, which has called 2 consecutive increases in the IAMA. Figure 3: APAC accident rate control chart, with %b=153%