CRJ200 responded by advising that they had already initiated a rejected takeoff and were given an exit taxiway. Radar data showed that the CRJ200 had reached a maximum groundspeed of 99 knots. The flight was subsequently repositioned for takeoff and this was completed without further event. The 777 crew remained unaware of the event as in accordance with Canadian procedures, they had remained on the GND frequency whilst crossing the runway. The “line up” clearance used by the controller was contrary to the applicable Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) phraseology which was required if any delay (not defined) to departure is anticipated. However, the controller reported assuming that the CRJ200 crew would have recognised the need for a short delay to their departure because of the much slower (DHC8) aircraft ahead and had therefore chosen not to inform them of a delay or issue a specific instruction to “wait” after issuing the line-up instruction. In respect of the controller’s tactical assessment that continuing the takeoff would not have been hazardous since he could see that the 777 was about to complete its crossing near to the far end of the runway, this was in line with the MATS guidance which stated that “aborting a takeoff is an emergency procedure used when continuing would present a grave hazard to the aircraft” and that “a controller-initiated aborted takeoff is an extreme measure (to be) used only where no clear alternative exists”. However, the MATS guidance in the event of Stage 2 RIMCAS Alert in the circumstances which had prevailed was noted as requiring the issue of an abort takeoff instruction. In terms of the sighting of the 777 ahead by the CRJ200 crew, the Investigation considered the geometry of the impeded visibility along the runway caused by its longitudinal profile which reached a maximum elevation at just over one third of the runway 33R length. It was calculated that at the start of the takeoff roll, the top 7.4 metres of the 777’s vertical stabiliser would have been visible approximately 2700 metres ahead. By the time the aircraft approached the crest of the hump, the entire fuselage of the 777 would have been visible crossing the runway approximately 1950 metres ahead. It was considered that whilst there was no direct evidence that fatigue had played a part in the performance of the flight crew on the day in question, the Investigation found that in general, both pilots appeared to have a degree of difficulty coping with a sequence of rostered duties which usually started with late duties and then transitioned to early ones. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: There were five Findings as to Causes and Contributory Factors: The number of pre-departure tasks the flight crew was required to complete within a short amount of time increased their workload.. The First Officer’s workload was further elevated as she focused on the heading and altitude change of the standard instrument departure amendment, which, at the time, she