An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. It was not able to use relevant data from either the CVR or DFDR of the CRJ200 because the subsequently flown 1 hour flight resulted in the overwriting of the event on 30 minute CVR and the operator failed to secure the DFDR as required under applicable regulations. The Investigation was therefore reliant primarily on recorded ATC data. It was noted that the CRJ200 Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector, had a total of 3,394 flying hours of which 1,331 hours were on type. The First Officer had a total of 2,445 flying hours of which 995 hours were on type. The TWR controller involved had 24 years’ experience initially at Calgary with the most recent 7 years at Toronto. The CRJ200 taxied for departure from runway 33R on taxiway D (see the illustration below) as the Boeing 777 was landing on runway 33L On clearing the runway, the 777 was instructed to taxi via taxiways F4 and H and contact GND North where the controller instructed the flight to hold short of Runway 33R. A DHC-8 was then cleared for takeoff from the intersection of runway 33R and taxiway B3 and after it had done so, as the 777 was approaching its clearance limit, the GND North controller, having coordinated with the TWR runway controller, instructed the 777 to cross runway 33R “without delay”, aware that the next departure from the runway would be the CRJ200 which was cleared by TWR to line up and given an amendment to the previously issued departure clearance which was read back correctly. Having noted this correct readback the TWR controller, who was also responsible for arrivals on runway 33L, turned their attention to approaching traffic for that runway. As the CRJ200 lined up, the First Officer finished the line-up checklist and the Captain asked them if they had received a takeoff clearance to which they received the response that they had. As the 777 crossed the holding point for its cleared crossing of the runway, the CRJ200 began its takeoff roll without receiving a corresponding clearance. The ground track of the CRJ200 (yellow) and the Boeing 777 (green). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Runway 33R does not have a level profile so the 777 was not initially seen but as the aircraft approached the peak of an elevated section of the runway, it came into view ahead on the runway approximately 1650 metres ahead and a rejected takeoff was immediately commenced with the crew realising that they had probably not received a takeoff clearance. A Runway Incursion Monitoring and Collision Avoidance System (RIMCAS) audible and visible alert was generated in the TWR at about the same time and caused the controller to return his attention to runway 33R. Upon doing so, he reported having “quickly assessed the situation, determined that there was no actual risk of collision and immediately issued a takeoff clearance to the CRJ 200”. The