believed was most important in the line-up instruction.. When the First Officer received and read back the line-up instruction with the standard instrument departure amendment, she had misinterpreted that air traffic control communication as a clearance for takeoff.. The increased workload, the expectation to receive a take-off clearance without delay and the misinterpretation of the line-up instruction led the crew to initiate the take-off roll without a take-off clearance.. The fuselage of the Boeing 777-300 would not have been visible to the CRJ 200 crew at the start of their take off roll because of the longitudinal profile of Runway 33R; therefore, the crew had no visual indication that it was unsafe to initiate the take-off roll on Runway 33R.. There were three Findings as to Risk: Backward-rotating shift schedules cause circadian rhythm de-synchronisation, which increases the risk of fatigue in crew members who do not receive sufficient time off to adapt their sleep-wake pattern when working these schedules.. If airlines do not inform crew members of the risk of fatigue due to the direction of shift schedule rotation, there is an increased risk that crew members will operate an aircraft while fatigued.. If cockpit voice recorders that have a reduced recording capacity remain in service, there is an increased risk that data relevant to an occurrence will not be available to an investigation, precluding the identification and communication of safety deficiencies to advance transportation safety.. There was also one ‘Other’ Finding: Although the ‘Manual of Air Traffic Services’ requires a reject takeoff instruction to be issued when a Stage 2 RIMCAS Alert is triggered, the Tower controller chose not to do this, instead issuing a takeoff clearance because he assessed that there was no risk of collision.. Safety Action taken as result of the investigated event was noted to have included the following: NavCanada (as ANSP) issued an ‘Operations Directive’ which reminded TWR Controllers that in accordance with the MATS, if a RIMCAS Stage 2 Alert is activated by a departing aircraft, they must cancel any takeoff clearance already given or issue an instruction to reject one that has already started without such a clearance... Air Georgian amended their flight crew SOPs to require a check with ATC if one of the pilots is unsure/unaware of the content of any ATC clearance or instruction. However, it was noted that Air Georgian no longer exists as a corporate entity.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 16 December 2020 and it was officially released on 15 January 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.