In the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has the authority and responsibility for the development and issuance of ADs, as defined in FAA Order 8040.1. An AD is a legally enforceable rule issued to correct an unsafe condition in a product, which the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR part 39) defines as an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or appliance. ADs are issued when an unsafe condition exists in a product and the condition is likely to exist or develop in other products of the same type design. When an unsafe condition exists, the directorate -- Transport Aircraft, Small Airplane, Rotorcraft or Engine and Propeller -- within FAA responsible for the product will draft, coordinate and issue ADs based on information provided by one of the 12 Aircraft Certification Offices or the Directorate Standards staff. The standard AD process is to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) followed by a Final Rule. After an unsafe condition is discovered, a proposed solution is published in the Federal Register as an NPRM, which solicits public comment on the proposed action. After the comment period closes, the final rule is prepared, taking into account all substantive comments received, with the rule perhaps being changed as warranted by the comments. The preamble to the final rule AD will provide response to the substantive comments or state there were no comments received. In certain cases, the critical nature of an unsafe condition may warrant the immediate adoption of a rule without prior notice and solicitation of comments. This is an exception to the standard process. If time by which the terminating action must be accomplished is too short to allow for public comment (that is, less than 60 days), then a finding of impracticability is justified for the terminating action, and it can be issued as an immediately adopted rule. The immediately adopted rule will be published in the Federal Register with a request for comments. The Final Rule AD may be changed later if substantive comments are received. An Emergency AD is issued when an unsafe condition exists that requires immediate action by an owner/operator. The intent of an Emergency AD is to rapidly correct an urgent safety of flight situation. An Emergency AD may be distributed by facsimile, letter, or other methods. It is issued and effective to only the people who actually receive it. This is known as “actual notice.” ADs specify inspections that must be carried out, conditions and limitations that must be complied with, and any actions that must be taken to resolve an unsafe condition. Different approaches or techniques that are not specified in an AD can, after FAA approval, be used to correct an unsafe condition. This is known as alternative method of compliance. Although the alternative may not have been known at the time the AD was issued, an alternative method could be acceptable to accomplish the intent of the AD. A compliance time that differs from the requirements of the AD can