details. Geometry of the blade that is going down. The vector sum of the blade rotation speed and the aircraft speed equals the relative wind (with minus sign since the wind is in the opposite direction of the blade movement). The blade angle of attack is the angle between the relative wind and the blade chord line. If the aircraft is turned in the nose up direction, this will be equivalent (geometry wise) to the aircraft speed vector being rotated downwards (while maintaining its size). The new relative wind will be a vector starting from the tip of the new speed arrow and ending at the base of the blade rotation speed. As the angle between the blade and aircraft speeds increases, the relative wind vector will also increase. Additionally, the angle between the new relative wind and the chord line will increase, which is by definition an increase of the angle of attack. Consequently, the blade going down would produce more lift (which is essentially thrust) after the nose up movement Geometry of the blade that is going up. The process is similar to the one described above. Initially, when the blade rotation speed is at right angle with the aircraft speed, the relative wind and the angle of attack are the same as with the blade going down. However, a nose up movement (depiced as the new aircraft speed rotating downwards) would result in both relative wind and blade angle of attack being reduced. Consequently, the blade going up would produce less lift (i.e. thrust) than before. The third common scenario is the wing-mounted propeller aeroplane. In case of engine failure, the aircraft has a natural tendency of yawing in the direction of the failed engine. However, in this scenario, maintaing a level flight (if at all possible) would require a nose-up attitude so that the lift loss due to the loss of thrust is compensated by an increased wing AoA. As a result of this attitude, the propeller blades will be subject to the P-factor. The asymmetric loads may improve or further aggravate the situation. For example, if the left clockwise rotating engine remains operative, the P-factor will reduce the yaw tendency because it is working in the opposite direction. In a similar situation where the engine in on the left wing however, the asymmetric blade effect will increase the yaw. Therefore, in the latter case, the left engine is designated as "critical", i.e. its failure being considered to have a more adverse effect. The P-factor is compensated using different methods depending on the aircraft. In the helicopter case, the blades are mounted using hinges that allow them to be adjusted individually througout the rotation cycle. The advancing blade's AoA is reduced and the retreating blade's AoA is increased so that they produce the same amount of lift although moving through the air at different speeds. Designs such as coaxial rotors (e.g. KAMOV Ka-52 or Sikorsky S-69) do not experience adverse effects as each of the rotors