The P-factor, also called "asymmetric disk loading", "asymmetric blade effect" is an aerodynamic phenomenon that is associated with the rotation of a propeller. Sometimes the blades are subject to different loads and therefore produce different lift (or thrust), therefore the term "asymmetric" is used to describe the effect - the lift (or thrust) produced by the propeller is not uniform. The result is that the aircraft shows a tendency to turn in a particular direction with no control surface inputs being made. The most notable examples where the P-factor is experienced are: Lift is dependent on three factors - the aerofoil geometry (shape, surface, etc.), the velocity of the passing air and the angle of attack (AoA). The aerofoil parameters are constant so they cannot cause asymmetry. This is not the case with velocity and AoA. It is possible to have different blades of the same propeller experience different velocities of the relative wind (this is the vector sum of the aircraft movement speed and the propeller rotating speed) and also to meet the airflow at different angles of attack. As a result, the blade that is subject to greater velocity and/or has higher angle of attact would produce more lift (or thrust) and consequently, torque will be generated. The P-factor is most easily explained in the helicopter scenario. Let us assume that the aircraft is moving forward. The advancing blade will then be subject to headwind, which effectively increases the speed of the airflow. The retreating blade will experience tailwind and the resultant speed will decrease. Consequently, the advancing blade will generate more lift (and the retreating blade will generate less), compared to the hovering scenario. Thus, a roll tendency would occur. The faster the helicopter is moving forward, the greater these effects will be. While helicopters are the extreme P-factor case the phenomenon affects all propellers that are affected by different winds and/or angles of attack. Let us examine a single engine propeller-driven aeroplane. If the aircraft is in level flight and the propeller axis is in line with the wind then all blades will experience the same loads and will produce the same amount of thrust. However, if the aircraft is in nose-up attitude, the blade that is going down will also be subject to some headwind and the blade that is going up will experience some tailwind (similar to the helicopter scenario). Additionally, the blade that goes down will do so at an increased AoA to the relative airflow and in the opposite direction the AoA will be reduced. The combined effect of these is that the blade moving down would create more lift (which, in this case is thrust) and the one moving up would create less. As a result, a yaw tendency towards the blade moving up will be created. This explains why an aircraft with nose-up attitude (e.g. during climb) with clockwise rotating propeller (as seen from the pilot position) would have a tendency to yaw to the left. See pictures below for