having focussed on control of the aircraft “because he did not know how far from the threshold he was landing”. The crew were unaware that the landing was long and “at no time did they envisage a go-around”. It was noted from the CVR that “extra-professional conversations were exchanged during the flight, specifically below FL 100 during the descent” and had affected flight deck monitoring and the proper use of Checklists. There was also evidence of fatigue on what was the fifth and final sector of the day’s flying duty for both pilots. It was found that the pilot training regime in place at the time of the accident had “made it impossible for crews to understand some of the threats facing them during operations”. Although pilot recurrent ground training had recently been changed to add a TEM element, the same had not been done for simulator sessions. In addition, at the time of the accident, only the aircraft commander had received the revised ground training and so the accident aircraft crew was therefore “not predisposed to apply it”. It was also noted that simulator sessions did not include night-time scenarios and that “simulation of runway contamination is not possible on the simulators used”. The overall effect was considered to be that Brit Air crews “were therefore not trained to react to certain degraded conditions that they might encounter in operations”. The oversight of operational safety at Brit Air was also examined and it was concluded that processes were inadequate and that “the operator had no accurate perception of the safety performance of its operations”. It was noted that Lorient Naval Base was classified by Brit Air as a Category C aerodrome but neither ground training nor Part C of the Operations Manual provided crews with information on the specific details of the poorly-visible runway markings and the location of known water retention areas on runways. It was also found that there was local awareness of both these problems and corrective action had been planned but not implemented at the time of the accident. Although it was clear that there had been water on the runway at the time of the accident landing, depth of the water was not determined. It was concluded that the landing distance required on a wet runway was less than the LDA but that the landing distance on a contaminated runway was greater than the LDA. Given the late touchdown it was considered that the actual landing performance of the aeroplane was compatible with a water-contaminated runway. The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the Accident was “the crew deciding not to reject the landing although they were not aware either of the degree to which runway conditions were contaminated or of the remaining length of runway available”. It was further concluded that: “Continuing the landing can be explained by insufficient situational awareness (linked to crew performance degraded by fatigue and routine and unfamiliarity with safety margins and inadequate TEM training) and to an