An Investigation was carried out by the French BEA and was aided by successful download of the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) (although this did not record the applied brake pressure) and the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). It was found that both members of the flight crew had significant experience on the aircraft type involved. The Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) information broadcast by the French Navy-operated aerodrome 20 minutes prior to the accident indicated that a precision approach radar to runway 07 should be expected, that the runway was “wet with puddles” and that the wind velocity was 170°/18 knots with the lowest cloudbase 1000 feet aal. Shortly after thus, the controller advised the wind velocity as 160°/17 knots gusting to 26 knots as a significant and severe squall passed through the area of the aerodrome. They also advised of visibility reduced at times to between 2000 and 3,000 metres in rain and advised that the previous landing aircraft had reported aquaplaning. The crew, with the aircraft commander designated as PF, to request an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 25 which they “believed to be compatible with the prevailing crosswind and gusts advised by ATC” and this was approved. The applicable VApp was calculated as 140 KIAS and a flap 30 landing was briefed. Passing 1000 feet agl, the applicable stabilised approach criteria were satisfied and the crew became visual with the runway at approximately 800 feet aal. However, the speed gradually increased reaching more than 10 knots in excess of VApp “without the crew seeming to notice” and the callouts and mandatory go-around required by Brit Air SOPs in case of such subsequent de-stabilisation did not occur. The aircraft crossed the threshold of the 2230 metre-long runway at a height of 54 feet agl and at a speed of 154 KIAS with a tailwind component subsequently found to have been 4 knots. Thrust reduction to flight idle was made over the TDZ with the aircraft at 17 feet agl but it then floated for approximately 800 metres before an unintentionally ‘soft’ touchdown was made with the aircraft at 140 KIAS and with only 1100 metres of runway remaining. Maximum reverse thrust was applied but “the remaining distance did not allow the crew to stop before the end of the runway” and the aircraft overran the end at a groundspeed of 66 knots. The left wing hit the localiser antennae before the aircraft came to a stop in a grass field approximately 200 metres beyond the end of the paved runway surface. The order to evacuate was given by the flight crew and used the left front door and the two over wing exits. The PF subsequently reported having had difficulty in estimating the altitude of the aeroplane because of the absence of runway centreline lighting and the FDR showed that multiple inputs had been made on the controls at this time in an attempt to keep the aircraft on the runway centreline. He reported afterwards