approach to safety by the Operator that did not encourage crews to question their plan of action”. Seven Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The crew’s under-estimation of the meteorological conditions;. Operational instructions that were sometimes unclear or contradictory, thereby undermining teamwork;. The characteristics of runway 25, which were also not documented in the Brit Air Operations Manual;. The organisation of aerodrome operations that contributed to the deviations identified concerning runway 25 not being corrected in a timely manner;. A lack of common phraseology that would guarantee crews and controllers to have a shared comprehension of the true condition of the runway;. The organisation of training and checks that prevented the operator from recognising and improving its safety performance;. Incomplete integration of the risks of fatigue by the airline.. Safety Actions taken as a result of the accident were recorded as including the following: Brit Air has: Required that landings in suspected wind shear conditions on this aircraft type must be made with flaps 45°. Required that touchdowns must occur as near as possible to the aiming points with a tolerance of 300 metres. Modified pilot ground training to rectify identified deficiencies. Bombardier has published a Flight Operations Note (FON) to remind crew that when landing the CRJ-700/705/900/1000 in suspected or known wind shear, require normal landing in the flaps 45° configuration. Lorient Naval Air Base has completed repainting of the runway markings. Fifteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that DGAC ensure that this safety information be known to all aerodrome operators, including those under the Ministry of Defence, that operate aerodromes for use by civil aviation [Recommendation FRAN-2013-068]. that DGAC link renewal of its approvals to the good condition of ground markings [Recommendation FRAN-2013-069]. that EASA study, for aerodromes used by commercial civil aviation, the mandatory installation of additional ground facilities to improve night flight support systems for pilots on runways approved for Cat I precision approaches [Recommendation FRAN-2013-070]. that in the meantime, DGAC make the installation recommended in "Safety Information" no2012/02 mandatory for all operators of aerodromes for use by civil aviation. [Recommendation FRAN-2013-071]. that DIRCAM (the Directorate of Naval Air Safety) and DGAC jointly ensure that the French Navy General Staff takes steps to make it possible to improve drainage and to eliminate areas of water retention all over runway 25 in the shortest possible time. [Recommendation FRAN-2013-072]. that EASA integrates Threat and Error Management (TEM) into recurrent training and checks and into operational procedures by holders of an Air Operator Certificate (AOC) [Recommendation FRAN 2013 073]. that in the meantime, DGAC put in place TEM awareness programmes for holders of an AOC. [Recommendation FRAN-2013-074]. that DGAC check that operators holding an AOC take TEM into account in their Safety Management System. [Recommendation FRAN-2013-075]. that DGAC ensure that operators holding an AOC put in place systems allowing representative assessment and follow-up of the proficiency level of their crews. [Recommendation FRAN-2013-076]. that DGAC ensure that the measures implemented within the