After notification of the event the day it occurred, the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB) classified it as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out. Data was successfully downloaded from both the FDR and the CVR and enabled a detailed review of the occurrence. It was noted that the 48 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector involved, had a total of 9,385 hours flying experience of which 3,386 hours were on type. The 36 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,731 hours flying experience of which 1,327 hours were on type. After pushback and engine start, what had been almost imperceptible snowfall at an air temperature close to zero suddenly and rapidly intensified. After completion of checks and the selection of airframe and engine anti-icing on, taxi was requested but the flight was told to hold position. Whilst awaiting clearance, the request was modified to route to an airframe ground de-icing pad and a few minutes this was given to an intermediate position via a circuitous route due to taxiway snow clearance activity. After two minutes taxiing using a maximum thrust of 39% N1, the clearance limit was reached. After two minutes, a further taxi clearance was given and a similar maximum thrust was used but after three minutes and before reaching the clearance limit, the aircraft was stopped again when the deteriorating visibility in the continuing heavy snow made continued taxi impossible. Company were advised that a tow would be necessary to continue. The amount of engine oil in both engines began to decrease. The APU was selected on in preparation for shut down and towing but almost immediately, the First Officer recognised an unusual smell from the air conditioning as the cabin crew reported similarly, adding that “smoke” had also appeared. The APU was switched off as were both Air Conditioning Packs as the crew commenced the ‘Smoke or Fumes Removal’ Checklist. The Captain informed ATC that because of fumes in the cabin, there was a possibility that an emergency evacuation may be required. Completing the Checklist appeared to improve the air conditioning-related contamination although the indicated N1 on both (idling) engines had begun to decrease. However, after 14 minutes stopped, the snowfall had lessened and sufficient visual reference to continue was now available again so the thrust levers were moved forward to recommence taxiing as cleared but there was no response and the right engine then stopped. As the engine failure or shutdown checklist was commenced, the cabin crew called to say that flames had been see coming from the right engine and so the checklist action was changed to the engine fire/severe damage one. Having heard the cabin crew report, the Captain then decided that an emergency evacuation was appropriate and gave the order (the First Officer subsequently stated that he had considered the possibility of a tailpipe fire but had “decided that it was better to conduct an emergency evacuation”). The evacuation began immediately and the SCCM at