the L1 door called out “no baggage” and instructed selected passengers to act as ‘helpers’ at the bottom of the slide to pull people up and off the slide to make way for more to come down. Similar action was taken at the other exit doors but in all cases, confiscation of cabin baggage was limited by the space available for it without obstructing access to the exits. The cabin crew at R2 was able deploy the slide there for safe use after checking that the flame from the right engine did not pose a hazard to its safe use. The mid cabin overwing emergency exits were not used. The serious injury occurred to a female passenger who exited through door 1R and fell forward at the bottom of the slide and sustained a serious fracture injury and was hospitalised. It was considered possible but not confirmed that this passenger may have allowed their upper body to lean forward rather than maintaining the recommended sitting position on the slide which would have increased the risk of injury. There were only two other minor passenger injuries during the evacuation. Both CFM56-7B24/3 engines were of similar age and flight cycles. They were examined soon after the accident and then subjected to teardown inspections at the OEM. The collective findings of these inspections were as follows: both engines had icing on the rear of the fan blades and on the LPC (low pressure compressor) inlets, blades and the periphery of the back steps of the LPC. Both engines had deposits of engine oil on the HPC (high pressure compressor) blades and on the downstream side of the PRSOV (pressure regulator and shutoff valve).. only the right engine had accumulated engine oil inside the tailpipe and had soot containing engine oil in the tailpipe, at the front of the No. 1 bearing and at the back of the No. 5 bearing. Only this engine had traces of high temperature air flowing forwards inside of the Centre Vent Tube and soot and engine oil inside of the air duct.. The loss of oil was greatest from the left engine. It was considered likely that loses of engine oil were caused by the leakage of oil from the inside of the bearing sump to the LPC when the normal air pressure on the outside of the bearing sump seal could no longer be maintained because of the reduced air inflow into engine due to ice accretion on the fan blades and at the LPC (see the illustration below). The flow of oil through the engines at the time of the malfunction. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was also considered that engine oil leaked into the LPCs of both engines would have mixed with the compressed air bled from the HPC as it then passed via the PRSOV and the air conditioning Pack and generated the abnormal smells and fumes/appearance of thin smoke. The initial decrease in engine N1 rpm would have been due to the