to the fan blade and LPC icing which would have disturbed the normal fuel air ratio in the engine combustion chamber and caused engine rpm to decrease. Then, when the thrust lever was moved forward to recommence taxiing, the unstable condition of the engine would have been sufficient to cause the right engine to stop. Finally, the flame seen at the rear of the right engine was caused by engine oil leaking into the tailpipe and accumulating after the engine stopped being ignited by its exposure to the heat of tailpipe. The Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was described in narrative form as follows: “In this accident, it is probable that while holding on the taxiway to taxi following the heavy snowfall, odd smells and smoke were generated within the cabin, following these events, because the flame from rear of No.2 engine was continued, the Captain ordered an Emergency Evacuation from the aircraft. During this evacuation, a passenger fell to the ground and sustained a serious injury. Regarding the occurrence of unusual smells and smoke in the cabin and the continuation of the flame at the rear of the right engine, it is probable that when the heavy snow became intense due to the rapid weather deterioration, icing occurred on the fan blades and in the low pressure compressor, causing vapourised engine oil to leak into engine bleed air fed to the cabin air conditioning system leaked oil to accumulate within in the tailpipe and catch fire.” Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigation findings included the following: Japan Airlines: Amended procedures for engine operation on the ground in heavy snowfall.. Reminded its ground personnel that any late and imminent change to the forecast weather must be communicated to potentially affected flight crew as soon as possible.. Revised the contents of the passenger pre flight safety video to enhance the awareness among passengers on how to assist the fellow evacuees at the bottom of the slide and why baggage must not be carried when evacuating.. Added new content to the periodic emergency training received by cabin crew on how to act when passengers rush to an exit with baggage in their hands and how to have passengers not to bring their baggage to an exit.. Implementing improved training on emergency evacuation with regular simulator training on evacuation slide procedures and use.. The Final Report was adopted by the JTSB on 22 November 2017 and published in both English translation and the definitive Japanese version on 21 December 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.