A formal process for change management should take into account the following three considerations: Criticality of systems and activities. Criticality is closely related to safety risk. Criticality relates to the potential consequences of equipment being improperly operated or an activity being incorrectly executed — essentially answering the question, “how important is this equipment/activity to safe system operations?” While this is a consideration that should be made during the system design process, it becomes relevant during a situation of change. Clearly, some activities are more essential for safe delivery of services than others. Equipment and activities that have higher safety criticality should be reviewed following change to make sure that corrective actions can be taken to control potentially emerging safety risks.. Stability of systems and operational environments. Changes may be the result of programmed change such as growth, operations to new destinations, changes in fleets, changes in contracted services, or other changes directly under the control of the organisation. Changes in the operational environment are also important, such as economic or financial status, changes in political or regulatory environments, or changes in the physical environment such as cyclical changes in weather patterns. While these factors are not under the direct control of the organisation, it must take action to respond to them.. Past performance. Past performance of critical systems is a proven indicator of future performance. This is where the closed-loop nature of safety assurance comes into play. Trend analyses in the safety assurance process should be employed to track safety performance measures over time and to factor this information into the planning of future activities under situations of change. Moreover, where deficiencies have been found and corrected as a result of past audits, evaluations, investigations or reports, it is essential that such information is considered to assure the effectiveness of corrective actions..