A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Relevant flight data were available from the 737 QAR as was a recording of TWR communications. It was noted that the B737-800 crew had consisted of a 50 year-old Captain and a 28 year-old First Officer and that DA20 Student Pilot was a 20 year-old Iranian national. It was further noted that the Reus TWR position was occupied by a 23 year old Student Controller under the supervision of a 42 year old OJTI (on-the-job training instructor). The prevailing weather conditions were CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) and had no adverse bearing on the conflict which subsequently occurred. It was established that after making a go around from its first ILS approach to runway 25 at Reus because it became unstabilised, the 737 was on the outbound leg of the ILS ‘Y’ procedure from the overhead (see the corresponding ILS approach chart below) and descending to 3800 feet QNH in order to commence a left turn onto the runway 25 ILS at 13 nm. The position of this turn was close to VRP ‘E’ at Roda de Bará which is used for entry to the Reus CTR by VFR traffic from the east (this point is shown on the second illustration below). Having reached 3800 feet at the end of the procedure outbound leg, the 737 crew received a 4 second long TCAS RA ‘DESCEND’ which then changed to a 12 second long RA ‘CLIMB’. This continued until ‘clear of conflict’ was annunciated at approximately 4400 feet after which they returned to their assigned altitude and continued the approach procedure. The DA20 had checked in with TWR during its approach to VRP ‘E’ which, according to the Reus Visual Approach Chart published in the AIP, states that CTR arrivals via point E must be made at a maximum altitude of 2000 feet. However, on this occasion, the aircraft had been cleared to enter the ATZ and continue towards Tarragona (which is on the coast to the southeast of the airport and shown on runway 25 ILS chart) maintaining a minimum of 3,500 feet and instructed to report once overhead Tarragona. The reason for this abnormal clearance was a NOTAM’d aerobatic display taking place at that location with a designated “reserved area” up to 3,300 feet and in accordance with the instruction given, the DA20 was actually flying at 3,800 feet QNH when its pilot became aware of the 737. The Reus ILS ‘Y IAP Plate. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The DA20 pilot subsequently reported having observed the Jet 2 aircraft “crossing his track ahead right to left, climbing out toward the sea” and at the same time, the Reus controller had instructed him to “change course to the right and continue along the coastline”, which he had done. The 737 crew subsequently reported that on the outbound leg of the ILS procedure, they had seen aircraft flying directly towards them