some 200 feet lower and had notified ATC of a potential conflict accordingly. They had assumed that since Reus approach control service within the Reus CTR was provided without radar, ATC was not aware of this other traffic. They also thought that “this other aircraft may have been following a route different to that instructed by ATC". When the TCAS RA followed, it was promptly actioned but when TWR was notified, the controller instructed the light aircraft to descend to 2000 feet – within the designated display area. The 737 crew noted that they had seen the other traffic pass underneath on an opposite heading and that “several passengers reported the presence of the nearby aircraft to the cabin crew”. The controller operating the TWR position was a student under training who was still some way from qualifying. The supervising OJTI had decided for training purposes to set up the TWR radar display to show only the part of the Reus CTR which was also ATZ airspace - that within 8km of the airport up to 3000 feet. He considered this action justified since the Unit Training Plan stated that the approach control service provided at Reus is procedural. Neither the trainee controller nor the OJTI were therefore aware of the potential conflict between the two aircraft and so no traffic information was provided. As a result, the two flight paths converged and five seconds after calling TWR to report sighting traffic 200 feet below, the 737 crew received their TCAS RA. The trainee controller stated that after going around from its first approach, the 737 had been cleared to make an ILS Z approach since the 9nm outbound leg of this procedure would keep the aircraft inside the Reus CTR (although it would involve more time-consuming positioning before it could be commenced). However, when the crew then requested the ILS Y approach, which had a 13 nm outbound leg which would take the aircraft just outside the 12 nm radius CTR, this had been approved and the necessary coordination with the adjacent Barcelona T4 sector controller actioned. With the facts of ATC service and the traffic proximity established, the attention of the Investigation was primarily focussed on the way in which Reus TWR control service was being performed at the time of the event and (separately) how this related to both existing service requirements and the relationship between those requirements and the ways in which they might be able to be improved. It was noted that despite the Reus CTR being Class ‘D’ airspace, no traffic information on the VFR traffic which the 737 had subsequently encountered had been provided which was contrary to the requirements for control of such airspace. It was also noted that there was no documented procedure for use of the available radar surveillance capability in the Reus CTR which could be used as a support tool for the procedural control provided whether in normal operations or when controller training was in progress. Procedural approach