control service at Reus is provided within the (circular) Reus CTR (upper limit FL075) as depicted in the illustration below with the exception of the part outlined in yellow which is delegated to Barcelona TMA control above 5500 feet. Airspace where procedural approach control service is provided by Reus ATS. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It is also provided in the area outlined in green below FL075 which is delegated to Reus by Barcelona TMA. It was noted that “although in Reus the approach control service provided is procedural, this does not imply that the ATS surveillance system available in the unit cannot be used in accordance with available provisions in the Spanish Air Traffic Regulation”. It was, however, noted that at the time of the investigated event “there was no specific report on the radar coverage at Reus, although there was a report on the coverage of the Barcelona TMA” but this only provided Reus CTR coverage above “about” 5000 feet. It was noted that the NOTAM about the air display at Tarragona was valid on the day of the investigated event between 0800 and 1400Z within a circle of 2nm radius up to 3,300 feet. Although all of the designated area was within the Reus CTR, only a small part of it was also within the ATZ and so “the controllers were not aware of the aircraft in this area”. The Investigation considered that although the required procedures for notifying the air display as they existed had been satisfied, the publication of the NOTAM was “not a sufficient safety measure” and “more safety measures are needed when permitting aerobatic flight displays near to airports”. It was also noted that had the 737 flown the ILS Z procedure which it had initially been cleared to fly “the aircraft would have entered the airspace reserved for the aerobatic flights on the outbound segment (but) neither the controller under instruction nor the instructor controller was aware of this potential conflict”. In the case of the subsequent re-clearance to fly the ILS Y approach, it was noted that the outbound leg ended at 3,800 feet at 13DME, further descent is then required when turning, eroding the 500 feet clearance from the 3,300 feet limit of the aerobatic display area. However, neither the controller under instruction nor the instructor controller was aware of potential conflicts with VFR aircraft entering the Reus CTR via point ‘E’ which was almost co-located with the end of the downwind leg, a co-location for which risk was exacerbated by the zone entry clearance given to the light aircraft to fly at 3,500 feet or higher. The response of the TWR controller to advice that the 737 was following a TCAS RA - instructing the light aircraft to descend - was contrary to the ANSP requirement to maintain radio silence in communications to involved traffic following any such communication until at least one aircraft confirms ‘clear of conflict’. The Cause of the loss of separation formally documented as “the