better situational awareness of the pilots during low visibility, ensure that the said All Weather Operating RVR system is installed.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, given the finding that recommendations made in respect OFDM anomalies following the 2010 Air India Express Mangalore Accident have not been addressed for the last 10 years, revise Section 5 of the Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs), Series F, Part II Issue I, dated 30 September 1999 at Revision 1 dated 26 July 2017 on ‘Monitoring of DFDR/QAR/PMR Data for Accident/Incident Prevention’ in order to remove ambiguities in exceedance parameters, introduce monitoring of landing beyond the touchdown zone and standardise the OFDM limits for all types of aircraft operating in India. Although draft CARs are placed on open access and public comments are solicited, it is additionally recommended that to ensure better inclusiveness, Subject Matter Experts from the industry are also utilised whilst these changes are being formulated.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, in respect of OFDM, ensure that 100% DFDR monitoring as stipulated in the applicable regulatory requirements is carried out by all scheduled service operators. In addition to unstabilised approaches, long landings should also be monitored and with respect to the Civil Aviation Requirements Section 8 ‘All Weather Operations (Adverse Weather)’, compliance with the recommendations regarding use of Flaps, Thrust Reverser etc. and similar should be monitored by OFDM especially during the monsoon and pre-monsoon seasons.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, consider requiring the implementation of Simulator Operations Quality Assurance (SOQA) in a similar manner to FOQA/OFDM when an operator chooses to bring in new FSTDs or decides to upgrade their existing simulator(s) to achieve better monitoring of training/checks being performed in them.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, in respect of flight surveillance, ensure: Periodic surveillance of flights to critical and table top runways including ‘red eye’ flights. Increased surveillance should be carried out during monsoons (see DGCA CAR Section 5 Series F Part I). Air Safety Circulars 2017/03 and 2019/02 which deal with operations during the monsoon season should be aligned with the requirement of the aforementioned CAR Section 5 Series F Part I and with CAR section 8 “Adverse Weather/Monsoon Operations” which deals with All Weather Operations. Implementation of a LOSA programme may also be required during routine audits and surveillance of operators.. Periodic surveillance of flights to critical and table top runways including ‘red eye’ flights.. Increased surveillance should be carried out during monsoons (see DGCA CAR Section 5 Series F Part I).. Air Safety Circulars 2017/03 and 2019/02 which deal with operations during the monsoon season should be aligned with the requirement of the aforementioned CAR Section 5 Series F Part I and with CAR section 8 “Adverse Weather/Monsoon Operations” which deals with All Weather Operations. Implementation of a LOSA programme may also be required during routine audits and surveillance of operators.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, since there is