an Air India flight about to depart was heard requesting runway 10 and in response, ATC immediately changed the runway in use from 28 to 10 despite the fact that the prevailing wind continued to favour runway 28. The controller then asked if the inbound flight would also “like to use runway 10 for arrival” whilst adding that the current surface wind was 270°/08 knots. Despite the problem created by his unserviceable wiper, there was no recorded evidence that the Captain had considered diverting to an alternate and after further exchanges in respect of the visibility and wind velocity (which were essentially unchanged as was the fact that there were CBs all around the airport location at 2,500 feet) runway 10 was accepted for the second approach. The flight was then cleared to descend to 3,600 feet and carry out the ILS approach to runway 10. Again, there was no evidence that a landing performance calculation had been made in association with the approach briefing for runway 10 and in the meantime, the departing aircraft had been given a spot wind of 270°/10 knots with its takeoff clearance. After establishing on the ILS LOC, the Captain was recorded again advising the First Officer how to switch on the unreliable windshield wiper adding “I hope it works”. Shortly afterwards, the problematic wiper was switched but appeared to operate only at a slow speed. Landing clearance was then given with the visibility still 2000 metres in light rain, the runway surface wet and the wind 250°/08 knots and after discussion, it was decided to use Flap 30 rather than the initially discussed Flap 40 because of possible turbulence. The Landing Checklist was completed in good time and during an initially stable approach, the AP was disconnected at 500 feet agl. Thereafter, the pitch attitude was reduced and the descent rate began to increase, briefly reaching 1500 fpm which elicited PM cautions for a high rate of descent twice acknowledged by the Captain with “correction”. The rate of descent and deviation below the ILS GS increased beyond the stabilised approach criteria and two EGPWS Mode 5 ‘Glideslope’ annunciations followed. The Captain responded by increasing the pitch attitude which temporarily reduced the rate of descent to a recorded 300 fpm before it increased again to 1000 fpm. The runway threshold was crossed at 92 feet agl with the aircraft deviating to the left of the centre line and subject to a tail wind component slightly in excess of 14 Knots. At this point speed began to gradually increase and the rate of descent began to reduce after thrust was manually added contrary to the still-engaged A/T which was attempting to reduce it. Thrust reached 83% N1 with the aircraft still 20 feet above the runway and already over 400 metres beyond the runway threshold. With the aircraft approximately 760 metres beyond the runway threshold, the First Officer, clearly concerned, made a non standard call “just check it”, but although the runway centreline was regained,