control and initiate a go-around on an unstabilised approach when a Captain fails to respond. Tail wind landing on wet runway. Landing on wet/contaminated runway (up to 3mm depth) Extended Flare and Balked Landing.. Make extensive use of flight simulators in order to impart training in realistic situations, with emphasis to be laid on the following scenarios during the flight simulator briefing/training:. To promote assertiveness of the First Officer to take-over control and initiate a go-around on an unstabilised approach when a Captain fails to respond.. Tail wind landing on wet runway.. Landing on wet/contaminated runway (up to 3mm depth). Extended Flare and Balked Landing.. In respect of Simulator Training Assessment, the Chief of Training must ensure that the assessment reports (CA 40/CA41) completed by the Delegated Examiners are complete in all aspects. All ‘training forms’ must be scrutinised critically by the Company Training Department as well as by the DGCA during their inspections.. In respect of CRM Training: trainers should undertake random observation flights to assess the critical facets of CRM including the trans-cockpit authority gradient and assess the responses of Captain and the First Officer as a team.. In respect of Aircraft Types Command Upgrade Training: the training procedure for handling of the thrust levers by the trainee Captain during the takeoff roll should be reviewed.. that Air India Express should, since the majority of its aircraft are equipped with an OEM-installed EFB capable of Onboard Performance Calculation, make this Onboard Performance Tool (OPT) a mandatory part of the EFB and ensure all pilots are trained and checked for their proficiency in the use of this OPT for accurate aircraft performance calculations. The Boeing 737 performance module in the EFB (as OEM-installed in the aircraft or on currently used iPads) should be used to calculate Takeoff, Cruise, Landing and Single-engine performance to enhance safety.. that Air India Express should, in view of the fact that simulators continue to be used for training in spite of maintenance issues and pending defects affecting them which do not fall within missing, malfunctioning or inoperative component reporting, require that its Head of Training ensures that at the time of use, the simulator meets all regulatory requirements, and in particular, it should be ascertained that the simulator meets all training objectives as prescribed in the training plan of the airline and also that no negative training is carried out.. that Air India Express should, in order to ensure compliance with SOPs and the principles of CRM enhance the number of observation flights by made by senior training pilots and carry out additional observation flights during the monsoon season as recommended by the DGCA. A LOSA programme should be used to identify systemic weaknesses.. that Air India Express should, since DFDR monitoring is the most effective tool to identify exceedance and provide suitable corrective training in order to prevent aircraft accidents, ensure that 100% DFDR data is downloaded as per the applicable regulatory requirements for OFDM and that trend analysis is done so that