the high thrust was not immediately reduced and it was not until over 900 metres beyond the runway threshold that the airspeed began to reduce, reaching the applicable approach speed approximately still airborne 15 feet above the runway with just 150 metres to go before reaching the end of the TDZ which was indicated by lights on either side of the runway centre line. As this point was passed, the First Officer made what the Official Report described as “a feeble, uncomfortable call of ‘...Captain’” and at about the same time, idle thrust was finally reached. He immediately followed this with a “Go Around” call but there was no response from the Captain and touchdown on the wet runway followed soon afterwards some 1,350 metres beyond the runway threshold. At touchdown, the airspeed was recorded as 150 KCAS and the tailwind component was 15 knots. The Captain immediately reverted to maximum manual braking and the spoilers immediately automatically deployed with standard response calls made by the First Officer. An also immediate thrust reverser selection was made but after only a couple of seconds deployed, they were re-stowed as the applied brake pressure was momentarily reduced and the rate of deceleration immediately lessened. After a further ten seconds, the thrust reversers were again deployed to maximum with the aircraft now 2,500 metres beyond the threshold with only 200 metres of runway left. The aircraft passed the designated end of the runway 10 with a ground speed of 84.5 knots and continued across the 160 metre starter strip of runway 28 before passing onto the 60 metres Runway Strip and finally onto 90 metres of soft ground. During this time, it collided with the ILS antennae and a fence and then, at the end of the RESA travelled down an approximately 30° slope until a sudden change to level ground some 110 feet below. This change of direction led to an impact which caused the aircraft to come to an abrupt stop which resulted in the fuselage breaking into three pieces. Both pilots were amongst the fatalities. The accident site the following morning is shown below. The accident site the following day with the aircraft in three pieces astride the perimeter road. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation did not find any evidence that any lack of airworthiness except the malfunctioning left side windshield wipers had played any direct part in accident causation. Rather, it was found to have been the result of the collective actions of the flight crew up to the point where the abrupt end to the RESA resulted in an extreme outcome which, at many if not most other airports, would have probably been avoided. However, the very comprehensive nature of the Investigation sought to not only examine possible reasons for the poor performance of the flight crew and particularly the PF Captain but to put this into its wider context, particularly but not only its systemic context including the inherent risk to overruns created by “table