top” runways with reference to the implementation or otherwise of some of the Safety Recommendations made after the Air India Express fatal overrun accident when landing on Mangalore’s table top runway in 2010. In respect of the considerable number of individually abnormal actions or omissions identified in the prelude to the accident, the Investigation looked at a number of potential behavioural influences: The potential consequences of the Captain’s Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, for which the prescribed regular treatment - sustained release formulation of Metformin - had enabled him to regain an unrestricted Class 1 medical, were reviewed. It was known from the available scientific literature and ICAO Doc 8984 that Metaformin could expose those taking it to the risk of mild hypoglycaemia but without any detriment to their performance. However, the Investigation came to the conclusion that whilst the Captain was (presumably) taking the prescribed Metformin, he had also been self-medicating with “multiple un-prescribed anti-diabetic drugs including ayurvedic medication” which would have increased the risk of performance consequences from hypoglycaemia. In particular, it was suspected that the Captain was regularly taking ‘Glimepride’ tablets which alone were known to have “a very high potential to cause hypoglycaemia when consumed along with other anti-diabetic drugs”.. A number of specific lapses in the normal situational awareness of the Captain during the attempt to reach Calicut were noted. Although at first these were not cumulative, their consequences eventually culminated in the unplanned decision to fly the second approach with a significant tailwind component to land on a wet runway with impeded forward visibility due to the malfunctioning windshield wiper. Any Captain, especially a Training Captain, could reasonably have been expected to be able to objectively recognise that any approach to the airport involved in adverse weather conditions had enough unavoidable potential challenges to make an optional tailwind worth avoiding. In addition, the lack of any rational explanation for the Captain’s mismanagement of the thrust towards the end of the approach and when subsequently floating over almost half the runway length was considered indicative of a degree of cognitive impairment. It was considered that a similar conclusion could be drawn from the very brief initial deployment of the thrust reverses which were perhaps then immediately re-stowed with a view to commencing a go around before abandoning that idea and returning to the by then impossible full stop objective.. From the CVR evidence whilst the working relationship between the two pilots was good, the authority gradient between them perceived by the First Officer was steep enough to deter positive and timely intervention before the accident outcome became inevitable.. The fact that Calicut Airport has very little in the way of cultural lighting was considered to characterise night approaches there as ‘Black Hole’ approaches with consequences for manual visual flying of the final stage of the approach and in this respect, it was considered that although the runway was a familiar one for both pilots, other issues may have resulted in both the absence of a lit