the Captain’s spatial orientation.. The absence of a detailed proactive policy and clear cut guidelines on the monitoring of Long Landings at the time of the accident on the part of the DGCA as Safety Regulator contributed to this and other runway overrun accidents. Long Landing has been a major factor in various accidents and incidents involving runway excursion since 2010 and is still not addressed in the Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) Section 5, Series F, Part II.. The DGCA has not comprehensively revised the CAR Section 5, Series F, Part II Issue I dated 30 September 1999 (as revised on 26 July 2017) on ‘Monitoring of DFDR/QAR/PMR Data for Accident/Incident Prevention’ to address the recommendations of the Court of Inquiry into the 2010 Air India Express crash at Mangalore in respect of the exceedance limits which has resulted in persisting ambiguities in this matter.. Although Air India Express carries out OFDM for accident/incident prevention purposes, this does not cover 100% of its flights in spite of the provisions laid down in the relevant CAR and reiterated as observations during DGCA inspections. OFDM is the most effective way to identify exceedances and inform the need for corrective training in order to prevent runway accidents like the one investigated here. However, the Action Taken Reports on this matter submitted by the operator in response to findings were accepted by DGCA year after year without ascertaining their implementation or giving due importance to its adverse implications.. A total of 43 Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation based on its Findings as follows: that Air India Express should: In respect of Simulator Training: Make extensive use of flight simulators in order to impart training in realistic situations, with emphasis to be laid on the following scenarios during the flight simulator briefing/training: To promote assertiveness of the First Officer to take-over control and initiate a go-around on an unstabilised approach when a Captain fails to respond. Tail wind landing on wet runway. Landing on wet/contaminated runway (up to 3mm depth) Extended Flare and Balked Landing. In respect of Simulator Training Assessment, the Chief of Training must ensure that the assessment reports (CA 40/CA41) completed by the Delegated Examiners are complete in all aspects. All ‘training forms’ must be scrutinised critically by the Company Training Department as well as by the DGCA during their inspections. In respect of CRM Training: trainers should undertake random observation flights to assess the critical facets of CRM including the trans-cockpit authority gradient and assess the responses of Captain and the First Officer as a team. In respect of Aircraft Types Command Upgrade Training: the training procedure for handling of the thrust levers by the trainee Captain during the takeoff roll should be reviewed.. In respect of Simulator Training: Make extensive use of flight simulators in order to impart training in realistic situations, with emphasis to be laid on the following scenarios during the flight simulator briefing/training: To promote assertiveness of the First Officer to take-over