timely follow up action can be taken if required.. that Air India Express should, in view of the fact that a right hand brake pressure transducer unserviceability had not been identified during repeated checks and monitoring, ensure that personnel involved in analysis of data from Flight Recorders as per the applicable regulatory requirements (CAR Section 2, Series I, Part V) are provided with technical training so as to ensure that proper analysis is carried out, discrepancies are identified and timely remedial measures are undertaken.. that Air India Express should, since routine CVR monitoring is already a company policy, use it to effectively analyse and address established weaknesses in pilot non technical skills including the management of the prevailing flight deck authority gradient.. that Air India Express should, in respect of Human Resources Management: take into consideration the quantum of flights originating from respective bases and accordingly assign them as ‘home base’, especially for the Captains, in order to ensure better availability of Crew at all bases. ensure that all post holders and sub-post holders are available at their designated office to ensure proper supervision of their area of operations by designating clear office days/hours for such post holders and sub post holders as a part of their company HR policy. Such office days must be considered as a part of a duty as defined in the applicable Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR Section 8). In the absence of an independent medical department, Aviation/Aerospace Medicine Specialists should be employed in accordance with DGCA General Advisory Circular 2011/01 dated 17 December 2011 and such specialists should take classes during flight crew ground training to educate them on aeromedical issues.. take into consideration the quantum of flights originating from respective bases and accordingly assign them as ‘home base’, especially for the Captains, in order to ensure better availability of Crew at all bases.. ensure that all post holders and sub-post holders are available at their designated office to ensure proper supervision of their area of operations by designating clear office days/hours for such post holders and sub post holders as a part of their company HR policy. Such office days must be considered as a part of a duty as defined in the applicable Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR Section 8).. In the absence of an independent medical department, Aviation/Aerospace Medicine Specialists should be employed in accordance with DGCA General Advisory Circular 2011/01 dated 17 December 2011 and such specialists should take classes during flight crew ground training to educate them on aeromedical issues.. that Air India Express should, given the finding that instances of verbal briefing as a means of defect reporting have occurred, ensure that verbal briefing for any aircraft defect is strongly discouraged and that relevant procedures correspond to the applicable DGCA regulatory requirements.. that Air India Express should, in respect of international best practices regarding stabilised approaches, introduce the following into its flight operations: Final landing configuration should be selected by 1500 feet AGL for an instrument approach and 1000 feet