for a visual approach to be stable by 1000 feet for instrument approach and 500 feet for visual approach. A standard call out at 1000 feet agl during an instrument approach and 500 feet agl for a visual approach of “Stabilised/Unstable - Go Around” should be introduced to improve the situational awareness of the PF.. Final landing configuration should be selected by 1500 feet AGL for an instrument approach and 1000 feet for a visual approach to be stable by 1000 feet for instrument approach and 500 feet for visual approach.. A standard call out at 1000 feet agl during an instrument approach and 500 feet agl for a visual approach of “Stabilised/Unstable - Go Around” should be introduced to improve the situational awareness of the PF.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should, in respect of Air Traffic Control, ensure that during both the ab-initio and annual refresher training of controllers, the following aspects are strongly emphasised: The impact of tailwind conditions in adverse weather. The impact of change of QNH. Precautions required to be taken when deciding the change of runway in adverse weather.. The impact of tailwind conditions in adverse weather.. The impact of change of QNH.. Precautions required to be taken when deciding the change of runway in adverse weather.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must, in the light of the finding that the ARFF crew at Calicut were not familiar with the Boeing 737-800 aircraft which resulted in poorly coordinated rescue operations and the delayed evacuation of the pilots from the flight deck, ensure that mandatory Aircraft Familiarisation Training is provided to all ARFF crew there within a defined timeline in addition to recurrent training as per the existing requirements. In order to achieve this, the Airport Directors at all airports should coordinate with their airline operators to achieve the timely delivery of aircraft familiarisation training for their ARFF crew on all types of aircraft operating through that aerodrome as referred to in ICAO Doc 9137-AN/898 ‘Airport Services Manual, Part 1- Rescue and Fire Fighting’ with this delivery to be monitored by the DGCA through realistic surveillance inspections.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should, in respect of the proper maintenance of the soft ground portion of RESAs which offer a crucial defence in case of a runway excursion, ensure that at all times RESA upkeep and maintenance occurs as per the applicable specifications.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) should, given that the Calicut airport perimeter road which surrounds the airport must be capable of supporting heavy Fire Fighting vehicles in order to achieve the required response time with adequate safety as observed during a November 2019 DGCA inspection, but that the observed deficiencies still existed on the day of the accident, make the perimeter road wide enough to facilitate this required rapid movement of emergency vehicles.. that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) must, since an Airport Doctor has an important role in any Aerodrome Emergency Plan (AEP),