Departure from Dubai was delayed by half an hour, which was apparently a matter of concern to the Captain as he wanted to achieve the scheduled arrival time at Calicut. As it was the monsoon season, additional fuel had been uplifted to ensure a wide choice of alternates should the destination prove unusable because of adverse weather there around the time of arrival after a flight expected to take about 3½ hours. Whist still working Chennai ACC, the Calicut weather was obtained and runway 28 was advised as the runway in use. At that time, the surface wind velocity was given as 270°/14 knots and the visibility as 1500 metres rain with a “moderate thunderstorm”. The minimum visibility minima for a Cat 1 ILS approach to either end of the single “table top” runway was 1300 metres. Accordingly, the approach briefing given prior to the top of descent was for the runway 28 ILS with no reference to use of the 10 ILS approach. CVR data showed that the flap and autobrake settings were “decided by the crew” without any reference to a landing performance calculation. When descending through FL 170 and cleared to FL120 and 52 nm from Calicut (aerodrome elevation 343 feet), the flight was transferred to Calicut APP. An updated weather report subsequently gave the visibility as 1500 metres “in feeble rain and thunderstorm”. In accordance with local procedures, the presence of a thunderstorm and a wind speed exceeding 17 knots, a local “Weather Standby” was in force which meant that rescue and fire fighting services (RFFS) tenders were in position at pre-determined positions along the runway. With the visibility improved to 2000 metres in light rain and no mention of a thunderstorm, the flight was cleared for a procedural ILS approach to runway 28 from the CLC VOR located on the airport (there is no radar at Calicut). The approach proceeded uneventfully and the landing clearance was accompanied by a wind check of 280°/05 knots with the runway surface wet in light rain. A short reminder on how the First Officer should select the left windshield wiper, which was known to be malfunctioning, on when asked to do so was then given and this selection was then made passing 2,250 feet with the approach lighting confirmed in sight by both pilots soon afterwards. However, about half a minute after being switched on, the Captain’s windshield wiper then stopped working with the CVR recording the Captain saying “wiper is gone...what a day for the wiper to go”. When unable to see the runway at DA, a missed approach was commenced as per the prior instruction to fly a non standard missed approach due to the presence of CBs and continued to climb as cleared on an approximate runway heading. The First Officer completed the ‘After Takeoff’ Checklist and asked the Captain if he should again set up the FMC for the ILS approach to runway 28, which was agreed “after slight hesitation”. At about the same time,