800 metres applicable when RVR is not reported for a specific runway.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should introduce Competency Based Training and Assessment (CBTA) as recommended by ICAO and ensure that pilots are trained and assessed on the nine competencies listed below: Communication Aircraft Flight Path Management - Manual Control Aircraft Flight Path Management - Automation Leadership and teamwork Problem Solving and Decision making Application of procedures Work load Management Situational Awareness Knowledge. Communication. Aircraft Flight Path Management - Manual Control. Aircraft Flight Path Management - Automation. Leadership and teamwork. Problem Solving and Decision making. Application of procedures. Work load Management. Situational Awareness. Knowledge. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should advise all operators/flight crew to make better use of onboard wind velocity indications to enhance their situational awareness and assist in making a stabilised approach.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should, given the fact that there are far too many Circulars and Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs) on the same topic e.g. Monsoon Operations, Adverse Weather, Stabilised Approach, consolidate all information on a particular subject in a single CAR or Circular for ease of user reference.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should issue directions to all scheduled and non-scheduled operators requiring them to educate their aircrew on the aeromedical consequences of self medication and should also undertake a study to establish prevalence of use of non-prescribed medications amongst aircrew especially for diabetes.. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should ensure that the information sharing mechanism between an AAIB Investigation Team and relevant DGCA officials during aircraft accident/serious incident investigation is in accordance with the Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017 Rule 10(1) (a) and (b) and should advise its officials that they must participate in discussions whenever required to do so by an Investigation Team.. that the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) takes the necessary action to ensure that existing Investigator posts are filled with permanent full time Investigators, that additional posts are created to cater for the growth of aviation in India and that a permanent aerospace/aviation medicine specialist is recruited as an Investigator able to both participate in aircraft accident investigations and assist the “go team” as a Human Factors expert.. that the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) should set up a state-of-the-art Flight Recorder (DFDR & CVR) Laboratory with the necessary hardware and software to perform readout and analysis (including spectrum analysis) and that they should mandate aircraft manufacturers to provide the necessary Technical Literature, Hardware and Software for all aircraft types that operate in India.. The 281 page Final Report was completed on 17 August 2021 and published the following month.