runway centreline and the mid-runway summit longitudinal profile of the runway acquiring more significance.. The fact that, despite the first go around occurring because the Captain could not see the runway at DA because it was raining and his windshield wiper was inoperative, the option of diversion to an alternate with better weather was not discussed at any time was considered very unusual. Whilst the reason could not be known, there was circumstantial evidence that the Captain may have been unduly focused on being able to night-stop in Calicut as intended because he was rostered for a morning flying duty from there the next day which any diversion would have precluded.. In personality terms, the Captain was seen as having been vulnerable to degraded performance in the form of “cognitive bias” by being subject to incrementally increasing stress derived from his known tendency to be “goal orientated”, have “cognitive rigidity” and a “tendency towards perfectionism”, which together would have been likely to adversely affect the quality of flight deck crew resource management (CRM).. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally recorded as “the non adherence to SOPs by the Captain wherein he continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, half way down the runway, in spite of a ‘Go Around’ call by the First Officer after which a mandatory Go Around was warranted followed by the failure of the First Officer to take over the controls and execute a Go Around himself". A total of 16 Contributory Factors in respect of both the immediate and systemic causes of the accident were also identified as follows: The actions and decisions of the Captain were steered by a misplaced motivation to land back at Calicut to be able to operate the following day’s morning flight from Calicut. The unavailability of a sufficient number of Captains at Calicut was the result of a faulty Air India Human Resources policy which did not take into account operational requirements when assigning a permanent base to its Captains. Only one Captain and 26 First Officers made up the posted strength at Calicut at the time of the accident.. The Captain had vast experience of landing at Calicut under similar weather conditions. This experience might have led to over confidence leading to complacency and a state of reduced conscious attention that would have seriously affected his actions and decision making as well as CRM.. The Captain was taking multiple un-prescribed anti-diabetic drugs that may have caused subtle cognitive deficits due to mild hypoglycaemia which probably contributed to errors in complex decision making as well as susceptibility to perceptual errors.. The possibility of visual illusions causing errors in distance and depth perception (like the black hole approach and up-sloping runway effects) cannot be ruled out due to degraded visual cues of orientation in relatively low visibility and the suboptimal performance of the Captain’s windshield wiper in rain.. Poor CRM was a major contributory factor in this crash. As a consequence of a lack of