assertiveness and the steep authority gradient on the flight deck, the First Officer did not take over the controls in spite of being well aware of the grave situation. The lack of effective CRM training at Air India Express resulted in poor CRM and a steep flight deck authority gradient.. Air India Express senior management policies have led to a lack of supervision in training, operations and safety practices, resulting in deficiencies at various levels and causing repeated human error accidents at the operator.. The Air India Express pilot training programme lacked effectiveness and did not impart the requisite skills for performance enhancement. One of the drawbacks in training was inadequate maintenance and lack of periodic system upgrades of the simulator used resulting in frequent recurrence of major snags which resulted in negative training. Also, pilots were often not checked in all the mandatory flying exercises during simulator check sessions by Examiners.. The non availability of an OPT made it very difficult for the pilots to quickly calculate accurate landing data in adverse weather conditions. Quick and accurate calculations would have helped the pilots to foresee the extremely low margin for error, enabling them to opt for a safer alternative.. The scrutiny of aircraft Technical Logs and Maintenance Records showed evidence of nonstandard practice in reporting of certain snags verbally rather than in writing. There was no defect entry for the pre-existing faulty left side windshield wiper in the aircraft Technical Log. Although it could not be verified, verbal communication regarding this issue is highly probable.. The Duty ATCO changed the runway in use in a hurry to accommodate the departure of another aircraft without understanding the repercussions for the arrival of the accident aircraft on a wet runway in rain in the presence of a tailwind component nor did he caution the flight in respect of the prevailing strong tail winds or pass an updated QNH setting.. The accuracy of the reported surface winds for runway 10 was affected by installation of the relevant wind sensor contrary to the laid-down regulatory criteria as aggravated by its frequent breakdown due to poor maintenance.. The Tower Meteorological Officer (TMO) was not available in the ATC tower at the time of the accident despite the fact that two concurrent weather warnings were active for the airport and it was mandatory for them to be present to update and inform the fast changing weather variations to enhance air safety. During adverse weather conditions the presence of the TMO in the ATC tower was even more critical.. Although the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has managed to fulfil ICAO and DGCA certification requirements at Calicut, for certain critical areas like the RESA and runway and approach lighting, each of these taken in isolation fulfils the specified safety criteria, but when considered in totality, the accident aircraft flight crew were left with little or no margin for error. Although not directly contributory to the accident causation, availability of runway centreline lights would have certainly enhanced