In response, the Captain instructed the First Officer to “set thrust and Flap 1” but then, still not content with the control of the aircraft, the Captain took over as PF without pressing the priority button on his sidestick. As he did so, ATC re-cleared the flight to 4,000 feet and instructed it to fly a heading of 135°M, the latter being followed shortly afterwards by an instruction to continue the left turn onto 090°M. The flight director was set for the standard missed approach procedure and so the Captain did not engage the AP and instructed the First Officer to set the cleared heading of 090°M. However, he then “made a slight turn to the right” before quickly reversing this to commence the instructed left turn. On seeing the initial response, the First Officer pressed the priority button on his sidestick which generated an aural warning of “priority right” upon which, the Captain re-iterated that he was in control of the aircraft and pressed his own priority button. He then continued the left turn and climbed as cleared to 4000 feet QNH and a further approach to a landing was subsequently completed. The crew subsequently stated that proximity of the Saab 340 had generated a TCAS TA and that they had “believed the aircraft were approximately 900 feet apart”. The departing Saab 340, with the Captain as PF, was flying a UTAVA 1R SID. This involved climbing on runway heading to 3.1 nm on the ILS DME and then making a right turn onto the BKY VOR 170°R continuing the climb to 4000 feet QNH. As the flight passed 1000 feet with the AP engaged, ATC advised that an aircraft on approach had initiated a go-around. After initially telling the crew to continue on the SID, they then gave a radar heading of 290°. As this was commenced, ATC then told them to stop their climb at 3000 feet. As the aircraft passed approximately 2,500 feet, a TCAS TA was displayed followed a few seconds later by a TCAS RA ‘LEVEL OFF’ as the aircraft passed approximately 2,700 feet. The Captain disconnected the AP and began to level the aircraft but almost immediately a TCAS “clear of conflict” message was annunciated and the climb to 3000 feet was completed and the AP re-engaged. No TCAS RA call was made to ATC because of the First Officer’s “high workload” at the time of the event and only after the flight to destination had been completed was the event reported to Stansted ATC. Radar and ATC transponder data were analysed and it was determined that that the two aircraft had passed 87 metres apart laterally and 600 feet vertically as illustrated below where the annotated altitudes are shown based on 1013. In its analysis of the event, the Investigation identified the First Officer’s non-standard disconnection of the AP as “inadvertent” and surmised that the delayed response of the A320 crew to ATC instructions following their notification that a go around was