An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB based on ATC radar and transponder data from both aircraft and information provided by both flight crews. It was noted that the 41 year-old A320 Captain who had been PM for the flight involved until obliged to take over, had a total of 13,731 flying hours of which just 98 hours were on type. No information was provided on the experience of the A320 First Officer who was acting as PF until the Captain was obliged to take over control or on the experience of the Training Captain who was occupying the supernumerary crew seat. It was also not clarified how the designated aircraft commander was able to be so designated whilst undergoing line training or how it was possible for the Training Captain “supervising” him not to have been occupying the right hand pilot seat. It was noted that the 42 year-old Saab 340 Captain had a total of 5,311 flying hours of which 4,574 hours were on type. It was established that as the A320 was passing approximately FL 140, ATC gave the flight a short-cut and a speed reduction to 250 knots which meant that it was now above the ideal descent profile for the in-use runway 22. The First Officer reported having considered that the approach was “still acceptable” and when, at approximately FL 070, the flight was re-cleared to 2,000 feet QNH, the altitude of the ILS final approach fix (FAF), it was decided to extend the speed brakes to increase the rate of descent. After further reducing the required speed to 220 knots and then to 200 knots, an increase in track miles was offered by ATC but declined by the First Officer. The Captain then reminded him that the aircraft was still above profile and said that he wanted to extend the landing gear to assist. Once this had been done, the aircraft began returning to the final approach vertical profile, although as the planned ILS GS intercept point - the FAF - neared, a considerable ‘fly down’ indication was still present and prior to GS capture, the aircraft began to level off at the selected altitude of 2000 feet. The Captain responded by directing the First Officer to select V/S mode so as to enable ILS GS capture to occur but instead the First Officer inadvertently selected a climb mode instead. Although he then wanted to correct his error and try again to descend to the ILS GS, the Captain, “recognising there was no prospect of a stable approach” ordered a go-around. The First Officer “set TOGA for the flight director and autothrottle whilst also disconnecting the AP” whilst the Captain set the 3000 feet QNH go around stop altitude in the the flight control unit (FCU). Almost immediately, altitude capture mode became active and as the aircraft levelled off, “there was some confusion between the pilots over speed and flap selections” which resulted in the First Officer reducing the thrust to idle.