The safety surveys are usually independent of routine inspections and safety audits by government or organisation’s management. Aviation service providers may choose to conduct safety surveys at regularly planned intervals or ad-hoc. Safety surveys should be carried out internally and conducted by independent and adequately trained personnel. Since ‘independent’ would normally mean independent of the area being surveyed, different ways might be suggested to achieve independence. The most common options would be using specific personnel, cross-auditing and external support. The safety manager of the organisation should head up safety surveys and be responsible for the recruitment, training and review of the personnel conducting this activity. The surveys can review operational units, particular operational and engineering activities or facilities. Surveys should also be performed to review SMS processes established to meet regulatory requirements. The objectives are to assess factors affecting safety of operations, significant activities and SMS safety processes, and to facilitate the identification of corrective actions wherever necessary. According to ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual, the common principles and procedures that need to be followed when conducting a safety survey are: Some other factors that ICAO suggest for consideration when conducting a survey are to obtain the cooperation of the people involved, avoid perception of “witch-hunt” and to respect the operational experience of target respondents. Surveys have a particular application when an organisation is undergoing significant change. A careful consideration of the ongoing major changes and the nature of the operations, of the systems and procedures used must be given when selecting the time frame for surveys, such as Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) and Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS). Surveys and programmes, such as LOSA, NOSS and Flight Data Monitoring are used to sample normal operations activities and provide useful normative data for analysis of the daily operations, providing to the organisation proactive tools for hazard identification and safety improvement.