information provided by the FQIC did not suggest to the crew that there was any leak or imbalance that would require the crossfeed valve to be opened”. This meant in the event of a FQIC malfunction, the associated procedure did prevent fuel starvation of an engine. As to the maintenance response to the concerns of the previous crew about flight deck fuel quantity indications, at the time of the event, available maintenance procedures for FQIC failure “dealt only with specific cases (and) no procedures in the Troubleshooting Manual addressed a fuel quantity indicator malfunction/fluctuation in a generic situation […] in which erroneous indications were intermittent”. The Investigation considered why the ECAM ‘FUEL L WING TK LO LVL’ message which appeared during the climb out of Marseilles had then almost immediately “disappeared”. After undertaking a review of the evidence available, it was concluded that the only possible explanation was (un-recollected) crew action. The SOP for responding to all ECAM messages normally required crew to terminate an ECAM procedure by pressing the CLR button on the ECAM control panel but should an alert be considered false, the EMER CANCEL button should be pressed instead. Once the EMER CANCEL button has been pressed, pressing the Recall (RCL) button for at least 3 seconds creates a list of alerts inhibited in that way. Since it was established that the RCL button was not pressed on the ground following the event flight and subsequent maintenance action did not preserve the list, “it could not be determined whether the procedure displayed on the ECAM disappeared as a result of the crew pressing the EMER CANCEL button”. However, “examination of the FLSCU and other components of the FQIS did not reveal any failures that could explain this disappearance” and when the aircraft was powered up by maintenance after the event flight, this warning was activated again. The Cause of the left engine failure was confirmed to have been fuel starvation after the flight had departed with the crew unaware that the fuel on board was less than they had intended. Three Contributory Factors in respect of the left engine failure were identified as: The many differences and inconsistencies in flight crew entry of fuel figures in the aircraft Technical Log on the ground, probably due to a lack of enough information in the Operations Manual, insufficient training and, in some cases, lack of verification by the First Officer of the Captain’s calculations.. The difficulty of a crew questioning information considered to be reliable before departure of a flight (confirmation bias).. An ECAM low fuel level procedure that required crew actions based on erroneous fuel quantity information provided by the Fuel Quantity Indicating Computer FQIC and their lack of knowledge of the independence of the Fuel Level Sensing Control Unit (FLSCU) and the Fuel Quantity Indicating System (FQIS).. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included the following: Air France: carried out a fleet check of