and on the SD page. The Investigation found that the FQIS had malfunctioned and provided erroneous information about the amount of fuel in the left tank both prior to and during incident flight. As a result, in the absence of crossfed fuel from the right wing tank, both the left engine and the APU (which is fed from the left wing tank) were starved of fuel. The origin of this indication fault was found to be an intermittent solder defect “caused by voltage variations of an oscillator in the FQIC”. It was also found that when the aircraft arrived at Marseilles on the previous flight operated by a different flight crew, “in the absence of verification by the First Officer, the Captain’s error in his fuel log calculation was not identified”. Had it been, an 880 kg difference would have alerted both flight crews to an apparent FQIC fault. Instead, the new crew, based on the aircraft Technical Log fuel entry and the indicated fuel on board, had no reason to suspect a fuel indication problem. During the subsequent flight, the crew had “associated the activation of the low fuel level warning with an untimely warning related to the FQIC malfunction recorded in the Technical Log by the previous crew”. When the fuel pumps then stopped due to fuel starvation and when the left engine shut down after the left tanks became empty, “the crew thought that the two pumps had failed simultaneously” and did not question whether there was any fuel in the left wing until they had completed the flight even when the APU also stopped almost immediately after being started. The Investigation found that the procedure for recording fuel figures in the aircraft Technical Log at the time of the investigated event was “not covered by the operational documentation available to pilots (and) pilot training included only a 17-minute module on using the aircraft Technical Log”. An examination of the Technical Log of the aircraft involved and documents related to refuelling over the six weeks prior to the event found that fuel recording errors based on mis-calculation “sometimes of as much as one tonne” were prevalent with crews not following instructions contained in the OM and often entering calculated fuel quantities, not those read from the indicators in the Technical Log after flight. It was considered that such errors suggested that verification of the Captain’s required after flight fuel entry was “not systematically carried out” and that this may partly explain why the problem of intermittent FQIC failure on the aircraft had not been promptly recognised and resolved. It was also noted that under the procedures in place at the time, if a low fuel level alert occurred, the X-FEED valve must be opened if a fuel quantity imbalance was observed, provided there was no parallel evidence of a fuel leak based on the fuel quantity information provided by the FQIC. When the fuel low level warning occurred on the incident flight it was observed that “the