takeoff whilst still in the climb, an ECAM ‘FUEL L WING TK LO LVL’ message had been annunciated which caused the Fuel System page to open automatically. This message required the crew to refer to an ECAM procedure which, in the absence of any evidence of a suspected fuel leak, instructed them to close the fuel transfer pumps on the side with the low level indication. However, at this point, the ECAM message and the automatically displayed fuel page disappeared. The crew then displayed the Fuel System page again and after noticing that “the fuel quantities fluctuated and then seemed to become consistent again” they reported having “deduced from this that it was an untimely warning” which could be associated with the previously identified FQIS. They had therefore decided that a precautionary check of the Fuel System page every five to ten minutes during the rest of the flight to ensure continued correspondence between the indications of fuel remaining and fuel used and departure fuel would be an appropriate response. They reported that these checks had not disclosed anything unusual. Then, as the flight had approached FL 110 during the subsequent descent towards destination, the Captain reported having noticed that the two left side fuel pumps had changed colour to amber on the Fuel System page and shortly after this, passing FL 080, an ECAM ‘FUEL L TK PUMP 1+2 LO PR’ Warning was annunciated. The crew stated that they had carried out the applicable procedure and switched off both pumps but had not also opened the crossfeed transfer because this is not required when below FL110. The Captain stated that the crew had then performed a FORDEC review and decided to complete the flight using gravity fuel feeding but after a further six minutes, with the aircraft now downwind, an ‘ENG 1 FAIL’ warning was annunciated and the left engine stopped. The crew responded with the associated procedure and started the APU but when this also stopped after approximately two minutes and an attempt to restart it had failed, an emergency was declared and a landing with only the right engine functioning followed. It was noted that, as detailed in the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM), the Fuel Quantity Indicating System (FQIS) of which the core component is the Fuel Quantity Indicating Computer (FQIC) displays fuel on board on the ECAM Engine Warning/Display (EWD) screen and the fuel in each tank on the ECAM System Display (SD) page. Manual magnetic gauges located on the wing lower surface are also available and provide an alternative means to check fuel quantity. The entirely independent Fuel Level Sensing Control Unit (FLSCU) derives quantity indications based on fuel level sensors which, when the weight of fuel in an inner tank is approximately 750 kg, are no longer immersed and a signal is sent to the FLSCU which automatically commands the transfer valves between the inner and outer wing tanks to open and provides a corresponding flight deck indication on both the EWD screen