An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, based on downloaded CVR and FDR data and crew statements. Neither the overall nor aircraft type and experience of the flight crew involved in the investigated event or that of the previous crew operating the aircraft prior to the crew involved taking over the aircraft were recorded. Prior to the flight under investigation, which was the first of four sectors for the flight crew involved, the same aircraft had flown two return flights from Marseilles to Nantes with a different crew. On completion of the third of these sectors, the Captain had made a defect entry in the Aircraft Technical Log to the effect that on taxiing out at Marseilles, the flight deck fuel on board indication had been “showing 300 kg less than expected”. In response, maintenance determined that a sensor in the outer section of the left wing tank had failed and that rectification could be deferred and released the aircraft to service. The flight to Marseilles was reported to have “proceeded normally” and after shutdown, the Captain had calculated a difference between the indicated fuel which had been recorded at the start of the flight as within 20 kg of the indicated fuel on arrival plus the fuel used as indicated on the totaliser, whereas it was subsequently established that “in reality, the difference was 880 kg”. The crew taking over the aircraft did not see the off-going crew but the Captain noted reference to the faulty fuel system sensor in the aircraft Technical Log and had also been left an explanatory note by the previous Captain “recording the varying fuel quantity indications according to the different phases of the flight during the last leg from Nantes to Marseille” which showed a maximum deviation of 300 kg. Having noted the indicated fuel on board as 3,780 kg, the Captain arranged for an uplift to 5,000 kg - an additional 1200 kg. The crew stated that they had checked that the fuel uplift had been made as requested and that the fuel was distributed evenly between and within the two wing tanks with the outer tanks in both wings showing full. Between FL 150 and FL 180 during the subsequent climb after takeoff on the first sector to Paris CDG, the Captain, who was acting as PF, stated that he had seen that both wing fuel transfer valves, which move fuel from the outer section of each wing tank to the inner section, were open and that at this time, the indicated fuel in each wing had been approximately 1,600 kg. The First Officer did not recall seeing this and the Captain stated that he had not drawn this to the attention of the First Officer because “this indication did not raise any particular concerns for him” given that he had previously seen such indications when inner tank fuel was higher than the theoretical pump activation threshold of 750 kg. Fifteen minutes after