the accuracy of the FQIC and found no faults on any other aircraft.. Reminded all its crews how to correctly complete fuel entries in the aircraft Technical Log and of related SOPs, amended the content of the OM Part B to include a detailed procedure for completing the fuel section in the aircraft Technical Log and made the application of these procedures the subject of flight crew training and line checks.. Introduced a process whereby an aircraft evidencing a significant combination of frequent and severe failures or crew feedback via the aircraft Technical Log or other reporting means was identified to a specific status enabling special monitoring in coordination with the aircraft manufacturer in order to identify and deal with intermittent failures expeditiously.. Airbus: In May 2016, a new maintenance task was added to the A320 Trouble Shooting Manual to cover fluctuations in fuel quantity indications.. In June 2015, the terms “unusual“ and “abnormal“ used in the A320 FCOM pre-flight fuel management content on the ‘Before Start Clearance’ were amplified to “clarify” the meaning of these words.. In March 2015, the A320 FCOM was amended to make it clearer that fuel quantity measurement and the fuel low level alert were derived from completely different sources.. In December 2015, the A320 cruise fuel monitoring procedure was amended to require checks at least every 30 minutes and reworded to require a check that “the sum of the fuel on board and the fuel used is consistent with the fuel on board at departure” and to remind crews that if this sum is significantly more than departure fuel, they should suspect a fuel quantity over read and if it is significantly smaller or decreased then they should suspect a fuel leak.. At the end of 2018, a Safety Study resulted in an amendment to the ‘FUEL L(R) WING TK LO LVL’ procedure which deleted the imbalance condition and introduced a requirement to “open the crossfeed valve from the moment that there is no leak”.. The Final Report was published in English translation on 20 February 2020 after the initial and definitive publication in French on 9 January 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.