Preventing any of the other contributing factors would not reliably prevent the blind spot occurrences but would only reduce the chance of them to happen. Albeit unreliable, the following may be one of the most efficient risk reduction strategies. Generally, two types of safety barriers exist: Prevention barriers are intended to solve the problem before it has emerged.. Mitigation barriers are intended to reduce or eliminate the impact of a problem after it has happened.. The following barriers can help prevent loss of separation caused by Blind Spots: Routine Structured Scan. Scanning is a basic building block in ATC training. Prior to making an executive decision the controller should scan all of the appropriate information (the situation display, the flight data (strips), the co-ordinations agreed), evaluate immediate situation, and consider any future implications. The Operational Safety Study:Blind Spots has shown that this technique has the potential to prevent most losses of separation caused by Blind Spot. There are situations where information may be suppressed or diffused. Track labels may be obscured and flight data displays may not be arranged in such a way to highlight a conflict. Time pressure and workload may erode the attention that the controller is able to give to each piece of information. Working knowledge may then become layered and the filtered. When a controller gets under pressure, a “return to basics” such as using a structured scan before making an executive decision would reduce the likelihood of controller error.. Use of velocity vectors. The velocity vectors achieve a very simple thing of making the dynamic characteristics of targets (i.e. aircraft) on controllers’ display visually available. Velocity (speed) vectors help controllers anticipate in what direction flight objects (tracks) are about to move and where they would be positioned in the near future. Current ATC automated systems support display of velocity vectors, with typically up to 5 min look-ahead time, selectable in one minute interval. Without such visualisation the controller would be under a heavy cognitive burden having to rely on past experience on the target dynamics (memory or history dots, if available) and integration of a large number of circumstantial factors to predict the targets’ trajectories into the future.. Operational Team Resource Management. This barrier relies on available, vigilant and proactive colleagues. It can be both preventative and mitigational. Proactive team work may involve making a mistake less likely by encouraging/suggesting a plan to a colleague, pointing out potential conflicts or building in assured safety in co-ordinations. It may also prevent the loss of separation by the alerting of a colleague to an apparent error or misjudgement before separation minima have been compromised.. Medium term conflict prediction tools with route updates (e.g. MTCD). These are tools that predict the trajectory of the aircraft in mid-term of up to 20-30 minutes and are usually based on flight plan information, updated with surveillance information about the position and speed of the aircraft and actual and forecasted meteorological information. Considering the aircraft type performance, the tools calculate if the