In the case of Blind Spot occurrence, the scenario mechanism is basically reduced to only one – inadequate attention. This is because the mechanism of the blind spot occurrence by definition is ‘controller not detecting a conflict’. The most common triggers for this are: Rushed vertical clearance after a pilot request: This scenario trigger occurs when a pilot makes a request for climb/descent. This grabs the attention of the controller whose focus was elsewhere. There is a perceived need to deal with the request as quickly as possible so that the limited attention resource can be returned to other tasks. The controller does not carry out a structured scan for potential conflicts and agrees to the request. The clearance leads to a conflict.. Instruction to meet constraints: Airspace design for en-route and TMA sectors has become complex. To accommodate the various constraints, such as the transfer of control, the task is increasingly governed by silent handovers either by standing agreements or individual electronic acceptance. The controller’s attention turns to a requirement to climb/descend an aircraft to meet these constraints and does not take into account the potential conflict ahead.. Clearance not following the horizontal flight plan route: Flight Data Processing (FDP) systems are designed to highlight the planned routing of aircraft. This may be via paper or electronic strips, or by information overlaid onto the radar display. When flights do not tactically follow the pre-planned flight profile, the information gleaned from the FDP system may no longer highlight the potential conflict. This scenario trigger involves instruction or clearance from the controller that result in horizontal deviation from flight planned route. This includes the first clearance and any subsequent clearance before the aircraft re-joins the Flight Planned horizontal route, including the instruction to resume own navigation after vectoring.. Conflict Resolution Instruction: Solving potential conflict and not detecting the resultant conflict.. These triggers are necessary elements for the scenario – the occurrence could not have occurred without some of them. Preventing the scenario triggers will reliably prevent the blind spot occurrences, but this may not be operationally feasible.