VLJs, can be improved so as to enhance the minimum levels of safety currently required by the legislation in force. [RSV (A) 204/A/08]. that all Civil Aviation Regulatory Agencies should review their regulations on the man-machine interface in the aircraft flight control station and/or flight deck in terms of the positioning of the instruments, warnings and alerts so as to prevent inadvertent interactions between the crew members and such devices affecting the safety of the operation. These revisions must be in accordance with the development of the requirements in progress in the aeronautical community, among them the Draft Rule 14 CFR 25.1302 'Installed Systems and Equipment for Use by the Flight Crew', which includes the interaction between the crew members and the positioning of instruments, in order to prevent any eventual inadvertent actions affecting their operation. [RSV (A) 206A/08]. It was noted by the NTSB in their submission commenting formally on the draft copy of the Official Investigation Report that "in summary, the (NTSB representatives assigned to assist the CENIPA Investigation) have no substantial disagreement with the facts gathered and discussed in this report and generally concur that the safety issues involved in this accident are related to ATC, operational factors, and the loss of in-flight collision avoidance technology". However, it was clear whilst accepting the findings, the relative weight which the NTSB felt should be given to the ATS and 135 operational failures differed somewhat in emphasis in attributing more causal elements to the ATC system than to the way the Legacy aircraft was operated. The NTSB also noted in their response that they had worked with the CENIPA to formulate NTSB Safety Recommendation A07-35 which, issued on 2 May 2007 whilst the CENIPA Investigation was still ongoing, asked the FAA to "require an enhanced aural and visual warning requiring pilot acknowledgment in the event of an airborne loss of collision avoidance system functionality for any reason". The NTSB noted when issuing this and two related safety recommendations of equal date that (the current industry practice of) providing only static text messages to indicate a loss of collision avoidance system functionality "was not a reliable way to gain pilots’ attention" and that notifications for other aircraft system failures that could have similarly critical consequences "generally use both aural alerts and conspicuous visual alerts" which "require the flight crew to acknowledge that the annunciation has been detected". In this connection, whilst accepting that loss of transponder data during IFR operations can usually be detected by ATC, the NTSB noted that the reliability of this method is open to compromise in the event of limitations in radar or RTF coverage. The Final Report was approved on 8 December 2008 and subsequently released.