Six further attempts to make contact on the same frequency prior to the moment of the collision 32 minutes later were also unsuccessful. No attempt was made by the Legacy crew to call ATC prior to the collision despite not having heard from ATC for almost an hour and it was established that the reason why its crew had not responded to these calls was that it was no longer in radio cover for the frequency which had been given. The Investigation also found that out of the four frequencies allocated to the sector which the 135 was by now in, only one was actually available because the others were either not connected to the console in use or not connected to the audio centre. The emergency frequency was available but neither it nor the only functioning normal frequency were used to attempt to re-establish contact. A further sector frequency included on the Jeppesen Chart carried on board the Legacy was found to be incorrect. As the Legacy approached the handover point between the Brasilia and Amazonas ACCs, the Assistant Controller for the Brasilia sector handed the aircraft over stating that it was at FL 360 and failed to also mention that it had been out of radio and Mode 'C' contact for a considerable time and remained so. At this time, the Gol 737-800 was at FL 370 flying in the opposite direction as cleared and approaching the Amazonas ACC side of the boundary with Brasilia ACC. Shortly afterwards, with no sign that either crew had seen the opposing traffic, the two aircraft closed in VMC at a speed of around 860 knots - equivalent to in excess of 14 nm per minute - and the collision occurred. It was found that as a result of almost 7 metres of the outer left wing of the 737 detaching soon after and as a result of the impact, an explosion and fire had subsequently occurred in that area. It was clear that it would have been impossible to retain control in these circumstances and evident that, having "entered a left spiral dive at an abnormal attitude known as a 'spin'", the 737 airframe had broken up before ground impact, probably about 8000 feet agl just under a minute after the collision. Despite damage to its left winglet and left horizontal stabiliser/elevator, the Legacy remained controllable and after switching the transponder back on, mode 'C' data reappeared on Amazonas ACC radars and a change to the emergency squawk 7700 was almost immediately observed. The diversion to Cachimbo, which was approximately 100 nm northwest of the collision location, was completed without significant handling difficulty with the crew reporting that an "unidentified object" had been struck. Since no evidence was found that the transponder had not been fully serviceable throughout the flight, the Investigation explored the ways in which an unintended de-selection may have occurred. It was concluded that whilst there could be no certainty, the most likely explanation was that whilst referring