with ATC instructions and Gol Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The Embraer Legacy Captain had been employed by ExcelAire for almost 5 years. He had accumulated a total of 9,388 flying hours of which just 5 hours were on type. Much of his experience had been gained on aircraft fitted with electro mechanical instruments and without the latest FMS-type capabilities found on the Legacy aircraft and he had no previous experience on any other Embraer 145 family aircraft. The First Officer had joined ExcelAire two months prior to the accident and had accumulated a total of 6,400 flying hours including 3 hours on the Embraer 135 Legacy variant and around 300 hours recent experience on Embraer 135/140/145 family aircraft - some in command - with a previous airline employer. It was his first job in an 'on demand' operation. It was found that the Legacy was on the first leg of a delivery flight after being purchased new from Embraer for use by US on-demand passenger transport operator ExcelAire. The flight crew allocated this duty were not experienced in the acceptance and delivery process nor had they any prior experience of flight operations in Brazil. The accident flight commenced soon after the formal handover of the aircraft and it was considered that "the ceremony and protocols degraded their attention to the details of the flight planning" with the consequence that "the operational needs of a long distance ferry flight were underestimated", especially as the aircraft needed to be refuelled to maximum immediately after completion of the acceptance formalities. In particular, it was noted that the flight to Manaus would be the first time either pilot had used the fuel system installed in the aircraft they were to fly, which was different from the one they had both encountered during type conversion training in the simulator. Evident concern over the weight and balance of the loaded aircraft was also noted as was the fact that although at the request of ExcelAire, the flight plan for the first leg of their flight had been filed by Embraer, contrary to most delivery flight crews departing on flight plans filed on their behalf, they had not asked to see it in advance. However, overall, the Investigation concluded that "it seems to be evident that the pilots did not deliberately fail to plan their flight, but (rather that) they considered the mission as routine" and as a result underestimated the task. It was concluded that the pilots' unfamiliarity with the aircraft found them "trying to solve doubts up to the last moment before departure, to the detriment of the time necessary for (proper pre-flight planning)". As context for this situation, it was also concluded that ExcelAire had no previous experience of an international delivery flight like the accident flight and had failed to formulate appropriate procedures or provide relevant guidance for the flight crew selected for the task. Based on the requested flight plan routing submitted by Embraer, the active flight plan held by ATC involved