the fuel system meant that neither was looking at the TCAS display which reduced the chances of them noticing the visual alert of an inoperative TCAS. The Legacy pilots judged that they would be able to conduct the flight without any special preparation despite their lack of previous work together and their incomplete knowledge of the aircraft fuel system and the calculations of the weight and balance. They believed they could speed up their departure without prejudicing verification of their flight plan and other relevant documents, such as the NOTAM on the reduction of runway length at Manaus. This led to them both concentrating on the calculations of the weight and balance in flight which allowed the non-functioning of the Transponder and TCAS to go un-noticed. They also failed to recognise the need to avoid a prolonged absence of communication with ATC - more than 43 minutes elapsed without such communication with Brasilia ACC. The planning of the flight was inadequate. Before the departure, there was no checking of the flight plan prepared by Embraer and the pilots had no previous knowledge of the proposed route and flight levels even though, in accordance with the ExcelAire Operations Manual, the Captain was required to open and close the flight plan at the nearest FAA Flight Service Station or ATC office. The lack of sufficient flight crew interest in details of the pre-flight planning was repeatedly evident from conversations recorded on the CVR. An example of this was that it was only in flight that they became aware of the NOTAM about the reduction of runway length at their first en route stop. This diverted attention from the monitoring of aspects relevant to the operation of the aircraft in flight and allowing the inoperative transponder and TCAS to go un-noticed. The oversight of preparations for the flight was inadequate. The composition of the crew - two pilots that had never flown together before - to receive, in a foreign country, an aircraft in which they had little experience, with air traffic rules different from those which they were used to, favoured a lack of good adjustment between the pilots which amplified the already-mentioned difficulties in flight deck coordination. There was no specific Operator SOP for the acceptance and delivery of a new aircraft from a manufacturer so that on-site decisions were made according to the individual experience of the pilots. ExcelAire failed to recognise that the acquired knowledge of the flight crew was not sufficient for the safe conduct of the intended flight. The deficient performance of the two pilots was directly attributable to the decisions and organisational processes adopted by the Operator, in particular "the culture and attitudes of informality". All of this was considered as constituting "a chain of errors" rather than as a result of any explicit violations by the Operator. In effect, the Investigation found that the collision would not have happened under the prevailing airspace management processes if any one of the following had not occurred: The