An Investigation was carried out by an Aeronautical Accident Investigation Commission (CIAA) constituted within the Brazilian Armed Forces 'Aeronautical Accident Investigation and Prevention Centre' (CENIPA). The SSFDR and SSCVR from the Legacy were removed and their data were successfully downloaded. The same units from the 737 were located at the wreckage site separated from their normal mountings which would have been a consequence of a break up of the aircraft structure which it was found had occurred at about 8000 feet. The SSCVR was found on the surface after striking a tree and the SSFDR was found beneath the surface after almost a month of work on site with metal detectors. Their memory was removed and inserted in serviceable units for download and good data was recovered in both cases. The NVM from a number of relevant components on the Legacy including the TCAS, both Radio Communication Units (RMUs) and both Radio Management Units (RMUs) was also downloaded and read. After a detailed review of all the available evidence, it became clear that both the aircraft involved had been airworthy in respect of anything that could have had a bearing on the risk or occurrence of the collision and that there was also no evidence that any of the pilots involved had been aware of the impending conflict. NB: The Investigation examined relevant aspects of the provision of air traffic services in Brazil in considerable depth. Although the Official Report includes a 5 page glossary which decodes most of the abbreviations used, it is considered that many will find a short outline of the Brazilian ATS system useful. The Brazilian Airspace Control System (SISCEAB) is run by the military through the Department of Airspace Control (DECEA). The Department plans and approves the deployment of the necessary infrastructure and oversees the technical and operational delivery of ATS. Its responsibilities include all related ATC related services including SAR, Aviation Meteorological Service, Aviation Telecommunications and Aviation charting. Airspace management is delivered through four Integrated ATC and Air Defence Centres - Centro Integrado de Defesa Aérea e Controle de Tráfego Aéreo (CINDACTA)s. The Legacy flight began in airspace controlled by Brasilia ACC (CINDACTA 1) and at the time of the collision had just entered airspace controlled from Manaus by Amazonas ACC (CINDACTA IV) as the 737 was about to leave it. It was noted that the 737 Captain, who had been employed by the airline since it started operations in 2001 and was a Training Captain, had accumulated 15,498 flying hours including 13,521 hours on 737 variants. The 737 First Officer had begun pilot training with the airline in 2002 and had accumulated 3,981 total flying hours including 3,081 hours on 737 variants including, initially, the -700 and -800, after which he was assigned to the -300 before returning to the -800 just prior to the accident flight which formed part of his re-qualification procedure. He had flown 1978 hours on the 737-800. The Investigation found that the aircraft had been operated in accordance