the Legacy climbing to FL 370 via POL to join airway UW2 and then proceeding to the BRS VOR where it would turn left onto airway UZ6 and descend to FL 360. However, the clearance issued by BRS ACC to São José dos Campos ATC and passed on to the Legacy crew by the GND controller there prior to departure was "incomplete" and did not include a clearance limit for the level to which the flight was cleared to climb and maintain after takeoff. In the absence of any wider understanding of ATS route levels in Brazil, the crew had therefore assumed that this level would apply throughout their cruise en route to Manaus. With the aircraft at FL 370 and working Brasilia ACC, a sector frequency change was given 52 nm south of the BRS VOR. During this handover, no mention was made to either the Legacy flight crew or the receiving controller of the level change to FL360 which would be needed at the VOR. The transfer was also premature, since it was made to a sector which did not cover the flight route until it had crossed over the BRS VOR and was approximately 13 nm to the north west of it. When the aircraft subsequently passed over the VOR having previously checked in on the new frequency, the controller received a visual alert of this required level change but took no action and the alert was removed after seven minutes. He also failed to transfer the aircraft from the frequency he had originally accepted it on to the only one which was available to maintain contact for the track along airway UZ6 towards the Brasilia/Amazonas ACC boundary. At almost the same time as the controller's level change alert disappeared, so did the transponder data from the aircraft which crucially included its altitude - still FL370. It was established conclusively during the Investigation that the transponder had still been fully serviceable and that it had been unintentionally switched off without the subsequent awareness of either pilot. CVR data at this time indicated that the attention of the crew was focused on solving issues relating to the landing performance of the aircraft at Manaus after they had belatedly learned of a NOTAM advising of a temporarily reduced LDA there. The controller did not notice the alerts which followed the loss of Mode 'C' and "did not take the prescribed corrective actions for this circumstance in RVSM airspace". It was not clear how much credence he may have attached to 3D height information which would still have been available but even so, contact with the aircraft to confirm its level would still be required. Still without any controller intervention, the position was then handed over to relieving controller who was told that the Legacy was "at FL 360". Just over half an hour after the last recorded contact between the Legacy and the previous controller, the new controller attempted to contact it on the originally-assigned frequency but without success.