of the positioning flight from Brazil to the USA. The lack of interaction between the pilots was apparent in the difficulties with the division of tasks and in the coordination of flight deck duties with both pilots devoting their attention to the calculations of the aircraft weight and balance during the flight. Their lack of theoretical knowledge became evident from the CVR data which showed that they had difficulty operating some aircraft systems, including the fuel system. The gaps in the training they had received favoured a lack of the pilots’ attention to other aspects during the flight, to the detriment of aircraft operation. Such distraction allowed the cessation of the transponder transmission to go unnoticed and this led directly to the incorrect maintenance of the FL370 on the UZ6 airway and the lack of TCAS RA. It was noted that upon completion of their type training at FSI, both pilots were entitled on an individual basis to act as operating flight crew on both domestic and international flights in accordance with 14 CFR Part 91 under which the ferry flight was being conducted. Since these regulatory requirements had been fully complied with, it was apparent that they were not adequate to meet the minimum required levels for a safe operation of high performance jet aircraft in acceptance and positioning flights. The clearance to the Legacy flight crew to maintain FL370 was given as the result of a clearance transmitted in an incorrect manner and as a direct consequence, the vertical navigation performed by the crew ended up being different from the one filed in their flight plan. The Brasilia radar controllers assumed that the Legacy was at the expected flight level without even being in two-way radio contact with it and perpetuated the resultant hazardous situation as the aircraft was handed to the Amazonas ACC. This meant that the need for traffic separation as prescribed in the "Provisions for the Separation of Controlled Traffic" in ICAO PANS-ATM, Doc 4444 was ignored. Since neither function nor design failures were found in any air traffic infrastructure equipment that might have contributed to the accident, it could be concluded that organisational deficiencies were present in the provision of ATS. The attention of both of the Legacy pilots during the period when communication with ATC began to progressively fail was directed at their landing at Manaus, since they had become aware at a late stage of a NOTAM advising that the length of the runway of that airport was limited. This detracted from the routine of monitoring the progress of the flight because both pilots got involved in this distraction at the same time, creating an environment in which the interruption of the transponder transmission was not noticed. More generally, there was a poor division of flight management tasks, culminating with a prolonged (sixteen minute) absence of the Captain from the flight deck which overburdened the First Officer when he tried to re-establish ATC contact. The use of both pilots' screens to show