to the pages on his RMU, the Captain had unintentionally set the Transponder to 'STANDBY' by pressing the RMU button twice in less than 20 seconds. This possibility was observed to be compatible with CVR data at the time the transponder was selected on again after the collision, since this followed the pilots' noticing that the transponder was off and then responding by modifying its status on the RMU. It was noted that whilst such de-selection would not have created a master caution or warning, "there were several conspicuous indications of the TCAS/Transponder status on the aircraft instrument panel - eight visible indications in all" one on each pilot's RMU and PFD, another two on the MFDs when set to display TCAS, and a flashing amber transponder reply light in the 'ATC window' boxes on both RMUs. No firm reason why all these cues were missed could be advanced but a plausible scenario for unintended de-selection was identified which involved unintended selections on the Captain's RMU. A summary of the main points of the narrative on Contributory Factors is as follows: Active failures of the flight crew included: the lack of adequate pre-flight planning an insufficient knowledge of the flight plan prepared by Embraer the lack of a briefing prior to departure the unintentional change of the transponder setting a failure to prioritise their attention the failure to realise that the transponder was not transmitting the delay in recognising a problem in communications with air traffic control non-compliance with the procedures prescribed for communications failure.. the lack of adequate pre-flight planning. an insufficient knowledge of the flight plan prepared by Embraer. the lack of a briefing prior to departure. the unintentional change of the transponder setting. a failure to prioritise their attention. the failure to realise that the transponder was not transmitting. the delay in recognising a problem in communications with air traffic control. non-compliance with the procedures prescribed for communications failure.. Low situational awareness of the flight crew (airmanship) was evidenced during their preparation for the flight which was considered by them as “routine”. This attitude then permeated their behaviour during the flight and, in conjunction with several other identified factors, aggravated the lowering of their situational awareness: The non-performance of adequate planning for the flight, a behaviour that was influenced by the habitual procedure of the operator, an aspect not favourable for the construction of a mental model to guide the conduct of the flight. The haste to depart (so as to achieve flight over the Amazon basin in daylight) and pressure from the passengers which hindered assimilation of the flight plan and negatively influenced the sequence of actions during the pre-flight and departure phases. The crew dynamics which were characterised by lack of division of tasks, lack of an adequate monitoring of the flight and by informality. It was influenced by the lack of knowledge of the weight and balance calculations and by the predominantly low aircraft type experience of the pilots. The lack of specific aircraft