7/8/9 controller with the necessary information, when coordinating and handing off the Legacy. The incomplete information transmitted by the former is an indication that he had low situational awareness in respect of the Legacy in his sector. It is possible that he considered that his priority in relation to this aircraft would be an early transfer to the next sector, since traffic in his own sector was increasing at that moment (9 aircraft), although it was below the limits prescribed for this grouped-sector position.. The Brasilia ACC sector 7/8/9 initial controller did not call the Legacy to change its flight level or to give a frequency change from sector 9 to sector 7 (which meant the aircraft eventually went out of coverage), did not notice the indicated loss of its mode 'C' signal on their radar display, assumed that it was at FL 360 and did not carry out the procedures prescribed for the loss of transponder data in RVSM airspace. He also failed to advise the supervisor of the situation and finally did not properly hand over the position to a relief controller 23 minutes prior to the collision, in particular giving the altitude of the Legacy as FL 360. This false information could not be subsequently corrected because the aircraft was no longer in radio contact.. The Brasilia ACC sector 7/8/9 relieving controller did not carry out the procedures prescribed for loss of transponder data in RVSM airspace or for communications failure and failed to properly brief his assistant controller, the latter allowing an incorrect hand-off of the Legacy to be made to Amazonas ACC.. Lack of Brasilia ACC supervisory personnel involvement in the Legacy problems - because the supervisors were not advised by controllers about the problems with the control of the Legacy, the decisions made and actions taken/not taken in relation to it were individual and without the due monitoring and guidance prescribed for air traffic control.. Amazonas ACC performance - the controller in position at the Manaus sub centre of the ACC who accepted the Legacy from Brasilia ACC deviated from standard procedure during both in this and in the hand-off of the 737. Also, having not been informed on handover that the Legacy had been without secondary radar and RTF contact for some time, he had not performed the procedure prescribed for a loss of radar contact and had not considered the Legacy control situation as critical or even as a matter of concern.. Personnel shortages - lack of staff hindered the provision of recurrent training for controller recurrent operational and TRM training and English language courses. It was observed that the annual theoretical evaluation was not identifying controllers’ performance deficiencies and thus assisting in the determination of their training needs. This personnel shortage was also complicating controller rostering and this was contributing to degraded controller performance and/or to insufficient technical qualification.. The training provided to the Legacy pilots by Flight Safety International (FSI) on behalf of the Operator proved insufficient for the conduct