Legacy flight crew had familiarised themselves with their flight plan to the extent of noticing that there was a change of flight level from the initial FL370 to FL360 at the point where the route made a left turn onto a different airway.. The Legacy flight crew had not inadvertently turned off their selected transponder and then not noticed that they had done so over a prolonged period.. The São José dos Campos ATCO had not passed the Legacy flight crew an incomplete route clearance that specified neither a clearance limit nor any required en route level changes which implied by omission that the cruising level given would apply all the way to Manaus.. The responsible Brasilia ACC controller had issued the level change instruction to descend from FL 370 to FL 360 at the BRS VOR.. Several Brasilia ACC controllers had not failed to respond to the observed loss of secondary radar returns from the Legacy and assumed that the aircraft was at its active flight plan level.. The responsible Brasilia ACC controller had not failed to issue a routine frequency change to the Legacy before it went out of radio contact.. The Legacy crew had not failed to initiate contact with ATC after what they might reasonably have perceived was an abnormally long period of time not to have received any ATC calls.. The handover of the Legacy by Brasilia ACC to Amazonas ACC had not been made without mentioning that the aircraft was only visible as a primary radar return, that it was no longer in radio contact and that its flight planned level had not been verified.. In effect it was also found that the context for these Direct Causes of the Collision was a combination of: Outstandingly poor preparation for the ferry flight by both the Operator and its flight crew.. Evidence of an endemic lack of professionalism in various parts of the air traffic control system at the operational, managerial and regulatory levels.. A total of 65 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation on four successive dates whilst it was being conducted: On 22 December 2006, 9 Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that the DECEA (Airspace Control Department, Brazil) shall immediately revise the AIP BRASIL, aiming at its updating, with an emphasis on the process of inclusion of the Brazilian air traffic rules and procedures. [RSV (A) 260/A/06]. that the DECEA shall immediately instruct air traffic controllers, as to the compliance with the prescribed procedures regarding the air traffic clearances to be transmitted to pilots, according to items 8.4.8, 8.4.9 and 8.4.10 of ICA (Instructions for the Control of Aeronautics 100 -12 - Rules of the Air and Air Traffic Services). [RSV (A) 261/A/06]. that the DECEA shall immediately ensure that all controllers in the SISCEAB (Brazilian Airspace Control System) have the required level of English language proficiency, as well as provide the necessary means for that purpose, so as to comply with the prescribed SARP, as defined in