operating Standard Operational Procedures (Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)) set by the aircraft operator for the aircraft type involved.. The non-performance of adequate planning for the flight, a behaviour that was influenced by the habitual procedure of the operator, an aspect not favourable for the construction of a mental model to guide the conduct of the flight.. The haste to depart (so as to achieve flight over the Amazon basin in daylight) and pressure from the passengers which hindered assimilation of the flight plan and negatively influenced the sequence of actions during the pre-flight and departure phases.. The crew dynamics which were characterised by lack of division of tasks, lack of an adequate monitoring of the flight and by informality. It was influenced by the lack of knowledge of the weight and balance calculations and by the predominantly low aircraft type experience of the pilots.. The lack of specific aircraft operating Standard Operational Procedures (Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)) set by the aircraft operator for the aircraft type involved.. Within this context, the inadvertent switch-off of the transponder may have occurred on account of the pilots’ limited experience in the aircraft and its avionics. They did not notice the transponder switch off because of a reduction in their situational awareness relative to indications of the changed TCAS status. This lack of situational awareness also contributed to them not recognising the likelihood that they had an ATC communication problem. Although they were maintaining the last flight level authorised by the Brasilia ACC, they spent almost an hour flying at a non-standard flight level for the heading being flown without asking for any confirmation from ATC. The performance deficiencies shown by the flight crew have a direct relationship with the organisational decisions and processes adopted by the operator: The inadequate designation of the pilots for the operation.. The insufficient training for the conduct of the mission.. The routine procedures relating to the planning of the flight in which the crew did not fully participate.. CENIPA CAVEAT: "It is important to point out that the refusal of the Brasilia ACC controllers involved in the accident to participate in the interviews hindered the precise identification of the individual aspects that contributed to the occurrence of the non-conformities. Some of these aspects were kept in the field of hypotheses." The Route Clearance issued to the Legacy - the transmission of the Legacy flight clearance by the assistant controller of the São Paulo Region of Brasilia ACC and by the Ground controller of the Airspace Control Detachment of São José dos Campos Airport (DTCEA-SJ) was not in accordance with procedures. To the extent that it was incomplete, the clearance given favoured the understanding by the pilots that they had to maintain FL 370 all the way to Manaus. This deviation had become a routinely informal procedure pattern for the transmission of clearances originated by Brasilia ACC and disseminated by DTCEA-SJ, replacing the procedure prescribed by the legislation.. The Brasilia ACC sector 5/6 controller did not provide the sector