An Investigation into this Serious Incident was carried out by the Accident Investigation Division of the Hong Kong SAR Civil Aviation Department. DFDR data was available for the use in the Investigation but Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten because it was not downloaded after the event and the aircraft had subsequently departed again for the planned destination. It was noted that due to runway maintenance taking place on runway 25L/07R at a relatively quiet time, single runway operation prevailed. It was also confirmed that the runway and taxiway lighting, marking and signage system was fully compliant with current ICAO SARPs It was established that the aircraft had been cleared to taxi from the main terminal area at the eastern end of the airport to the Holding Point A1 for Runway 07L via taxiway ‘B’, one of two parallel taxiways on the south side of runway 07L. When the aircraft was approaching the western end of taxiway ‘B’, take off clearance was given. On reaching the end of taxiway ‘B’, the aircraft made the normal right turn onto taxiway A1 towards the runway but before it reached the runway, it took a premature right turn onto taxiway ‘A’, a second taxiway parallel to the runway located between the runway and taxiway ‘B’. Once the aircraft was on the same alignment as the runway, it began a rolling take-off on taxiway ‘A’. The Ground Controller detected this with the aid of their A-SMGCS and alerted the TWR controller who immediately instructed the aircraft to stop rolling. It did so and came to a stop abeam taxiway ‘A5’, approximately 1400 metres eastwards along the taxiway. DFDR data showed that the ATC stop call had been made 11 seconds after the aircraft started to roll and after a further 6 seconds, the rejected take off was initiated. The aircraft then took 14 seconds to stop after achieving a maximum speed of 75 knots. After allowing sufficient time for brake cooling, the flight departed for the intended destination 50 minutes later with the same crew. No comment was made by the Investigation on this continued operational duty by the incident crew - many operators would have required that alternative crew be found for the second departure pending an internal review of the event. It was found that, in accordance with Finnair policy, only the Captain was trained to taxi the aircraft. Since the incident flight was to take place with the First Officer as PF, this procedure required transfer of control to take place once lined up on the runway - in this case for a rolling take off. Such a transfer of control whilst the aircraft was moving was in accordance with Finnair procedures. It was also found that the required stowage of the EFBs prior to completion of the taxi checklist effectively meant that the opportunity for checking ground position by reference to a chart was removed prematurely even though a hard copy was, in theory, available. There was also