their mistaken position.. The company procedure for the verification of the departure runway by merely checking on the aircraft heading against that of the runway was unreliable.. The flight crew did not verify the position of the aircraft by referring to the external visual cues, the green Ground Roll Guidance Command Bar and the ILS localiser indication on the PFD before commencing the take-off roll.. The First Officer and the Relief Pilot’s role in monitoring the work of the Captain during the taxiing phase were not sufficiently effective. CRM within the cockpit was considered less than optimum and that the responsibility of the Relief Pilot was not clearly specified.. Both the Captain and the First Officer noticed the red stop bar lights ahead on TWY ‘A’ but, in the haste of a rolling take-off, having dismissed them as part of the lighting system leading to the displaced runway threshold, failed to stop the aircraft until instructed by ATC.. The following Causal Factors were identified by the Investigation: A combination of sudden surge in cockpit workload and the difficulties experienced by both the Captain and the First Officer in stowing the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) computers at a critical point of taxiing shortly before take-off had distracted their attention from the external environment that resulted in a momentary degradation of situation awareness.. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) did not provide a sufficiently robust process for the verification of the departure runway before commencement of the take-off roll.. The safety defence of having the First Officer and the Relief Pilot to support and monitor the Captain’s taxiing was not sufficiently effective as the Captain was the only person in the cockpit trained for ground taxi.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: Finnair should strengthen document control to ensure that up-to-date safety significant information, such as aerodrome hot spots, shall be incorporated into the Airport Briefing on a timely basis. [Recommendation 2011-5]. Finnair should consider enhanced training for flight crew on pre-flight safety briefing; special precautionary procedures for taxiing in the vicinity of aerodrome hot spots and pilot response to visual cues and warning signals as part of Threat and Error Management training. [Recommendation 2011-6]. Finnair should review their SOPs with a view to reinforcing the verification of the departure runway prior to commencement of take-off roll. [Recommendation 2011-7]. Finnair should review the company policy that only pilots-in-command are to be trained for ground taxi.. The Finnish Civil Aviation Authority should consider the need for operators using, or planning to use, EFB tablet computers in lieu of paper documents to, in accordance with safety management principles, conduct safety assessment and comprehensive ergonomic study on their usage in the cockpit vis-à-vis pilots’ workload at various phases of flight. [Recommendation 2011-9]. Hong Kong ATC should reinstate the procedure for the issue of take-off clearance such that during night time operations, take-off clearance for RWY 07L should be withheld until ascertaining that the departure aircraft has either passed TWY ‘A’ or