some concern about the ergonomics of EFB stowage arrangements for the operating pilots. It was noted that the specific duties of the Relief Pilot whilst occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck during the departure and arrival phases of the flight were not clearly defined in Finnair operating procedures. In the absence of such a definition, it was considered that “all three pilots had the general understanding that the Relief Pilot had a role to monitor the operations, including during the taxiing phase”. However, it was also considered that the neither the position of the occupied seat at the rear of the flight deck and the consequently limited view of the external environment nor the fact that the Relief Pilot had not been trained for ground taxi as operating crew was conducive to effective monitoring. Three previous similar events of attempted take off on Taxiway ‘A’ were found to have occurred since the opening of the airport in 1998. In the first two incidents, the pilots had realised their error and rejected the take-off. In the third incident, the error, as in this latest case, had been promptly detected by ATC and a stop take off call issued. As with the incident under investigation, the previous three events had all taken place after midnight, in good visibility, during a period of slack traffic when there was no time pressure to begin take off, when all ground equipment and lighting was serviceable, after the aircraft had taxied along taxiway ‘B’ to enter runway 07L at taxiway A1 for take off and when the take off clearance had been issued before the aircraft reached taxiway A1. Various safety actions in respect of lighting and signage had been taken as a result of these previous events, including the designation of the location as a hot spot and promulgation of this in the AIP since 9 April 2009. It was noted that at the time of the incident, Finnair still had not added this information on the Runway 07L entry area hot spot to the latest Crew Briefing for Hong Kong dated 16 November 2010. Despite this, the pilots indicated that they were aware of the existence of the hot spot, although it had only been quickly mentioned during their crew briefing and no attention had been given to the written explanation of the hot spot on the proprietary taxi chart used which had been updated in line with the current AIP. The formal statement of Findings of the Investigation included the following: There was no evidence to suggest that the use of the EFB computers in the cockpit had been subject to thorough safety assessment and a sufficiently comprehensive study on the ergonomic aspects of their usage in the cockpit.. Upon entering TWY A, the flight crew failed to be alerted by a number of visual cues, including a line of green taxiway centre line lights, blue edge lights and red stop bar lights ahead that should have prompted them of