the runway in a “porpoise landing” 1660 metres from the threshold and 6 metres left of the centreline just after crossing the intersection with runway 17/35. The Captain requested assistance through TWR and shut the engines down before leaving the First Officer to complete the ‘On Ground Engine Fire or Severe Mechanical Damage’ Checklist without participating as he “remained for some moments without reaction”. The Captain then determined that both passengers and crew “were safer inside the aircraft rather than ordering an evacuation using the emergency exits” although it was not established whether passengers were kept informed whilst waiting 40 minutes for a bus to arrive and take them to the terminal. Almost an hour after the accident, a NOTAM was issued notifying the closure of both runways but eight minutes later, it was decided that runway 17/35 could be re-opened and the first aircraft to use it landed 20 minutes later just after the GPIAAF team had arrived to begin the Investigation. Apart from the collapse of the nose landing gear, the left main landing gear assembly sustained sufficient damage to also require replacement. In addition, there was also considerable damage to the lower part of the forward fuselage and minor damage to some propeller blades and to the central fuselage fairing. The Investigation found no evidence that the accident was attributable to anything other than the performance of the flight crew in respect of their failure to follow SOPs, in particular the requirement to discontinue an unstabilised approach. It also concluded that the operator had not provided effective bounced landing / recovery training and that the Captain’s performance may have been affected by the onset of fatigue. It was noted that the crew of the aircraft which landed ahead reported that the wind was steady in the reported direction, that there were no unusual conditions and that although the final approach was hard work, soon after crossing the runway 21 threshold, the somewhat turbulent air movement decreased significantly. The formally-documented Findings in relation to the operation of the aircraft included the following: The degraded performance of the flight crew is consistent with the effects of fatigue.. The Captain’s actions and statements indicated that his knowledge and understanding of ATR72 aircraft bounced landing recovery technique was inadequate.. The flight was not conducted in accordance with the procedures in the company Operations Manual in respect of the sterile flight deck policy.. The Standard Operating Procedure for the PM to monitor the progress of the approach was accomplished by calling excessive speed but although the PF was aware of this, he did not acknowledge or follow it.. During the flare for touchdown, the aircraft floated above the runway due to excessive energy and the Captain forced the aircraft to land (nose down) at speeds higher than previously calculated and established in the Operations Manual.. The incorrect aircraft handling and landing technique resulted in a porpoise landing.. The continuation of the landing after the first runway touch with the airspeed above the