calculated landing speed resulted in a known landing dynamic with consequent aircraft damage.. The operator’s safety system had not responded to the frequent deviations from the stabilised approaches criteria.. The operator did not provide the flight crew with effective training in bounced landing/recovery techniques as recommended.. In respect of the post-accident response by the airport operator, some issues needing attention were identified: The re-opening of runway 17/35 occurred only eight minutes after it had been being closed and whilst people were present near the accident aircraft (and thereby) close the intersection of the two runways.. The airport operations manager did not request a review of the immediate response to the accident by the entities involved in responding to the accident.. The process of removing the disabled aircraft from runway 03/21 was protracted and there was an obvious lack of physical means and technical solutions available to achieve this.. Although a risk analysis report was requested from the Lisbon Airport Safety Manager in respect of the event, there had been no response prior to the completion of the Investigation.. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally documented as “the decision of the Captain to continue with a landing after not complying with the stabilised approach criteria, air speed being well above the reference VAPP”. One Contributory Factor was also identified as “fatigue may have affected the Captain’s performance”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that White Airways incorporate bounced landing recovery and rejected landing techniques in their flight manuals, ensuring the practice of these techniques during initial and recurrent training as recommended by EASA in Safety Information Bulletin 2013-20. [2019-001]. that ANA Aeroportos de Portugal reviews its Lisbon Airport Emergency Plan (AEP) in order to ensure a robust decision-making process for reopening the airport following a runway blockage event. It should also evaluate the operability and availability of airport support equipment to assist operators during aircraft removal from the runway. [2019-002]. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 14 March 2019.