was not planning to take off until after flight 5925 had cleared the runway.. The failure of the King Air pilot to announce over the common traffic advisory frequency his intention to take off created a potential for collision between the two airplanes.. The occupants of the King Air did not hear the transmissions from flight 5925 on the common traffic advisory frequency; it is likely that either the King Air occupants did not properly configure the radio receiver switches to the common traffic advisory frequency, or that they were preoccupied, distracted, or inattentive.. The occupants of the King Air were inattentive to or distracted from their duty to “see and avoid” other traffic.. The Cherokee pilot’s transmission in response to flight 5925’s request was unnecessary and inappropriate and, combined with the lack of any correction to the flight crew's misunderstanding, misled the flight crew into believing that it had been communicating with the King Air, and that the King Air would continue holding.. The occupants of the Beech 1900C did not escape because the air stair door could not be opened and the left overwing exit hatch was not opened.. Although some communities may lack adequate funds to provide aircraft rescue and fire fighting protection for small airports served by commuter airlines, commuter airline passengers deserve the same degree of protection from post-crash fires as air carrier passengers on aircraft with more than 30 passenger seats.. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "the failure of the pilots in the King Air A90 to effectively monitor the common traffic advisory frequency or to properly scan for traffic, resulting in their commencing a takeoff roll when the Beech 1900C (United Express flight 5925) was landing on an intersecting runway”. In addition, a Contributory Factor in respect of Cause was identified as "the Cherokee pilot’s interrupted radio transmission, which led to the Beech 1900C pilots’ misunderstanding of the transmission as an indication from the King Air that it would not take off until after flight 5925 had cleared the runway". Also a Contributory Factor in respect of the Severity of the accident and the loss of life was identified as "the lack of adequate aircraft rescue and fire fighting services, and the failure of the air stair door on the Beech 1900C to be opened". At the conclusion of the Investigation, seven Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should reiterate to flight instructors the importance of emphasising careful scanning techniques during pilot training and biennial flight reviews. [A-97-102]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the propensity of the Beech 1900C door/frame system to jam when it sustains minimal permanent door deformation and, based on the results of that evaluation, require appropriate design changes. [A-97-103]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should establish clear and specific methods for showing compliance with the freedom from jamming certification requirements. [A-97-104]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should consider the circumstances of the November 19, 1996 Quincy,