rested prior to beginning their duty that morning and that Ryanair had flights scheduled into Eindhoven several times each day. The Company airfield brief accessible to the crew contained selected AIPs information including the prohibition on 180° turns anywhere on the runway but they had not noticed this. The failure of the GND controller to use certain elements of standard phraseology including “vacate” as the backtracking aircraft approached point ‘F’ was also noted. It was confirmed that the work in progress which meant the taxiway section from ‘E’ to ‘F’ was going to be closed had commenced two weeks earlier and correct Notice To Airmen action had been taken. Details of it and the changes to normal taxi procedures were also being included in the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast. The Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The intention of ATC was for the aircraft to backtrack the runway and vacate at intersection Foxtrot. In contrast to International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and European guidelines, permission for backtracking the active runway was given by Ground Control, not by Tower Control.. The Ground Controller of Eindhoven ATC made use of non-standard RT phraseology for taxi and for instructions to vacate the runway.. Limitations for airport use that are written down in the AIP were part of the pilots’ Company Brief for Eindhoven Airport, but were written in small print, and were therefore not very obvious. These limitations include the mandatory takeoff from the beginning of the runway by jet aircraft, and the restriction on 180 degree turns on runways and taxiways. During the Investigation the airfield brief for Eindhoven Airport was changed by the company, making the restrictions more obvious.. The crew were aware of work in progress at the airfield but they were not aware of the content of the memo sent by Eindhoven Airport Authorities to all operators with the details about interim taxi procedures.. Because the crew taxied in under TWR control after their earlier landing and were given clearance to backtrack the active runway, the crew were subconsciously under the impression they were under tower control.. The use of non standard phraseology by ATC during taxi, led to some ambiguity, and was misinterpreted by the crew. The crew wrongly interpreted the departure clearance as a takeoff clearance.. Despite expressing some uncertainty, the crew did not ask ATC for confirmation of a take off clearance.. It was also noted that since the only parallel taxiway at Eindhoven Airport is situated on the west side of the runway, 04 departures require that the active runway must be crossed upon leaving the apron which serves the civil passenger terminal. Taxiing traffic should, according to the rules, switch from GND to TWR for the crossing and then back to GND when instructed. Since such an arrangement would create extra workload and radio traffic for the crew and ATC, it was considered understandable that traffic crossing the active runway when taxiing routinely stay on the GND frequency. However, the Investigation