An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board with reference to the aircraft Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and the Voice Logging System in ATC. It was noted that the airport is a Royal Netherlands Air Force (RNAF) base regularly used by civil transport aircraft at which ATS is provided by RNAF controllers. The 58 year-old aircraft Captain, who had been PF during the investigated event, had 19650 hours total flying time which included 5800 hours on type. The 45 year-old First Officer had 9500 hours total flying time which included 4000 hours on type. Both GND and TWR Controllers had been trained by the RNAF, qualifying 6 months prior to the event (TWR) and 2 years prior the event (GND). The passenger apron is on the east side of the single runway 04/22 at the 22 threshold end and the only parallel taxiway if take offs are being made in the 04 direction is the west side parallel. At the time of this event, part of this parallel taxiway was closed for maintenance. As a result, GND cleared the aircraft to leave the passenger apron, cross runway 22 at its threshold and then initially follow the parallel taxiway until reaching the temporarily closed section, then continue onto the runway to backtrack until past it before leaving the runway at ‘F’ to rejoin the final bit of the parallel taxiway - see the aircraft route as cleared and as taken on the aerodrome diagram below. The clearance onto the runway for taxi purposes was given by GND contrary to standard ATC procedures which require that TWR rather than GND control all access to an active runway. Once backtracking and approximately halfway down the runway, the crew requested and received their departure clearance. When the aircraft reached intersection ‘F’, where the crew should have turned right onto the last section of the parallel taxiway in order to approach the holding point at ‘G’ and await take off or line up clearance from TWR, the GND controller transmitted “this one to the right, and for departure contact TWR, 131,10, good flight”. The aircraft was then observed to carry out a 180° turn to the right on the runway and immediately begin and complete take off without clearance. The aircraft became airborne and no actual risk to safety occurred whilst the aircraft was on the runway or in the air. The Investigation found that the CVR download disclosed some uncertainty about the intended take off in an exchange between the pilots which it was considered may have been prompted by the GND controller’s inclusion of the phrase ‘good flight’ so that when the Captain challenged the First Officer in an attempt to confirm that a takeoff clearance had been given, he responded, after some hesitation, with “we are cleared takeoff, yeah, it’s after airborne contact tower in the air, I think that was it” which was accepted by the Captain as stated. It was noted that both crew members considered themselves well