The following procedures apply to IFR traffic operating in both Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) and Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC). Pilots operating aircraft under IFR at an uncontrolled aerodrome do not hold any priority over aircraft operating under VFR at that aerodrome. Some pilots operating under VFR at many sites prefer to give commercial IFR and larger or faster types of aircraft priority. This practice, however, is a personal airmanship courtesy, and should not be expected by the pilot of the IFR aircraft. When the weather conditions at the aerodrome could permit VFR circuit operations, pilots of IFR aircraft are expected to approach, land and depart on the active runway that may be established by the aircraft operating in the VFR circuit. Should it be necessary for the IFR aircraft to use a runway contrary to the established VFR operation, it is expected that appropriate communications, between pilots or between pilots and the air-to-ground facility, will be effected in order to ensure there is no traffic conflict. Aircraft conducting an IFR approach to an aerodrome located within controlled airspace will be deconflicted from other arriving and departing IFR traffic by ATS. Deconfliction from VFR aircraft is a pilot responsibility. Holding clearances will be issued as required and an approach clearance will be provided at the appropriate time. If the aerodrome is located within uncontrolled airspace, no ATS approach clearance will be issued. An advisory service may or may not be available to provide traffic information; however, deconfliction from any traffic becomes the responsibility of the pilots concerned. It is, therefore, essential that communications and reporting procedures as outlined in the article Uncontrolled Aerodromes - Communications are followed. Where a pilot of an IFR flight intends to take off from an uncontrolled aerodrome, the pilot shall: Obtain an ATC clearance if in controlled airspace. If the aerodrome is located within uncontrolled airspace, a clearance is not required. Note that the IFR clearance may contain a time or an event based departure restriction. Examples include: "clearance not valid until 1320Z (or do not depart until 1340Z)" "do not depart until (callsign) has landed" "clearance cancelled if not airborne by 1400Z". "clearance not valid until 1320Z (or do not depart until 1340Z)". "do not depart until (callsign) has landed". "clearance cancelled if not airborne by 1400Z". Report their departure procedure and intentions on the appropriate frequency before moving on to the runway or before aligning the aircraft on the take off path. Ascertain by radio on the appropriate frequency and by visual observation that no other aircraft or vehicle is likely to come into conflict with the aircraft during takeoff.. Maintain a listening watch and follow the reporting procedures as outlined in the article Uncontrolled Aerodromes - Communications.