An Investigation into the Serious Incident was carried out by the Czech Air Accident Investigation Institute (AAII). FDR and CVR data were successfully downloaded to assist the Investigation. It was noted that both pilots had accumulated most of their flying hours on the Boeing 737, the 52 year-old Captain 8,175 hours out of a total of 14,778 hours and the 47 year-old First Officer 6,000 hours out of a total of 7,320 hours. Both pilots were "performing their duties for the airline company on a temporary basis" and both were familiar with Pardubice, a military aerodrome approved for civil air transport use. The First Officer was acting as PF for the investigated flight. It was established that three days earlier, the aircraft had been released to service with the right engine thrust reverser deactivated in accordance with the MEL requirement for this action to be taken in the case of an inoperative reverser light. This was placarded as required and the crew were aware. A subsequent examination of the aircraft found no evidence of any other airworthiness deficiencies. For the arrival at Pardubice, the ELW was 65,000 kg, just within the permitted MLW of 66,360kg. The ATIS received gave a tailwind for the approach to runway 27 which varied but wind checks from ATC gave it within the maximum permitted at all times - and it was subsequently shown from FDR data to have remained between 5 and 9 knots throughout. There was, and had been for some time, intermittent light rain and the runway was wet. After considering the various aspects of landing performance on the 2,500 metre long runway, it was decided to select Autobrake2 and use 30° land flap. A stabilised approach was flown and the aircraft crossed the runway threshold 46 feet agl before touching down very smoothly 821 metres into the runway - with almost one third of the 2,500 metre runway behind the aircraft. The pilots stated that they were not convinced that the speed brakes had deployed automatically and so they were selected manually and performed normally. No evidence of any system fault was subsequently discovered and it was considered possible that the two activations overlapped. Both pilots detected a deceleration which was slower than usual and Auto Brake 3 was selected. As the end of the runway approached, the Captain took over control, selected full manual braking and the operative left engine thrust reverser in what can be described as an attempt to direct the aircraft clear of the approach lighting on the extended centreline. The aircraft left the end of the paved surface at a recorded ground speed of 51 knots and came to a stop with the nose "turned by more than 90 degrees to the left". Once stopped, a PA - reported to have been inaudible in the passenger cabin - was promptly made stating "Cabin Crew at Stations". The Senior Cabin Crew then went to the flight deck and was informed (after the flight crew had established that