Asked what they could have done better, the pilots commented as follows: The captain said he would have worked more to coordinate with the cabin crew and the passengers in the later stage of the final approach as he had done prior to the overflight, when he addressed the cabin twice.. The first officer said he believed that he had been hindering the captain by thinking aloud rather than discussing plans of action in a more cohesive way. He believed thought processes should be organized so as to plan together and coordinate with the captain before carrying things out.. The CRP thought that sticking to training was an ingredient for successful outcomes and that ATC coordination had also provided great assistance to help resolve the problem.. This situational example includes most of the lines of defense that would bring similar kinds of uncertain situations to a successful conclusion. The crew’s uncertainty over a successful outcome here had to do with the structural integrity of the airplane when coming to rest on the left engines. This was quickly resolved as the airplane proved to have plenty of momentum to stay on the runway, without any signs of breaking up when the left outboard engine settled onto the runway with only a slight wing down attitude. As a matter of fact, the right outboard engine touched the ground first, something the captain did not realize. If an unexpected event occurs, the following are recommended for flight crews: Buy time to assess the situation.. Build a common and consolidated understanding of the situation. Seek out all available information and do not hesitate to call for support.. Maintain common situational awareness to improve judgment and subsequent decision making by: Continually evaluating the developing situation with conscious thinking and communication about the condition of the environment, the airplane, the pilots and the interactions occurring among the three. Anticipating the situation by asking “what if” questions such as what should be done if flight controls malfunction or two engines fail.. Continually evaluating the developing situation with conscious thinking and communication about the condition of the environment, the airplane, the pilots and the interactions occurring among the three.. Anticipating the situation by asking “what if” questions such as what should be done if flight controls malfunction or two engines fail.. Maintain cognitive flexibility, which means keeping an open mind to alternatives and other possibilities at all times.. Work as a team and delegate or coordinate as much as possible to keep an overall picture of the situation.. Controllers should recognize that when faced with an emergency, the flight crew’s most important needs are time, airspace and silence on the frequency. The controllers’ response could be patterned after the “ASSIST” memory aid: Acknowledge: Ensure that the reported situation is well understood and acknowledged.. Separate: Establish and maintain separation with other traffic and terrain.. Silence: Impose silence on your frequency and avoid disturbing urgent cockpit actions.. Inform: Inform your supervisor and other sectors, units and airports, as appropriate.. Support: