A more detailed analysis of the audit findings related to each ICAO Critical Element leads to the following summary: CE1 (Primary Aviation Legislation) - The level of implementation remains very high. The most problematic area is the determination of sanctions for infringements of SES requirements, required in Regulation (EC) No 549/2004.. CE2 (Specific Operating Regulations) - In this area, the situation has progressively improved as a result of the transposition of ESARRs into EC law. It is worth noting that more than 30% of all deficiencies found in this critical element related to States’ progress in the publication and implementation of regulations compliant with ESARRs 3, 4 and 5, while more than 25% of all the deficiencies found related to the States’ progress in the publication and implementation of regulations compliant with ESARR 2. In addition, 10% of the deficiencies found related to the lack of establishment of a safety baseline defining acceptable levels of safety.. CE3 (State Aviation System and Safety Oversight Functions) - The results show that around 38% of all the non-compliances discovered in CE-3 concerned the institutional arrangements for safety oversight. A number of Member States audited had problems with identifying and establishing appropriate arrangements as regards the responsibilities, interfaces and coordination necessary for the implementation of ESARRs, with ESARR 2, ESARR 4 and the ESARR 5 provisions for engineering/technical personnel being the most problematic. Moreover, 20% of the deficiencies found, relate to institutional arrangements, and specifically safety oversight exercised by the NSA as part of the supervision of regulatory requirements applicable to the provision of ATM services to general air traffic.. CE4 (Qualified Technical Personnel and Training) - For this critical element a year-on-year drop in the level of implementation can be observed. This is due to the greater number of States being audited after ESARR 1 became applicable and the greater number of non-conformities related to ESARR 1 requirements. More than 55% of deficiencies found in this area relate to safety oversight capabilities, and specifically personnel competency. The main difficulty for States appeared to be their ability to establish qualification criteria for oversight personnel and to adequately train such personnel. 20% of deficiencies found related to the lack of sufficient technical staff to carry out safety oversight tasks and functions and lack of sufficient clerical staff to support the technical staff.. CE5 (Technical Guidance, Tools and Provision of Safety Critical Information) - The highest number of issues was raised as regards the lack of formal requirements for initial ATC training courses to satisfy, as a minimum, the ECAC guidelines for Common Core Content training (accounting for 40% of all deficiencies found in the critical element). 24% were related to the lack of appropriate procedures for the verification of compliance with safety regulatory requirements.. CE6 (Licensing, Certification, Authorisation and Approval Obligations) - More than 30% of non-compliances were related to the NSAs’ processes to verify the implementation by ANSPs of the ATCOs’ on-going competency assessment. In nearly 25% of the deficiencies found in the audited