In 2005, the ESIMS Programme ceased to be primarily ESARR-based and focused on all applicable ATM safety oversight regulations. More specifically, audits cover: Relevant legislative and institutional arrangements;. The ATM safety regulations in place;. Safety regulatory arrangements, including policy and principles, procedures for rulemaking, safety oversight and personnel licensing, and resources and staff competency.. On-site audits were followed by the development of a State’s Corrective Action Plan, which is incorporated into the Final Audit Report. By 1st October 2009, twenty-eight on-site audits had been completed as follows: NOTE: Two further audits took place by the end of 2009 (Monaco and Czech Republic). Five were scheduled for 2010 (Armenia, Greece, Italy, Ukraine, Germany). In addition, follow-up audits were also scheduled for 2009 (Malta, Hungary) and 2010 (Slovakia, Serbia) to check the implementation of corrective actions. There is a close correspondence between the areas reviewed in an ESIMS audit and the Eight Critical Elements (CEs) of a State’s Safety Oversight System as defined in ICAO Doc 9734-Part A - The Establishment and Management of a State’s Safety Oversight System. ICAO Model - Eight Critical Elements of a State’s Safety Oversight System The eight critical elements provide the basis used by ICAO USOAP to audit the safety oversight capabilities of a State. ESIMS audits used a series of protocol questions covering the whole scope of the audit. Findings were raised against one or more protocol questions and each protocol question is associated with an ICAO Critical Element. Detailed Results to October 2009 When considering the sample of 21 ESIMS audits for which the Final Audit Reports were released in 2009, the aggregated scores obtained against the ICAO model are as follows: These scores are similar in certain respects to those included in the SRC Annual Safety Report in 2008 for a sample of 15 audits. However, although they show slight progress in Critical Element 2 (specific operating regulations), they also indicate a significant decrease in Critical Element 4 (technical personnel qualification and training), Critical Element 5 (technical guidance and tools) and Critical Element 7 (surveillance obligations).