the aircraft at that time. He could not see any movement in the cockpit or cabin. Immediately after stopping, an announcement was made to the tower “We are shutting down the engines and are now evacuating”. One and a half minutes after stopping the control tower relayed to the aircraft that the tail of the airplane was on fire. The aircraft responded, "Affirmative, we are trying to evacuate now". This was the last transmission received from the aircraft. To view Saudi Arabian Airlines L1011 Flight Path Animation, click here. The animation is a courtesy of FAA Lessons Learned from Transport Airline Accidents (http://lessonslearned.faa.gov/). Three minutes and fifteen seconds after the aircraft stopped the engines were shut down. Smoke rose from the top of the fuselage, followed almost immediately by flames. "Attempts by the crash, fire, rescue personnel (CFR) to enter the aircraft and open the doors were unsuccessful until the No. 2 door on the right side of the aircraft was opened […] about 23 minutes after all engines had been shut down." In a section of the Report titled “The Flight Actions by the Crew” (page 69) it is stated: […] "The Captain should have instructed his cabin crew to prepare for an evacuation immediately upon landing. He should have called for the use of oxygen by his cockpit crew and instructed his cabin crew to use oxygen when needed. The inhalation of toxic gasses, at times, is insidious and causes physical and mental impairment which would be alleviated by the proper use of oxygen. […] […] After landing, the Captain should have stopped his aircraft as soon as possible and initiated an emergency evacuation. However, he wasted critical time in taxiing the aircraft clear of the runway." The investigation determined that the C-3 cargo compartment on the L1011 (Figure 1), which was certified as a Class D (per 14 CFR part, § 25.855), did not contain the fire within the cargo compartment as intended by the regulations. The regulations intended that the liner material contain the fire within the cargo compartment, and the fire would quickly consume the oxygen (oxygen starvation) within the compartment before the fire had a chance to get out of control. Testing demonstrated that the Nomex cargo liner fabric material was inadequate to contain the fire within the cargo compartment. As a result of the fire burning through the cargo liner, creating a breach into the cabin, additional oxygen was available to feed the fire in the cargo compartment. The fire quickly spread to the passenger cabin, and the burning material produced toxic fumes, including carbon monoxide. As to Probable Cause to the accident, the Report states: "The Presidency of Civil Aviation determines that the probable cause of this accident was the initiation of fire in the C-3 cargo compartment. The source of the ignition of the fire is undetermined. Factors contributing to the final fatal results of this accident were: the failure of the Captain to prepare the cabin crew for immediate evacuation