In 2007, following the investigation of two serious incidents involving tail strikes that had occurred at Paris, Charles de Gaull Airport (LFPG), a study entitled "USE OF ERRONEOUS PARAMETERS AT TAKEOFF" was conducted by the Applied Anthropology Laboratory (LAA) at the request of Le Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) and the French Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC). Various investigation bodies, airlines and manufacturers were consulted in the course of the study because several other accidents, serious incidents and incidents of the same type have occurred around the world during recent years. These generally involved new generation aircraft, being caused by more or less significant errors in entering takeoff parameters that were not detected by crews. The errors occurred in various airlines and on various types of large aircraft manufactured by Airbus and Boeing. The most serious event occurred in 2004 and involved the destruction of a B747-200 Cargo on takeoff at Halifax and the death of all the crew members. Other incidents arising from errors of the same type, but of lesser magnitude, were reported more recently on latest-generation large and medium-sized aircraft such as Embraer 190. The complete text of the study is accessible below (See: Further Reading). A study named "FMS Data Entry Prevention" was carried out by IATA. A total of 309 air safety reports involving FMS data entry error were identified between 2007 and 2011. Analysis of the reports showed that errors related to navigational data, potential for a Mid Air collision or Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT) accident, accounted for 80% of the reports, while 20% were related to performance data and associated LOC-I or runway excursion accident. The analysis also shows that Air Traffic Control (ATC) related threats, cited in 27% of the reports, were the top contributor to FMS entry errors. ATC clearance changes require the flight crew to modify the programed vertical and horizontal trajectories in the FMS, potentially introducing errors, distractions and increased workload especially during critical phases of flight. Other reported threats provided further evidence that flight crew distraction during FMS programing, frequently contribute to data entry errors. The reports also suggest that poor situational awareness and inadequate crew resource management led to flight path deviations following FMS data entry errors. Organizational and human factors can also contribute to FMS entry errors. A common threat in commercial airline operations is time pressure, (whether it is actual or perceived), leading to stress, rushing, short cuts and errors. Human nature is such that an individual, when undertaking a repetitive task will try to introduce shortcuts. Changes in the organizational environment also have the potential to become threats. For instance, rapid airline expansion requiring the influx of many new personnel and thereby diluting the prevailing culture. The IATA analysis included two case studies: A345, Melbourne Australia, 2009 and B752, vicinity Cali Colombia, 1995. The full text is accessible below (See: Further Reading)