was excessive but that by the time he could have reacted, the First Officer had “already begun taking corrective action”. The nose-up pitch input was reduced although the achieved pitch attitude, which had increased rapidly, was approaching 10º nose up whilst the airspeed had significantly decreased as the engines continued to spool up. The aircraft briefly touched down before becoming airborne again as the airspeed reached a minimum of 135 knots and the tailstrike occurred. A maximum achieved pitch attitude of 16° nose-up was recorded before the reduction in pitch up input began to take effect and the aircraft then became airborne and climbed away into a normal go-around. Passing 400 feet agl, an ECAM tailstrike warning was annunciated and the TWR controller advised that a tailstrike had been observed. With runway 27L temporarily out of use because of the need for a runway inspection, positioning for a landing on runway 27R was accepted with the First Officer initially continuing as PF before the Captain took over for an uneventful landing. On clearing the runway, the airport RFFS carried out an external damage inspection after which the aircraft was taxied to the allocated gate and shut down. A damage assessment identified two areas of damaged skin on the rear lower fuselage, in one of which there had been abrasion of the paint, copper mesh lightning protection layer and up to three carbon fibre reinforced plastic layers. The toilet waste panel was found to be damaged beyond repair as its abraded leading and trailing edges had thinned the material and thus compromised the strength of the panel. Also, three vent pipes positioned along the rear of the fuselage were found to have been bent and abraded by ground contact and had to be replaced. Rear lower fuselage damage to the skin, toilet waste panel and tailstrike sensor. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain ordered a go around because he assessed that a touchdown would not be achieved within the TDZ. This meant that in accordance with the OM Part ‘A’ applicable to all fleets, the direction “the aircraft is still airborne at the end of the TDZ, or it is obvious that the landing will not be within the TDZ, a rejected landing shall be initiated” was applicable and the PM must call “go around” as happened in this case. This requirement was contained in a section of the Manual aimed at preventing runway excursions described as ‘Safe Touchdown Criteria’. This policy was followed by the information that “if a landing is made beyond the TDZ then it would be recorded as an OFDM event” and any landing beyond the TDZ would be expected to raise a corresponding ASR. The operator advised the Investigation that any such occurrence “would be investigated with the crew to understand the event and give guidance to prevent recurrence (noting that) their A350 fleet operates to runways with landing distances as short as 2,400 metres”. For a go around initiated close to the runway, the