A Field Investigation was carried by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 49 year-old Captain had a total of 17,305 hours flying experience which included 652 hours on type. The total and on-type experience of the First Officer who was acting as PF during the first approach and go around was not recorded. The flight, including the first approach until just prior to touchdown, was confirmed to have been entirely normal. The approach briefing noted the TAF valid for the expected arrival time gave a mean surface wind of 230°/12 knots with TEMPO (temporary) 220° 20-30 knots in any heavy showers. The expected landing runway, 27L had a 3,658 metre LDA and a 900 metre TDZ marked with six pairs of painted stripes. In accordance with the operator’s Monitored Approach SOP, although the Captain was acting as PF en route, the final stages of the destination approach would involve the First Officer taking over for the final stage of the approach and the landing. The briefing was based on landing performance calculations for both Flap 3 and Flap Full and although only medium to poor braking action was assumed due to the possibility of a wet runway surface, the autobrake BTV (Brake-to-Vacate) option was available and was set to allow the runway to be vacated via the N6 RET. The ATIS wind during the approach was 210° 11-22 knots. The First Officer took over as PF at approximately 1000 feet agl and the AP was subsequently disconnected at approximately 400 feet. FDR data showed that as the aircraft continued descent below 100 feet agl, it was stable and 2°/3° nose up with an 800 fpm descent rate. At approximately 55 feet agl, the aircraft was flared and shortly afterwards the thrust was set to idle - it was noted that according to the FCTM, the flare height would normally be approximately 40 feet agl but this was qualified by adding that this would “vary according to the effect of operational conditions which directly affect the rate of descent”. Over the following three seconds as the aircraft descended through 10 feet agl, more nose-up pitch input was made to achieve around 6° nose-up. The aircraft continued level at 5 feet agl which triggered a corresponding audio callout but it did not touch down and after a second such callout, the Captain called “go-around”. At this point, the aircraft was approaching the end of the TDZ although 2,760 m of runway still remained ahead of the aircraft (see the illustration below). Part of the aerodrome chart showing the landing runway and the intended exit point. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The First Officer selected TOGA thrust levers and simultaneously made a pitch up input which reached the maximum of 15° nose up as the aircraft briefly touched down firmly. The Captain subsequently stated that he had felt that this initial pitch up