The Macau Civil Aviation Authority (AACM) assessed the event to be a Serious Incident and therefore carried out an Investigation. There was no response to a formal request for assistance from the Peruvian DGAC as the relevant contact at the State of the Operator and issuer of the carrier’s AOC and in the absence of such co-operation, the AACM had no access to information from the FDR or about the flight crew involved. It was noted that the aircraft involved had been wet leased to Qatar Airways under an approval issued by the Qatar CAA. It was established that the intended departure of the flight had been delayed by 1½ hours because of a delay in loading cargo. The aircraft operator subsequently stated that the departure was originally planned to be from runway 16 with a flap setting of 17° but the eventual departure was made from runway 34 with a 14° flap setting. The recorded surface temperature at the time of takeoff was 25° C. Take off with a recorded surface wind velocity of 140°/07 knots meant that there was a tail wind component of approximately 5 knots. The aircraft was observed to use almost the full length of the 3360 metres long runway for its takeoff roll and to become airborne “barely clear of the end of the runway”. Thereafter the flight path followed was seen to involve a climb angle which was “very flat”. It was noted that runway 34 is the preferred runway provided that - as in this case - any tailwind component (actual and/or forecasted) is not greater than 10 knots. Almost immediately after the aircraft had become airborne, the alarm on the remote monitoring system for the localiser component of the ILS equipment on the 17 approach was activated and the system was automatically shut down. The maintenance team subsequently found that one of the elevated approach lights near to the field monitor antenna of the ILS localiser, the field monitor itself and one of the antenna elements of the ILS localiser and its associated red obstacle lighting had been damaged by impact. Their wreckage was distributed beyond the end of Runway 34, on the adjacent service road and just over the sea wall beyond the end of the runway. The location of the damaged installations relative to the end of the runway is shown on the illustration below. No debris was found on the runway itself. The TWR Supervisor contacted the en-route ATC frequency to which the aircraft had been transferred and requested that the DC10 flight crew be informed that as it was suspected that it had damaged the localiser antenna because of its attitude during initial climb, it would be necessary to check the aircraft for damage. According to information subsequently provided by the aircraft operator, the only damage found to the aircraft during a post-flight inspection in Karachi by inspectors from the Pakistan CAA was cuts to both outer left side main gear tyres neither of which was considered