by the operator to have compromised the pressure holding capabilities of the tyres concerned. The aircraft was released to service after the corresponding wheels had been changed. According to information provided to the Investigation by Cielos Airlines, the actual takeoff weight from Macau was 247 tonnes, which was within the MTWA of 260 tonnes and the actual zero fuel weight (ZFW) of 172 tonnes was within the MZFW of 182 tonnes and “the aircraft was properly loaded and trimmed correctly”. It was also advised that 74 tonnes of fuel was on board for departure which corresponded to the operational flight plan requirement. The landing at Karachi occurred at a weight of 185 tonnes, within the applicable MLW of 190 tonnes. It was noted that the departure weights were within aircraft limits for the conditions prevailing at Macau at the time. The aircraft operator also stated that all cargo on board the aircraft had been re-weighed after arrival at Karachi and found to have been correctly recorded prior to the flight. The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the following: Loading for the flight was within authorised weight limits, and the aircraft was operating within prescribed centre of gravity limits.. The flap setting was inappropriately calculated with respect to the loading weight and wind conditions.. It was also found that, subject to the caveat that full and/or verified information had not been available, Unconfirmed Findings including the following were also documented: There was no evidence suggesting any pre-existing medical or behavioural conditions that might have adversely affected the flight crew’s performance during the flight.. The aircraft had behaved normally during the take-off roll with no system anomaly found.. For the purpose of training, the company procedures in flap setting were not sufficiently clear.. The flight crew had not been provided with sufficient technical and guidance information, nor was there clear evidence that they had been adequately trained to operate the aircraft.. The flight crew had clear justification about the rejected takeoff procedures and limits with respect to the declared takeoff distances as well as the physical dimensions of the runways.. The Cause of the Serious Incident was determined to have been “the degraded performance of the aircraft which was translated into a longer takeoff roll distance due to an incorrect flap setting (14 degrees) for the tail wind condition (140/07 knots)”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as being that “the flight crew had not been provided with sufficient technical and guidance information nor were they adequately trained to apply the correct flap setting for takeoff”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Cielos Airlines' operating procedures for takeoff and flap setting should be reviewed to ensure that procedures conform to the applicable standards/manual.. that Cielos Airlines should disseminate the information contained in this report to its flight crews and ensure that it is reviewed in recurrent training ground school sessions.. The Final Report was completed in February 2009