As described above when introducing hindrances to communication, some misunderstandings may not become evident until someone reacts in a manner we do not expect; in some circumstances this may seriously endanger safety. Latent differences may exist due to past training and organisational cultures, and also more general cultures such as nationality, race, religion etc. Organisational Cultural Differences: Crewmembers who have experience working with a different organisation in their past, different aircraft types, and even different fleets within the same airline, will “carry” with them values, beliefs and practices that may differ from those shared by their current employer. In terms of occasional variations in the application of a skill and/or procedure, this can happen habitually from learned behaviour. Reversion to past practices can endanger safety at moments of critical stress and importance. The same process can occur with how much a crewmember values certain tasks and the factors they use to prioritise those tasks. Including the importance placed on frequent, frank and open communication. This organisational cultural baggage, from a person’s past, can be an invisible socio-cultural latent trap for crews, and needs to be addressed by organisations. Organisations that fail to identify cultural differences of new employees are creating risk on the flight deck; see Managing Socio-Cultural Diversity. General Cultural Differences: These differences can cover a broad-range of subjects, from how people communicate, what they think is appropriate communication and behaviour, and how they interact with others in their society. A more detailed description is provided in the Article Organisational Culture; below are listed some of the key issues: attitudes concerning rank and age. attitudes concerning male/female differences. reactions to errors, particularly their own. openness, levels of communication (friendly/professional, proactive/reactive, self-disclosing/self-protecting). ability to separate work from other cultural (and personal) issues, and. attitudes to being offered help (including use of technology). etc.