six minutes before landing. The Investigation noted that there was a Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) memory procedure for "loss of braking" which required the crew, regardless of the speed it occurs, to fully activate the thrust reversers and apply maximum brake pressure. If there is still no braking, the procedure requires the application of the parking brake several times in succession. The Findings of the Investigation were as follows: The crews that landed before the Tunis Air flight had estimated the braking efficiency to range between “medium” and “medium to poor”. These indications were observations provided for information purposes only and did not concern the condition of the end of the runway.. The crew correctly managed the landing roll in order to exit the runway at mid-point. They were not concerned by the controller’s request to roll to the end of the runway (W31) as they referred to the braking efficiency observed up to then.. Frequent takeoffs and landings on the same runway tend to limit the accumulation of contaminant on the rolling portion used by aeroplanes. However, the ends of runway, being less used, become contaminated more quickly and can be very slippery. The ATC service should be reminded of this to assist them in managing runway exits.. The use of measuring equipment is highly disadvantageous from an operational perspective as it requires closing the runway for about twenty minutes. However, no remote real-time measuring equipment is available to date. Nevertheless, the fact that the last third of the runway was not properly cleared of snow represented a potential risk of overrun, especially in case of an aborted takeoff.. The aeroplane only partially overran the runway and the incident might have been avoided by applying the “Loss of Braking” procedure.. The Conclusions of the Investigation were that: The inability to measure runway adherence in real time did not to allow the uneven runway contamination to be detected.. This led to the crew’s and controllers’ degraded perception of braking conditions at the end of the runway, resulting in the overrun.. The failure of the crew to apply the available 'Loss of Braking' procedure may have contributed to the outcome.. The Final Report was published in English translation on 24 September 2014 following initial publication in French on September 2014. No Safety Recommendations were made.