alone was unable to resolve these opposing possibilities". The report on the examination stated that "if there is no other cause identified for the crash then it is both possible and plausible that this was the precipitating factor". Had there actually been a sudden impairment in the pilot's ability to perform his normal duties in flight, then on the evidence available "it suggested that the (other occupant) took recovery action but not in time to achieve climbing flight before the aircraft struck the ground".. Other matters of interest in relation to the accident were noted as: FDR/CVR Carriage - although EASA have indicated that "rulemaking" is planned on the requirement for smaller aircraft to carry a CVR and/or FDR, an NPA planned for the first quarter of 2016 had not appeared by the time the Investigation was concluded.. Passengers on the flight deck - applicable regulatory requirements defined the second occupant as a passenger because as a pilot, he was not qualified on type.. Single pilot operation - The operator permitted single pilot operations of aircraft so certified and had conducted a risk assessment to assess what defences could serve to prevent an 'Undesirable Operational State' (UOS) developing during such operations and what defences could serve to recover from one. The output from this risk assessment was noted to have been "consider mandating the presence of [an] additional crew member or second pilot on every flight for the King Air Fleet". The operator had agreed with the UK CAA that a role of "additional crew member" would be defined for their single pilot operations. These persons would have "no operational control of the aircraft" but would assist the pilot by reading checklists, conducting radio communications, monitoring the actions of the pilot and assisting if required and "expressing their opinion" on any action taken by the pilot that "may seem abnormal or unclear". However the aircraft type part of the Operations Manual made no mention of "additional crew members" and stated that the "Normal Procedures" section of that part of the Manual "assumes that a second pilot is carried" and that they carry out the PM role which would, inter-alia, involve "monitoring the flight path and pointing out un-planned deviations" which would include calling out 'Bank Angle' if that angle exceeded 30° and 'Sink Rate' if the case of "an excessive rate of descent according to phase of flight and altitude".. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "Examination of the powerplants showed that they were probably producing medium to high power at impact. There was contradictory evidence as to whether or not the left inboard flap was fully extended at impact but it was concluded that the aircraft would have been controllable even if there had been a flap asymmetry. The possibility of a pre-accident control restriction could not be discounted, although the late change of aircraft attitude showed that, had there been a restriction, it cleared itself. The evidence available suggested a loss of aircraft control while