the turn until it reached 875 feet QNH after which it began to descend. This descent continued "until the aircraft struck some trees at the edge of a field approximately 1.8 nm southwest of the aerodrome". The impact and consequent fire were not survivable. Ground track data with the departure runway visible at top left [reproduced from the Official Report] Using radar data, it was possible to estimate the mean rate of the achieved climb after take-off as 1,500 fpm and the descent which followed as occurring at a rapidly increasing rate which eventually exceeded 7,000 fpm. The final recorded ground speed was 188 knots shortly before radar coverage ended at 230 feet agl. Various radar sources all produced similar estimates of the ground track as reproduced in the illustration above. Available data facilitated simulator modelling of the flight to be carried out which allowed the aircraft manufacturer to undertake flight performance analysis. This work allowed the Investigation to consider more broadly the likely development of the loss of control which had occurred and some of the potential explanations for it. Various observations were made based on the various sources of evidence available. They included the following: There was no evidence that the aircraft had not been airworthy when it departed or that any subsequent and relevant loss of airworthiness occurred. The possibility of flap asymmetry was conceded but it was considered that although this may have constituted a distraction, it "would not have been sufficient in isolation to cause a loss of control".. The aircraft began to descend from its maximum achieved altitude after it exceeded 30° angle of bank, possible reaching a maximum bank angle of 55° to the right, and this was "probably" the result of the increase in bank angle occurring without a corresponding pitch input.. Had a TAWS been fitted to the aircraft, it would have annunciated bank angle and sink rate alerts at a point where "sufficient height remained to allow the aircraft to recover to safe flight".. At impact, the landing gear was retracted and the power setting on both engines was still relatively high although "the downward flight path angle had reduced to approximately 5° to 9° and the angle of bank to approximately 12° right". This late change in aircraft attitude "showed that the aircraft was controllable in roll and pitch immediately before impact" and "suggested a conscious attempt to recover the aircraft. This was likely to have occurred either because of one or both of the occupants had gained an appreciation of the extreme attitude of the aircraft either from the flight instruments or by external visual reference which may have been regained as the aircraft descended.. The post mortem examination of the pilot found evidence of a previously undetected cardiovascular condition "which indicated that he might have suffered symptoms ranging from impaired consciousness to sudden death". This condition "might have occurred spontaneously or have been the result of forces transmitted through the body during the accident sequence and pathology