An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft was not fitted with crash-resistant on-board data recorders or TAWS, nor was it required to be. However a good reconstruction of most of the flight path was accomplished using radar data from four installations in the general area. It was established that the flight was being operated with two company employees on board (one being the pilot - the aircraft could be operated by either one or two pilots) in order to pick up two passengers at Brize Norton for onward travel. The 40 year-old pilot held a CPL/IR valid on Multi-Engine Piston aircraft and occupied the left pilot seat whilst the other employee occupied the right seat. He had a total of 1,941 total flying hours but almost all (1,791 hours) had been flown on single engine aircraft. He had obtained his King Air type rating in June 2014 and had renewed it in May 2015 before commencing line training with the accident aircraft operator in August 2015. He had passed his final line check 6 days prior to the accident and the operator advised that this had been conducted in "generally good" weather although noted that "he had not been required to fly an IMC departure from Stapleford Aerodrome". At the time of the accident, he had flown 6 hours 40 minutes in command on type (P1) and 113 hours as in command under supervision of the aircraft commander (P1/US). The passenger was also a qualified pilot and held a current ATPL valid on the Bombardier Challenger 300 and the Embraer ERJ 135/145 but not on the King Air. The planned departure time was 0815 but poor visibility at Stapleford meant that the departure was delayed for an hour until "trees were visible just beyond the end of Runway 22L, indicating that visibility was at least 1,000 metres and the pilot decided that conditions were suitable for departure". The generally prevailing low level weather conditions in the planned direction of departure were advised to the Investigation as having been "poor...with some widespread areas of low cloud and/or fog" associated with "very poor visibilities (and) the top of the fog and/or cloud generally around 1,000-1,500 feet amsl with little or no cloud above this level". The nearest airport to Stapleford reporting present weather conditions was London Stansted which, shortly after the time of take-off, was giving fog with a visibility of 600 metres and sky obscured. The aircraft took off at 0908 and was observed from the ground to climb "in a wings level attitude until it faded from view shortly after take-off". The pilot's intention prior to take-off was to turn right once safely airborne and track toward the BPK VOR on the 128° radial climbing not above 2,400 feet QNH so as to remain clear of the London TMA. Radar data showed that the aircraft had begun the right turn as it passed approximately 750 feet QNH (565 feet aal) and had continued to climb in