static covers fitted. When aircraft were parked for longer periods, especially during the reduced flying throughout the early COVID-19 times, they were ‘parked’ with all covers fitted. Since operations started to ramp up again, they were tasked to ‘park’ aircraft within 24 hours of landing, only to reverse this procedure a short time later. the 787 was the only aircraft operated by Qantas with fan cowl ports on the outside of the engine cowls which required covering. they had rarely seen the vertical fin or fan cowl ports covered for 24-72 hour parking and were therefore not expecting them to be covered on the aircraft involved. The guidance to pilots in respect of their pre flight external check was reviewed. It was found that whilst the FCOM included a diagram of the inspection route to be followed which clearly included both sides of each engine and stated that all probes, sensors, ports, vents and drains (as applicable) must be checked clear and not undamaged, the brief description of the major components of the ADRS in the FCOM only stated that there were “6 static ports, 3 on the left and 3 on the right side of the airframe”. There was no mention anywhere in the FCOM of the fan cowl (or vertical fin) static ports. The DNATA ‘pre-departure walk round inspection’ procedure was found to be limited to checking ground equipment was clear of the aircraft and that all doors were closed using a route similar to that illustrated in the FCOM with no mention of any static port covers. It was noted that their walk rounds were supposed to follow those in the Qantas ‘Ramp Operations Manual’ but this also made no reference to any static covers or gave any guidance about ‘tape’ and what to do if it was observed. The Investigation made a 'Safety Analysis’ of the assembled evidence which concluded that the event was the result of multiple factors which, in summary, were as follows: Typical covers and lock-out devices incorporate a ‘streamer’ that hangs down and flaps in a breeze to enhance detection but the Boeing static port cover procedure required that tail of visible tape should be taped down flush with the aircraft skin.. The fan cowl port covers were below eye level, making them more difficult to identify without specifically bending down to view under the engine.. The Qantas Engineering procedures for parking an aircraft were linked to the Boeing procedures but their ‘restore’ instructions were not which made it less likely that engineers on the ‘restore’ task would check which static ports were covered.. The Qantas Engineering procedures required the static ports to be covered but did not specify the three locations where they were present and the emphasis in respect of warnings that they were fitted was primarily focused on the fuselage static ports, rather than those on the fan cowls and the vertical fin.. Two Contributing Factors were identified as follows: Tape covering the 4 engine fan cowl static ports