was not removed by engineering, as per the manufacturer’s procedures, nor identified by flight crew or dispatch during pre-departure checks. This resulted in the aircraft departing with reduced redundancy to the engine electronic control system.. Qantas procedures did not identify all of the aircraft’s static ports and the procedure for restoring the aircraft back to service did not reference Boeing procedures. This allowed different interpretations of which ports would be covered.. An Additional Factor that increased risk was also identified as: Boeing's static port cover procedure involving the taping down of the ‘streamer’ tail, although intended to prevent it being torn from the fuselage in strong winds, likely reduced the visibility of the fan cowl static port covers.. Safety Action was advised to the Investigation to have been taken included the following: Qantas Airways Engineering amended job instruction cards to link with Boeing maintenance procedures and identify static port locations and issued a memo highlighting the fan cowl static port location on the 787.. Qantas Airways Flight Operations amended flight crew return to work training to include an exterior inspection video and briefing and issued a memo on the fan cowl static ports noting that they may be covered during parking and that engineering may not necessarily conduct an external inspection prior to dispatch which therefore highlighted the importance of flight crew vigilance during pre flight inspections.. Qantas Airways Ground Support Services issued a memo to ramp operations staff reminding them that the pre-departure inspection is important and must be conducted as specified and that any related operational safety concern must be immediately raised with engineering or the flight crew.. DNATA (Qantas’ contractor for the provision of 787 dispatch services at Melbourne) advised they had issued reminders to all 787-qualified dispatch staff during pre-shift briefings highlighting the importance of a thorough pre departure aircraft walk round.. Boeing advised the 787 AMM amendment scheduled for June 2022 will include the addition of a procedural requirement to add a warning flag to the left side control column specifically stating, ‘engine static ports covered’ when this particular action is taken.. The Final Report was released on 17 May 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.