aircraft). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Shortly afterwards, the flight crew, which consisted of the captain, two First Officers and two Second Officers, boarded the aircraft and the Captain instructed the Second Officer who was going to be seated in the passenger cabin for departure to carry out the pre-flight external inspection. The Dispatcher assigned to the departure was employed by a Qantas contractor (DNATA) who were responsible for all Qantas 787 departures from Melbourne. Just prior to pushback, this Dispatcher conducted their required walk round inspection of the aircraft with no findings. The flight departed and was uneventful, arriving in Los Angeles later the same day (early morning in Los Angeles). A post flight inspection by a Qantas engineer then found that all 4 fan cowl ports were covered (see the illustration below). A review of recorded flight data confirmed that the fact that these ports had been covered had had no effect on the operation of the aircraft during the flight. It was noted that the fuselage static ports are the normal source of ambient air pressure data to the air ADRS (air-data reference system) and that the EEC (electronic engine controller) uses the ambient air pressure data from the ADRS for engine control algorithms, engine thrust calculations and to optimise engine performance. The ambient air pressure detected at the fan cowl static ports is only used (automatically) when the EEC for that engine determines that the normal source ADRS data is unreliable. The still covered fan cowl static ports on arrival at Los Angles after the 14 hour flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Qantas Engineering had created Job Instruction Cards (JICs) for both parking, and then restoring an aircraft back to service. The JIC for parking between 24 and 72 hours “prioritised certain tasks from the Boeing procedure” and stated that pitot probe and static port covers were to be installed “as soon after arrival as possible”. The JIC instructions to “cover the static ports” and to “attach static ports covered tag” referred to the applicable section in the AMM with Qantas using a locally manufactured sign for the flight deck which combined the two tags into one placard which could be hung from the control column. The JIC also contained the warning “when there are covers on the [fuselage/ADRS] static ports, make sure that personnel can see that condition from the ground”. The JIC for restoring the aircraft prior to flight included the removal of all tapes used to secure static port covers and included “a warning of adverse outcomes if these covers were not removed prior to flight”. The engineer who was sent to the aircraft later in the day when all the static port covers except the vertical fin one had been fitted in order to remove them in preparation for the following mornings departure made a number of observations to the Investigation including the following: in Melbourne, prior to COVID-19, aircraft not flown for 4-5 days did not generally have pitot and