An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data from the aircraft DAR was available in support of the Investigation. Information about the five pilots on board the flight was not recorded. The aircraft arrived at Melbourne from Los Angeles in the late afternoon of 20 September and was parked on Domestic Bay 11, where it remained until its planned departure to Los Angeles on the morning of 22 September. Qantas required that where an aircraft was on the ground for less than 72 hours, it was subject only to ‘normal’ parking procedures. The following day, an engineer was tasked with attending to these ‘normal’ parking procedures which included fitting pitot covers and covering the static ports in accordance with the Boeing AMM procedure for an aircraft to be parked for less than 7 days which was to be completed within three days of a landing. This procedure required that covers be fitted to all static ports, of which the 787 has a total of 14 - 6 on the fuselage, 4 on the engine fan cowls and 4 on the vertical fin (see the illustration below). This recommended using grease proof paper secured by high visibility adhesive tape sealed at the top, sides and base of each port leaving an opening at the bottom for moisture to drain. It was noted that these particular AMM procedures were guidance rather than mandatory allowing operators to use alternative methods which ensure that aircraft and engine systems are adequately protected. The AMM also recommended that placards stating “pitot probes and static ports covered” should be fitted to the left side control column and removed during the pre return to service ‘restore’ procedure without referring to the location of the 14 static ports. The task was completed in respect of the fuselage and fan cowl ports but in the absence of an elevated working platform, the vertical fin port covering was deferred with an entry in the Aircraft Technical Log. Later the same day, another engineer was tasked with completing the corresponding ‘restore’ procedure in order to return the aircraft to flight status. With the assistance of another maintenance engineer, he uncovered the pitot and fuselage static ports but was unaware that the fan cowl ports had been covered and did not check them. Later on, having noticed the Technical Log entry stating that the vertical fin static ports had not been covered, he returned to the aircraft to make sure that they had not been covered without the entry being cleared. The following morning, prior to the flight crew arriving at the aircraft, a third engineer was tasked to sign the CRS arrived at the aircraft. This sign off was predicated on ensuring that all outstanding maintenance tasks had been completed and certified for. The CRS procedure did not require them to inspect the aircraft, nor did they do so. The locations of all 16 static ports (duplicated on the other side of the