unit in the DGCA staffed by just one individual is inadequate.. A total of 15 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Inquiry as follows: The requirement of proficiency in English, which is the language accepted by ICAO for radio communications on international flights, should be strictly ensured by contracting States. ICAO should devise ways and means to ensure such compliance by contracting States so as to avoid lapses on their part.. A meaningful Crew Resource Management Programme should be made an integral part of the flight crew training curriculum with special emphasis on the importance of standard call-outs and its efficacy should be evaluated during periodic licence renewal checks.. Before a pilot is appointed as "pilot-in-command", his having acquired effective CRM skill and qualities of leadership should be meticulously ensured.. Air-ground communications with ATC should be governed as follows: In general, the emphasis should be on direct pilot-controller communications irrespective of crew composition. In the terminal control areas, the requirement should be of direct pilot - controller communication invariably so as to avoid time lag in compliance of ATC instructions. In the enroute phase, a crew other than pilots may handle radio communications with ATC subject to basic flying instruments being in their view.. In general, the emphasis should be on direct pilot-controller communications irrespective of crew composition.. In the terminal control areas, the requirement should be of direct pilot - controller communication invariably so as to avoid time lag in compliance of ATC instructions.. In the enroute phase, a crew other than pilots may handle radio communications with ATC subject to basic flying instruments being in their view.. The Airports Authority of India should expedite commissioning of automated ATC systems.. The Airports Authority of India should bifurcate ATS Route G-452 (which is a high density traffic route) into unidirectional arrival/departure corridors within the limits of Delhi TMA to coincide with the commissioning of ATS automated systems. Other bi-directional routes may also be restructured wherever warranted.. The use of DFDRs/FDRs which do not record parameters to the accuracy limits in ICAO Annex 6 Part I should not be permitted on public transport aircraft by Contracting States. This can be ensured by the regulatory agency of the country of manufacture including the DFDR/FDR in the scope of the Type Certificate and by ICAO taking steps to emphasise the need of implementation of its recommendation by Contracting States.. Public Transport Aircraft should be equipped with: an Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) an Altitude Alerting System an Altitude Acquisition System.. an Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS). an Altitude Alerting System. an Altitude Acquisition System.. The Government of India should create a suitable ATC section at a senior level in the DGCA to properly oversee all aspects of ATC provision.. The Airports Authority of India should have a Member (ATC) on its Board to look after ATC matters. Regional/Field ATC units should be placed under unified command of a discrete ATC group.. The Government of India should integrate civil and military