were then seen to hit the ground. An examination of the IL76 CVR data showed that there appeared to have been a degree of uncertainty on the flight deck about the continued descent to - or almost to - FL 140 (this level or close to it was identified as the collision altitude by reference to FDR data). After correctly acknowledging the descent clearance to FL 150, the radio operator “promptly converts it to 4570 metres” (the IL76 was operating with the standard Russian/CIS metric altitude instrumentation) and re-confirmed it with the Navigator (all intra flight crew communication being in the Russian language). It was considered that since all crew were listening out, “it can safely be assumed” that each crew member would have understood that the descent clearance limit was FL 150. The IL76 radio operator could also have reasonably have been expected to have heard the call from Saudia 763 "approaching FL 100" and being cleared by to climb to FL 140. Also, it was considered that the IL76 radio operator could likewise have reasonably been expected to have heard the “approaching FL140, requesting higher” call from Saudia 763 and the reply instructing the flight to level off at FL 140. The Investigation made a series of Findings which it was considered had a direct bearing on the accident which, in summary, were as follows: The entire communication from the IL-76 aircraft to ATC was by the Radio Operator and it was in English.. ATC instructions given to both the aircraft were clear and correct and in accordance with the corresponding established procedures.. Neither the CVR nor the DFDR of either aircraft contain any indication that any evasive or avoiding action was taken prior to the collision.. Throughout the time when Delhi ATC was in contact with the two aircraft, no transmission was made from either of them with reference to any observed abnormality or any real or anticipated emergency.. Both aircraft were airworthy prior to the collision and all relevant ATC equipment was serviceable.. The collision was not caused directly or indirectly by sabotage, internal explosion or by any cause external to the flight crews or the aircraft.. The collision occurred at FL 140 with the two aircraft on reciprocal tracks at that level. The Saudia Boeing 747 was in compliance with its clearance but the Kazak IL76 was not, since it had been instructed to maintain FL150 in order to ensure safe separation until it had passed the 747.. The Cause of the collision formally recorded as the unauthorised descent of the Kazak aircraft to FL140 after failing to maintain its cleared level FL150. A number of Contributory Factors were also identified: The unauthorised descent of Kazak aircraft from its assigned FL 150 resulted from: an inadequate knowledge of the English language on the part of the Kazak Captain which led to wrong interpretation of ATC instructions. poor airmanship and lack of proper CRM skills on the part of the Kazak Captain compounded by his lack