of leadership quality. the casual attitude of the whole Kazak flight crew and their failure to adequately co-ordinate the performance of their respective duties. the absence of standard call-outs from any members of the Kazak flight crew.. an inadequate knowledge of the English language on the part of the Kazak Captain which led to wrong interpretation of ATC instructions.. poor airmanship and lack of proper CRM skills on the part of the Kazak Captain compounded by his lack of leadership quality.. the casual attitude of the whole Kazak flight crew and their failure to adequately co-ordinate the performance of their respective duties.. the absence of standard call-outs from any members of the Kazak flight crew.. Nearly 30 seconds before the collision, both aircraft had entered a cloud layer which resulted in reduced visibility. Although the entry into cloud was accompanied by light to moderate turbulence, this was nowhere near enough to lead to an abrupt loss of 1000 feet of altitude by the Kazak aircraft.. The absence of direct pilot-controller communications between the Kazak aircraft and Delhi ATC.. The absence of SSR in Delhi airspace. However, installation of current generation radar (both primary and secondary) along with other ATC automated systems was already in progress.. It was concluded that although the bi-directional ATS route involved was not in itself a contributory factor for the accident, uni-directional routes do enhance ATC traffic handling capacity, which is in the national interest. It was also found that the outcomes of investigations by the DGCA and the Airports Authority of India (which is responsible for ATS) were not being disseminated to controllers as part of their training. A number Findings in relation to Incidental Issues were documented: Altitude parameter accuracy limits in respect of FDR installed in IL-76 were not in accordance with those laid down in ICAO Annex 6 Part I.. Neither of the aircraft involved was equipped with an ACAS.. The IL-76 was not equipped with either an Altitude Alerting System or an Altitude Acquisition System.. The organisational set-up of the Indian DGCA did not include any oversight of the ATS provided throughout the country by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).. Within the AAI, the highest post which an ATC professional can fill was that of Executive Director (Air Traffic Management), an arrangement which is not adequate.. The prevailing system of civil/military ATC coordination in India suffers from serious shortcomings which adversely affect air safety in the country.. In India, the ATC profession, which has become highly specialised due to the present day complex flying environment, does not enjoy the recognition and status it deserves.. Working conditions at the Delhi Airport ACC are not adequate, especially in respect of Area/Approach Control, ATC Simulator provision and IAF capability. In view of the anticipated increase in air traffic, the present number of work stations is also inadequate.. India has no system of licensing air traffic controllers and the proficiency standards being followed in civil and military ATC are not uniform.. An accident/incident prevention