It was established that the IL76 had first contacted Delhi Radio on HF 35 minutes after takeoff for what was expected to be a flight taking around three hours and reported maintaining FL330 with an ETA for Delhi of 1323Z. About 17 minutes before the collision occurred, the southbound IL76 flight checked in with Delhi ACC West and reported waypoint ‘LUNKA’ on airway G452 at FL330, a position 177 miles west of Delhi. Descent clearance was initially given to FL 250 and subsequently to FL 180 to report passing FL 200. Then, whilst passing FL 240 the flight was transferred to Delhi APP, subsequently checking in there as it passed FL230 when 74 miles from the Delhi VOR. Delhi APP then re-cleared the flight to continue descent to FL 150 and call reaching that level. A few minutes later, in response to a query from APP, the fight reported reaching FL150 on the Delhi VOR radial 270° and was identified on primary radar and instructed to maintain FL 150. The controller added traffic information on a reciprocal direction Saudi Boeing 747 "12 o’clock at 10 miles likely to cross in another 5 miles". Both the instruction and traffic information were acknowledged but the IL76 crew asked for the distance of the traffic again to which APP replied with "traffic is at 8 miles now FL 140". This call was acknowledged with “traffic at 8 miles” and that they were looking for it. This was the last transmission from the aircraft on the Delhi APP frequency. All communications between the flight and ATC were conducted in English by the radio operator. Meanwhile, the Saudi Airlines 747 aircraft had taken off from runway 28 at Delhi and followed a PARVI-1 SID before establishing on airway G452 northbound. Identified on radar after takeoff by Delhi APP on the same frequency as the IL76, the flight was initially cleared to continue climbing to FL 100 and “to standby for higher”. On subsequently reporting that it was approaching FL100 four minutes after takeoff, the flight was re-cleared to FL140 which it then called approaching two minutes later, requesting a higher level. APP responded by instructing the flight to maintain FL 140 and standby for higher which was read back correctly. One minute later, the two aircraft, which had briefly entered cloud, collided head on, each crew getting only a very brief sighting of the other aircraft at the same level (based on FDR data analysis) before impact with avoiding action impossible. The APP controller saw that the radar returns from both aircraft had disappeared and soon afterwards, a U.S. Air Force transport aircraft en route from Islamabad to Delhi and descending in VMC from FL 200 reported seeing “a cloud lit up with an orange glow in a 2 o'clock relative position from his aircraft”. The crew of this aircraft added that the glow had persisted and as their descent was continued, they saw “two fireballs diverging away from each other below the cloud” which