An Investigation is being carried out by the Pakistan Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB). Clearance of wreckage from the crash site prioritised successful recovery of the FDR and CVR which was achieved. The EGPWS Computer, the QAR and the Flight Controls Data Concentrator (FCDC) and ADIRU (Air Data Inertial Reference Unit) computers, which all contained NVM that was not crash protected were also recovered since they may yield useful data. All these units were taken to the BEA France in the custody of the AAIB Chief Investigator for examination and data retrieval. The FDR was undamaged and on download, its data was found to cover the whole flight until its electrical power supply ceased shortly before the crash. The CVR was externally damaged but it proved possible to remove its memory and obtain good data from it. The prevailing weather conditions were noted as having been good throughout the flight which was uneventful until it reached the vicinity of its destination. Karachi Control cleared the flight for the Nawabshah 2A STAR and advised that it could expect an ILS approach to runway 25L. Later, clearance to the waypoint MAKLI, which is located 15 nm from the Karachi VOR on its 075 radial, followed with descent to FL050 approved and, following handover to Karachi APP, descent to 3000 feet. As can be seen from the reconstructed vertical flight profile and accompanying airspeed graph below, the aircraft remained well above a normal descent profile and also maintained high speed. On reaching the MAKLI waypoint, it was still at 9780 feet and descending at around 245 KCAS. It was being flown manually with the speed brakes extended and ‘OPEN DES’ mode selected on the Flight Control Computer (FCU). The APP controller therefore requested what track miles would be “comfortable for descent” and in the absence of any response then advised making an orbit. However, no orbit was made and an attempt to intercept the ILS directly continued. FDR data indicated that the landing gear was selected down at 7,221 feet when about 10.5 nm from the runway and thereafter the rate of descent increased. The APP controller twice advised that the attempted direct approach should be discontinued but it was not. FDR data showed that as the aircraft approached the ILS GS, flaps 1 had been selected at 243 KCAS and as it became fully established just inside 5nm and at approximately 1740 feet, the landing gear was raised and the speed brakes were retracted. Over-speed and EGPWS warnings were then triggered. As it became clear that the crew intended to land the aircraft despite the highly unstabilised approach being flown and aware that there was no conflicting airborne traffic, the APP controller obtained a landing clearance by telephone from the TWR (runway) controller (who did not mention the absence of extended landing gear) and then issued it to the aircraft. FDR data shows that passing 500 feet, the airspeed was recorded as 220 KCAS and the rate of descent as 2000 fpm