with the landing gear still retracted and slats/flaps now at configuration 3. Various warnings and alerts related to over-speed, landing gear not down and ground proximity were all disregarded and touchdown followed with the landing gear retracted and the aircraft resting on its engines - see the CCTV still and runway marks below. Initially, braking action was attempted and reverse thrust was selected but after a brief action to select the landing gear lever to the ‘down’ position, it was returned to the ‘up’ position and a go-around was commenced. In the short time available, the observation by the TWR controller that the engines were in contact with the runway was not passed directly to the crew but to the APP controller but it was not then relayed to the crew. The crew advised their intention to position for another ILS approach to runway 25L but about 4 minutes later, transmitted a ‘MAYDAY’ call from a downwind position advising that they could no longer maintain height after both engines had successively failed. By this time, the RAT had automatically deployed to power essential systems and since this did not, by design, include the FDR, its data recording had stopped shortly after the engines failed. The aircraft was observed to adopt a high angle of attack before crashing at a low forward speed about 1340 metres from the runway 25L threshold just to the left of its extended centreline with the landing gear extended, slats at position 1 and flaps retracted. A post impact fire began at the point of impact and the remainder of the wreckage was spread over approximately 80 metres, essentially aligned along a single street - see below. It was noted that the continuing Investigation will include examination of: aircrew and controller personnel records. aircraft documents. recovered aircraft wreckage. aircraft maintenance records. controller response to the situation and ANSP / regulatory oversight. flight crew performance and training at the aircraft operator and regulatory oversight of same. aircraft operator SMS, the Safety and Quality Management System of the CAA Directorate of Operations and the State Safety Programme. pre-flight medical actions and initial post crash response by the CAA. A Preliminary Report of the Investigation on which this summary is based was published on 24 June 2020.