contributed to AMC not identifying the type of (crew) error that occurred during the event” and that “without the BEA’s investigation, the operator would not, in this event, have recognised the danger of erroneous data entry into the OPT”. It then looked at the preparations for the work on runway 27L jointly made by the Airport Operator ADP and the ANSP SNA and concluded that although they may have appeared adequate at the time, the preparation of safety studies by both organisations within the framework of their Safety Management System “was not the subject of specific coordination”. It was noted that an example of this was “the reduction of the TORA was associated by the SNA with the risks linked to rejected takeoffs but by ADP, it was associated with the risks linked to the obstruction of the takeoff path by works site equipment”. Generally, it was noted that discussions between these two organisations “did not explicitly concern the formal identification of risks” and therefore, “carrying out safety studies did not allow for a detailed exploration of the works situation in terms of risk”. It was concluded that the Cause of the event was: “The crew’s failure to take into account the length of the runway available for takeoff”. It was also concluded that the following Contributory Factors may have been relevant: the inadequacy of the OPT utilisation procedures set up by the operator AMC to prevent such an error;. the impaired level of crew performance, specifically related to the pilots’ fatigue.. Safety Action taken as a result of the incident was noted as having included the following: AMC Airlines made improvements to the available functionality of the OPT software installed on flight deck EFBs and reported having developed a detailed training course on use of the OPT.. The Airport Operator and the ANSP made improvements to their ‘Guide to impact evaluation for airport safety’.. The Safety Directorate of the DGAC produced a new guide on ‘Coordination in case of modifications to airport operations’ which is specifically devoted to the necessary coordination between the different parties involved in case of works at an airport.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DGAC, in the context of the State Safety Plan, take into account the risks associated with operators introducing new computer tools.. that European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) conduct a study on the standards that should be taken into account during certification of onboard performance calculation systems, in order to ensure that their ergonomics and procedures for use are compatible with the requirements of safety.. The Final Report was published in August 2011.