An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). An attempt to obtain readouts from the flight recorders was made but was unsuccessful. The aircraft operator, when informed that a piece of the aircraft had been found in the runway, advised that “based on the flight personnel report and the reported damage, it had initially estimated that SU-BPZ had struck some FOD left by a previous airplane (and had) consequently decided not to remove the recorders”. At the time of the incident, the final 1240 metres of the 4200 metre long runway 27L were out of use to allow construction work to proceed. The TODA and ASDA were respectively 2960 metres from the beginning of the runway, 2640 metres for a line-up at Y12 and 2360 metres for a line-up at Y11. The “provisional end of runway 27L was defined by a line of nine unidirectional red lights” and prior to the provisional end of runway 27L and after a ‘works zone’, a Runway End Safety Area followed by an extended RESA had been defined, which together had a length of 240 metres and a width of 120 metres. The Investigation noted, referring to the first diagram reproduced below, that: “The RESA, ninety metres long in accordance with international standards, started sixty metres after taxiway K3, thus making a clear area of 150 m. It was separated from the extended RESA, 150 metres long, by a separator made up of fifty-five red or white polyethylene markers (marked ‘GBA’ on the diagram). These markers were positioned about sixty metres from the centre line of taxiway K2 and placed in such a way as to alternate the white and red colours. They were weighted with water and linked by a connecting part clad in a reflecting strip visible over 360°. Each marker measured 1.25 metres long, 0.55 metres wide and 0.80 metres high. A blast fence 2.44 metres high, fitted with a lighting system with eleven red lights separated the extended RESA from a zone, about 36 metres wide provided for the use of works traffic. The works zone then stretched for a length of about 900 metres.” The effect of the departing aircraft on the area between the temporary end if the runway and the beginning of the construction zone is shown on the second diagram below. It was established that before leaving the gate, the aircraft commander had input data into the Boeing ‘Operational Performance Tool’ (OPT) installed on the Class 1 EFB used by the Operator without sufficient appreciation of how the software should be used. He was unaware that although the database was up to date, AMC Airlines had not, when subscribing for updates, chosen the option of having temporary restrictions to runway availability included. The result of this was that the implications of planning to start the take off from the pre-planned intersection (Y11) were not recognised. It was also noted that the Co-pilot was another AMC Airlines Captain with only 140 hours