experience on the aircraft type and considered that this could well have mitigated against effective flight deck monitoring. The Investigation concluded that in this case, “it seems that in the end the crew did not select any restriction connected with the works (and) they did not examine the values in detail to allay their doubts on seeing information that appeared inconsistent or inaccurate”. Once taxiing, the crew received an offer from ATC of either intersection Y11 or Y12 on runway 27L for departure and chose to accept Y11, whereupon the controller had stated the reduced distance remaining from that intersection due to the construction work notified on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). As already noted and illustrated, during the subsequent take off, the aircraft struck some provisional lights at the end of the available runway and then, during rotation, destroyed some markers on the safety-barrier positioned in front of the construction zone. It took off before reaching a provisional blast fence. The crew realised that they had struck objects on the ground but after reviewing systems and parameters, decided to continue the flight to destination without informing ATC of “the anomalies encountered during take-off”. Not until nearly four hours later, when an aircraft cleared to taxi in via taxiway K2 after landing reported that it was not possible to taxi as cleared because of debris ahead, was it realised that marker beacons in the works zone at the end of the restricted length runway 27L were damaged. When a part from a 737 was found amongst the debris, ATS informed the operators of all 737s which had taken off from the runway since the last inspection of the finding and AMC responded by advising that SU-BPZ had been “damaged by FOD on the runway”. Only several days later was it confirmed that SU-BPZ had struck the ground lighting during take off. It was concluded that the pilot pre-departure data entry errors which occurred in the investigated event “echo the conclusions of a study undertaken by the BEA, the DGAC and the LAA (The Laboratory of Applied Anthropology) on the subject (which) found failings related to entering takeoff weight data” but with this event showing another type of potential error, that associated with entering the length of runway available. It was considered that the event had highlighted that “the development of computerised performance calculation tools must be accompanied by better knowledge of associated failings”. The Investigation reviewed the context for crew actions and inactions in the context of the recent fleet modernisation completed by AMC Airlines and concluded that their change management had been ineffective and as a result “uncertainty, particularly in matters relating to operational procedures and crew training” had been introduced. As a relevant example, it was noted that “AMC’s Operations Manual at the date of the event had not been amended to take into account the introduction of the OPT into flight preparation”. It was also noted that “the absence of flight analysis Flight Data Monitoring (had)