the cause of the unreliable speed indication but it was noted that both dust ingested by the pitot system during a period parked prior to flight without the pitot covers fitted or pitot system ice contamination as the aircraft transited an unstable convective air mass with very significant vertical development may have been involved. No fault was found with the content of the two non-normal QRH drills relevant to the accident and neither was there any evidence of relevant pre-existing airworthiness deficiency. The Cause of the accident was formally determined as "insufficient operational prerequisites for the management of erratic airspeed indication failure by the flight crew”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: The aircraft designer/manufacturer provided insufficient technical and operational guidance about airspeed malfunctions that had previously occurred.. There was a lack of effective (flight deck) CRM.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: That the ICAO encourage involved states to separate political sanction from civil aviation industries and take efforts for establishing ICAO standards in annexes to ICAO Convention.. That the Iranian Interior Ministry follow up to manage (the) responsibilities of the organisations involved in crisis management for participation in the Search and Rescue Program following an aircraft accident with cooperation of aviation crisis management.. That Transport Canada follow up with the appropriate design authorities (FAA, EASA) by taking immediate actions and necessary measures to ensure that the risk of the failure of both engines on Bombardier aircraft during high altitude flight remains within acceptable limits for each aircraft affected by this problem.. That Transport Canada follow up with the appropriate design authorities (FAA, EASA) to ensure that preventative actions in respect of Erratic Airspeed Indication are taken by the aircraft manufacturer and provide a technical directive to relevant operators.. That Transport Canada follow up with the appropriate design authorities (FAA, EASA) to ensure that a general system of initial standard calls for the handling of abnormal and emergency procedures and also for unusual and unexpected situations is implemented on the aircraft type.. That the Transport Safety Investigation Centre of Turkey (UEIM) follow up with the appropriate authority to ensure that aircraft operators improve the training of pilots on the simulator in respect of airspeed indication failure, double engine failure, stall recovery procedures and CRM.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 10 October 2020.