- not run because of interruptions from the Captain. Approximately a minute later, as the aircraft was approaching FL380, an overspeed aural warning based on the (false) detection of Mach exceeding M0.85 began to sound. Despite the First Officer recorded as saying “my speed is decreasing”, the Captain responded by reducing engine thrust to idle and the warning was not muted. A further call by the First Officer of “captain, lower the nose, you are not lowering the nose”. As a descent began, the Captain disconnected the AP and instructed the First Officer to get ATC clearance for a descent to FL 370 due to an unspecified “malfunction”. One minute after annunciation of the first Overspeed Warning, the Stall Protection System was activated and there followed a continuing sequence of stall warnings and repeated stick pusher activations with the Captain opposing the latter with contrary rearward movement of the control column. There was no attempt to follow the stall recovery procedure and the aircraft eventually entered “a series of pitch and roll oscillations”. As the Stall Warnings continued, the First Officer called out “leave it, why are you holding the nose” but FDR data showed that during over 6000 feet of descent in approximately three minutes, the aircraft experienced about 50 rapid pitch cycles in which each activation of the stall protection system was followed by the Captain actively opposing the stick pusher system. Loss of altitude was accompanied by an uncommanded decrease in both engines’ thrust until both engines flamed out at around FL 310. This flameout was considered likely to have been a consequence of disturbed intake airflow caused by the rapid and repeated pitch oscillations eventually causing internal damage to the engines. Loss of engine thrust resulted in the termination of FDR data recording and at about the same time, a declaration of emergency to ATC, the last transmission made, was recorded on the CVR. Recorded CVR data then continued for 45 seconds during which a single TAWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ Alert occurred. Impact with mountainous terrain nose first at an elevation of approximately 7,500 feet amsl was estimated to have occurred approximately two minutes after the single ‘emergency’ transmission. Subsequent site examination concluded that prior to impact, the aircraft structure had been undamaged. The crash site was identified to the emergency services by local people who could see smoke and fire. ATC had observed from their radar that the aircraft was descending below the requested FL340 but the controller received no clear reply and could get no further response from the aircraft. Another (Turkish) aircraft in the vicinity was requested to attempt contact but was also unsuccessful and the Captain advised ATC that the last time he saw the Challenger on his TCAS display, it had been 6000 feet below his flight level (FL360) and “rapidly losing its altitude”. The elapsed time from the accident aircraft’s first EICAS indication of a 10 knot IAS discrepancy to impact was approximately 8 minutes. It was not possible to determine