An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). The FDR and hour CVR were eventually located and recovered from the accident site and their data successfully downloaded. No crew speech was recorded on the dedicated channels (considered to be due to no use of headsets) so the area microphone data were filtered to obtain a record of communications between the two pilots. The 36 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had a total of 4,800 flying hours which included 1,600 hours on type. The 40 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,132 flying hours which included 114 hours on type. Both pilots were Turkish nationals and were recorded as having been current in respect of all required training. This training was explicitly recorded as having included “pitot/static system failures related to ADC failures” and all aspects of “stall indication and warning systems including recognition and recovery systems”. It was noted that nine months earlier, the First Officer had, whilst acting as a light aircraft instructor supervising a student pilot, been involved in a hard landing event during an intended touch and go. It was established that prior to departure from Sharjah, the aircraft had been parked there in the open for three days during which time “dusty weather conditions” were reported to have prevailed at the airport. The Investigation was informed that on arrival, the flight crew had not fitted the pitot covers before leaving but that “this had been done later”. After an uneventful departure from runway 30 at Sharjah, the flight entered the Tehran FIR in IMC about 9 minutes after takeoff in the climb to FL230 with the Captain’s AP engaged. Once radar identified, the flight was cleared to continue climbing to cruise at FL 360 in accordance with its filed FPL and this level was reached about 15 minutes later. The route of the flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] About an hour after entering Iranian airspace, the flight was passed to a new ACC sector and almost immediately after it had been radar identified by the new sector, FDR data showed that the left and right IAS indications had begun to diverge, initially only by about 5 knots. As this happened, the flight requested a climb to FL 380 and once approved this was initiated in VS mode. Soon after beginning the climb, an automated EICAS caution of unreliable airspeed (EIS COMP MON) drew the attention of the pilots to what had become a 10 knot IAS difference - the left IAS had initially remained steady and then started to increase whilst the right IAS had slowly decreased. The corresponding Non Normal Checklist for ‘Unreliable Airspeed’, which begins with a requirement to check all three IAS indications and if one is different to the other two, select its ADC source to one used by one of the two correct displays, was - despite three attempts by the First Officer