that frequency. As soon as possible after reaching the distance or altitude associated with the MF, the pilot-in-command shall communicate with the appropriate ATC unit or a ground station on the appropriate en-route frequency. Where IFR departures are required to contact an IFR control unit or ground station after takeoff, it is recommended that, if the aircraft is equipped with two radios, the pilot should also monitor the MF during the departure. The pilot-in-command of an IFR aircraft who intends to conduct an approach to or a landing at an uncontrolled aerodrome shall report on the appropriate frequency: The pilot-in-command’s intentions regarding the operation of the aircraft. Five minutes before the estimated time of commencing the approach procedure, stating the estimated time of landing. When commencing a circling manoeuvre. As soon as practicable after initiating a missed approach procedure. They will also report the aircraft’s position: When passing the fix outbound, where the pilot-incommand intends to conduct a procedure turn or, if no procedure turn is intended, when the aircraft first intercepts the final approach course. When passing the final approach fix or three minutes before the estimated time of landing where no final approach fix exists. On final approach. Report when clear of the surface on which the aircraft has landed. In addition to these requirements, pilots operating aircraft under IFR into an uncontrolled aerodrome, when the weather conditions at the aerodrome could permit VFR circuit operations, are expected to approach and land on the active runway that may be established by the aircraft operating in the VFR circuit unless that runway is not suitable for the IFR aircraft. Pilots operating aircraft under IFR at an uncontrolled aerodrome do not establish any priority over aircraft operating under VFR at that aerodrome. Should it be necessary for the IFR aircraft to approach and/or land on a runway contrary to the established VFR operation, it is expected that appropriate communications, between pilots or between pilots and the air-ground facility, will be effected in order to ensure there is no traffic conflict.