Communications procedures vary from country to country and also can vary in accordance with the level of service provisions at the aerodrome in question. The following lists provide reporting protocols for most situations. Maintain a listening watch on the "appropriate frequency" (MF, AFIS, ATF, G/A, or UNICOM ) specified for use in the aerodrome area. Report the pilot-in-command’s intentions before entering the manoeuvring area. The following procedures apply when flights are conducted under Visual Flight Rules (VFR). Before moving onto the take-off surface, report the pilot-in-command’s departure intentions on the appropriate frequency. If a delay is encountered, broadcast intentions and expected length of delay, then rebroadcast departure intentions prior to moving onto the take-off surface. Before takeoff, ascertain by both radio and by visual observation that there is no likelihood of collision with another aircraft or a vehicle during takeoff. After takeoff, report departing from the aerodrome traffic circuit, and maintain a listening watch on the appropriate frequency until clear of the area. Before entering the aerodrome area (and, where circumstances permit, at least five minutes before entering the area), report the aircraft’s position, altitude and estimated time of landing and the pilot-in-command’s arrival procedure intentions on the appropriate frequency. Report when joining the aerodrome traffic circuit, giving the aircraft’s position in the circuit. Report when on downwind leg, if applicable. Report when on final approach. Report when clear of the surface on which the aircraft has landed. Report when joining the downwind leg of the circuit;. Report when on final approach; stating the pilot-in-command’s intentions. Report when clear of the surface on which the aircraft has landed. Report before entering the MF (where circumstances permit, at least five minutes before entering the area), giving the aircraft’s position and altitude and the pilot-in-command’s intentions. Report when clear of the MF or ATF area. NOTE: In the interest of minimizing possible conflict with local traffic and minimizing radio congestion on the MF or ATF, pilots of en-route VFR aircraft should avoid passing through MF or ATF areas whenever practical The following applies to an aircraft operating under Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) in both Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) and in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). The pilot-in-command of an IFR aircraft who intends to depart from an uncontrolled aerodrome shall: Obtain an ATC clearance if in controlled airspace. Report the planned departure procedure and intentions on the appropriate frequency before moving on to the runway. Ascertain by radio on the appropriate frequency and by visual observation that no other aircraft or vehicle is likely to come into conflict with the aircraft during takeoff. Maintain a listening watch: during takeoff from an uncontrolled aerodrome after takeoff from an uncontrolled aerodrome for which a MF has been designated, until the aircraft is beyond the distance or above the altitude associated with that frequency. during takeoff from an uncontrolled aerodrome. after takeoff from an uncontrolled aerodrome for which a MF has been designated, until the aircraft is beyond the distance or above the altitude associated with