completely detached and lying nearby (see the illustration below). The impact position and the final resting position of the aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Analysis of the available recorded data showed that the accident flight (see the illustration below) had in total lasted around 11 minutes with the aircraft flying over a built up area and entering autoland mode when the only battery powering it had reached 23% of its fully charged state, the other one having ceased powering the aircraft soon after takeoff. The recorded ground track of the aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The recorded information from the accident flight provided more detail on what had gone wrong. In summary, it showed that as the aircraft climbed through an altitude of 266 feet, battery 1 had ceased to power the aircraft, probably due to a physical break in the connection between the battery and battery terminal. This caused its displayed state of charge to freeze at 97% and left battery 2 as the sole power source which explained its faster than normal loss of charge state to 16% at impact. The exact wording of the message displayed on the controller shortly after takeoff was stated by the manufacturer to have been “the communication to the battery is abnormal, please land as soon as possible and check if the battery is installed properly”. The effect of this was to cause the total battery charge percentage figure to drop from 97% to 48% which was not displayed on the pilot’s controller. This drop in total battery capacity led to an observed reduction in the maximum pitch attitude subsequently achieved from 25° to 15° which then led to a reduction in the maximum airspeed. The manufacturer stated that this pitch attitude reduction “was to ensure flight safety”. The recorded data showed that the (correctly remembered) message ‘high wind velocity, fly with caution’, which followed about half a minute after the battery communication message had been displayed, had occurred with the UA at an altitude of 325 feet and 181 metres and south-east of the operator’s position. It was automatically generated whenever the indirectly calculated wind speed (not displayed on the controller) reached 10 mps (equivalent to 22.4 mph). A further automatically generated message with the same wording occurred which, according to the manufacturer, indicated that the calculated wind speed had reached 12 mps (equivalent to 26.8 mph), was displayed again shortly afterwards. It was noted that none of these messages had been accompanied by an audible alert and that the operators’ had no idea how long they would have remained on the controller screen. The wind speed calculated by the UA once level was then consistently above the forecast wind speed by an average of around 8 mph and exceeded 35 mph for around a third of the flight time. Since the maximum pitch angle had been reduced, the maximum airspeed was limited to much less than the normal 35.8 mph. It was noted that the calculated wind speed