a “pragmatic anchor point” provided by “one of their UAS policy experts”. Their view was that if it was necessary to rely on the controller screen to determine the orientation of a UA, “then that would not satisfy VLOS rules”. The Investigation calculated that the accident UA at 500 metres in level flight would represent an angular size of 0.06° by 0.04° which when represented on a piece of paper held at a normal reading distance of 35 cm, the size of the UA minus propellers would be contained within a 0.4 mm x 0.3 mm square. The Investigation took the view that “it is not clear why the CAA considers 500 metres as a normally acceptable distance [...] without specifying what a normal size is which CAP 722 does not do”. It also noted that CAP 722 “emphasises the importance of being able to avoid collisions but does not state anything about the importance of being able to recover the UA [...] following a loss of position holding or telemetry”. The Conclusions of the Investigation into the accident were summarised as follow. There were six ‘Main Causal Factors’ as follows: Battery 1 became disconnected shortly after takeoff which reduced the UA’s maximum pitch attitude and maximum speed.. The pilot did not notice that the ‘battery communication’ message included the words ‘land as soon as possible’.. When the wind measured by the UA exceeded the manufacturer’s wind limit the alert message to the pilot advised him to ‘fly with caution’ instead of to ‘land as soon as possible’.. The wind at 400 ft was stronger than forecast and at times above the UA’s restricted maximum speed so the pilot could not fly it back towards him.. The wind speed calculated by the UA was not displayed to the pilot on his controller app so he did not know that the wind limit had been exceeded.. After communication was lost, the UA entered an autoland mode but it was unable to avoid colliding with a wall.. There were five ‘Contributory Factors' as follows: The pilot and operator were not aware that the UA’s maximum pitch attitude and maximum speed were restricted at low battery levels as this information is not in the UAS User Manual.. The pilot may have missed the ‘land as soon as possible’ part of the battery message because it did not stay visible for long enough. An aural alert may have helped draw the pilot’s attention to the seriousness of the message.. The disconnected battery was still showing a high SOC instead of showing zero or blank which would have been a clearer indication of a battery issue.. The pilot probably did not fully push battery 1 into place and the UA was not fitted with a battery safety clip which is a new part on the updated version of the UA.. The pilot’s decided to launch from a position that would require flying downwind in a wind that was close to limits.. Safety Action known to