was not available on the controller display and any reliability associated with the forecast wind velocity used for mission planning purposes was unknown. When an attempt was made to recover the UA by selecting the ‘RTH’ mode, it encountered a significant headwind component and did not complete the turn and instead began tracking downwind. After 90 seconds of this, communication between the controller and the UA was lost. This would normally have automatically activated the ‘Failsafe RTH’ mode, but this response was prevented by the wind and the airspeed consequences of the restricted pitch attitude and after a further 90 seconds at an altitude of 300 feet, it entered ‘Auto Land’ mode. This resulted in it descending with the only functioning battery power source at 23% charge. Impact with the house balcony subsequently occurred with the recorded rate of descent in the final 30 feet recorded as 102 fpm. It was found that the UA involved could be controlled via two apps but that the latest version of the applicable “User Manual” available at the time of the accident only provided information on the one not being used and did not provide any information on alert or warning messages displayed when using either app. It was also noted that this Manual does not mention the fact that the aircraft pitch attitude and top speed are restricted below a certain battery charge level and that the manufacturer “was unable to provide further information on the battery charge level concerned or the pitch limit in degrees or the resulting airspeed limit”. Recorded data for the accident flight appeared to limit pitch (and roll) attitude to 15° when modes other than normal were engaged which is 10° less than the limit specified in the User Manual. The Manual, manufacturer website and the applicable “Disclaimer and Safety Guidelines” were also all noted as giving a wind speed of 27 mph as the figure above which “flight should not be undertaken”. However, a different section in the User Manual with the title “Flight Environment Requirements” stated that the aircraft should not be flown in (amongst other conditions) wind speeds exceeding the equivalent of 22.4 mph. The UA manufacturer advised that they routinely operated the UA involved out to a distance of 500 metres in part because this was the distance that the UK CAA had “established” in the 8th edition of their Guidance Document (CAP 722) as being the accepted range for VLOS operations. Such operations were regulated by a requirement for a remote pilot to maintain “continuous unaided visual contact” with the UA. The manufacturer claimed that the UA involved was “easily visible” at a range of up to 500 metres but noted that at that sort of range, establishing orientation “requires trial and error” lateral manoeuvring to be performed. The CAA were asked to explain how the figure of 500 metres had been chosen and responded that it was not based on the dimensions of a typical UA at that distance but was