A Field Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the UK AAIB. The operator provided the data log files from both the master controller and the aircraft to the Investigation as well as to the manufacturer. The 38 year-old ‘Remote Pilot’, who had recorded 14 hours UA experience including 5 hours on type, was operating the electrically powered 6.14kg quadcopter over the urban area of Poole for “police purposes”. They were operating in conjunction with an ‘Observer’ who had a slave controller. The remote pilot obtained a forecast wind at 400 feet amsl using a UAS weather app which gave it as north westerly at 24 mph. After a pre flight check of the two batteries “for damage, operational use and full charge”, an uneventful flight towards the south-west was completed. Both batteries were then replaced and a second flight was commenced. Control checks were carried out at a height of 33 feet amsl but there was no requirement to check that both batteries were showing a similar reducing charge rate before commencing a climb to the planned operating altitude, in this case 400 feet amsl. As the climb continued whilst flying south-east towards a target location that was 500 metres away, it was stated that good visual sight of the UA was maintained. The pilot checked his controller screen and reported seeing two messages, “Battery communication error” and “Fly with caution, strong wind". He also reported that after seeing that one of the batteries was showing a much lower “state of charge” than the other, he had reacted by trying to fly the aircraft back towards him but without this appearing to happen. He then used the controller map function to check the aircraft orientation and confirmed that it was continuing on the initial track thereafter soon exceeded the pre-set to 500 metre maximum distance from the remote pilot. The pilot attempted to activate the ‘Return To Home’ (RTH) command on the controller without success before changing to ‘Sport Mode’ in accordance with the operator’s emergency procedures. He expected this to enable an increased maximum speed of 51 mph which would make it easier to overcome the headwind component. However, selection of this mode cancelled the RTH feature which could not be re-engaged and an attempt to achieve this with the slave controller also failed. By this time, neither the pilot nor the observer could see the aircraft, although the moving map briefly continued to show it tracking in a south-easterly direction (see the illustration below) before both main and slave controllers lost contact with the aircraft. They then drove to the last location shown on the map display and were able to recover communication with the aircraft and obtain its GPS coordinates which enabled them to locate it on the first-floor balcony of an unoccupied house. It was evident that, having collided with the metal railings of the balcony, the right leg of the aircraft had snapped off and all three propeller blades had shattered with one