nearby.. The captain did not understand that he had received a valid clearance for another approach. Rather, he understood that he had to continue his present approach because he was worrying about potential CFIT and because of several unclear radio communications with the controller. After four requests for a left turn, the crew initiated a climbing right turn 18,000 ft, above the MOCA. Interrupted by the request from the tower controller to contact the ACC, the crew did not check that the airplane was continuing the turn along the displayed reference line back toward the original heading.. When the airplane passed the VOR while continuing to fly north of the airport, Beacon XXX and other waypoints disappeared from the navigation display. The pilots turned their attention to enter the Beacon XXX fix and the other waypoints in the FMS. As the results did not match their mental picture of the situation, they did not accept the information.. Crew resource management (CRM) during navigation. The crew did not coordinate well when using the FMS. That may have increased confusion while trying to resolve the navigation problem. The crew did not discuss the flight path until the first officer expressed concern about the northerly direction. The first officer probably realized that the airplane was in a potentially dangerous situation, but he did not voice his concern adequately to get the captain’s attention. The captain may not have understood the first officer’s concern because of the way it was expressed, because the captain misinterpreted the comment, or both. The captain assessed the GPWS warning as false.. The crew did not coordinate well when using the FMS. That may have increased confusion while trying to resolve the navigation problem.. The crew did not discuss the flight path until the first officer expressed concern about the northerly direction.. The first officer probably realized that the airplane was in a potentially dangerous situation, but he did not voice his concern adequately to get the captain’s attention.. The captain may not have understood the first officer’s concern because of the way it was expressed, because the captain misinterpreted the comment, or both.. The captain assessed the GPWS warning as false.. Additional contributing factors. Inadequate approach briefings. The flight crew and the controller were referring to different fixes for the approach. The controller believed the approach started at the VOR-DME; the crew wanted to begin the approach at Beacon XXX. Therefore, when the crew tried to get back to Beacon XXX, the controller did not understand why they wanted to do that, because Beacon XXX was located miles away. From that moment on, the crew and the controller no longer understood each other. The controller had no radar to direct the crew to proceed toward Beacon XXX. Language difficulties and ineffective discussions occurred between the flight crew and the controllers.. Inadequate approach briefings.. The flight crew and the controller were referring to different fixes for the approach. The controller believed the approach started at the VOR-DME; the crew