wanted to begin the approach at Beacon XXX. Therefore, when the crew tried to get back to Beacon XXX, the controller did not understand why they wanted to do that, because Beacon XXX was located miles away. From that moment on, the crew and the controller no longer understood each other.. The controller had no radar to direct the crew to proceed toward Beacon XXX.. Language difficulties and ineffective discussions occurred between the flight crew and the controllers.. The following factors increased the crew’s workload and stress: The flap problem required that the first approach be aborted.. The potential CFIT situation distracted the crew from adhering to standard operating procedures (SOPs) and standard phraseology.. The crew had not practised the nonprecision approach during simulator training even though the airport was identified by the airline as having special operational considerations.. ATC did not provide timely and accurate information. The ACC controller communicating with the flight was a trainee with nine months experience. The controller supervising him had additional duties to perform.. The crew did not conduct an effective briefing, failing to: Determine if they had a valid clearance to the fix. Brief each other on the conditions requiring a go-around and the associated procedures. Analyse potential threats such as the terrain and the nature of the approach.. Determine if they had a valid clearance to the fix.. Brief each other on the conditions requiring a go-around and the associated procedures.. Analyse potential threats such as the terrain and the nature of the approach.. Typical of the human factors-related threats was the confusion the crew experienced when interpreting radio messages from the approach controller. Since the pilots did not mention the radial when announcing the DME distance, cross-checking of actions was not performed, and an inaccurate mental picture of the situation started building in the controller’s mind. Finally, even though the pilots did not understand that they were proceeding to Beacon XXX, things might have developed differently if either of them had looked outside instead of struggling with the Flight Management System. Finally, the captain’s decision making suffered from confirmation bias, a tendency to be biased toward confirming one’s own preconception. In this accident, the captain erroneously called “false alarm” when hearing the GPWS warning.