order to maneuver the aircraft before taxiing to the terminal in a normal manner.. 5 January 2008 Oslo Gardermoen, Oslo/Gardermoen Airport. - After landing, a MyTravel Scandinavia A321 entered a skid and departed the runway/taxiway structure when exiting the active runway 19R. The aircraft continued straight across the field and onto TWY M (parallel to the runway). After the incident, the aircraft was taxied to the terminal via standard taxiways. The aircraft was not damaged in this excursion.. 1 February 2008 Oslo Gardermoen, ENGM. - A KLM B737 was unable to slow down sufficiently during braking in order to make the turn onto the last exit. The aircraft stopped 2 m outside the threshold lights at the end of the runway. The aircraft was towed to the terminal.. 13 January 2010 Bardufoss, Bardufoss. - A NAS B737-300 was cleared to taxi via taxiway Y to holding position runway 28. After crossing taxiway C, the crew was advised to taxi with caution since taxiway Y was slippery. The crew tried light braking, which caused the wheels to lock and skid sideways and as a result, the aircraft skidded off the taxiway. Taxiway Y had been closed 10 minutes earlier because it was very slippery, but the crew had not been informed. The taxiway was covered with wet ice and the crew perceived the braking action as NIL.. 23 January 2010 Svalbard, Svalbard/Longyear. - A SAS B737-400 skidded sideways along the centreline while landing on runway 28 in a 10-12 kt crosswind from the southwest. The crew managed to keep the aircraft on the centre line of the runway and was able to stop on the runway. The aircraft stopped at the western end of the runway with a heading of approximately 100 degrees off the runway direction, facing south. The crew perceived the friction to be POOR.. 25 January 2010 Svalbard Svalbard/Longyear (Investigation Ongoing) - A West Air Sweden RJC 200 skidded off the south (left hand) side of the runway after landing on runway 28. The excursion happened on the final quarter of the runway. Animation. Animation 27 April 2010 Hartstad/Narvik Harstad/Narvik. - A West Air Sweden CRJ 200 landed on runway 17 in crosswind conditions, with braking action reported as GOOD. The crew perceived the friction to be POOR to NIL. The aircraft skidded sideways to approximately 2 m from the edge of the runway, but the crew managed to regain directional control and steer the aircraft back towards the centreline. The aircraft stopped by taxiway D, which are approximately two thirds of the way along runway 17..