input had stopped, a manual electric pitch trim input in Aircraft Nose Up (ANU) direction was recorded and this resulted in a corresponding response from the pitch trim (stabiliser) position. However, as the back pressure on the control column was increased, the aircraft pitch attitude did not change significantly. Five seconds after this pilot-initiated ANU pitch trim input had ceased, a second period of automatic AND pitch trim occurred, which decreased the pitch trim (stabiliser) position to 0.4 units. This was accompanied by three further EGPWS ‘DON’T SINK’ alerts. The Captain responded with a manual ANU pitch trim input and asked the First Officer to trim up with him. This action resulted in the stabiliser movement reversing and the pitch trim (stabiliser) position reaching 2.3 units. Approximately five seconds later, a third period of automatic AND pitch trim command occurred, this time “without any corresponding motion of the stabiliser” for which “cut out” had been annunciated and noted by both pilots. This was considered to have been consistent with the stabiliser trim cut out switches having been set to that position. The Captain responded by calling out three times “pull-up” and the First Officer acknowledged. For approximately the next 2½ minutes, the stabiliser position moved in the AND direction from 2.3 to 2.1 units whilst force was being manually applied to both control columns which remained aft of the neutral position. The crew confirmed to each other that after disconnecting the stabiliser trim, they could no longer control pitch (although there was no mention on the CVR of whether this was attempted using the control column stabiliser trim switches or the pitch trim wheel). It was recognised by the Investigation that the force and time required to effect pitch change using the manual pitch trim wheel would have been too great and in any case would have taken too long. During this time, the right side (correct) indicated airspeed increased from approximately 305 KIAS through Vmo (340 KIAS) and the right side overspeed aural warning was activated and remained active thereafter. The left side displayed airspeed remained up to 25 knots less than that on the right side. During this time, the Captain asked the First Officer to request radar vectors to return to the airport and the flight was given a right turn onto 260°. Towards the end of this 2½ minute period, both pilots were recorded as calling out “left alpha vane” and the Captain announced that “pitch is not enough” shortly before two momentary manual electric trim inputs in the ANU direction were recorded. These inputs only resulted in pitch trim (stabiliser) position moving in the ANU direction from 2.1 units to 2.3 units. Approximately five seconds after this final manual electric pitch trim input, a fourth period of AND automatic pitch trim command occurred and the pitch trim (stabiliser) position moved in the AND direction from 2.3 to 1.0 units over approximately 5 seconds. Despite the pilots’ added and simultaneous aft control column input throughout the