by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, is shown in the illustration below (it was not accompanied by identification of the significant points marked). The flight trajectory reconstructed from FDR data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In more detail, it was established that 10 seconds after rotation during a normal flap 5 takeoff with 94% N1 thrust set, the left AOA value became erroneous. This was the cause of a stick shaker activation and a simultaneously abnormal presentation on the Captain's PFD: A drop from 170 KIAS to 156 KIAS. The FD command bar moving rapidly down to 10° below the horizon. An increase in the red and black minimum speed band to 170 KIAS which was 9 knots above the actual airspeed at that time.. According to the Boeing calculations, the conditions necessary to generate ‘IAS DISAGREE’ and ‘ALT DISAGREE’ alerts were met but these are not recorded on the FDR nor was there any indication from the CVR that these had been seen by either pilot. Onset of the stick shaker led to the expected response of the Captain who reduced the pitch attitude to 7/8° but this had no effect and no further reduction was made. The First Officer’s flight instrument displays were unaffected and continued to show different (and correct) airspeed, altitude and flight director pitch commands than those on the left side. At 400 feet agl, although it was not consistent with the continuing stick shaker activation, the Captain made two unsuccessful attempts to engage the AP. Guidance in the FCTM to the effect that maximum use of the auto flight system would “reduce workload in a non-normal situation” was noted as was the content of the FCOM Bulletin released after the 737 MAX-8 fatal loss of control accident just over four months previously which was worded in such a way as to indicate that an AOA failure condition would only occur during manual flight. In fact, activation of the Manoeuvring Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) required that the AP be engaged. Passing 800 feet agl, ATC were advised of inability to follow the planned departure due to a “flight control problem” and requested permission to climb to 14,000 feet on runway heading which was approved. The climb continued and passing 1000 feet agl, a third attempt to engage the AP was successful. However, the takeoff thrust did not reduce automatically to N1 mode (climb thrust) because the A/T was affected by the false AOA sensor data. As the third attempt to engage the AP was successful, almost immediately an automatic Aircraft Nose Down (AND) activation began and the pitch trim (stabiliser) position moved from 4.60 to 2.1 units. This lasted for 9 seconds and converted the climb previously being achieved into a shallow descent and resulted in EGPWS ‘DON’T SINK’ alerts occurring. An aft movement of the control column was recorded and a positive climb was re-established although the automatic AND input was still active. Approximately three seconds after the uncommanded AND