remainder of the flight, the aircraft nose down pitch attitude continued to increase, eventually reaching 40° nose down with the recorded pitch trim (stabiliser) position varying between 1.1 and 0.8 units. By the end of the recording, the right side airspeed had reached 500 KCAS and the left side almost 460 KCAS and the recorded pressure altitude was 8,300 feet QNH on the right and 5,419 feet QNH on the left. The aircraft impacted agricultural land near the settlement of Ejere creating a 10 metre deep crater approximately 28 metres by 40 metres. The condition of the wreckage was judged to be consistent with a high energy impact. The subsequent responsibility for attending and controlling the accident site was taken by the Abyssinian Flight Service with helicopter support from the Ethiopian Air Force. The Addis Ababa Airport Emergency Plan was activated as soon as the accident occurred but did not result in action to achieve a rapid deployment to the accident site which was only 28 nm away. This accident occurred soon after an AOA-related fatal accident to a Lionair Boeing 737-MAX 8 on 29 October 2018 which had already resulted in action which sought to avoid a repetition. Action following this earlier accident included: the issue of FAA AD 2018-23-51 on 7 November 2018 which had been incorporated in the accident aircraft AFM as required.. the issue by Boeing of a 737-MAX 8/9 FCOM Bulletin issued by Boeing on 6 November 2018 which “directed flight crews to existing procedures to address an AOA failure condition that can occur during manual flight only” which had been incorporated in the Ethiopian Airlines FCOM. Boeing described the reason for issuing this Bulletin as being “to emphasis the procedures provided in the Runaway Stabiliser Non-Normal Checklist”.. This FCOM Bulletin was prefaced by the following text: “In the event of erroneous AOA data, the pitch trim system can trim the stabiliser nose down in increments lasting up to 10 seconds. The nose down stabiliser trim movement can be stopped and reversed with the use of the electric stabiliser trim switches but may restart 5 seconds after the electric stabiliser trim switches are released. Repetitive cycles of uncommanded nose down stabiliser continue to occur unless the stabiliser trim system is deactivated through use of both STAB TRIM CUTOUT switches in accordance with the existing procedures in the Runaway Stabiliser NNC [non-normal checklist]. It is possible for the stabiliser to reach the nose down limit unless the system inputs are counteracted completely by pilot trim inputs and both STAB TRIM CUTOUT switches are moved to CUTOUT.”