stabiliser leading to excessive aircraft nose-down attitude, significant altitude loss and impact with terrain.. that the Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authority dispatch a Search and Rescue team without delay (in the event of an aircraft accident) and ensure appropriate action is taken at the accident site.. that Ethiopian Airlines initiate and develop procedures for continuous monitoring, follow up and clarification in a timely manner (in respect of questions put to an aircraft manufacturer).. The 331-page Final Report of the Investigation was published on 23 December 2022. The NTSB representing the State of the Manufacturer, concerned that its formal request for comments on a draft of the Final Report had been neither adopted nor appended to it in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 requirements, issued a formal Response to the Report on 27 December 2022. This response included the NTSB view that whilst the origin of the accident had been the MCAS malfunction, the accident outcome had not been inevitable because “appropriate crew management of the event, per the procedures that existed at the time, would have allowed the crew to recover the airplane even when faced with the uncommanded nose-down inputs". It therefore took the view that “the flight crew’s inadequate use of manual electric trim and management of thrust to maintain airplane control” had also been a “causal factor”. The Board also proposed that “contributing factors” to the accident outcome had been “the operator’s failure to ensure that its flight crews were prepared to properly respond to uncommanded stabiliser trim movement in the manner outlined in Boeing’s flight crew operating manual (FCOM) bulletin and the FAA’s emergency airworthiness directive (AD)” and “aircraft impact with a foreign object which damaged the AOA sensor and caused the erroneous AOA values”. Following publication of the Final Report, the BEA France, due to similar concerns also published their Comments. These include the comment that “the only Probable Cause retained in the EAIB report is related to the activation of the MCAS system [whereas] the BEA believes that the crew’s inadequate actions and insufficient Cockpit Resource Management (CRM) played a role in the chain of events that led to the accident, in particular during the first phase of the flight, before the first MCAS activation”. It also includes the comment that “the contributing factors identified by the EAIB are only related to the MCAS system” and that the following contributing factors should also be stated in the report: Flight crew’s failure to apply, immediately after take-off and before the first MCAS activation, the Approach to Stall or Stall Recovery Manoeuvre and the Airspeed Unreliable Non-Normal Check-list;. Captain’s insistence on engaging the A/P, contrary to the Approach to Stall or Stall Recovery manoeuvre procedure;. Insufficient use of the electric trim to relieve the high control column forces after the MCAS nose down orders;. Captain’s lack of thrust reduction when the speed became excessive, which in combination with insufficient trim, caused an increase of the forces which became unmanageable on both the control column and the manual