Both engines were recovered and showed no signs that their normal operation up to the point of impact had been compromised. Inspection also suggested that they were “operating at power at the time of impact”. The aircraft Technical Log was reviewed since delivery of the aircraft to the airline in November 2018 and no evidence of any relevant significant or recurring defect was found. A similar check of recorded actions during an ‘A’ Check carried out in early February, again with no related findings. The Investigation found that the origin of the false signals produced by the AOA sensing system which had caused the MCAS to malfunction and repeatedly command the horizontal stabiliser to issue AND signals. The cause of this damage was not explained in the absence of any available evidence. The main focus was on what was considered to have been the inappropriate design of the MCAS system and the failure of both Boeing and the FAA to adequately foresee the potential consequences of a failure of its AOA input and thereby effectively mitigate the loss of control risk by both a more robust design and more effective pilot training guidance. Immediate Safety Action taken by Ethiopian Airlines included suspension of 737-MAX 8 aircraft operations and four days later, the Ethiopian CAA issued a NOTAM banning all flight by 737-MAX aircraft in Ethiopian airspace until further notice. This unilateral action was subsequently followed by a global grounding of the type variant until certification requirements had been enhanced to address unacceptable operational risk. The Probable Cause of the accident was formally recorded as “repetitive and uncommanded airplane-nose-down inputs from the Manoeuvring Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) due to erroneous Angle of Attack input and its unrecoverable activation system which made the aircraft dive at the rate of 33,000 feet per minute close to the ground”. Ten Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The MCAS design relied on a single AOA sensor, making it vulnerable to erroneous input from the sensor.. During the design process, Boeing failed to consider the potential for uncommanded activation of MCAS (and) assumed that pilots would recognise and address it through normal use of the control column, manual electric trim, and the existing Runaway Stabilizer Non Normal Checklist. The Operations Manual Bulletin and Emergency AD issued after the Lion Air accident included additional guidance but did not have the intended effect of preventing another MCAS-related accident.. While Boeing considered the possibility of uncommanded MCAS activation as part of its Functional Hazard Analysis (FHA), it did not evaluate all the potential alerts and indications that could accompany a failure leading to an uncommanded MCAS.. The MCAS contribution to cumulative AOA effects was not assessed.. The combined effect of alerts and indications that impacted pilot recognition and procedure prioritisation were not evaluated by Boeing.. The absence of an ‘AOA DISAGREE’ warning flag on the PFD.. The B737 MAX CBT Differences Training prepared by Boeing and delivered to pilots did not cover the MCAS system;. Failure of Boeing