to design simulator training for pilots with regards to safety critical systems like MCAS (despite the potential for) catastrophic consequences during undesired activation.. Boeing failed to provide procedures regarding MCAS operation to the crew during training or in the FCOM.. Boeing failed to address the safety critical questions raised by Ethiopian Airlines which would have (addressed the potential for) crew confusion and task prioritisation (difficulty).. Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation findings both during and on completion of the Investigation as follows: Two Safety Recommendations were included in the Preliminary Report: that Boeing should review the aircraft flight control system in relation to flight controllability. that Aviation Authorities shall verify that the review of the aircraft flight control system in relation to flight controllability has been adequately addressed by the manufacturer before the release of the aircraft to operations.. Five Safety Recommendations were included in the Interim Report: that Boeing consider the use of data from both the left and right AOA sensors and/or other independent systems for redundancy in the design of MCAS .. that the FAA shall confirm all probable causes of failure have been considered during functional hazard assessment.. that Boeing shall ensure that the minimum operational speed computed by the Stall Management and Yaw Damper Computer (SMYDC) is within logical values. There should also be logic to validate the computation.. that Boeing should include in its pilot training scheme for this aircraft variant simulator sessions to familiarise pilots with normal and non-normal MCAS operation using simulators capable of realistically replicating AOA failure scenarios.. that Boeing should confirm that the ‘AOA DISAGREE’ alert is functional whether the optional angle of attack indicator is installed or not.. The Interim Report also explicitly endorsed the 7 Safety Recommendations in the NTSB Safety Recommendation Report which was issued on 19 September 2019. Eight New Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Boeing consider the effect of all possible flight deck alerts and indications on flight crew recognition and response; and incorporate design, flight crew procedures, and/or training requirements where needed to minimize the potential for flight crew actions that are inconsistent with manufacturer assumptions.. that Boeing provide sufficient time and adequate training associated with a new description of the MCAS system.. that Boeing reconsider the design of the (MCAS) system in such a way that AOA data input from both sensors (LH & RH) are received and analyzed by the Flight Control Computer before any command in sent to MCAS.. that Boeing, instead (of focusing on the) runaway stabiliser (in the AD) provide an MCAS description and advise how to mitigate MCAS during (a) repetitive Aircraft Nose Down (AND) command.. that the FAA review all probable causes of failure which have been considered during functional hazard assessment.. that Boeing (raise) awareness of the (fact that) a single erroneously-high AOA sensor input received by the flight control system can command the MCAS (to cause) repeated aircraft nose-down trim of the horizontal