applied maximum manual braking and full thrust reverse and as a result, his aircraft stopped approximately 100 metres from the A320. TWR then instructed the A320 to return to the Apron via taxiway N3 and the 737 to proceed to the Apron via taxiway N2. It was established that the confusion about taxi routes had occurred in the context of the failure to communicate changes to the taxiway system. It was found that 'new' Taxiways NP and N3 had been in use 'on trial' for over a year prior to the investigated incident but that, although this information had been included in a NOTAM, it had expired 6 days prior to the investigated event and had not been included in the AIP Indonesia. Both Operators were found to provide their crews with the Jeppesen Flight Guide which, like those of other commercial providers, relies on State AIPs for its content. The difference between the reality and the information available to pilots can be seen by comparing the two charts above. In respect of ATC actions which had contributed to the potential for a runway collision, the Investigation found that: the failure of APP to transfer the arriving aircraft to TWR until after landing was contrary to the prevailing ATC SOP which stated that "the transfer of control for arriving aircraft shall be performed at 2500 feet". The fact that APP and TWR were not co-located meant this SOP was of particular importance.. the failure of the APP controller to instruct the 737 to go around when asked was attributed to a lack of appreciation that the 737 can safely perform a go around "as long as the aircraft has not touched down".. It was also noted from the ATC recordings that there was evidence of "background conversations not pertinent to aircraft control". A summary of the Safety Issues identified during the Investigation was formally documented as follows: Transfer of control and communication. Taxi Clearance. Controller coordination. Go around from 600 feet. The stopping distance of the landing aircraft. Aeronautical Information Publication. Safety Action taken to improve risk awareness as a consequence of and during the Investigation by both Batik Air and Indonesia Air Asia was considered to have been a sufficient contribution to the prevention of similar occurrences. The Investigation determined that the Contributing Factors to the accident were as follows: Misinterpretation between the pilots and the controller related to the position of the runway 27 holding point and the failure to clearly clarify the taxi clearance issued to the Indonesia Air Asia A320.. The lack of a transfer of control and the ineffective communication between the APP and TWR controllers resulting in the initiative of the TWR controller to instruct the Batik 737 pilot to go around not being acknowledged by its pilots.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows. In respect of those made to ANSP AirNav Indonesia regarding Yogyakarta, the possibility of these particular issues extending to controllers at other airports