presence of strong crosswinds. In the flare, it was also noted that there had also been insufficient into-wind aileron to keep the wings level. The ground track of the aircraft before, during and after the runway excursion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Once the nose landing gear was on the ground, it became difficult to turn the aircraft to the right given the combined effect of the crosswind component, the force of reverse thrust and insufficient rudder deflection angle. The Captains’ decision to make a sudden large input on the nose wheel steering tiller - up to a recorded 78º - when this system is only intended for use at low speed guaranteed that a skid would begin in the existing direction of deviation. In respect of TWR communicating to the crew the full extent of variations in surface wind velocity, it was considered significant that little attempt was made to pass useful data on the extremes of wind direction when giving wind speed variation given the display available. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the runway excursion accident was “failure to maintain the direction of the aircraft movement during the landing roll in a strong and variable crosswind”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the use by the flight crew of the “crab” touchdown technique which is not recommended in the aircraft manufacturer’s FCTM on a dry runway in strong crosswind conditions. insufficient action taken by the flight crew to align with and maintain the runway centreline.. the presence of a significant crosswind component. the effect of a wind direction which varied between crosswind/tailwind and crosswind/headwind components during the landing roll. A total of 15 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation some of which were in respect of other incidental findings which had no directly causal effect on the excursion: that the Odesa International Airport Operator conduct additional inspections of the pavements surfaces and document any deterioration of their condition in cases of takeoff and landing use by overloaded aircraft and if required stop flights and perform necessary repairs in case of the detection of new defects (such as cracks, chipped edges and panel corners, subsidence, etc.) which may cause unacceptable damage to the integrity of the pavement and pose a threat to flight safety.. that the Odesa International Airport Operator provide aircraft operators which perform flights to Odesa with up-to-date information on operating restrictions in terms of traffic intensity and aircraft weight.. that the Odesa International Airport Operator monitors a sample of takeoff and landing events each day and follows the recommendations of the scientific-research organisations that conduct relevant studies of aerodrome pavement status in relation to use.. that the Odesa International Airport Operator bring the instruction on TWR controllers’ use of Remote Lighting Control Equipment as approved by the Airport’s General Director on 12 May 2011 into conformity with the current aviation legislation of Ukraine.. that the Odesa International Airport Operator ensure that voice communications through direct communication and radio