which was little different to the previous ones. A direct request to ATC for the latest (spot) surface winds was made and those given (in metres per second) were potentially marginally above the 30 knot crosswind limit and as a result, the Captain decided on further holding. A climb to 8000 feet was commenced due to icing at 3000 feet. Sixteen minutes after beginning the go around, the controller gave the flight updated wind information, this being the only time figures for the extent of the variable wind direction were included. The figures given (with speed converted to knots) were 070º/17 gusting to 25 knots direction varying between 050º and 110º and on hearing this, the flight advised ready for another approach. The subsequent approach was stabilised at 1000 feet aal and remained so thereafter. Straight after the automated ‘minimums’ call, the Captain was recorded on the CVR confirming his intention to land. The right main landing gear touched first at 444 metres beyond the threshold of the 2,800 metre long runway slightly left of the runway centreline, the left main gear followed almost immediately and the nose landing gear touched down 552 metres beyond the threshold and 1.5 metres to the left of the centreline. The spoilers were automatically deployed and reverse thrust was selected. A modest right rudder input aimed at correcting the increasingly left of centreline track (4° to the left of the direction of the runway centreline) was made but had no effect and three seconds after deploying reverse thrust, FDR data showed that, with the speed still a 130 knots, the Captain had used the steering tiller to suddenly turn the nose landing gear to the right through a recorded 78º. As subsequently confirmed from rubber marks on the runway, this action led to a skid of the nosewheels which had no corrective effect on the trajectory of the aircraft and caused the tyres to begin to disintegrate. At a speed of 111 knots, the nose landing gear departed the left side of the 56 metre-wide runway into soil with the rudder deflected to just over half the maximum possible deflection to the right. Shortly after this, the nose landing gear collapsed rearwards and over the next 23 seconds, as the ground speed decreased from 107 knots to 2 knots, the right main gear also collapsed. After a distance of 550 metres to the left of the runway (see the ground track on the illustration below) which was mostly parallel to the runway edge, the aircraft re-entered the runway just after its intersection with the second runway access taxiway before coming to a stop 1,683 metres beyond the runway threshold and 27 metres left of the centreline. It was noted that the FCTM provides three techniques for landing in strong crosswinds on a dry runway. However, FDR data indicated that the touchdown was made without fully aligning the aircraft with the runway centreline which was explicitly not recommended when landing on dry runways in the