An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Ukraine National Bureau of Air Accident Investigations (NBAAI). All relevant data was recovered from both the FDR and two hour CVR with the assistance of the Turkish Transport Safety Investigation Centre due to a lack of any data readout equipment at the NBAAI. The 42 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight had a total of 6,094 hours flying experience of which 5,608 hours were on type including significant time in command. He had operated to Odesa once previously, about a year before the event. The 31 year-old First Officer had a total of 252 hours flying experience of which 77 hours were on type and had not previously operated to Odesa. According to the Captain, the flight crew had been fully aware of the potential weather issues in relation to variable wind velocity at Odesa during the pre flight briefing. He noted that the crosswind component was close to the limit. However no other operational constraints in relation to landing were identified. As a precaution, sufficient fuel was uplifted to allow Istanbul to be used as an alternate in the event that a landing at Odesa was not possible. During descent, having listened to the latest ATIS, which was not significantly different from earlier reports and the forecast, the Captain decided that the flight could continue as planned with the expectation of an ILS approach to runway 16. The ATIS wind represented a crosswind component for landing which was within the applicable 30 knot limit but the tailwind component was potentially around the 15 knot limit based on conversion of the given values in metres per second. The Captain briefed the First Officer to “monitor the value of the cross wind component using the FMC progress page” during final approach but made no mention of the significant tailwind component. He also warned the First Officer about the significant (the CVR recorded him mentioning 90%) chance of a go around being necessary because of the potential consequences of the variable wind velocity conditions. On listening to a subsequent ATIS, little change was apparent. The runway continued to be reported as “dry”. Initial positioning was via the OGLAR 3Y SID followed by radar vectoring to the runway 16 LOC. Transfer to TWR was followed by a landing clearance and spot (2 minute average) wind check but there was no additional reminder of the still variable wind direction. The approach was initially stabilised and further (similar) wind checks were provided and all, as given, were “within permissible values” but without any reference to the variable wind direction. Forty seconds after a final wind check, a go around was commenced with the crew subsequently advising that the approach had become unstabilised. FDR data subsequently showed that the applicable 153KIAS VREF had been exceeded by 18 knots. A climb to 3000 feet QNH was followed by radar vectoring for another ILS approach to Runway 16. A new ATIS was copied