A defined loss of separation between airborne aircraft occurs whenever specified separation minima in controlled airspace are breached. Minimum separation standards for airspace are specified by ATS authorities, based on ICAO standards. Aircraft are considered separated when either the horizontal or the vertical separation minima are met. Conversely, for an event to be classified as a loss of separation, both must have been infringed (i.e. there is neither vertical, nor horizontal separation between the aircraft). An exception to this is the use of composite separation which allows for a combination of partial horizontal and partial vertical separation to be used. Note, however, that this exception is only applicable under specific circumstances and is not used in surveillance environment. Usually, the occurrence of a 'near miss', termed an AIRPROX by ICAO, is defined only by the opinion of one or more of the parties involved, whereas Near Midair Collision (NMAC) is an AIRPROX that meets specified criteria. Situations that are similar in nature to loss of separation (but are not subject to its definition) include: With regard of RVSM, it should be noted that if the required equipment is carried as prescribed, then the risk of loss of separation in RVSM airspace is no greater (and no less) than in non-RVSM airspace. However, the presence of non-RVSM aircraft in RVSM space (i.e. a state aircraft or a formation of such), increases the risk of separation infringement because: (a) it increases controller workload (which is often cited as a contributory factor) and (b) could be neglected for some reason (e.g. distraction, high workload, etc.) so as a consequence 1000 ft separation would be provided instead of the required 2000 ft. In case of RVSM equipment failure, the aircraft would normally be guided to leave the RVSM airspace. Until then, however, a 2000 ft separation must be provided (unless horizontal separation is applicable). Depending on the specific situation, this may be unachievable since equipment failure may happen at any time. Somewhat similar situation exists in the case of severe turbulence which could prevent aircraft from maintaining their assigned levels. If this persists for a prolonged period of time in large volumes of airspace (i.e. impracticable to avoid) then a decision could be made to temporarily suspend RVSM operations. Nevertheless, losses of separation might occur during the transition period. Wake Vortex Turbulence encounter may also be a reason for an aircraft to be unable to maintain its level and thus lead to a separation loss.