Poor or missing coordination between sectors/units – e.g. an aircraft is cleared to climb (descend) or fly on a direct route without notifying the concerned sector/unit. Such actions may lead to confusion about the aircraft intentions and wrong assumptions can be made. XYZ789 is estimated to cross the boundary at FL310 but is cleared to climb higher without coordinating with sector “B”.. ZGV789 is flying on a direct route without prior coordination with sector “B” and the entry FL is ambiguous. It could be 300 (same as the current FL) in case the controller from sector “A” has spotted the conflict with ABC123. It is also possible that the controller from sector “A” has not spotted the conflict with ABC123 and is about to issue a climb clearance to ZGV789 (so that ZGV789 reaches the estimated FL320 before the boundary).. Poor transfer of communication – e.g. transferring potentially conflicting aircraft, transferring the higher aircraft first (in case of two descending aircraft on converging courses) etc. Aircraft flying along the sector boundary – a flight might penetrate adjacent sector’s airspace for some reason (e.g. avoiding adverse weather) leaving very little time to controllers to resolve a potential conflict with other flight(s) in the close vicinity. Often, the colour coding and the attributes of the corresponding tracks displayed on ATC screens do not support timely identifications of such situations by controllers. At least one of the aircraft involved is not correlated – normally all aircraft that are of any interest to the controller are correlated. Uncorrelated aircraft are not supposed to enter the sector and therefore they are usually represented in ATS systems in an inconspicuous way so that they do not distract the controller. It is possible however (due to a technical problem or a human error) to have an uncorrelated aircraft entering a sector which can lead to incomplete picture in the controller’s mind. As a result, a conflict can be detected too late. Different separation minima used in adjacent sectors/units – it is possible that for some reason (e.g. airspace structure, vectoring close to the sector boundary) one of the sectors/units considers that separation minima are met, and the other considers they are not. Usually LOAs/local procedures cover some aspects of this scenario (e.g. vectoring near the common sector/FIR boundary). Note: Different separation minima can be used for a number of reasons (legislation, equipment, etc.) and can be temporary (e.g. separation minimum may be increased due to a radar failure) or permanent (e.g. the minimum may be reduced after new radar is put into operation). Miscommunication – e.g. a pilot misunderstands an ATC clearance and then changes frequency. This might lead to an aircraft behaviour that surprises both sectors while at the same time none of them has radio contact with the aircraft concerned.