“the risks arising from wake turbulences particularly of large transport aircraft and lighter aircraft possibly penetrating them were not sufficiently taken into consideration when the departure routes were specified and during the safety assessment”. It was also noted that the routine recording of background communication and aura environment in the VCR as recommended in ICAO Annex 11 had not been in place. This had meant that it had not been possible to fully reconstruct the sequence of events and nature of inter-controller communication during the event and sole reliance had had to be placed on controller statements as support for the available radar and R/T communication recordings. The Investigation formally documented the Causes of the event as follows: Immediate Causes: the take-off clearance was given even though the landing of the A380 on the parallel runway was not yet definite.. a rejected take-off was not instructed.. the erroneous mental approach of solving a problem of the controller resulted in the instruction to the departing airplane to fly a turn toward the airplane conducting a go-around on the parallel runway.. Systemic Causes: the increased coordination effort between the controllers due to the working position organisation (tower) and the organisation of the runway operation has contributed to the separation infringement and to the approximation of the wake turbulence.. the stipulations for the controllers to separate the departure routes of runway 25C and the missed approach procedures of runway 25L were insufficient.. The following five Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that The Air Navigation Service Provider should develop actions to reduce the coordination effort for the parallel operation of runways 07R/25L and 07C/25C particularly in case of a missed approach. It should also be investigated if and under what circumstances the approaching and departing airplanes on runways 07C/25C and 07R/25L can be handled on one frequency. [34/2012]. that The Federal Supervisory Authority for Air Navigation Services (BAF) should ensure that the air navigation service provider at Frankfurt/Main Airport separates the departure routes of runway 25C and the missed approach procedure of runway 25L by changing flight procedures and/or operational procedures. The aim should especially be to give the controllers more time to recognise possible air proximities in time and establish sufficient vertical and/or lateral separation between the aircraft involved. [35/2012]. that even if the adherence to approach and departure routes stipulated due to noise avoidance has a high priority, the Air Navigation Service Provider should explicitly stipulate for Frankfurt/Main Airport that air traffic controllers should deviate from these stipulations in case of special organisational situations and make decisions in favour of a safe conduct of flight. Such situations should be trained in the scope of simulator trainings. [36/2012]. that The Federal Supervisory Authority for Air Navigation Services (BAF) should ensure that air navigation service providers in combination with their risk assessment establish processes to guarantee the adherence to validation procedures. There should be validation processes after safety-relevant incidents and in accordance with stipulated time intervals. [37/2012]. that The