An Investigation was carried out by the Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU). Notification of the event to the BFU by the ANSP was not made until the following day. Although neither Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) nor Flight Data Recorder (FDR) recordings from either aircraft were available to the Investigation, access to QAR data from both and to ATC recordings facilitated a detailed reconstruction of both aircraft flight paths. It was noted that each of the two adjacent runways had a dedicated TWR controller seated adjacent to each other in the VCR and using different R/T frequencies. It was established that a take off clearance for runway 25C had been given to the A320 three seconds before the A380, by then over the runway 25L TDZ, had commenced a go around. Twelve seconds after the A380 had begun the go around and when it was approximately 900 metres past the runway 25L threshold, the A320 began its take off roll on runway 25C. The runway 25C controller subsequently became aware of the A380 go around and, five seconds after the A320 had become airborne, had instructed it to continue on runway heading and advised of the A380 go around. It was considered that there had been a missed opportunity to cancel the A320 take off clearance whilst it was still accelerating towards take off at a relatively low speed. In the event, the standard missed approach (ahead) being flown by the A380 put it on a flight path ahead of, above and parallel to the A320 with both aircraft tracks being similarly affected by a crosswind from the south. As a result of a misunderstood verbal communication between the two TWR controllers, lateral separation was reduced as both aircraft were turned left. Although the aerodrome and local area had been in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC), by the time this occurred, the two aircraft were in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). It was noted that the A380 go around decision resulted from uncertainty about whether a touch-down within the TDZ was assured. QAR data showed that runway contact had occurred as the go around was commenced. The flight paths of the two aircraft, and thus their lateral and vertical separation against time, were calculated and the diagram below taken from the Investigation Report summarises the findings. It was found from this work that from 9 seconds after the A320 had become airborne, its lateral distance from the A380 in the climb had progressively decreased to about 1nm. At the same time, and over the same half minute after take off, the A320 came to within 200 feet of the simultaneous A380 altitude, but within 10 seconds, this difference had begun to increase again. A minute later, with the A380 passing 5000 feet QNH, lateral distance of the two aircraft had also begun to increase continuously. The achieved CPA was calculated as 0.97nm horizontally and 200 ft vertically, so that “the required minimum separation was infringed significantly” but it was concluded that “due to