the aircraft positions (relative) to each other and (their) similar airspeed there was no danger of a collision”. However, the prevailing atmospheric conditions were found to have led to a finite risk of the A320 penetrating the wake turbulence of the A380 with a concomitant risk of loss of control, and it was estimated that the A320 had come as close as 30 metres to the A380 wake vortices during the period of proximity although it was confirmed that no actual penetration of them had occurred. The runway 25L controller was found to have instructed the A380 to fly a southerly heading whilst the two aircraft were proximate because he had misinterpreted the words of the (runway 25C controller) "I will turn mine left" to be an instruction to him to let the A380 turn left. It was noted that this interpretation would have “also met his cognitive model for a solution of the (conflict)”. The runway 25C controller’s instruction to the A320 to turn left and in line with the SID track was based on an erroneous judgement that the A380 had reached a sufficient altitude to make this action safe. The Investigation concluded that “this attempt at a solution was not suited to establish separation between the aircraft within a short time period. In addition, this change in flight path led to (proximity to) the wake turbulence of the A380 since the A320 flew below” and that this would have occurred whether the A380 had turned left or continued straight ahead as the controller had anticipated. In respect of the risk that had existed in terms of the conflict which had occurred, it was noted that in May 2011, the ANSP had completed the required safety assessment for the addition of the fourth runway 07L/25R. The risks considered had included straight ahead missed approaches from 25L with take offs from 25C followed by left turning SIDs and concluded that take-off from 25C should occur only after an aircraft on approach to 25L has touched down and/or if such an aircraft is still at least 6nm away. This ‘no-fly zone’ was displayed on the runway 25C controller’s screen and was supposed to create a minimum lateral separation of 3nm /1000feet. However, it was the opinion of the Investigation that the approved arrangements for westerly operations on runways 25L and 25C were mainly a result of a desire to “reduce noise pollution of the densely populated urban area located in the extended take-off direction 25”. It was considered that in a situation such as the investigated one, even without the issuing of a premature take off clearance for southbound runway 25C traffic, the requirement for immediate coordination communication between several Controllers constituted “a systemic risk for flight safety due to low error tolerance” in respect of both standard and wake vortex traffic separation which was mitigated only by heightened alertness of the controllers involved. In respect of the loss of control risk in the investigated event, the Investigation concluded that