the 07R ILS Cat 2/3 approach chart showing the ground tracks for both approaches. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Shortly before turning downwind, the APP radar controller (pickup) asked the flight if it was correct that they had a sick person on board which was confirmed by the crew who noted that medical assistance for the passenger concerned once the flight had arrived at the gate had been pre-notified to the Operator by ACARS some hours earlier. The flight was then transferred to the APP radar controller (feeder) who on checking in immediately responded with instructions to the flight to increase their rate of descent, turn onto heading 340° and continue their descent to 3000 feet QNH. This was then followed almost immediately by an instruction to continue the turn onto 040° to intercept the 07R ILS LOC and confirmation of clearance for the approach plus an instruction to fly at or above 170 KIAS. HDG (heading) and OP DES (Open Descent) modes were selected. On base leg passing a recorded 5,740 feet QNH, Flaps 1 was selected, quickly followed by Flaps 2 and full extension of the speed brakes and selection of landing gear down. The A/THR was at flight idle and the rate of descent was 2000 fpm. Less than three minutes after the controller had first requested an increase in the rate of descent, the aircraft was at 3,610 feet QNH approximately 9 nm from the runway threshold and had flown slightly through the LOC due to late selection of APPR mode before beginning to return to it. At this point, the Captain’s AP was also activated. The aircraft was just above the ILS GS but maintaining a rate of descent of almost 2,500 fpm and still in OPDES when the PF First Officer selected a 3,200 fpm rate of descent on the FCU. Shortly afterwards, the aircraft flew through the ILS GS and when the speed brakes were retracted the pitch attitude increased from 3° nose down to 8° nose down and the airspeed began to increase. The autopilots were then disengaged and the speed brakes redeployed passing a recorded 2,715 feet QNH (2,500 feet agl) with the rate of descent now 3,350 fpm. Shortly afterwards, the ILS LOC mode was shown as captured as the aircraft again flew though it. The rate of descent continued to increase, reaching a maximum of just over 4,000 fpm. As the aircraft passed 1,340 feet agl, EGPWS activations for ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘GLIDESLOPE’ were audible on the CVR with the rate of descent at 3,370 fpm. After a further 100 feet of descent, the PF First Officer selected the missed approach stop altitude 5,000 feet on the FCU and the AP modes changed from LOC* / V/S to LOC* / OP CLIMB but then followed this with an FCU re-set to an altitude of 100 feet and a vertical speed of - 3,200 fpm which changed the AP modes to LOC* and V/S. Seven seconds later, passing 936 feet