A Serious Incident Investigation was carried by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data downloaded by the BFU. Recorded ATC radar and voice communication data was also available. The 43 year-old Captain reported having a total of “about 8000 hours” flying experience of which “about 400 hours" were on type. The 36 year-old First Officer reported having a total of “about 4000 hours” flying experience of which “about 1,500 hours” were on type. Two augmenting pilots were on board to facilitate in-flight relief of the operating crew members and were also required by the OM to occupy the flight deck supernumerary crew seats below FL 200 during both the climb and descent in order “to monitor the (operating) flight crew, recognise potential errors and provide guidance accordingly”. All four pilots held Thai-issued ATPLs (Airline Transport Pilot Licence) and were currently type rated for the Airbus A330 and the Airbus A350. The flight duty period (FDP) for the operating flight crew involved was found to have been 14:05 hours, well within the maximum allowed of 20 hours. All four pilots were interviewed by the Investigation individually in the presence of an employee of the operator, who “participated in the interviews as interpreter”. However little of value appeared to have been disclosed - both operating pilots stated that they were familiar with the approach but when “asked to explain why they had approached below the glide slope of the ILS and initiated the go around procedure at about 6.4 NM at low altitude, they did not give a statement regarding these questions”. The two observing pilots were also interviewed and “when asked whether they had realised that the aircraft had been too low during the approach and whether they had given guidance to the two operating pilots, both questions were answered in the negative”. The 53 year-old radar controller primarily involved in the event was also interviewed and their input is summarised later. The CVR data was reviewed by an “officially appointed interpreter” who reported that throughout the 1:45 hours airborne immediately prior to landing and the 19 minutes recorded after it, communication in the flight deck had been “largely held in Thai”. The interpreter also stated that the recording did not include any conversation about the approach flight path or the instrument approach and that none of the standard callouts which the PM would have been expected to make had occurred. They also explicitly confirmed that there had been “no discussion between the pilots about a possible deviation or route discontinuity in respect of the approach route initially selected in the Multipurpose Control and Display Unit (MCDU)”. The flight crew stated that whilst following the southern STAR for a landing on runway 07R, they had been following another aircraft and the Captain “had assumed they would land on runway 07R after it” and had entered the corresponding routing and instrument approach procedure into the FMS. Part of