whether or not a formal PAN declaration is made. He added that since Frankfurt has a “Feeder” controller who “monitors the final approach”, there is no requirement for flights to report that they are established on the glide slope although “some flight crew still do it”. He was clear that if the final approach “looks good” (not defined), a flight can be transferred to TWR and if not “there is always the option to instruct a missed approach procedure”. Finally, the Investigation examined whether any ground based safety aids could have alerted ATC to the CFIT risk to which the aircraft was being exposed. Since at the time of the investigation, Frankfurt ATC had not adopted the Approach Path Monitoring (APM) service available from the Langen ATCC because of concerns about the rate of false alerts, the only available aid was the MSAW system. It was found that at Frankfurt, this system was configured to generate a ‘Predicted Alert’ if an aircraft was likely to be less than 750 feet agl within the next 30 seconds and a ‘Current Alert’ if an actual height less than 750 feet agl was detected. Both alerts are accompanied by a single acoustic tone. Two MSAW ‘Predicted Alerts’ were found to have been generated during this investigated event but neither had been considered as significant by the APP radar (feeder) controller. He stated that the presentation of MSAW alerts was similar to that used for STCA activations which he stated generate “many false alarms” and added that “he could not say if he had realised the alert(s) or interpreted it(them) as false alarm(s)”. He also said that he had not considered that the alerts would have been generated due to terrain proximity approach “because there was no mountain in the vicinity (and) in any case, he would not have done anything differently because in his opinion the aircraft had been on the glide slope”. When asked if he knew whether MSAW alerts were accompanied by an acoustic warning, he responded that he did not. It was found that other MSAW ‘Current Alerts’ which would normally have been triggered by the descent had been suppressed because of an “active inhibition area” around the airport which had been implemented “to prevent inadvertent alerts in the area of the final approach where approaching aircraft are flying close to the ground in any case”. It was noted that in any case “MSAW is not designed to monitor approaches but hazardous ground proximity outside of published approach procedures”. The ANSP stated that “APM is basically more suited to monitor ILS approaches (since) it is designed to generate alerts as soon as an aircraft leaves a defined funnel either laterally or downward”. The Investigation noted that a similar Serious Incident had occurred during an approach to Moscow Domodedovo in 2017 although in that case involving an Airbus A380. The formally-stated Causes of the Investigation were as follows: After a shortened final approach, the Airbus A350-941 was flying at night in