agl, the PF declared the initiation of a go around and the thrust levers set to TOGA and a full rearward movement of his side was recorded. As these actions took effect, the aircraft descended another 184 feet to 668 feet agl whilst at a distance of 6.43 nm to the 07R runway threshold. On his first radio contact with TWR, the PM Captain advised commencing a go around. During the go around, the speed increased to 217 KCAS and with the slats and flaps still in the CONFIG 2 position, and a flaps extended overspeed warning was activated and the configuration was automatically changed to CONFIG 1. Positioning to a second ILS approach to the same runway and a normal landing followed without further event just under 15 minutes after the first approach had been discontinued. This Serious Incident was attributable to the poor performance of the flight crew but this occurred within an ATC context. It was evident that the unexpectedly abbreviated approach (the early turn to join the ILS LOC near to the runway - compare the track flown with the standard procedure track on the earlier illustration) had overloaded the crew. However, there was also considerable evidence that neither of the pilots conducting the approach had been following a very large number of prescribed normal SOPs, including many which would have alerted them to their failure to establish on the ILS GS whilst seeking to control the aircraft flight path through the AP and A/THR and with dual HUDs available. Amongst many other SOP breaches, the clearly unstable approach was continued despite a requirement that ILS approaches must be flown within half scale deflection of both the LOC and GS and that the rate of descent on any approach must not exceed 1000 fpm. During interview, the APP radar (feeder) controller primarily involved in providing a context for the flight crew’s performance stated that his motive for shortening the approach was that the TWR coordinator controller had informed him that a medical problem existed on board the flight which he had confirmed with the flight crew. He stated that in such cases a short approach without delay is often provided and he had therefore intended to feed the Airbus into the ILS approach ahead of other aircraft. Having then done so, he had seen that the aircraft had passed through the LOC but noted that at that time that it had been “neither too fast nor too high” and considered that as this was not unusual when reducing height “he assumed it was on the glide slope [...] otherwise it would not have descended further”. Shortly after transferring the flight to TWR, “he had heard a colleague ask ‘what is the Thai doing’”. When asked whether it was standard procedure to shorten the approach of aircraft which was known to have an on board medical problem, the controller stated that it was and “as soon as the information is received the approach is shortened” regardless of