appropriately-marked call button, was considered to have been of potential significance insofar as these calls went unanswered at a time when the pilots were busy with their own responses to the problem. The available evidence suggested that none of the cabin crew involved had appreciated the difference between the response they should expect from a normal interphone request to speak with the flight deck and an emergency request to do so. In this and other respects, no evidence was found that there was any joint training of flight and cabin crew in emergency procedures at American Airlines. It was noted that the IATA IOSA Standards Manual (ISM) states that where an operator conducts passenger flights with cabin crew, they “should ensure flight crew members participate in joint training activities or exercises with cabin crew members for the purpose of enhancing onboard coordination and mutual understanding of the human factors involved in addressing emergency situations and security threats”. However, it was noted that IATA also “acknowledges that such joint training may be difficult to organise, especially when cabin crew outnumber flight crew, so joint training in emergency procedures is not mandated but its inclusion in recurrent training is recommended, at least once every 36 months”. In respect of the failure to electrically isolate the CVR after the event, it was found that on the aircraft involved, the CVR circuit breaker was situated in the avionics compartment below the flight deck rather than in the flight deck and that in the case of occurrences such as an evacuation “pilots were to contact ‘maintenance’ to ensure the CVR circuit breaker was pulled” which did not appear to have happened. It was noted that the regulations that were now in place requiring aircraft over 27000 kg MCTOM and “first issued with an individual CofA on or after 1 January 2021” to be fitted with a CVR with a minimum 25 hour duration represented an effective solution. The Investigation noted several previously investigated events which had involved either issues relating to the initiation or coordination of ground evacuations or loss of CVR data after failure to trip CVR CBs including an evacuation of a Boeing 747-400 at Phoenix in 2009 and an MD88 landing overrun at New York La Guardia in 2015. . It was also noted that after an NTSB Study of 46 emergency evacuations which had occurred between September 1997 and June 1999 had found that “communication and co-ordination issues between flight crew and cabin crew were common” and that “joint evacuation exercises had proved effective at resolving these problems”. A Safety Recommendation that the FAA “should require air carriers to conduct periodic joint evacuation exercises involving flight crews and flight attendants” had been made, but had not subsequently been accepted. Further Safety Recommendations on flight and cabin crew performance during evacuations had been made as a result of the Investigation of the 2015 La Guardia event referenced above. The aircraft’s Maintenance Computer showed that “the APU had automatically shut down due to