high oil temperature” which had caused the bleed air valve to close. This had shut off the air supply to the cabin and the excess air/smoke had then been “directed overboard via the gas generator exhaust, causing the plume of smoke seen by ATC”. It was confirmed that the MMEL requirements for dispatch of an aircraft with an inoperative APU generator had been met. The APU was examined in situ immediately after the event and found to show signs of oil wetting around both the bleed air outlet and the APU air inlet. The oil system chip detector was found to have “collected significant quantities of fine particles of ferrous material but the detector had not been triggered” but “the mechanical visual differential pressure indicators of both oil filters had activated” which indicated that the filters had blocked and were therefore being bypassed by unfiltered oil that had eventually led to the failure of the load compressor carbon seal, which it turn had allowed hot oil to enter the cabin bleed air supply and produce smoke in the cabin. It was not possible to positively identify the source of the oil system debris because of its distribution throughout the whole oil system. It was noted that in November 2007, the APU manufacturer had issued a Service Bulletin to add a system which would initiate an auto shutdown in the event of lubricating oil contamination but thus had not been installed on the aircraft involved in this event. It was considered that had this SB been incorporated, “it is likely the APU would have shut down automatically prior to the filter bypass condition, thereby preventing the conditions that led to pyrolysed oil entering the cabin”. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: Smoke entered the cabin after the APU load compressor oil seal became compromised, allowing hot oil to enter and pyrolyse in the bleed air supply to the cabin. Examination of the APU after the event revealed considerable metallic debris in its shared oil system. This debris eventually caused the load compressor carbon seal to fail, allowing hot oil to enter the bleed air supply to the cabin and causing smoke in the cabin. The initiating source of the debris could not be identified positively due to the distribution of debris throughout the oil system. Modifications exist to mitigate these conditions and two Safety Recommendations have been made (to the effect) that an optional SB, to add enhanced APU automatic shut-down protection for lubrication system contamination, be mandated. The aircraft manufacturer has reviewed and amended the MMEL to provide enhanced mitigation when operating with unserviceable APU AC auxiliary electrical generation. This emergency situation, involving an evacuation from an aircraft parked at the gate with the (airbridge) in place, was unusual for the (Cabin Crew) who had not practised it as part of the aircraft operator’s training programme. Prompt and effective communication between the cabin and the flight deck might have avoided an evacuation, but the pilots and the