IRO were distracted by the presence of an engineer, who was attending to a defect. The normal interphone call function used by the cabin crew did not attract their attention. The emergency call function may have been more conspicuous but guidance provided by the aircraft operator concerning its use may have been confusing. An evacuation was initiated because (cabin crew) did not receive specific instructions from the flight crew and the (cabin crew) perceived that the situation was life-threatening. Exits at the front of the aircraft were not used, indicating that the (cabin crew) in this part of the aircraft were trying to achieve an ‘Emergency Deplaning’ via the (airbridge), even though an evacuation was commanded. This may have been the most appropriate procedure in this situation but it was not a drill familiar to the flight crew and better crew communication was required before using it. Passengers near exits 3L and 3R had accepted responsibility for exit operation and, with no (cabin crew) in their vicinity when the emergency began, opened the doors but did not deploy one of the slides. This created the hazard of an unprotected five metre drop from the doorway to the ground and, even though one of the cabin crew subsequently placed a security strap across the opening, it was fortunate that nobody used the affected door. Once the commander had realised an evacuation was underway he instructed it to cease because he believed he had removed the source of the smoke and wanted to prevent injury, but he did not discuss the cabin situation with the cabin crew before making his PA. This indicated a breakdown in communication and co-operation between flight crew and cabin crew members; an issue which is being addressed by the operator through enhanced guidance and training. Other operators may be susceptible to similar shortcomings in these circumstances until regulations for cabin evacuation training are amended to minimise them. Safety Action taken by American Airlines and known to the Investigation was noted to have included but was not limited to the following: A type-specific ’Emergency Deplaning’ drill has been developed for use by pilots on each of the Operator’s aircraft types and incorporated into the OM and the appropriate QRH. This drill is relevant to parked aircraft that are using an airbridge or steps. Details have been promulgated to all crews and pilots have received relevant simulator training.. A Company safety investigator is expected to contact an aircraft commander by telephone as soon as the ‘Dispatch’ department has been advised of a serious incident or accident. The safety investigator is now required to remind the commander during this contact that action be taken to ensure the circuit breaker for the CVR is pulled without delay.. A review of the interphone equipment on different aircraft types found that there are differences in the way cabin crew must make an emergency call to the flight deck. These differences include the Airbus A330-300 where the ‘EMER CALL’ button must be pressed once