pouches not stored at their positions. Shortly after the requested ground engineer had arrived in the flight deck, the Captain thought he could smell burning and, “assuming it was associated with the engineering activity”, asked the engineer what was causing it but the latter did not know. A few seconds later, it was reported that smoke had appeared from behind the Captain’s seat and the ‘Lavatory Smoke’ Warning had illuminated on the ECAM. The Captain stated that “over the sound of this, he believed he heard the words ‘smoke in the cabin’ and possibly ‘evacuate’ spoken” and had observed through the open flight deck door that the cabin was "full of smoke” and seen smoke coming from the windshield vents. Since he was aware that the APU was providing air conditioning, he had assumed it was the source of the smoke and had selected the APU bleed off. The crew commenced the abnormal checklist actions for ‘Smoke/Avionics Vent Smoke/Fumes’ and then ‘Lavatory Smoke’ and commenting afterwards that the sound of the various chimes, alarms and warnings operating together had been a distraction. The IRO reported remembering that one of the cabin crew had come into the flight deck and reported that “an evacuation was underway” and at approximately the same time the Captain had seen from a reflection on the face of the terminal building that one of the rear escape slides had been deployed. At the same time, he reported noticing the annunciation of an APU Auto Shutdown and, having “assumed that the situation was under control because the APU had shut down” he made a PA “to stop the evacuation in order to prevent unnecessary injuries” expecting that “this would stop the use of the slides” and that disembarkation would continue only via the airbridge. The Captain reported having noticed that the cabin interphone call light was on but “assumed the sound of the smoke warning had prevented him from hearing the interphone call alert” and after cancelling it received no response to his own call and so made a radio call to the aircraft operator to announce the presence of passengers on the ramp. He then saw RFFS personnel arriving and assumed that there was now no need for a direct alert to ATC. Reports indicated that all passengers and cabin crew had been off the aircraft within about 10 minutes, most of the 277 passengers used door 2L onto the attached airbridge but 25 used the slides deployed at the two rear exits. Doors 3L and 3R were both opened and the slide at door 3R was deployed by a passenger but neither exit was used. RFFS personnel boarded and checked the aircraft cabin with no findings once the smoke had dispersed, the three pilots then remained on-board for about half an hour “but did not ensure that power for the CVR was disconnected”. From the perspective of the cabin crew, it was found that the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) had been in the forward