An Investigation was carried out by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). Neither the FDR not the CVR contained any useful data, the former because the engines had not been started and the latter because it was found to have remained powered for “several hours” after the event. CCTV footage recorded by the airport operator was found to show a cloud of white smoke appearing immediately behind the aircraft while it was stationary and as this began to dissipate after approximately 30 seconds, the 3R door could be seen to open. This was “followed five seconds later by the door at exit 4R” and slides deployed at both exits with the first passenger jumping onto the 4R slide one minute after the smoke had first appeared. The CCTV footage showed 12 more passengers using the 4R slide over a period of 33 seconds and the first RFFS vehicle arriving 3 minutes 20 seconds after the smoke had appeared and 2 minutes 20 seconds after slide evacuation had commenced. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain had 31,635 total flying hours including 1,912 hours on type, that the First Officer had 12,700 total flying hours including 305 hours on type and that the supernumerary crew seat was occupied by an ‘International Relief Officer’ (IRO) - a pilot qualified as a co-pilot on type - who had 11,725 hours type experience. The cabin crew compliment totalled nine. It was established that passenger boarding had begun late with ground engineers, caterers and cleaners still working on-board and as a result, some cabin crew reported having “felt more pressured than usual as a result” of the somewhat more complex task of supervising passenger boarding. During this time, the APU was being used for air conditioning but since the APU generator was unserviceable, ground electrical power was connected. After dealing with defects logged by the inbound crew, the ground engineers were the last to leave one hour after boarding had commenced after which all doors were closed and armed. Passengers seated in the four row 25 seats designated as “exit seats” had been briefed on the contents of their safety instruction cards in respect of their proximity to the emergency exit doors 3L and 3R which contained guidance on opening those exits. All had, prior to these doors being armed, been “required to agree they were able and willing to open these exits if necessary”. The disposition and identification of all 8 exits is shown in the illustration below. Two minutes after the airbridge access had been removed, it was reconnected at door 2L to facilitate further engineering assistance because of an indicated navigation system defect and all doors were disarmed. It was noted that the unservisability of the In-Flight Entertainment (IFE) meant that the cabin crew would need to deliver a manual passenger safety demonstration using equipment stored in on-board pouches and whilst at this time, most of them were in the vicinity of their designated seats, three were elsewhere seeking demonstration