and the Airbus A330-200 where the ’PRIO CAPT’ button must be pressed.. Eight Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration mandate Service Bulletin GTCP331-49-7936 to add a system that shuts down the APU automatically if there is contamination of the lubricating oil. [2017-022]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency mandate Service Bulletin GTCP331-49-7936 to add a system that shuts down the APU automatically if there is contamination of the lubricating oil. [2017-023]. that the Federal Aviation Administration regulate the operation of interphone handsets, including during emergency communications, so that it is standardised irrespective of aircraft type. [2017-024]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the operation of interphone handsets, including during emergency communications, so that it is standardised irrespective of aircraft type. [2017-025]. that the Federal Aviation Administration reconsider the requirements for briefings given to passengers seated at exits, to ensure they offer appropriate guidance on exiting the aircraft rapidly in an emergency without implying undue responsibility for opening the exits. [2017-026]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require cabin crew on aircraft that are parked, and with passengers on-board who are neither boarding nor deplaning, to be evenly distributed throughout the cabin and in the vicinity of floor-level exits in order to provide the most effective assistance in the event of an emergency. [2017-027]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency require cabin crew on aircraft that are parked and with passengers on-board to be evenly distributed throughout the cabin and in the vicinity of floor-level exits, in order to provide the most effective assistance in the event of an emergency. [2017-028]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require that flight and cabin crew participate in joint training to enhance their co-ordination when dealing with emergencies. [2017-029]. It was noted that Safety Action taken since the occurrence of the investigated event and known to the Investigation had included the following: American Airlines recognised that its existing procedures for cabin evacuation were primarily a response to incidents occurring during take-off or landing and that to satisfy its SMS, these needed to be modified. An “Emergency Deplaning and Evacuation Task Force” was formed to establish ways to “improve co-ordination and communication between the workforce in the flight deck, the cabin and on the ramp (and) to mitigate risks to passengers and employees during emergencies”. This resulted in several internal safety actions.. Airbus made changes to the type MMEL in respect of the dispatch of an aircraft with the APU Generator unserviceable.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 14 December 2017.