left toilet situated just aft of the flight deck when the smoke first appeared. She stated that the compartment had filled with smoke in approximately four seconds and that as she opened the door, she thought she had heard the words “smoke in the cockpit” several times, followed by the sound of “smoke bells”. She had then “grabbed a fire extinguisher and a Protective Breathing Equipment (PBE) from under her crew seat” and believing initially that the flight deck was the source of the smoke had tried to pass her extinguisher to the pilots but when it was not taken realised that there was smoke throughout the cabin. She then heard a PA from the one of the aft-stationed cabin crew saying “evacuate, come this way” and in response she and a colleague moved aft through the business cabin “ushering passengers towards exit 2L”. On returning to the vicinity of this exit, the SCCM reported having heard a PA from the commander telling passengers to “stop evacuating” and then saw the Captain standing in the flight deck looking into the cabin. Realising that the cabin still contained thick smoke, she told the cabin crew nearby to continue evacuating passengers and went forward to tell the Captain that they should continue the evacuation. He acknowledged this and she then heard a further PA to continue the evacuation and although his initial instruction to stop evacuating “caused a short interruption”, passengers had responded to shouts from the cabin crew to continue exiting onto the airbridge. The SCCM estimated that 50 passengers had vacated through exit 2L by this stage and “with some light visible at the aft end of the cabin, believed the doors there were open”. She moved aft encouraging passengers to leave their belongings and get off. At row 25, she noticed that door 3L was open without its slide deployed and so directed passengers forward and placed a safety strap across the open exit. Door 3R was also open with its slide deployed but it was subsequently established that it was not used. It was noted that one of the cabin crew who had remained at the front of the aircraft had considered arming exit door 2R but had not done so after concluding that this “might create confusion and break the flow”. At the time the “dense white smoke” had appeared in the cabin there had been four cabin crew in the rear galley. Some of them described the smoke as having a “chemical or electrical smell”. Three of them reported having attempted to contact the flight deck by interphone without success and, with passengers becoming agitated and some standing up, the decision was taken to arm and open doors 4R and 4L and commence an evacuation. The Captain’s PA to stop the evacuation (but not his subsequent one to resume it) was heard by the aft-positioned crew and use of the aft doors was stopped and the remaining passengers were directed forward. Some of them subsequently said