that there had still been a lot of smoke in the aft cabin at that time and “because they were unsure of its source, they believed continuing evacuation using emergency escape slides would have been appropriate”. As the last passengers were leaving via door 2L, RFFS personnel arrived and instructed the cabin crew to evacuate. Several of them reported having “experienced a burning sensation in their nose, throat and eyes after leaving the aircraft” and some that they had continued to experience “minor discomfort, such as headaches and ongoing irritation of their eyes and nasal passages, for 24 hours or more”. It was noted that the ATC GND Controller had a direct view of the aft section of the aircraft and after observing some smoke and the start of a passenger evacuation initiated an ‘Aircraft Ground Incident’ (AGI). When no radio transmissions were received from the aircraft, the controller had “tried unsuccessfully to make contact on the (Clearance) Delivery frequency”. The performance of crew members in relation to relevant Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and the configuration of the aircraft was reviewed in detail. In particular, it was noted that the Operator’s ‘Flight Service In-Flight Manual’ (FSIM) contained much of the information necessary for the cabin crew to manage their response to an abnormal situation such as that which occurred. This included an “Emergency Deplaning / Evacuation at the Gate” procedure for use if an airbridge was still attached and an evacuation became necessary, and if the PA system was used, the instruction to be used was for the passengers to “quickly leave the aircraft”. The FSIM stated that such a situation was to be “considered as an ‘Emergency Deplaning’ rather than an evacuation” but it was found that there was no mention of this procedure in the applicable QRH or in the applicable volumes of either the Flight Manual (not aircraft type-specific) or Operations Manual (type-specific). It was, however, noted that such a procedure is recognised by the IATA in its Cabin Operations Safety Best Practices Guide as ‘Rapid Deplaning’ and also in place as a ‘Precautionary Rapid Disembarkation’ procedure at some operators. It was found that flight crew training in evacuation procedures was “focussed on rejected takeoffs with fires, leading to a cabin evacuation initiated by the commander” and the pilots “had not experienced evacuation scenarios involving a parked aircraft because there was no requirement for them to do so”. Similarly, evacuation procedures training for the cabin crew involved had not included practice in evacuating a parked aircraft since this was “not required”. The Operator’s response was that its cabin crew training programme “emphasised proper assessment of any evacuation situation and the exercise of sound judgment by the cabin crew in accomplishing safe and orderly evacuation”. The fact that all cabin crew interphone calls to speak to the pilots following the appearance of smoke in the cabin were made using the normal rather than using the emergency / urgent alerting method, which required the use of a different and