Medically-instrumented centrifuge experiments have been the source of data on the physiological effects of high positive G and the transition to it. How and with what effects the movement of blood from the head towards the legs and the inhibition of any compensating upward movement of freshly oxygenated blood occur is now much better understood. As this movement occurs, blood pressure in both the brain and the eyes is reduced and eventually they have insufficient blood to function normally. However, although there is an established potential sequence of effects on both vision and muscular coordination before loss of consciousness occurs, it is important for pilots to recognise that we now know that visual effects prior to incapacitation - the only warning signs discernable to a pilot - do not necessarily occur. In both military and civil aerobatic flying and in respect of both jet and propeller-powered aircraft, the most likely manoeuvres to produce this symptomless occurrence of g-induced impairment are a sharp pull out of a dive and a high speed entry into a steeply banked co-ordinated turn. Where visual symptoms do occur, an appropriate response to them will enable controlled flight to be maintained and the risk of G-LOC to be avoided. The initial awareness of a loss of visual acuity will feature concurrent physical impairment. The first visual effect may be a loss of peripheral vision which initially creates ‘tunnel vision’ and if no action is taken, this may then deteriorate further to create ‘gun barrel vision’. Whether or not this ‘grey-out’ phase occurs, a complete loss of vision - blackout - is the next potential stage. At this point, effectively A-LOC, the pilot will be suffering from confusion and disorientation but some mental activity and muscle function will remain. The positive flight control input which created the initial symptoms is likely to be involuntarily relaxed and this alone may be enough to lead to recovery of vision quickly enough to allow the pilot to regain positive control of the aircraft before this becomes impossible or terrain is too close for recovery to be effective. It is now thought that since a pilot in A-LOC remains conscious, cognitive and functional impairment are not accompanied by the loss of muscle tone and total incapacitation which occurs in G-LOC. Whilst in a state of A-LOC, it has been shown that a meaningful response to an easily comprehensible aural alert is still possible. However, transition through the A-LOC phase is not guaranteed - early findings in centrifuge experiments were that half the participating pilots lost consciousness at more or less the same time as they blacked out.