the nature of controller response to a BAT advisory is not mandated, although any response which may enable the early identification of possible level busts is encouraged.. The use of BAT is not a substitute for RT read-back, which remains a mandatory controller task.. Where a BAT advisory indicates a variation from the QNH provided by ATC, controllers must not state the incorrect QNH value which can be observed in the Mode S Data Window on the radar display.. Controllers are required to complete a formal safety report for any BAT advisory / resolution where safety may have been compromised but place details of other BAT use in a "comments folder".. Where controllers choose to query the discrepancy, the phraseology to be used is: “(Callsign), Check Altimeter Setting, QNH xxx” - where xxx is the local QNH being utilised Notwithstanding the above, if an aircraft is in conflict with another, the priority is to resolve the confliction. If appropriate, avoiding action should be issued prior to confirming the correct QNH. Where sufficient time exists, the use of the following phraseology may be used to query the altimeter setting used by the aircrew: “(Callsign) Report QNH” This will enable flight crew to check selected pressure setting, irrespective of any BAT Advisory or QNH data displayed in the Mode S Data Window. An issue has been found with "very low" provision of BPS data from a specific aircraft type.. It is possible that after a flight crew has been challenged, the BAT advisory persists - ATC is not expected to repeat the challenge.. If an emergency code selected (e.g. 7500) is selected on the aircraft transponder, the Track Data Block flashes whereas associated BAT advisory will pulse.. if an STCA alert activates and clears a related BAT advisory, acknowledgement of it or its cessation will lead to the immediate resumption of the BAT advisory.. The system will support positioning flights below Transition Altitude as long as they are within the check area and are assigned the correct destination code..