Traces of oil were also found in the air conditioning compartment in the tail of the aircraft. These findings led, as required by the AMM, to a borescope inspection of the compressor inner support and the intercompressor case strut which found evidence of oil staining on the strut and its vicinity, oil stains within the vicinity of the LPC stage 1 blade and evidence of oil stains on the LPC stage 3 blade. It was noted that the oil level in the right engine oil tank was also found to be abnormally low. These findings were considered to point to a failed P2.5 bearing as the origin of leaked oil. It was noted that cabin air contamination due to leaking engine oil had been a regular occurrence on the aircraft type involved over a number of years and as a result, Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC), as OEM had released an SB in 2016 detailing a “modification of the P2.5 bearing carbon seal”, one of the sources of such oil leaks and identified as such in the event under investigation. This SB was subsequently revised to required use of an upgraded seal in January 2018. Compliance urgency for this SB was rated as “category 6” with compliance recommended “when the subassembly (i.e. engine, module, accessories or component) is disassembled and access is available to the necessary parts when the engine is sent to the workshop’’. In addition to this oil seal SB, the OEM also provided operators who had yet to carry out the recommended overhaul, with an “Oil Analysis Technology Program” to improve the detection and analysis of chemical elements or alloys in engine oil before they cause system failure. Although the flight crew stated that they had completed all actions in the QRH ‘Fuselage Fire, Smoke or Fumes’ checklist, it was found that this was not the case as they had assessed the situation and decided that having assessed the intensity of smoke/fumes entering the flight deck as “mere mist” such action was not necessary. It was noted that the reason this checklist item was not optional was because “the nature of smoke/fumes can only be assessed by chemical analysis or special equipment, neither of which is practicable in flight”. It was noted that although the smoke/fumes had ceased following completion of the appropriate QRH procedure, the origin of the fumes remained unknown. Given this fact, it was considered that the Captain’s decision not to evacuate the passengers on landing and instead to taxi to the assigned gate for them to disembark “might have been a misjudgement” since in any instance of smoke in the flight deck or passenger cabin where the source cannot be positively determined, “there is a possibility that an uncontained fire could still be burning somewhere within the aircraft fuselage”. It was noted that the requirements for pilot Safety and Emergency Procedures (SEP) recurrent training on the effect of smoke in an enclosed area and the use of relevant equipment in a simulated smoke