The Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) was not informed of the occurrence of a Serious Incident by any of the parties involved and only became aware of it on seeing a social media post two days later. The Bureau then contacted the Ghana CAA as the State of Occurrence for clarification and subsequently opened an Investigation. Relevant data were obtained from the flight data recorder (FDR) but relevant data on the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) were found to have been overwritten because the CVR had not been isolated during maintenance inspection following the arrival in Accra. Statements by all crew members were available and were found to be consistent with each other. It was noted that the 42-year-old Captain, a native of Antigua and Barbuda, had a total of 6,238 hours flying experience of which 2,360 hours were on the DHC8-400 which was his only multi-engine command experience. The First Officer, who was pilot flying (PF) for the flight under investigation, was a 29- year-old Nigerian national who had a total of 1,240 hours flying experience of which all but 200 hours were on type. It was established that shortly after the flight had entered Ghanaian airspace about two-thirds of the way to Accra cruising at FL240, the First Officer had called the Captain’s attention to “misty air coming from the right side air vents” which, on further observation, both pilots confirmed to be smoke. At about the same time, the senior cabin crew member (SCCM) reported to the Captain that smoke was present in the mid section of the passenger cabin. The flight crew stated that they had immediately referred to the ‘FUSELAGE FIRE, SMOKE or FUMES’ quick reference handbook (QRH) procedure. The Captain then declared a MAYDAY to Accra APP stating that there was smoke in the flight deck and the passenger cabin and requesting a priority routing to destination for an emergency landing followed by an on-runway evacuation which was approved. The Captain reported having then given the SCCM a NITS brief and followed this with the delivery of a passenger briefing over the PA system. The cabin crew stated that in response to the smoke they had “distributed paper serviettes to passengers to cover their noses and mouths”. After a while, the action taken by the crew led to the cessation of the smoke and so the emergency status was subsequently downgraded and the SCCM updated accordingly. A normal landing with the airport rescue and fire fighting services (RFFS) standing by subsequently followed after which the aircraft was taxied to its assigned gate for passenger disembarkation. The aircraft was withdrawn from service and the applicable AMM procedure was carried out. An initial visual inspection of the right hand PW150A engine found that the P2.2 inter-stage valve exhaust was full of oil and that there were also signs of oil contamination in the generator case, the LPC (Low Pressure Compressor) and HPC (High Pressure Compressor), the air intake ducts and the P2.2 and P2.7 bleed air ducts.