aircraft first established radio contact prior to entering the FIR until the aircraft switched frequency to communicate with the Rescue Leader after landing, “clear and effective communication was maintained between the flight crew and the ATC” and that “ATC also provided efficient air navigation services…to the accident aircraft” at all times. The formal statement of the Causes which led to the accident was as follows: The accident was caused by fuel contamination. The contaminated fuel uplifted at Surabaya which contained SAP spheres subsequently caused the loss of thrust control on both engines of the aircraft during approach to Hong Kong.. The following chain of events and circumstances led to the uplift of contaminated fuel: The re-commissioning of the hydrant refuelling system after the hydrant extension work at Surabaya had not completely removed all contaminants in the affected hydrant refuelling circuit. Salt water remained in the affected hydrant refuelling circuit. ** The re-commissioning of the hydrant refuelling system after the hydrant extension work at Surabaya was not properly coordinated which led to the premature resumption of the hydrant refuelling operations while the hydrant system still contained contaminant. The refuelling operation at Surabaya, in particular low flow-rate refuelling, differential pressure recording and monitoring, did not fully comply with the latest guidance provided by the international fuel industry. A number of unscheduled replacements of filter monitors after the premature resumption of hydrant refuelling operation were not investigated by the fuel supplier and hydrant operator at Surabaya. The unusual vibration observed during the refuelling was not stopped immediately and properly investigated by the fuel supplier personnel.. The re-commissioning of the hydrant refuelling system after the hydrant extension work at Surabaya had not completely removed all contaminants in the affected hydrant refuelling circuit. Salt water remained in the affected hydrant refuelling circuit. ** The re-commissioning of the hydrant refuelling system after the hydrant extension work at Surabaya was not properly coordinated which led to the premature resumption of the hydrant refuelling operations while the hydrant system still contained contaminant.. The refuelling operation at Surabaya, in particular low flow-rate refuelling, differential pressure recording and monitoring, did not fully comply with the latest guidance provided by the international fuel industry.. A number of unscheduled replacements of filter monitors after the premature resumption of hydrant refuelling operation were not investigated by the fuel supplier and hydrant operator at Surabaya.. The unusual vibration observed during the refuelling was not stopped immediately and properly investigated by the fuel supplier personnel.. The Investigation also identified the following deficiencies and contributing factors that may cause possible fuel contamination: There were no established international civil aviation requirements for oversight and quality control on aviation fuel supply at airports. There were no established international civil aviation requirements for refuel operational procedures and associated training for aviation fuel supply personnel. The manual monitoring of differential pressure changes in a fuelling dispenser during refuelling was not effective.. There were no established international civil aviation requirements for oversight and quality control on aviation fuel supply at airports..