There were no established international civil aviation requirements for refuel operational procedures and associated training for aviation fuel supply personnel.. The manual monitoring of differential pressure changes in a fuelling dispenser during refuelling was not effective.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. Two were issued on 11 August 2010 as follows: that (the Project Owner for the hydrant fuel extension project at Surabaya) should, using personnel suitably experienced in aviation fuel hydrant operation and re-commissioning, conduct an extensive review of the re-commissioning procedures for the hydrant refuel system (at Surabaya) in accordance with the best practice in aviation fuel industry. [2010-1]. that (the Project Owner for the hydrant fuel extension project at Surabaya) should ensure that (appropriate) re-commissioning procedures are completed before hydrant refuelling operation at Stands No. 1 to 10 at Surabaya is resumed. [2010-2]. A third was issued on 20 January 2011 as follows: That the International Civil Aviation Organisation should establish requirements for the oversight and quality control of aviation fuel supply at airports. Such requirements should also cover the operational procedures for refuelling and the necessary training of personnel. [2011-1]. A fourth was issued upon completion of the Investigation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should specify the requirements for installation of a device in equipment used for refuelling civil aircraft which can automatically alert the equipment operator and stop the refuelling process when the differential pressure across the equipment filtration system is outside the equipment design value or range. [2013-2]. Safety Action taken in response to issues raised during the course of the Investigation was noted to have been taken by the Indonesian DGCA, the Surabaya Fuel Supplier, the Hong Kong Civil Aviation Department, ICAO, Airbus, the Aircraft Operator and the manufacturer of the fuel filters in the ground equipment used for the accident aircraft fuel uplift. The Final Report of the Investigation was presented to the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR on 3 July 2013 and subsequently made publicly available.