An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Accident Investigation Division (AID) of the Hong Kong SAR Civil Aviation Department with assistance from the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) and the UK AAIB. Three Interim Bulletins were issued during the course of the Investigation, on 6 May 2010, 11 August 2010 and on 20 January 2011. Three Interim Statements on the progress of the Investigation were also issued in April 2011, May 2012 and April 2013. It was noted that the accident aircraft and crew had operated into Surabaya the previous day prior to a night stop there. Prior to departure, the aircraft commander had carried out the pre flight external inspection of the aircraft and noted that a fuel sample had been taken by the fuel dispenser operator and that it was “clear and bright” and that the water check was clean. During the subsequent refuelling, it was established that there had been several instances of fuel hose vibration which the dispenser operator assumed were attributable to air trapped inside the recently disturbed hydrant piping. On each occasion, refuelling was temporarily stopped before resumption free of vibration. The post refuelling visual and water check of the fuel was carried out in the presence of an engineer working for the aircraft operator and was normal. The fuel uplift was 22400 kg and the total fuel on board after this uplift was 33400 kg. The First Officer was designated as PF for the flight. Departure and climb were uneventful except for indications of minor but nevertheless abnormal EPR fluctuations on both engines. Shortly after levelling at FL390, Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) messages in respect of engine 2 control began to appear and advice was sought from Company engineering following which, in conjunction with reference to the FCOM, it was decided that the flight should continue with engine control in EPR mode. Almost immediately after an adjustment of the cruise level to FL380, further ECAM messages relating to engine control appeared but after a second consultation with Company engineering, it was considered that as only engine 2 was showing significant signs of abnormal control function and both engines were otherwise performing normally, continuation of the flight remained an appropriate response. The next two hours were uneventful but during descent to FL230 and about 110 nm southeast of destination, ECAM messages relating to engine 1 control and engine 2 stall were annunciated. The required responses - setting the engine 2 thrust lever to flight idle and the engine 1 thrust lever to MCT (Maximum Continuous Thrust) - were accomplished but the response from no 1 thrust lever movement was abnormal and the selected thrust was not obtained. A PAN was declared to ATC and the aircraft commander then took over as PF. Ten minutes later, as the aircraft was about to level at an altitude of 8000 feet still in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) and about 45nm southeast of destination, an engine 1 stall was annunciated. The required flight