MIL-E-5007E. Whilst the precise mechanism by which SAP spheres had been generated during the refuelling operation could not be established, the sequence had been replicated and this was considered to demonstrate that the presence of salt water in the fuel, a low rate of fuel flow as had occurred at Surabaya was capable of generating this contaminant in the Filter Monitors which formed part of the refuelling equipment. It was established that the salt water-contaminated fuel system from which the dispenser had drawn the fuel pumped into the aircraft had recently been returned to service following a project to extend it without adequate inspection. The requirements of the Indonesian CAA in respect of inspection, both routinely and as part of re-commissioning after alterations were found to be ineffective because of a failure to specify the expectation of the applicable regulation in sufficient detail. The use of the unserviceable fuel supply system by a fuel company operative who had failed to respond appropriately to evidence of abnormality during the fuel upload process was attributed at least in part to inadequate training by their employer. The Investigation also found that the fuel supply installation at Surabaya had not been subject to routine and independent external audit and that this was a consequence of the fact that there are no universally applicable ICAO SARPs which require such periodic inspection of aircraft fuel supply at the airport of supply. The reliance on an incomplete coverage of such inspections through schemes run by fuel supplier trade associations and/or for airports used by carriers who are members of the IATA Fuel Quality Pool (IFQP) by the Technical Fuel Group (TFG) of that body. However, in response to a safety recommendation issued at an early stage of the Investigation, it was noted ICAO had since issued guidance material in the form of Doc 9977 “Manual on Civil Aviation Fuel Supply” in June 2012. The Investigation noted that the presence of SAP spheres in an aviation fuel system “was unheard of before this accident.” It was established during the Investigation that similar SAP spheres could only be generated under specific operating condition and that in the investigated case, there had been a succession of failures resulting from a combination of lapses in the fuel supply system at Surabaya in respect of the re-commissioning process, the monitoring of relevant fuel quality indications, the low flow refuelling operation and the lack of alertness of personnel. It was considered that the risk of SAP spheres entering an aircraft fuel system could be controlled by compliance with procedures in the fuel delivery process. In the light of this finding, and whilst it was recognised that the consequences of aircraft fuel contamination could evidently be very significant, it was concluded that because “the likelihood of the presence of SAP spheres as contaminant is very remote….. the existing certification test…using the MIL-E-5007E specification” is appropriate. In respect of the handling of the emergency by ATC, the Investigation concluded that from the time the accident