crew response followed and a MAYDAY was declared to ATC. It was eventually found that forward movement of both engine thrust levers produced just over 70% N1 from engine 1 but only 17% N1 (sub idle) from engine 2. The aircraft commander disconnected the AP and FD and began to fly the aircraft manually. Once descent was recommenced, it was possible to maintain airspeed in the vicinity of the “green dot” speed for engine out clean configuration. The APU was started and Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) was attained with the aircraft on base leg. A visual final approach was made with engine 1 thrust stuck at 70% despite the corresponding thrust lever being selected to idle. The attempt to manage the necessary descent whilst remaining on track was accompanied by Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) activations and by over speed warnings associated with flap deployment. Touchdown occurred at approximately 680 metres from the beginning of runway 07L at a speed of 231 knots and with an ELW of 174 tonnes. During a slight bounce of the right MLG, the lower cowling of engine 1 made contact with the runway surface and sustained slight damage. The aircraft came to a final stop with its NLG just over 300 metres from the end of the runway after a landing roll from the initial touchdown of approximately 2630 metres. Automatic ground spoiler deployment occurred and the effect was supplemented by manual braking and the successful deployment of just the engine 1 thrust reverser. Both engines were shut down and, after Rescue and Fire Fighting Services advice that the brakes were, as indicated on the flight deck, hot and that “smoke and small fire” was visible from the vicinity of the main landing gear, an emergency evacuation was ordered by the aircraft commander. This was completed in 2 minutes and 15 seconds using all 8 exits with all slides deployed normally. It was observed that cabin baggage was taken by some passengers contrary to cabin crew instructions. No evidence of prior airworthiness issues was found and it was established that the Main Metering Valves (MMVs) of the Fuel Metering Units (FMUs) of both engines had seized at positions consistent with the corresponding final engine power. The Variable Stator Vane Controller (VSVC) of the No. 2 engine was also found seized. Contaminant particles were found in the FMU, the VSVC and the Variable Stator Vane Actuator (VSVA) of both engines. Similar contaminant was also present elsewhere in the fuel system and in the aircraft fuel tanks. It was found that it was the effect of the contaminant in the FMUs which had caused the MMVs to seize. It was found that the contaminant involved - “super absorbent polymer (SAP) spheres" - was not included in the list of potential fuel contaminants considered by the certification requirement applicable to the Trent 700 engine. This requirement was “JAR-E 670 Contaminated Fuel” which specified continued normal engine operation in the presence of contaminants specified in accordance with