Warning and his delay in taking control was considered contrary to FCTM guidance that “when automation does not perform as expected, the flight crew should reduce the level of auto-flight and identify and resolve the condition and that the original level of auto-flight should only be resumed after they have regained proper control of the flight path and performance level”. It was considered that “since he had achieved an above-average grade and been considered good in the area of auto-flight management during his line and base checks [...] it might be desirable for the operator to review its autoflight management assessment programme to ensure that it is robust”.. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The EGPWS “DON’T SINK” events encountered by the flight crew were the result of the FMC having registered a speed/altitude constraint of “250/500” for the waypoint PD062. The Captain had inadvertently keyed in “250/0500” instead of the intended “250/0500A”.. As to the activation of the EGPWS “PULL UP” warning alert, the investigation team was unable to determine the reason of the activation. However, the aircraft manufacturer suspected that the warning could be as a result of the combination of the low radio altitude, descent rate and flight path angle required to capture the 500 feet altitude constraint that had been entered into the FMC. The Captain did not identify that there was an abnormal condition with the auto-flight system despite the series of “DON’T SINK” alerts over a period of relatively short time.. This occurrence also revealed many instances where the flight crew did not comply with the operator’s standard operating procedures, where the flight crew lost situational and flight mode awareness, and where the flight crew’s crew resource management performance in terms of communication had not been optimal.. The Captain had to deal with a number of issues prior to the departure. Each of these issues, by itself, would have been just a minor issue for the Captain. However, together, these out-of-the-normal pre-flight circumstances might have perturbed the Captain. The extent of any perturbation could not be ascertained, and the investigation team could only suspect that they could have added up to some significant stress on the Captain and contributed to his lapses in FMC programming and decision-making during the flight.. Notwithstanding that the Captain’s training and assessment record did not indicate any issues in the area of auto-flight management, there might be room for improvement on the part of the operator to ensure that its auto-flight management assessment programme is robust.. Safety Action known to have been taken during the course of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: Singapore Airlines has enhanced its recurrent flight crew training by including more emphasis on automation mode awareness and mode management and the proficient and judicious use of the AP, increasing the number of multiple and randomised scenarios employed to enhance the response to startle effect and requiring all simulator instructors to ensure correct and timely FMA callouts and proper