a result of the tailwind”. The First Officer stated that although he did not think so, he had not commented to that effect. Recorded flight data showed that nine seconds after the first EGPWS “DON’T SINK’ Caution had been annunciated and whilst the flaps were still being retracted, a second such Caution occurred followed by a third after a further nine seconds. Both pilots then reported having “realised that the aircraft had levelled off and they needed to reinitiate a climb”. In fact the aircraft had descended back to around 500 feet agl and oscillation between 480 to 500 feet agl was the cause of the continuing EGPWS ‘DON’T SINK’ Cautions. The Captain’s initial action to restore a climb was to keep the AP engaged and select FLCH mode on the MCP but he then replaced this two seconds later with the VNAV mode. He stated that he had thought that he had resolved the issue as the ‘DON’T SINK Caution had not recurred. However, a fourth EGPWS ‘DON’T SINK’ Caution occurred nine seconds after VNAV was re-selected and this time was followed by an EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning. In response to this, the Captain disconnected the A/P and manually increased engine thrust and began to climb the aircraft at a pitch attitude of 15° which led to the ‘PULL UP’ Warning ceasing. As the aircraft passed approximately 1,600 feet, the Captain called for the AP to be re-engaged. However, neither pilot had yet worked out why the unexpected descent had occurred and with the VNAV PTH mode still active, at about 1,780 feet agl, the aircraft then began a second pitch down to regain the inadvertently programmed target altitude of 500 feet. Only then did the First Officer notice on his ND that there was a “250/0500” speed/altitude constraint set for the first waypoint PD062 and realise that it was this altitude constraint that had been causing the aircraft to attempt to again descend to 500 feet agl when the AP VNAV mode had been re-engaged. He immediately alerted the Captain and pushed the altitude selector button on the MCP to delete the programmed speed/altitude constraint which fully resolved the flight path control issue and the flight was thereafter completed without further event. The incorrectly input 500 feet flight altitude constraint for the new first waypoint in the FMC which caused the unintended descent and high speed terrain proximity each time the AP was engaged was introduced inadvertently by the Captain during pre flight preparations without being detected in the required cross check. The Captain subsequently informed the Investigation - in considerable detail - that his pre flight preparation had been rather more involved than usual due to a combination of procedural issues arising from one of the ADDs which was subject to MEL procedural modifications and the intermittent functioning of both CPDLC and ACARS. He had delegated the external pre-flight check to the First Officer and whilst they were away from the flight deck for this purpose, he