for the waypoint. When the Captain did not acknowledge the First Officer’s call of “SPEED / VNAV PTH” on seeing the VNAV engaged on the FMA, a response which is required, the First Officer did not challenge him to do so. The Captain’s response to the EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning was prompt but not fully in accordance with the applicable procedure which required disengaging the A/T and pitching the aircraft to 20°.. the Captain manually input the anticipated SID into the FMS without the First Officer being present to cross check his actions as required.. The Captain failed to activate the amended FMC SID until after adding the constraint. Had it been activated before selecting the SID, the FMC would have automatically displayed the predicted speed and altitude of all the waypoints when the SID was selected whereas instead the new initial (PD062) waypoint was presented without speed/altitude constraints which prompted the Captain to make his inadvertently erroneous manual entry and overwrite the stored SID requirement for the waypoint.. When the Captain did not acknowledge the First Officer’s call of “SPEED / VNAV PTH” on seeing the VNAV engaged on the FMA, a response which is required, the First Officer did not challenge him to do so.. The Captain’s response to the EGPWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning was prompt but not fully in accordance with the applicable procedure which required disengaging the A/T and pitching the aircraft to 20°.. There were a number of instances during the build up to the event and the event itself which indicated sub-optimal CRM. These included the First Officer not challenging the Captain for a required response or when he considered that an explanatory remark was not necessarily correct or an action unnecessary. They also included the Captain apparently omitting to advise the First Officer of his intention to engage the AP as soon as the landing gear was up and the First Officer’s failure to notice the Captain’s omission of the suffix ‘A’ (for ‘above’) from his late change to the first FMC SID waypoint.. In general, it was considered that the First Officer had been insufficiently assertive and should have applied the escalation technique taught in CRM training to alert the Captain to his concern regarding any lack of response noting that “good communication can serve to maintain a shared understanding and situation awareness”. The fact that both pilots were able to simultaneously lose critical situational awareness (aircraft altitude) when confronted by an unexpected EGPWS activations directly related to a low altitude condition at night.. The extent to which the Captain had been subject to significant stress which had contributed to his lapses in FMC programming and decision-making during the flight was unclear but the potential for a series of individually minor matters he had encountered during the pre flight preparation to have cumulative effect on aspects of his performance could not be discounted.. The Captain’s autoflight management performance in response to the initial series of EGPWS Cautions and the eventual ‘PULL UP’