An Investigation was commenced by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB) and was based on QAR data provided by the aircraft operator and interviews with the flight crew. Relevant CVR data were overwritten. The 55 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight, had a total of 18,369 hours flying experience including 11,085 hours on type and the 29 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,744 hours flying experience, all of it on type. It was established that the pre-flight preparation had been somewhat more involved than normal (discussed below). It was also learned during the subsequent Investigation that whilst the Captain intended to engage the AP soon after the takeoff “because he was mindful of the need to convert altitude clearances given in metres to feet and of the potential weather to the east of the airport”, the First Officer did not recall this plan being communicated to him. On completion of pushback and engine start, clearance to taxi to the holding point for the expected departure runway 35R was given and an uneventful taxi and takeoff followed. Passing approximately 360 feet agl with landing gear retraction completed, the Captain called for the AP to be engaged. According to the subsequent statement of the First Officer, he noted that on passing 400 feet agl, the FMA (Flight Mode Annunciator) indication on the PFDs had changed from ‘HOLD / LNAV / TO/GA’ to ‘SPEED / LNAV / VNAV PTH’ and he had accordingly called out ‘SPEED / VNAV PTH’ twice. In his subsequent account of the departure, the Captain stated that he had not heard this call and the First Officer did not pursue seeking a response. Soon after the aircraft had climbed above 500 feet agl, both pilots noticed an increasing speed trend indication on their PFDs. The Captain reported having “believed that the aircraft had crossed 1,000 feet agl” and so called for flap retraction which the First Officer actioned in stages as instructed. However, neither pilot had looked at the PFD altitude indication and recorded flight data showed that in fact after the AP was engaged, the aircraft had climbed from to 750 feet agl before descending back towards 500 feet agl. Although unrecognised by both pilots at that time, this was due to an incorrect flight altitude constraint for the first SID waypoint entered into the FMC during pre flight preparations. During the first stage of flap retraction, an EGPWS ‘DON’T SINK’ Caution was annunciated which was reported to have startled both pilots. Nevertheless, the Captain stated that he had “not rushed into reacting to the caution as he had deemed the flight was stable and had decided that flap retraction should be completed”. Although he had not noticed the loss of height on his PFD, he stated that he had noticed a tailwind on his ND and this had led him to say to the First Officer that the EGPWS Caution “could be due to the aircraft decreasing its pitch as