had manually input the SID for the expected runway 34L departure into the FMS noting that the first waypoint of this SID - the ‘HSN’ VOR - had a pre-programmed speed/altitude constraint of ‘250/1970A’ which meant that the speed should not be more than 250 KIAS and the altitude should be at or above an altitude of 1,970 feet at that position. Following the First Officer’s return to the flight deck, the Captain advised him that the departure runway would now be 35R rather than the 34L for which his FMC SID data had been originally entered into the FMC. The consequence of this was that the SID now went to the ‘HSN’ VOR via another intermediate waypoint - PD062 - which had no speed/altitude constraint. Instead of amending the initially input active route, the Captain used the ‘ROUTE COPY’ function to duplicate the initial data and then manually amended its SID information by adding the additional waypoint. Whilst subsequently briefing the First Officer, the Captain noticed that the new first waypoint of the updated SID was not showing a speed/altitude crossing constraint (since there was none). Whilst recognising that this was not abnormal, the Captain stated that as he “preferred to have the speed constraint explicitly displayed, he decided to input a speed constraint of “250/0500” for this waypoint (but left off the ‘A’ suffix). In accordance with the cross-checking requirement, the First Officer “observed the Captain’s inputs and accepted them as correct” and the Captain then activated the flight path and selected it to ‘execute’. The insertion of the speed constraint without the suffix ‘A’ and the unusually rapid engagement of the AP resulted in the aircraft entering a descent at high speed as it sought to return to and then maintain 500 feet after passing the new first waypoint. In seeking to explain the unexpected vertical profile followed, the observations made included the following: The aircraft type FMC was programmed to only display a speed constraint when there was an associated procedural altitude constraint at a waypoint.. The Captain was reportedly aware that since the FMC was automatically programmed to restrict the aircraft speed to not more to 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet, there was no need to insert such a speed restriction for any waypoint below that altitude.. There were a number of instances in this occurrence where the flight crew did not comply with the operator’s SOPs. These included the following: the Captain manually input the anticipated SID into the FMS without the First Officer being present to cross check his actions as required. The Captain failed to activate the amended FMC SID until after adding the constraint. Had it been activated before selecting the SID, the FMC would have automatically displayed the predicted speed and altitude of all the waypoints when the SID was selected whereas instead the new initial (PD062) waypoint was presented without speed/altitude constraints which prompted the Captain to make his inadvertently erroneous manual entry and overwrite the stored SID requirement