metres from the first ground contact. As aircraft ground speed decreased, the Captain used the Nose Wheel Steering to return the aircraft to the paved surface, reduced Power to Ground Idle and “continued to taxi normally in accordance with ATC instructions”. In respect of the fact that there was no positive move to select Ground Idle (GI) once the aircraft had landed with Flight Idle (FI) selected (see the FDR trace below), the aircraft manufacturer was noted to have commented that “it is preferable to go from FI to GI at reasonable speed (within 2 or 3s) and not to stay too long in (an) intermediate position”. During the taxi in, the Captain noticed the TLU system panel fault annunciation for the first time and observed that the adjacent TLU manual selection switch had remained in the ‘AUTO’ position. He then “set the switch to the low speed (LO SPD) mode” but “after approximately 10 seconds the Captain noted that the system was inoperable and switched it back to AUTO” being unaware of the fact that the transition actually takes 33±5 seconds. The Investigation also disclosed that: neither of the flight crew had advised the cabin crew of any potential consequences of the abnormal situation they had been dealing with.. upon realising from the “aircraft’s oscillation, the shaking and the passengers’ reactions” that the landing roll was irregular, the senior member of Cabin Crew on the aircraft, located at the main passenger door to the rear of the passenger cabin for landing, had, before the end of the landing roll, released themselves from their seat harness and gone into the cabin “to find out what was going on” before returning to their crew seat.. It was noted that whilst the aircraft commander was experienced, the First Officer had very little pilot experience, although the majority (448 hours) had been obtained on the incident aircraft type. The potential effect of the prevalent authority gradient on crew responses was noted but not explored further. A number of observations were made by the Investigation in respect of flight crew actions including that: the haste caused by the decision to continue the approach allowed too little time for the flight crew to correctly action the QRH. the Captain was unaware of any limitation to rudder travel before touchdown because he chose to control the aircraft through the AP as long as permitted - until the applicable approach procedure Decision Altitude/Height. inadequate system awareness can further increase the probability of misinterpreting abnormal drills because without proper system knowledge, pilots are ill-equipped to recognise whether the initial consequences of a malfunction have been corrected.. the completion of the landing checks by one pilot whilst the other simultaneously attempted to identify the appropriate response was a departure from SOP which “may have resulted in a cursory reading of the (QRH) instructions once located.. the continuation of the approach was contrary to Operations Manual requirements for a stabilised approach and suggested that “plan continuation bias” was involved.. On