the subject of pilot training at Flybe Finland, the Investigation considered that: “Judging from discussions and interviews it appears that the flight crews’ system awareness is not at an acceptable level with regard to the TLU system. It is the opinion of the investigation group that Flybe’s flight crews did not possess sufficient knowledge or awareness of the TLU fault’s consequences upon the controllability of the aircraft. Moreover, flight crews have suffered from an evident lack of TLU system awareness as well as its special characteristics when the standby system is switched on.” In respect of Probable Cause and Consequence, the Investigation found that: The Serious Incident was caused by the mechanically centred rudder’s insufficient authority for directional control, which resulted in the aircraft veering off the runway.. Contributory Factors were identified as: The rudder’s Travel Limitation Unit (TLU) electric actuator broke and the TLU was left in the high speed (HI SPD) mode for the approach and landing, jamming the rudder.. Due to inadequate system awareness and the fact that the QRH did not clearly enough provide instructions for using the TLU’s standby system, the flight crew did not switch on the TLU’s standby system.. The right engine’s propeller blade angles transitioned sooner into the BETA zone following the reduction of engine power at landing, which resulted in a large directional oscillation.. Safety Action taken by Flybe Finland during the Investigation to improve their pilot training provision in respect of the TLU system was noted. Four Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: (1) that the Manufacturer of the ATR aircraft should include instructions for the manual selection of the TLU’s standby system in the FCOM and in other relevant instructions. (2) that the Manufacturer of the ATR aircraft should include in the FCOM the length of time it takes for the TLU’s standby system to change from the HI SPD mode to the LO SPD mode. (3) that the Manufacturer of the ATR aircraft should include in the FCOM and other relevant instructions a TLU FAULT warning [CAUTION] of limited rudder travel and of the considerably reduced directional controllability during the approach and landing when the TLU system is in the HI SPD mode. (4) that the Manufacturer of the ATR aircraft should include in the FCOM further information on the TLU system including the limitations on the controllability of the aircraft caused by its malfunctioning. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 13 October 2013, published on 1 November 2013 and subsequently made available in English translation.