The event was investigated by the Safety Investigation Authority Finland (SIAF). Information to support the Investigation was obtained from the aircraft Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), from ATC radar, radio and telephone recordings and interviews. It was determined that a malfunction of the rudder Travel Limitation Unit (TLU) had prevented it changing from the restricted high speed mode to the unrestricted low speed mode as airspeed decreased below 180 knots. The failure was found to have been caused by an inoperative electrically-powered actuator. This failure had been evident to the crew when the aircraft reached approximately 6nm from the landing runway threshold. FDR and CVR data showed that an aural and visual Master Caution (the latter displayed separately to each pilot) had been accompanied by ‘FLT CNTL’ annunciation on the CAP and a corresponding amber fault annuciation on the overhead system panel as the aircraft passed 1760 feet aal. In addition to these indications, the green ‘RUD TLU LO SPD’ located next to the landing gear status lights did not illuminate as usual. These indications left no room for doubt that the rudder limiter remained in restricted mode. However, despite the fact that continuing the approach would result in a landing less than three minutes later and the crew were not familiar with the required response to the situation, the aircraft commander, acting as PF decided to continue the approach whilst the First Officer searched in the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) for the relevant drill and he completed the normal pre-landing checks on his own, keeping the AP engaged until the prescribed minimum height for an instrument approach. As the aircraft approached 700 feet aal, the First Officer eventually found the correct page in the QRH (see below) and at 250 ft “the flight crew noted that the normal landing criteria required by the QRH (for the absence of the green TLU low speed annunciation) were being met and continued the approach all the way to the runway”. It was noted that although this was correct, the crew had failed to notice that the first relevant checklist action was to manually select the low speed TLU mode. It was also concluded that they were evidently unaware of the reasons for the restrictions which were imposed (and met) by the absence of the green TLU LO SPD annunciation - the fact that, instead of the full range of ± 28.5 degrees rudder travel, this travel would be mechanically limited to ±4 degrees. When the Captain reduced engine power to below flight idle immediately upon the first contact with the runway, the aircraft rapidly swung 14.5° to the right because of an abnormal degree asymmetry in the way the Power Levers were moved below Flight Idle. Whilst the effect of this would normally have been correctable by rudder input, the effect of the mechanical restriction meant that this was not possible and the aircraft departed the right hand side of the runway onto the adjacent grass some 550