In the early 2000s, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Human Performance Modeling (NASA HPM) project applied five cognitive modeling tools to predict human error and behaviour. The project’s modeling teams primarily worked to identify needs for changing or intervening in aviation system designs, procedures and operational requirements. “The NASA HPM project focused on modeling the performance of highly skilled and trained operators (commercial airline pilots) in complex aviation tasks,” said David C. Foyle and Becky L. Hooey, the editors of Human Performance Modeling in Aviation. One of the project’s two research problems focused on contemporary taxi navigation errors during airport surface operations. “Project efforts resulted in both design solutions and procedural recommendations to enhance the safety of aviation systems,” they said. “Significant advancements to the state of HPM were achieved by broadening the scope of the five models to include the aviation domain and through the augmentation and expansion of specific modeling capabilities. … The modeling tools were used to develop a deeper understanding of the causes of taxi errors and to explore potential mitigating solutions.” The second research problem focused on future synthetic vision system (SVS) operations, studying aspects of the conceptual design and the concept of operations development using a Boeing commercial jet simulator and data sets representing pilot performance and taxi navigation errors. (SVS displays create a visual virtual representation of the airport environment from a digital database via computer-generated imagery.) The NASA HPM project’s modelers documented their challenges in model selection, model development, model interpretation and model validation. They also reached these overall conclusions: HPM effectively addressed real aviation-related safety issues;. HPM addressed increasingly complex aviation behaviors, tasks and environments;. HPM can be applied at every phase of design to eliminate latent error and improve system design;. Their main interests in applying HPM were aviation safety; pilot performance, pilot error and error recovery; and system latent error;. Rather than testing only the potential success of the proposed system, NASA project included HPM tests of “plausible conditions of failure”; and,. Coupling human-in-the-loop (HITL) simulation and HPM yielded “insight into the underlying causes of pilot performance and error and, more importantly, … procedural or system designs that mitigate these problems, ultimately leading to increased aviation safety.”. In their chapter, Michael Byrne, Alex Kirlik and Michael Fleetwood said, “These actual aviation problems — as opposed to laboratory test problems developed for model evaluation or theoretical development — represent a class of real-world problems that are of sufficient complexity that the simple application of these existing models was not possible without significant extensions to the HPM state of the art [including] the emergence of new cognitive modeling architectures and the exploding field of artificial intelligence. … “Beginning in the 1990s, the importance of the role of the human operator in the development of new concepts of air traffic operations in the United States [Federal Aviation Administration] and in Europe [EUROCONTROL] has prompted the modeling and simulation community to tackle increasingly complex real-world problems and situations using integrated cognitive