briefly handing over control to the First Officer in order to assess the situation. Having confirmed asymmetric thrust, he then took over again as PF and decided to go around. When TO/GA thrust was selected on both engines, the indicated/recorded turbine vibration on the right engine increased to severe - 9.90 units - followed by the right engine fan vibration increasing to 4 units. During the repositioning for another approach with ATC vectoring provided, the crew reported “reading the ENGINE FIRE or ENGINE SEVERE DAMAGE or SEPARATION Checklist in the B737 QRH” but did not action it, They then reported noticing that the right engine Oil Filter Bypass Light had illuminated and five minutes after attempting the two engine go-around, “a precautionary shutdown” of the right engine was carried out “in accordance with the ENGINE OIL FILTER BYPASS Checklist in the B737 QRH”. After a further 20 minutes of manoeuvring, ATC radar vectored the flight back onto the ILS LOC but “the crew stated that they got preoccupied by the limitation of 10° bank and map shift and did not align with the runway centreline”. An emergency was then declared to ATC and the airport RFFS was put on standby. After two further minutes, the crew had still not succeeded in establishing on the runway centreline and subsequently stated that they were now also seeing high turbine vibrations being indicated on the number one engine. At 150 feet agl, the aircraft was still not aligned with the runway centreline and was above the glideslope and showing a half scale fly down. The TO/GA switch was again pressed and a second go-around was initiated. During this second Go-Around, the crew reported having the field in sight and “decided to turn around and make a visual approach to runway 03”. However, “after turning left, they realised that they were far off to the right of the 03 extended centreline” and so requested instead to extend downwind and position for another ILS to runway 21. Positioning to this ILS approach followed, alignment with the LOC was achieved and the approach then continued to a successful landing 40 minutes after the first approach and almost 1½ hours after leaving Lagos. The aircraft was taxied to its assigned parking position and all 109 passengers disembarked unassisted and uninjured. The ground track of the flight showing the two go arounds and the third approach to a successful landing is shown below. The ground track of the flight whilst in the vicinity of Port Harcourt. [Reproduced from the Official Report]