The Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) carried out an Accident Investigation. The CVR and FDR were both removed and downloaded but whilst relevant data was obtained from the FDR, such data from the CVR was found to have been overwritten. It was noted that the 43 year old Captain, was PF for the accident flight had a total of 3,724 hours flying experience of which 92 hours were on type all acquired since joining the operator less than a month prior to the investigated event and including type conversion training time. His previous job had been in corporate aviation flying an HS125. The 24 year old First Officer had a total of 629 hours flying experience of which all but 198 hours were on type. About six minutes after takeoff, the turbine vibration level indicated for the right engine began to gradually increase over a period of 40 seconds reaching a recorded/indicated maximum of 5.26 units. After a further 40 seconds, this level began gradually decreasing over the next 90 seconds before stabilising at approximately 3.0 units. The climb was continued and a couple of minutes later, the flight was transferred to Port Harcourt APP and advised to expect an ILS/DME approach to runway 21. Four minutes later, the aircraft was levelled at FL290 with both engines appearing to be operating normally at a thrust setting of 85% N1 with the AP and A/T engaged. However, after two minutes FDR data showed that the right engine N1 had, within five seconds, decreased to 68% before returning to 85%. This occurred at the same time as the crew reported having heard “a sudden loud bang from the right side of the aircraft which caused vibrations” which was accompanied by a brief yaw to the right. Having confirmed with the Purser that the noise had also been heard in the cabins, the flight crew “instructed the Purser to walk through the cabin and check if there was anything unusual” and subsequently received the response that “everything seemed normal”. The flight crew “then assumed the noise might be as a result of cargo shift”. Descent was then commenced to FL210 as previously released by Lagos ACC and before reaching, Port Harcourt APP re-cleared the flight to continue to FL110. Just over 20 minutes after beginning descent, a right turn to establish on the runway 21 ILS was commenced, the flaps were set to 15 and the landing gear was selected down. The indications for both engines were normal with the N1 at approximately 57%. Soon after establishing on the ILS LOC, with about 4.5nm to go, the crew reported hearing “a very loud deafening bang” as the right engine N1 decreased to 47% within 5 seconds and its indicated/recorded turbine vibration level increased to “severe”. As before, this was accompanied by a sudden yaw to the right but this time, the AP also disengaged although the A/T remained engaged despite significantly asymmetric thrust. The Captain took over manually and stabilised the aircraft before