Having compiled the account of the flight summarised above, the Investigation looked at the Airworthiness origin of the problem, the pilot’s response to it in relation to relevant procedures, the aircraft operators attitude to airworthiness in the presence of what was found to be a long history of malfunction affecting the right engine and the performance of the State Safety Regulator’s responsibility for overseeing the operational safety standards of AOC holders. Airworthiness. A boroscope examination of the right engine found that all its HPT nozzle guide vanes and blades were unserviceable, that there was evidence of oil spillage on the inner side of the turbine exhaust sleeve and the flame arrestor was missing. It was provisionally concluded that Number 4 and Number 5 bearings had failed. Metallic particles were found on the engine magnetic chip detector in the aft sump. A subsequent initial strip down of the engine at a UK MRO found that the extent of the damage meant that the engine was beyond economic repair. It was therefore decided that the high cost of a full strip down could not be justified in terms of value to the Investigation. However, it was clear that the condition of the engine had been progressively deteriorating over several months - see the first part of the section below on Operating Standards and Safety. The Crew Response. It was found that the QRH required an engine to be shut down if the indicated vibration level exceeded 4.0 units whether or not any vibration was felt unless operating with reduced thrust resulted in the vibration level being kept below 4.0 units. No thrust lever movement on the affected engine was to be made until the A/T, if engaged which it was, had been disconnected. This drill also required setting the transponder to ‘TA’ so as to “prevent climb commands which can exceed reduced thrust performance”. The QRH also required that an engine shut down must be carried out if “airframe vibrations with abnormal indications” occurred. Again this procedure commenced with the memory actions of disengaging the A/T followed by closing the affected engine thrust lever and discharging the first fire extinguisher shot into the affected engine. Operating Standards and Safety at Azman Air Services. It was found that whilst the OFDM process was thoroughly documented as part of the SMS, there was no evidence that any use was being made of the data available from it. An examination of eight months data from the programme was found to show, by way of example only, that: in a continuous 20 day period in two months prior to the event under investigation, the ‘do not exceed’ engine vibration limit for the right engine had been exceeded during all 66 flights operated.. in the five day period 14 - 18 December 2018, less than 2 weeks before the event under investigation, abnormal right engine turbine vibration occurred a total of 40 times spread over all the 23 flights in that period.. in the two month period