immediately prior to the event under investigation, the fan vibration limit guide for the left engine exceeded the threshold for abnormal operation on 65 of the flights operated.. other recorded exceedances included “multiple ILS deviation warnings, Localiser deviation warnings, EGPWS warnings, EGPWS Sink Rate Cautions, High rate of descent below 2000 feet, Low power on approach, Speed brake not armed below 800 feet and Approach speed high below 500 feet”.. It was concluded that instances of engine vibration and other deviations found in OFDM data had become “a new normal” with neither flight crew nor airline management paying attention any more. It was found that the OM ‘A’ stated that Captains newly employed by Azman Air are expected to have a minimum of 500 hours Pilot-In-Command time on type - the Captain involved had just 92 hours in command on type. It was also found in respect of crew pairing that whilst the OM ‘A’ included crew composition requirements and inexperienced flight crew composition limitations, but it did not specify any criteria for determining experience levels. Safety Regulator Oversight of Azman Air Services. The Investigation found “no evidence of any safety audit of the operator’s SMS to ascertain the level of its implementation and the operator’s compliance with the safety management requirements of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (CARs)”. It was also noted that a revision to the 2009 CARs in 2015 had omitted a previous provision that mandated an AOC holder operating aircraft with an MTOM exceeding 27 tonnes to include an OFDM programme as part of its SMS, a change which represented a reportable difference from the requirements contained in ICAO Annexes. The Cause of the loss of power on final approach was determined as “the failure of the number 4 and 5 bearings of engine number 2 leading to loss of power during approach”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: The failure of the crew to recognise the abnormal engine conditions (surge) during cruise phase and hence not making an appropriate decision. This might have been connected to the loss of situational awareness.. Non-implementation of the Flight Data Monitoring programme in accordance with section 2.2.5.1 of Azman Air Safety Management System Manual.. Non-rectification of the number two engine vibration anomalies recorded over a period of 8 months.. Inadequate regulatory oversight of the Azman Air Safety Management System.. One Interim Safety Recommendation was made on 4 February 2019 as follows: that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority should ensure that Azman Air Services immediately takes further necessary steps to ensure that it reviews the training of the incident flight crew in order to be able to understand and recognise engine failure/malfunctions and its effect (s) at every phase of flight before they are allowed to resume flight duties. [No Reference Number]. Seven further Safety Recommendations were made on completion of the Investigation as follows: that Azman Air Services should implement fully, the Flight Data Monitoring programme as stipulated in 2.2.5 of the Azman Air Safety Management System Manual, including