Three days later, once they had been made aware of the event as the result of an MOR submitted by the controller involved, the Irish AAIU commenced a Serious Incident Investigation. As the flight crew had delayed reporting to their locally based company and even when aware, the company had not then notified the AAIU, relevant data from both the CVR and FDR were overwritten. However recorded ATC data were available and the aircraft operator did subsequently provide some relevant QAR data captured by their OFDM system. It was found that the 51 year-old Captain had a total of 11,000 flying hours of which 60 hours were on the ATR72-600, all achieved after he had recently joined the operator as a direct entry Captain with no previous experience of the ‘glass cockpit’ ATR72-600 but with 7,200 hours experience on other ATR42/72 variants. The First Officer had gained his Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) the previous year and had total of 441 flying hours of which 203 hours were on type. It was noted that the Captain’s licence had been issued by the Spanish regulator and the First Officer’s by the Irish regulator. It was noted that the flight was being made with a current ADD which recorded that the rudder Travel Limitation Unit (TLU) was inoperative in the AUTO position so that manual selection between the low and high speed positions was required. It was further noted that the TLU system and roof panel position/fault indication on the ATR72-500, with which the Captain was more familiar, was identical to that on the ATR72-600 with the exception that the EFIS of the latter also provided an Engine Warning Display caution in the event of a system fault. The flight crew procedure in the event of operations with this ADD, which was also the same for both the -500 and -600 versions of the ATR72, required the crew to manually alternate between the high and low speed positions during climb and descent as particular airspeed were passed. It was established that with the crew making the second flight of their four sector duty and the First Officer as PF the flight had been initially cleared by ATC to descend to 3,000 feet routing direct to waypoint ‘LAPMO’ (see the ILS approach chart below) and to contact Dublin Director for further instructions. On doing so, the flight was re-cleared to route direct to ‘MAXEV’ for an ILS approach to runway 28, descend to 2,000 feet and call established on the ILS LOC. En route to MAXEV, the flight was given a speed restriction of 190 KIAS so as to maintain separation from approach traffic 7.5 nm ahead in the approach and shortly afterwards instructed to reduce speed to 160 KIAS on reaching ‘MAXEV’. The runway 28 ILS approach at Dublin. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Passing approximately 3500 feet five minutes after being instructed to reduce speed to 190 KIAS, the airspeed was recorded as 202 KCAS and the Captain selected the rudder TLU