Captain had also, possibly inadvertently, disconnected the AP. This scenario matched the First Officer’s statement during interview that at this point, the Captain had “had his hand gripped on the control column while using the radio transmit button” which had led him to presume that the Captain had indeed disconnected the AP. He stated that this led him to ask if the Captain had taken control of the aircraft but, even after repeating the question, he had received no reply. He stated that after approximately fifteen seconds, he had therefore “resumed manual control of the aircraft to return it to the localiser and, as the speed increased, again had attempted to arrest the continuing descent below the ILS GS". Two seconds before ATC received their MSAW alert with the aircraft passing 1200 feet, the AP was briefly re-engaged, although pitch inputs were then recorded by the Captain who then disconnected the AP and for the next 24 seconds both pilots were found to have been making pitch control inputs. It was during this period that the go around had been commenced from 1100 feet. On interview the First Officer stated that he had been PF for the initiation of the go around but that at approximately 1,300 feet, the Captain had taken control and had personally “configured the aircraft for a go around”. This had included selection flaps to 15°, an action which, together with their return to zero after levelling at 3000 feet, the Captain stated during interview he had been unaware of. It was also not clear how or even whether this second takeover of control by the Captain had been positively communicated, but the First Officer stated that control of the aircraft had been returned to him on reaching 3000 feet. It appeared that an attempt by the crew to debrief the event during the subsequent turn round was interrupted and they only returned to the matter during the subsequent filing by the Captain of the online occurrence report using the First Officer’s login as the Captain “did not have one”. It was noted that there was a provision in the Stobart Air OM in respect of restrictions on pairing of new direct entry Captains with other ‘restricted’ pilots such as those with low experience to be determined at the discretion of the Flight Operations Manager. In this case, it was found that there was no indication in the Captain’s Training Records that any such restrictions had been set nor were they required to be. However, it was considered that all the evidence assembled by the Investigation “indicated that there was a sub-optimal level of combined ATR72-600 experience on the flight deck” and noted that the Captain “had acknowledged during his interview that he was not familiar with a number of differences between the two versions of the aircraft” and in particular had “mistakenly believed that there were differences in how the TLU operated in manual mode on the ATR72-600 compared to the ATR72-500”. Observations made in