to low speed. Because this was over 20 knots above the speed at which this should be done, a red bar automatically appeared on the PFD airspeed scales indicating that an overspeed condition existed. This situation - unanticipated by the Captain - was subsequently found to have confused the Captain who had then become preoccupied with this ‘problem’ to the exclusion of other critical tasks. It was noted that the Captain’s action would not have any immediate consequence and would not have led to the annunciation of any other associated caution. Just over half a minute later, having reached 2000 feet approximately 2.5 nm before MAXEV, the aircraft continued descending at 2,000 fpm and 185 KIAS. Shortly afterwards, it passed MAXEV at 1670 feet, still descending, and at 181 KIAS and a right turn began to establish on the ILS LOC from the south and the rate of descent was reduced to 1,200 fpm. Nineteen seconds after passing ‘MAXEV’ as the aircraft descended through 1,200 feet, an MSAW alert was triggered on the controller’s radar screen which prompted them to ask the flight to confirm it was established on the localiser which it had not reported despite being past ‘MAXEV’. Whilst the aircraft continued to descend, the Captain stated that a go around was intended although by the time the climb began, the aircraft had reached 1075 feet QNH - equivalent to 1038 feet arte - whereas the ILS GS altitude at that point was 900 feet higher. It was noted from the available flight data that throughout this attempt to establish on the ILS, the aircraft had been remained ‘clean’ i.e. no flap had been selected and the landing gear had remained up. Whilst passing through a recorded 1,390 feet during the go-around at and 177 KCAS, the flaps were selected from zero to 15°. This resulted, in the absence of any power increase, in a linear reduction in airspeed to 145 KCAS when passing 2,600 feet after which speed started to slowly increase as the aircraft began to level at its cleared altitude of 3,000 feet. The flaps then remained at 15° for a further three minutes until they were selected to zero. Radar vectors for a second ILS approach were provided and it was completed without further event. The crew then continued with their second Dublin - Edinburgh return before, with their flying complete for the day, the Captain made an entry in the Stobart Air internal online safety reporting system stating that on the flight concerned: “During approach, performed go around for unstable approach due to TLU fault - to stop overspeed in flight otherwise AC would be grounded. All the approached was always conducted under the control of crew in safe conditions.” This report was subsequently forwarded to the regulator by the operator exactly as submitted. A subsequent further analysis of the available QAR data by the aircraft manufacturer found that shortly after prematurely selecting the rudder TLU from high speed to low speed, the