are merely “commercial designations of the ATR72-212A variant and the latter is the only variant of the ATR72 type recognised by the EASA”. Despite the significant difference between the ATR72-600 and its “New Avionic Suite (NAS)” and older ATR72 variants, it was explicitly not considered by the EASA to meet the definition of a new aircraft type variant. However, it was nevertheless noted the EASA Regulations relevant to ATR72 pilot training when changing from the ATR72-500 version to the ATR72-600 version of the ATR72-212A variant did require the “provision of differences training” but without specifying what this should constitute. The Stobart Air OM did not - and was not required to - specify any threshold of flying recency or training. When employing the Captain, the company was aware that his five day classroom-only -500 to -600 differences course had been completed almost three years previously and had not been examined and knew that he had not then done any ATR72-600 simulator training or flying. On employment with Stobart Air, immediately following six months flying the ATR72-500 for another operator, he had been provided with two ATR72-600 simulator training sessions which culminated in an Operator's Proficiency Check (OPC) before then being released to begin his -600 line training. The debrief notes from both the simulator sessions and line training were indicative of sound flying skills but poor grasp of the -600 NAS. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “while conducting an ILS approach, the aircraft was descended unintentionally to an altitude that triggered the ATC Minimum Safe Altitude Warning”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: The Flight Crew lacked experience on the ATR72 ‘-600’ aircraft.. The Captain became distracted by the manual operation of the (rudder Travel Limitation Unit) to the extent that the flight path was not adequately monitored.. Inappropriate pitch inputs made to the Captain’s control column caused the autopilot to disengage.. The level of flight deck communication and co-ordination between the flight crew was sub-optimal.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that Stobart Air should ensure that its flight crews understand the requirements of the Operations Manual Part A in relation to the preservation of recorded data and responsibilities of the flight crew for accurate reporting of occurrences. [IRLD2021001]. that Stobart Air should review and amend the Operations Manual Part A relating to ‘Restricted Flying Flight Crew’ to account for differences between the ‘-500’ and ‘-600’ versions of the ATR72 series aircraft. [IRLD2021002]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 15 January 2021.