respect of conduct of the flight included: it was likely that the initiating factor in the mismanagement of the flight had been the Captain’s premature selection of the rudder TLU to low speed and the distraction of an indicated overspeed which, with the AP disconnected in response had the led to (according to the account of events he gave at interview) to him “continuing to cycle the TLU (roof panel) switch”. During the 2½ minutes which elapsed between the initial selection of the TLU to low speed and the initiation of the go around, it was noted that the Captain “did not indicate to the Investigation that any other actions were completed” whereas his responsibilities as PM at this time should have included monitoring the process of capturing the ILS and conducting the approach and before landing checklists. In effect, it could be deduced that this distraction had resulted in him ceasing to monitor the position and configuration of the aircraft at a critical time during which the flight failed to follow its ATC clearance. In particular it was clear that neither pilot had noticed that descent was continuing below the ILS GS and only the MSAW-triggered ATC call had brought this to their attention. It was also clear that “there were periods when the aircraft was flying without the certainty that it was being directly controlled by either of the pilots, or by the autopilot”.. Despite the fact that VMC prevailed and the Captain’s claim that “the ground was in sight”, it was concluded that the prevailing situation in the flight deck during the 2½ minute period identified above, which included the First Officer’s period of uncertainty as to whether or not he still had control, would have made it unlikely that any low level VFR traffic to the east of the airport would have been detected.. Although no CVR data was available, it was considered that during the go around, there had quite clearly been a breakdown in flight crew communication and co-ordination. Of note in this respect was the fact that both pilots were simultaneously making control column pitch inputs.. In respect of the Captain’s release for unsupervised flying on the -600 version of the ATR72, it was noted that the available evidence in the aircraft operator’s pre-release training records indicated although there had been no suggestion that the Final Line Check was anything other than satisfactory, earlier entries had highlighted that he “lacked familiarity with the ‘-600’ version of the ATR72”. The flight management interface of the -600 EFIS-based flight deck was without question rather different to that of the -500 version (see the comparative illustration below) and there was also no evidence that he had any previous experience on any aircraft type with an EFIS flight deck. The ‘conventional’ ATR72-500 flight deck (left) & that of the EFIS ATR72-600 version (right). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was also noted that the applicable EASA ‘Type Certificate Data Sheet’ stated that the designations ‘ATR72-500’ and ‘ATR72-600’