attached to the wheelchair contained the battery without being able to confirm this. He did not identify or did not know that the passenger should have carried the battery in the cabin. After the wheelchair had been secured in the aft hold of the aeroplane, a short circuit occurred in the wheelchair’s electrical system for unknown reasons. The battery, still connected, sustained this short circuit which resulted in incipient combustion. The battery was in immediate contact with the combustion zone which could have created thermal runaway inside the battery. Following the incipient combustion, a warning was activated in the cockpit. The crew then complied with the procedures, declared an emergency situation and constantly analysed the situation to adapt their actions until all the passengers and crew members had safely left the plane. Contributory Factors which may have been related to the event were identified as follows: Lack of understanding between the passenger and ground personnel, the passenger spoke French but visibly did not understand it very well.. The Traffic Agent not checking that the battery had been removed, either when the passenger left his wheelchair or, in any case, before the Ramp Loading Operative took charge of it.. Incomplete or unsuitable procedures which did not ensure the continuous tracking of the battery information.. Insufficiently effective training of the Alysia agents and in particular the loading supervisor which meant that he did not react to the presence of a battery which he thought was in the red pouch and which should have been carried by the passenger in the cabin.. Checks solely focused on security and looking for explosives and not designed to detect the presence of the battery on the wheelchair before it is loaded in the hold.. An unidentified internal fault which caused a short-circuit in the wheelchair’s electrical system.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included the Handling Agent involved, Alysia, addressing weaknesses in the tracking of electrical mobility aids by introducing the requirement for a tracking sheet. This must be initially completed and physically attached to the wheelchair during the passenger check-in process and then added to during the various steps of the handling process. It must show, in particular, the type of battery and whether it is to be transported in the hold or in the passenger cabin. The Final Report was published in English translation on 24 November 2020 concurrently with the definitive publication in French. No Safety Recommendations were made.