as to go from check-in to the departure gate unaided. During check-in, the Alysia Check-in Agent had reportedly questioned the passenger about the type of battery powering his wheelchair and informed him that he would have to remove the battery himself before boarding the aircraft. The Alysia ‘Traffic Coordinator’ reportedly further questioned the passenger who it was stated had replied, in non native French “yes, I’ll do as [when] I came by plane”. When boarding, the passenger was accompanied by the Samsic agent onto the airbridge being used for boarding and this agent had then, as per their procedures, and without the Alysia Traffic Coordinator being present), moved the passenger to a transfer wheelchair. The passenger had then folded and handed over their own wheelchair to an El Al security agent who had then taken it down onto the apron and, after required security checks had been carried out, handed it over to the Alysia Ramp Handling Supervisor. The latter reported having seen a red pouch attached to the wheelchair which he thought appeared to be “full and heavy”. He said he had supposed that the wheelchair battery was in this pouch but was unable to check as his procedures prohibited him from opening passengers’ personal effects. The wheelchair was then loaded and secured in the aeroplane’s aft hold. After the incident, an Alysia manager stated that they had spoken to the passenger but he had not seemed to understand the questions being asked and gave “contradictory answers”. In a statement given to investigators, the passenger said that during boarding, “the agents told him that they knew what to do with the wheelchair and that he did not have to do anything (so) he had handed over the wheelchair as it was, with the battery in place”. He added that on the flight from Tel-Aviv to Paris, “he had been asked to remove the battery but not on the return flight”. The Investigation found that the presence of the battery had indeed been recorded by Alysia but not its location or the possibility of there being several batteries. It was noted that two-yearly dangerous goods training for Alysia staff, which included specific coverage of the lithium battery risk, was conducted separately for Check-in Agents, Traffic Coordinators and Ramp Handling Supervisors and found that all those involved in this event were recorded as having completed training that was still current. The Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: Following a lack of understanding and despite the instructions given by the Alysia agents during the check-in and in the departure lounge, the passenger supposed that one of the agents with whom he was dealing was going to remove the battery and that he did not have to do it. The wheelchair was then subject to security checks which are not designed to identify the battery. The loading supervisor then took charge of the wheelchair but did not identify that the battery was still in place: he supposed that the red canvas pouch