its housing on the wheelchair when it was loaded. The red pouch which contained the battery. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The folded wheelchair - red pouch in situ. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The position of the battery housing in relation to the burnt electrical system with the wheelchair partially unfolded. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that transport of powered mobility aids is described in ICAO Doc 9284 ‘Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air’ on which the IATA ‘Dangerous Goods Regulations’ (DGR) are based. The El Al procedures for the transport of dangerous goods were found to replicate these international requirements and stated that the transport of electrical wheelchairs equipped with removable lithium batteries was only authorised subject to the following conditions: the aircraft operator must be advised of its presence. the battery must be removed by the passenger before the wheelchair is placed in the hold. the battery must be protected from impacts. the battery must be carried in the cabin by the passenger. the aircraft Captain must be informed of the presence, number and location of the batteries. It was also noted that applicable DGR also placed specific responsibilities on ground handling agents who provide services on behalf of the operator which include the acceptance, handling, loading, unloading, transferring or other processing of cargo or mail and the processing of passengers by requiring that “their personnel must be trained in the requirements commensurate with their responsibilities”. It was found that although aircraft operators are responsible for the check in of their passengers, El Al subcontracted this function to ‘Alysia’ which, in the case of a PRM, required the recording of the presence of any mobility aid being carried on a flight electronically along with information about the type of any battery involved (its serial number, technology and whether it is fixed or removable). This information is transmitted to their ‘Traffic Coordinator’ who must remind the passenger in the departure lounge if they are required to remove a battery and take it into the aircraft cabin with them. The same ‘Traffic Coordinator’ must also advise the Ramp Handling Supervisor of the presence of and type of any mobility aid. The procedure which Alysia was using allowed a passenger wheelchair to be accepted at check-in or, if a passenger so requested, subsequently when they are about to board the aircraft. It was noted that in all cases, the procedure stipulated that the passenger must declare the presence of a battery when the wheel chair is handed over and then remove, isolate and carry any battery with them into the passenger cabin. It was also noted that the airport operator provides assistance to PRMs and that the provision of such assistance for this flight was subcontracted to a service provider called ‘Samsic’ whose personnel “do not take charge of the personal effects of these passengers”. It was found that on check in, the passenger involved had wanted to keep his wheelchair so