An investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was found that the flight crew was two type-qualified instructor Captains of whom only one had been to London City previously. It was decided that he would be aircraft commander but that the other pilot would act as PF and occupy the left hand seat so as to become familiar with the necessary steep approach procedure at London City. The event was described as follows: “The commander was visual with the ground and could see two bright lights ahead, which he believed were the touchdown zone lights for Runway 27 at LCY. The DME indicated that the aircraft was about 4 nm from the airport. At about this time another aircraft on the frequency was instructed to adjust its heading slightly to establish on the localizer and subsequently to descend with the glideslope. Shortly afterwards (the incident aircraft) was given a further slight heading change. The commander mistakenly believed that the aircraft was landing on Runway 27 and that it was nearing the final approach point, although he couldn’t discern the runway itself. He was concerned that it was becoming too high to conduct an approach and therefore instructed the co-pilot to commence a descent. The spoilers and full flap were both deployed. A steady descent rate of approximately 2,200 ft/min was established until, on passing 1,100 ft amsl (approximately 900 ft agl), ATC instructed the aircraft to climb. The descent rate was reduced quickly, the aircraft descending approximately 250 ft before achieving a climb. The aircraft was now approximately 4 nm south west of the runway on a downwind leg.” The aircraft was fitted with an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) and this was removed, downloaded and tested and found to have been fully operational during the event. No crew warnings were generated during the incident but testing and analysis has shown that this was in accordance with its design given that the nearest the aircraft actually got to terrain after ATC alerted the crew to their position was approximately 650 ft agl. Manufacturer simulations showed that, had the aircraft carried on descending at 2,200 fpm, “Sink Rate” followed by “Pull Up” aural warnings would have been activated on passing through a radio height of 422 ft. It was calculated that assuming a similar recovery profile to that flown, the crew would have had just 3.4 seconds after hearing the “PULL UP” to successfully initiate the recovery. The Investigation noted that even when ATC instructed a climb back to 2200ft, both flight crew had entirely lost positional awareness and remained initially confused: “When ATC instructed the aircraft to climb back to its cleared altitude, the spoilers and landing gear (remained) deployed as the crew queried the instruction and sought confirmation that a go-around should be initiated”. The Investigation noted that the operator had since made changes to the minimum requirements for crews operating into London City and had also changed related training procedures and published information to crews