An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data from the aircraft FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 6,631 flying hours which included 2,778 hours on type and the First Officer had a total of 1,683 flying hours which included 1,410 hours on type. It was concluded on preliminary review that the flight crew had delivered “a high level of professionalism” in their response to the situation they had faced, in particular demonstrating “high levels of communication and coordination” as well as promptly applying the appropriate checklists and procedures. The majority of the Investigation was therefore centred on seeking to establish the cause of the propeller separation. Recorded flight data showed that about 10 minutes prior to the separation, when about 55 nm southwest of the intended destination, the flight crew had observed abnormal fluctuations on the right hand engine torque gauge and had responded by beginning to correctly action the relevant checklists. Minor vibrations began to occur in the same engine and gradually worsened to the extent that they were visually evident to the First Officer. At this point, it was decided to shut the engine down and as this was being done the propeller separated from the aircraft. A PAN was declared to ATC, the engine shutdown was completed and the remainder of the flight was completed without further event. An inspection of the aircraft after flight showed that the loss of the propeller assembly had occurred because the Propeller Gear Box (PGB) propeller shaft had fractured. Four days later, the propeller assembly was found in a densely forested area about 10nm south west of Sydney airport with the flange section of the fractured shaft attached (see the illustration below). It was found that the PGB involved had been installed with a Dowty propeller to the right hand engine on another company aircraft after import to Australia from an overseas operator 18 months earlier. After 8 months, this engine has then been moved to the right hand position on the current aircraft and had remained there with the same propeller attached since. The relationship between the PGB as a whole and the part of it found attached to the recovered propeller is illustrated below: The propeller shaft flange was found to show extensive corrosion and fretting on its propeller side (forward) surface and a crack originating from one of the dowel hole surfaces had progressed through the flange thickness to its aft side and transitioned to the shaft at an angle which suggested that torsional loading had occurred. The shaft fracture had exposed evidence which was “typical of fatigue (cyclic) cracking”. Further detailed examination including cutting a cross section through the shaft was unable to establish a definitive cause of crack initiation, although “corrosion within the dowel pin hole” was believed to have been a strong contributor. Analysis by engine manufacturer General Electric concluded that the initiation of fatigue cracking in the flange