may have been due to a combination of factors including: the accumulation of significant operational hours for the PGB. the development of pitting corrosion damage within the dowel pin bore and at the front face of the propeller flange. progressive wear and subsequent surface damage of the hub flange at stress-critical regions surrounding the dowel pin. possible dowel pin load increase due to reduced clamping force.. The PGB shaft was subject to on-condition rather than life-limited maintenance requirements and although a similar failure in 1991 had prompted a one-off ultrasonic inspection requirement to that end, there was no ongoing requirement for operators to routinely inspect dowel pin bores or check for cracking in their vicinity when the flange was exposed. It was considered that the consequence of this was that “any cracking or corrosion within the dowel pin hole may go undetected during routine maintenance”. The visual inspection carried out during the propeller change prior to installation of the PGB on the current aircraft had not identified any abnormalities. However, the Investigation found that there were “a number of deficiencies” in the worksheet used to describe this inspection task which meant that “engineers may not have been given the best opportunity to detect a growing crack in the PGB shaft flange area”. Two Contributory Factors to the investigated event were identified as follows: The propeller shaft failed as a result of a fatigue crack that had initiated at the dowel pin hole and propagated through the shaft until it could no longer transmit the required loads.. The engine manufacturer did not have specific inspection procedures in the maintenance documents of the propeller shaft to detect a fatigue crack originating from the dowel pin hole. [Safety Issue]. An additional Safety Factor was also identified as: The form used by Regional Express during a propeller removal and installation, HM-26 Revision 5, included the task to inspect the propeller gearbox, but did not provide for recording of inspection findings as defined within documented procedures. Consequently, this did not provide for the best opportunity to ensure potential defects were identified, recorded and monitored.. Safety Action taken whilst the Investigation was under way included but was not limited to the following: On 22 June 2017, General Electric issued SB 72-0531 to operators of GE CT7-5A2/9B/-9B1-9B2 series engines applicable to all PGBs in service for over 30,000 which had not had their main propeller shafts replaced within 10,000 hours. Time to comply was based on the number of hours in service above 30,000.. In September 2017, General Electric made changes to PGB maintenance requirements which included the introduction of fluorescent-penetrant inspection of the dowel pin areas, a clarification of the inspection criteria for corrosion and the addition of photographs of the dowel pin area condition. These were subsequently incorporated in the Maintenance Manual and an FAA AD mandating initial and repetitive visual inspection and fluorescent-penetrant inspection of the main propeller shaft followed in March 2018.. In addition to proactively inspecting its Saab 340 fleet to a