for all types of emergency.. That ANSP Corpac give controller resource management (CRM) courses so that controllers have better situation awareness and decision-making abilities in emergency cases, training controllers in human factors and problem-solving.. That ANSP Corpac recommend team integration work, and advice and support for the recognition of emergency situations in radio communications, with the use of English and the correct application of phraseology as soon as the emergency is declared.. That ANSP Corpac implement the international airport's terminal and area radar system as a matter of urgency and priority for practical, safe and expeditious air traffic operations.. That ANSP Corpac implement an automatic terminal information service (ATIS) in accordance with the importance of the workstations.. That the DGTA create a communication system through the publication of technical bulletins, safety circulars, flyers and specific documents on operational matters, in conjunction with the airlines' representatives on topics related to safe operations and accident prevention programmes.. That the DGTA plan seminars, workshops and conferences relating to operational safety, human factors, accident prevention and specific matters such as operational integration through CRM or similar programmes.. That the DGTA be more demanding and drastic in the penalties against operators with a view to their complying with the established operations and airworthiness procedures.. That the FAA immediately release and communicate technical information issued by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB), such as FSIBs (Flight Standards Information Bulletins). Such information is not always accepted by the FAA but is very important for the operator as essential information obtained from accident investigations. It must be circulated given the importance of the safety elements it involves, which are useful to the operator and manufacturer, without prejudice to the FAA's opinion.. That the DGTA work with manufacturers on the improvement of procedures relating to the interfaces between crews and automated cockpits and the reliability limit to produce a guide on how to investigate the factors contributing to an error involving contradictory alarms.. That the DGTA determine the contributing factors regardless of their origin, whether they result from errors associated with the pilot, mechanic, dispatcher, air traffic controller or any other participant in the operational system.. That the DGTA, in order to obtain positive results, the must communicate the conclusions (of the Investigation) immediately to all staff who were a contributing factor, so that appropriate and effective measures can be taken in accordance with the recommendations.. That Boeing give more importance to flight training based on attitude and power in the various operational phases, which are not adequately covered in the training programmes or in the manufacturer's specific manuals.. That Boeing implement systems which avoid conflicting or contradictory alarms, such as overspeed and stick shaker being activated at the same time.. That Boeing introduce a "caution" alert when the speed and altitude are not reliable on the EICAS screen.. That Boeing design a procedure with all the steps and actions to be followed in the event of a total failure of the dynamic and static instruments (to be