liaison between ATC and the Coast Guard after the accident outcome, there had been a complete lack of coordination in the emergency procedures. It had taken six hours to identify a coast guard search aircraft by which time a Navy aircraft had already found the remains of the aircraft. A total of 34 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: That Operator Aero Peru familiarise crews with specific emergencies involving erroneous speed indications and design a procedure for flying with erroneous or no altitude indications.. That Operator Aero Peru conduct practical sessions in a specific simulator, and also refresher courses including simulated flight with the erroneous speed indication failures, using the specific tables for the procedure in the various flight phases, and follow United Airlines' advanced manoeuvre programme.. That Operator Aero Peru design eye-catching covers for protecting the static ports when maintenance and polishing work is done on an aircraft.. That Operator Aero Peru make the crew aware that it is mandatory to follow the evasive procedures in response to GPWS terrain alarms and conduct practical sessions in flight simulators.. That Operator Aero Peru must (ensure) better use and observation of, and reliance on, the radio altimeter.. That Operator Aero Peru establish special regulations and procedures for flights experiencing problems with the indications of instruments receiving information from the ADCs, and for the interpretation and appropriate use of alternative means.. That Operator Aero Peru comply strictly with the procedure designed by the Flight Safety Directorate for the documentation of an aircraft's release from when it leaves maintenance to its acceptance by the crew assigned to the flight, in order to inculcate safer and more efficient operational discipline.. That Aero Peru Maintenance Service implement a better quality control system.. That Aero Peru Maintenance Service carry out better documented pre-flight checks (at present the static ports are not specifically mentioned).. That Aero Peru Maintenance Service select higher quality technical staff, with continuing training and the creation of incentives for staff to perform more effectively in the interests of operational safety.. That Aero Peru Maintenance Service monitor the manufacturer's standards and recommendations, and comply strictly with the future recommendations issued as a consequence of this accident.. That Aero Peru Maintenance Service implement regulations for flights after maintenance in relation to polishing, painting or other similar work.. That ANSP Corpac raise the level of operational technical knowledge in practical terms for controllers, putting them in situations in which they play the role of the pilot, so that they can analyse the type of information which could cause confusion, since the pilot relies on the controller's correct information.. That ANSP Corpac assess controllers with a view to effective selection, rejecting staff with insufficient English and aeronautical culture.. That ANSP Corpac retrain the rejected staff for a second practical operational assessment.. That ANSP Corpac carry out coordination exercises (simulations) with SEI staff. Work with the SEI staff and evaluate the minimum reaction time needed to resolve the emergency. Make resolution and implementation plans