An Investigation was carried out by an Accident Investigation Board made up of personnel from the Peruvian General Directorate of Air Transport (DGTA). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was recovered to assist the Investigation. After establishing that the apparently malfunctioning altimeters and airspeed indicators (ASIs) had been serviceable, it was quickly concluded that the problem with these instruments had been the result of a failure at any time before the night departure to see that all the static ports were still taped-over after release for the flight from maintenance. The CVR confirmed that the First Officer had acted as PF for the departure. It was noted that the flight crew were experienced in proportion to age and that neither were new to the aircraft type. Post accident testing confirmed that the radio altimeters and relevant aircraft alerting systems including the Stall Protection and GPWS/TAWS had been in normal working order. It was established that immediately after take off from runway 15, the flight crew had identified a lack of credible altimeter indications. Three minutes after becoming airborne, an emergency was declared to TWR ATC and radar vectors were requested. ATC APP began providing vectors for an Instrument Landing System (ILS) to runway 15 and were immediately asked to also provide the speed of the aircraft and told that the crew were “having problems with the controls”. Two minutes later ATC were advised that the aircraft was at FL120 and flying out to sea on heading 205° and ATC suggested a heading of 350° would be appropriate in order to route towards the ILS LLZ. As vectoring continued, the crew repeated their need for assistance with altitudes and speeds due to “trouble reading their instruments” and advised ATC that “they had cut the engines and were still accelerating”. Soon afterwards, they advised that their speed remained high and asked to be “rescued”, requesting the support of another aircraft, which was arranged. When asked two minutes later about the malfunctions being experienced, the First Officer stated that none of the altimeters, airspeed indicators or vertical speed indicators were functioning properly and that, after an over speed warning, although thrust on both engines had been cut, the aircraft was still not slowing down. A GPWS alert was then advised and ATC advised that on radar, the aircraft was showing FL105 and making a turn to the west 40nm from the airport (i.e. over the sea). Shortly afterwards, the crew advised ATC that their indicated speed was 370 knots to which the controller responded that ground speed was 220 knots and that the aircraft was on radar at 50nm from the airport heading 270 at an indicated FL 100, which corresponded to the reading on the aircraft altimeter. ‘Too Low terrain’ GPWS Warnings began to be annunciated. Two minutes later, after a total time airborne of 29 minutes, FDR data showed that the aircraft had hit the sea surface at a speed of 250 knots in a near level