attitude and bounced into a climb of about 300 feet before a second terminal impact 18 seconds later. The TWR controller reported noting visually that after becoming airborne, the aircraft had levelled out over the long runway abruptly at a height of approximately 300 feet, before continuing the climb into the 800 feet base of a 2200 feet thick stratus layer present in the vicinity of the airport. The height of 300 feet was noted to correspond to the time when the crew had first advised of altimeter indication faults and when FDR data also showed that failure of both airspeed and altimeter indications had begun to trigger false system warnings. A review of the CVR data showed that overall both pilots had been similarly confused by the corrupt instrument readings but that the First Officer had voiced more doubts about the wisdom of descent against persistent GPWS warnings. In the presence of almost continuous audible alarms, including the (valid) stick shaker due to the low thrust set because of over speed warnings, the Investigation concluded that the aircraft commander “falters in his commands” and noted that the GPWS Warnings were interpreted by him as false because they contradicted the (erroneous) altimeter indication on the basis that the aircraft reading was several times corroborated by the radar controller. A significant problem during the whole flight was the persistence of rudder ratio and mach speed trim warnings, which were a distraction and adding to the problem of multiple other alarms and warnings which it was concluded created “chaos which they do not manage to control, neglecting the flight and not paying attention to those alarms which (were) genuine”. As to the origin and purpose of the tape over the static ports, it was noted that prior to the flight, the aircraft had been parked in the maintenance area where two fan blades of one of the engines had been replaced because of bird strike damage. The hydraulic pump of the right hand engine had also been changed. It was concluded that the maintenance staff did not remove the protective adhesive tape from the static ports after completing their work. This tape was then not detected during the various phases of the release of the aircraft to the line mechanic, in the course of its transfer to the passenger boarding apron or during the pre flight external inspection carried out by the accident aircraft commander. It was determined that the Principal Probable Cause was: Error of the maintenance staff and the flight crew in not detecting the obstruction of the static ports. Contributing Causes were determined to have been: Failure of the aircraft commander to ensure an appropriate response to GPWS Warnings or observe and react to the readings on the correctly functioning radio altimeters. Failure of the First Officer to be “more insistent, assertive and convincing in alerting the pilot-in-command much more emphatically to the ground proximity alarms”.. It was also noted in respect of rescue coordination that in respect of