It was found that Air Georgian held approval for ground running and taxi by engineers but that the process for approval of individuals did not specify the exercises required or performed. It was noted that there was a simulator program on taxiing designed for LAEs but completion of it was not required for an initial taxi authorisation to taxi aircraft although it was "expected to be completed within a year". It was found that the LAE involved had not received or been scheduled for this component of the training after having been authorised to taxi aircraft for almost 11 months; the only training he had received had consisted of "basic procedures to start and manoeuvre the aircraft". It was also found that he had "not received any initial or recurrent training from Air Georgian Limited in relation to company policy, procedures, technical, regulatory and human factors issues related to any work for which he was responsible". Although a 12 hour night shift was being worked at the time, "fatigue was not considered a factor" in respect of the performance of the LAE in the investigated event. The ground surveillance provided by ASDE was found to be integrated with a Multilateration (MLAT) system which enabled all movements to be identified using their transponder codes. It was noted that although there was an ANSP and a Regulatory requirement for transponder usage when taxiing at Calgary as well as a local ATS requirement to assign code 1000 in the absence of any unit-specific code allocation, the controller had not done this and given that the Jeppesen publication consulted had only included the direction on transponder operation in the 'airport information' section, the LAE was not aware of it based on his consultation of only the Jeppesen airport diagram during preparation for the task allocated. It was noted that although there was only limited provision of dedicated routes for vehicle operations at Calgary, vehicles approved to operate on the manoeuvring area were not required to obtain ATC clearance unless they wished to cross a runway or specified low RVR procedures were in force. It was considered that this had allowed the controller to discount the primary target seen prior to clearing the 737 for take off as a vehicle. It was also noted that the ASDE had a virtual stop bar feature which was not enabled because its use was not mandated in the prevailing visibility (greater than 5 nm). Had it been enabled, an alert at a position corresponding approximately to that of the runway entry stop bar would have been activated. It was noted that the low volume of night traffic meant that ATC was staffed by two controllers, one of whom had been taking a break at the time of the event. The controller involved was working an 8 hour night shift but, in context, "fatigue was not considered a factor" in respect of his performance. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors were as