follows: The company training received by the aircraft maintenance engineer (AME) was inadequate to prepare him for the complex nature of taxiing an aircraft around a large airport at night, and resulted in a runway incursion.. C-GWGA was not assigned a transponder code as prescribed in the Calgary Tower Unit Operations Manual. This resulted in the controller not having a clear picture of where the aircraft was taxiing and, therefore, being unable to intervene prior to the aircraft crossing the hold line.. Except for reduced/low visibility operations, the Calgary Airport Authority does not require positive control over vehicles operating on a taxiway. This resulted in the controller making an incorrect assumption that C-GWGA was a vehicle.. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Risk were as follows: If the virtual stop bar feature on the ASDE is not enabled, there is an increased risk that the controller will not be alerted to an unauthorised movement across the runway hold line.. If a company does not have a system to effectively control and record training requirements, there is a risk that employees may be assigned to perform tasks for which they are not trained.. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was recorded as including the following: Calgary Airport Authority ceased recognising the holding of an LAE licence as sufficient authorisation to tow or taxi an aircraft and determined that all such operations must be undertaken by holders of an 'Airside Vehicle Operator' Permit' issued by the Authority. It also issued a requirement that all vehicles operating on the manoeuvring area must be equipped with an "MLAT-compliant unique transponder".. Air Georgian has comprehensively revised its maintenance taxi procedures and comprehensively improved the corresponding training provision. Personnel have been restricted from taxiing aircraft until they have completed training.. The Final Report was authorised for release on 22 April 2015 and officially released on 28 April 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation.