An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. It was established that in the early hours of the day, arrangements were made with the airport operator to conduct an engine ground run on a Beech 1900D "at the holding bay of runway 29". An LAE and an apprentice completed preparations and started the engines before contacting TWR on the ground frequency and receiving taxi clearance to taxi from Apron 'V' to the Holding Bay of Runway 29 via Taxiway N and Runway 26 to hold short of Taxiway Y (see the diagram below which shows the cleared route in green). This clearance was read back correctly and no transponder code was issued by the controller. Contrary to its clearance and unnoticed by the controller, the aircraft then turned left out of Apron 'V' onto Taxiway M and then left again onto Taxiway 'Y' and onto Taxiway 'C' which leads to the Holding Point for Runway 35L. Whilst the aircraft was still taxing along Taxiway 'Y', the TWR controller, having "visually scanned Runway 17R...and then confirmed the scan by looking at the ASDE display", cleared a Boeing 737-700 to take off. The controller subsequently reported having "noticed a primary target on Taxiway Y near the intersection with Taxiway M, but concluded it was a vehicle heading for the access road that passes south of the threshold of Runway 35L". The B1900 continued on Taxiway C and crossed the hold line at the threshold of Runway 35L as the 737 passed approximately 500 feet overhead, continuing onto the runway before calling on ground frequency to advise its position. The controller visually confirmed the aircraft was on the runway and immediately gave instructions to the aircraft to clear the runway and to taxi to the approved engine run location via Taxiway 'C', to hold short of Runway 26. The ground run was eventually completed and the aircraft was taxied back to Apron V without further event. It was found that this had been the first time that the LAE involved had been cleared to the Runway 29 Holding Point for a ground run. However, it was also stated by the LAE "the Jeppesen airport diagram" had been consulted prior to requesting and receiving taxi clearance to the already-expected location. The controller stated that in their experience "maintenance personnel did not initiate taxiing as quickly as operational flight crews after receipt of instructions" and that they had therefore not expected the aircraft to begin taxiing so soon after being cleared to do so. It was noted that Air Georgian was an Approved Maintenance Organisation with an SMS in place. However, it was found that an internal QA audit which had been conducted four months earlier had "found 62 (Air Georgian) individuals who had no current SMS training". The Investigation inspected the relevant personnel training files and found that the Company had provided only one of the six LMEs at its Calgary facility with the SMS training required by their SMS Manual.