In addition to the myriad of factors considered during normal pre-flight planning, special consideration should be given to the following: Flight Rules - Visibility, in the area of and around an active wildfire, is likely to be significantly reduced due to smoke. Flight in accordance with Visual Flight Rules (VFR) may not be possible. Likewise, a VFR only destination may not be accessible due to smoke.. Airspace Restrictions -Temporary flight restrictions (TFR) or other methods of airspace control may be put in place to protect firefighting operations. Note that in some jurisdictions, standing regulations automatically restrict the area around an active fire. For example, Section 601.15 of the Canadian Aviation Regulations (CARs) provides that no unauthorized person shall operate an aircraft over a forest fire area, or over any area that is located within 5 NM of one, at an altitude of less than 3000 ft. AGL. A NOTAM does not need to be issued for this airspace restriction to be in effect.. Firefighting operations - The area around a forest fire is usually a hive of aviation activity. Spotter (bird dog) aircraft, air tankers and helicopters, all working to suppress the fire, can be anywhere in the area dropping fire retardant, moving personnel and equipment, transiting to and from the fire, or picking up water from lakes and rivers. Often they are hidden by smoke and are monitoring discrete, unpublished radio frequencies. Besides contributing to the risk of collision, the presence of unauthorized aircraft can seriously disrupt the work of the fire suppression crews.. Fire generated weather conditions - Expect moderate to severe turbulence over wildfires due to rising air caused by the heat from the fire. Convective clouds (Pyrocumulus) can be generated by this airmass instability and can reach significant heights. The rising air which generates the convective clouds can also create strong surface winds which are often gusty and subject to rapid changes in direction.. Fuel planning - Allow sufficient fuel for delays and/or diversions, both during transit and at destination, due to changing conditions or fire suppression activities. For destinations in or near the fire zone, if at all possible, land with sufficient fuel for the next leg as fuel may be unavailable or fueling resources prioritised to service suppression aircraft.. Alternate selection - Wherever possible, select an alternate aerodrome that is outside the fire zone. If that is not practical, ensure that more than one alternate is available.. Emergency evacuation - Rapidly changing conditions may necessitate the short notice evacuation of aircraft and personnel from airports threatened by wildfires. Transient aircraft should arrive with sufficient fuel to depart, plan for minimum ground time, and consider use of engine running off/on load protocols if so authorised. The potential for high ambient temperatures, due to the proximity of the fire, should be considered in all performance and payload calculations, as should the potential necessity to conduct operations from out-of-wind runways due to the position of the fire..