thrust reverser deployment occurred about 18 seconds after touchdown. The Investigation noted the critical role played by subjective pilot braking action reports on the decisions made by subsequent flight crews about the effect of slippery surfaces on their landing performance. It noted that braking action reports for Runway 31C had been mixed, reporting good or fair braking action for the first half of the runway and poor braking action for the second half. The only terms which ATC may use for braking action reports under FAA rules are “good,” “fair,” “poor,” or “nil” and they must also give the source aircraft type or vehicle. Findings of the Investigation included that: ATC failed to provide adequate braking action report information.. Because the flight crew did not use ‘braking action poor’ when they calculated their required landing distance which, combined with the associated tailwind limitation, would have required them to divert, they did not follow the requirements of their Operations Manual.. If the flight crew had appreciated that the stopping margins calculated by the EFB for the 737-700 already assumed credit for the use of thrust reversers, they might have decided to divert.. If Boeing-recommended aircraft performance data had been in use in the available EFB, the resulting negative stopping margins even for ‘fair’ braking action would have required the pilots to divert.. Effective presentation of assumptions which are implicit in landing distance calculations is critical to flight crew decisions on whether or not to proceed with a landing.. Southwest Airlines did not provide its flight crew with clear and consistent guidance and training regarding company policies and procedures in several areas, including interpretation of braking action reports and the assumptions affecting landing distance assessments.. The flight crew would have been able to stop the aircraft on the runway if they had used maximum reverse thrust promptly after touchdown and maintained it to a full stop. The delay in deploying the thrust reversers cannot be attributed to mechanical or physical difficulties.. Use of the autobrake system during a challenging landing situation led to the pilots’ distraction from the otherwise routine task of deploying the thrust reversers promptly after touchdown. Had Southwest Airlines implemented an autobrake familiarisation period in advance, such a period would have allowed pilots to become comfortable with the changed sequence of landing tasks.. The absence of an engineering materials arresting system (Engineered Materials Arresting System) installation in the limited overrun area for runway 31C contributed to the severity of the accident; even a nonstandard EMAS installation would have safely stopped the airplane before it left airport property..