An investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was noted that the aircraft commander was PF for the flight whilst en route, believing that the Company’s new autobrake procedures were applicable from the day of the accident, the flight crew reviewed and discussed them while en route to Chicago. It was noted that the accident landing was the first time either pilot had landed using autobrakes in either an aircraft or a simulator and that their aircraft type ratings covered all three 737 variants used by Southwest, the ’legacy’ -300 and -500 and the ‘NG’ -700. Whilst in the holding pattern to land at 10,000 feet altitude, First Officer entered the latest weather and runway conditions and wind information (090° at 11 knots) into the On- board Performance Computer (OPC, a form of Electronic Flight Bag in this case a Class 1 Type B EFB) to determine the landing distance required for the designated landing runway 31C. The computed tailwind component was of 8 knots, within the Company limit of 10 kts for all runway surface conditions but over the 5 knot limit for poor braking action. The Investigation was satisfied that accident flight crew were aware of these limitations and believed that they would be unable to land at Midway if braking action was reported poor for the full length of the runway. The First Officer entered multiple scenarios into the OPC, using fair and poor braking action separately because the OPC could not accept mixed braking action report inputs. This showed that the aircraft would stop about 170 metres / 560 feet before the departure end of the 1176 metre / 5826 feet long runway with fair braking action and about 12 metres / 40 feet before the departure end of the runway with poor braking action. The flight crew told the Investigation that they had decided that they would divert to one of their alternates if the tailwind component increased above 10 kts or if braking action reports indicated poor braking action for the full length of the runway. Shortly before ATC issued the landing clearance, they advised “brakin’ action reported good for the first half, poor for the second half.” FDR data confirmed that the aircraft touched down on the runway centerline at about 124 knots. The speed brakes deployed and brake pressure increased within about 1 second. Both pilots described the touchdown as “firm.” The Captain stated that he tried to deploy the thrust reversers immediately after touchdown but had difficulty doing so and applied the wheel brakes manually making no further effort to activate the thrust reversers. He told investigators that he believed that the use of the autobrake system distracted his attention from the thrust reversers after his initial attempt to deploy them. The First Officer said that when he saw that the thrust reversers were still stowed, he moved the Captain’s hand away from the levers and set them to maximum reverse. FDR data confirmed full