Despite their much smaller size, the vision and hearing of most birds is broadly similar to humans, with the exception that the high frequency cut off of their hearing is lower. Comparable discrimination and range of vision to humans is achieved by their eyes being around 15% of head weight compared to the 1% in humans, whilst having similar head/body weight ratios. A bird's sense of smell is less developed though, which can perhaps be associated with the unpalatable smells which are associated with some of their food sources. The effect of this is that birds are aware of aircraft. However, since aircraft are not predators, birds are not automatically cautious in their proximity unless previous experience (direct observation) of them as a hazard has produced such a reaction. In addition, birds which regularly encounter aircraft without such experience, become habituated to them and even less cautious than they might otherwise be. The most likely birds to feature in actual impacts include young birds where there are breeding colonies in the vicinity of an airport. The most important feature of the execution of last-minute avoidance manoeuvres by birds has been shown to be their unpredictability. Avoidance of aircraft in straight and level flight seems to present little difficulty but at the low altitudes at which birds are most likely to be encountered, aircraft are usually climbing or descending. This is where the unpredictability comes in. Observational evidence suggests that the tendency to attempt to dive or free fall beneath an aircraft rather than climb above it, which is more marked for some species than others, is not reliable enough to support a corresponding avoidance-climb response. Such a response might still lead to a strike, whilst the aircraft would be either at an increased rate of climb or in the transition from descent to climb, and aircraft performance margins would be reduced with a greater risk of significant consequences arising from strikes. Part of the underlying explanation for unpredictable aircraft avoidance is that birds do not always seem able to perceive aircraft as being in motion. Exceptionally, some hawks and eagles have been seen to ‘attack’ an aircraft which they encounter.