Essentially, day-to-day bird flight is about food. For most this means insects and other invertebrates either from the ground and foliage or in flight. Vegetation is the next most popular food source. Others species depend upon small mammals and amphibians or on fish, carrion or rubbish dumps. Birds fly mostly by day since relatively few species are adapted for night feeding. It is generally estimated that around 90% of recorded bird strikes occur during daylight, but since this is also when most aircraft fly, strike rates can sometimes actually be higher at night. Routine daytime activity, being feeding-related, is at its greatest until late morning. The hazard of flocking may occur in association with attractive localised feeding areas which, as in the case of agricultural activity, can sometimes be quite transient and effectively unpredictable. Once the usual morning food intake is over, birds of many species tend to indulge in ‘loafing’ or idling in or around large, open, flat and mainly undeveloped areas of which airports are a prime example. Airports often have the additional attraction of marginally uneven surfaces which can provide ephemeral shallow water expanses which make ideal drinking and bathing pools for birds. Near dawn and dusk, there may be specifically identifiable transit routes from and to communal roosts for some species. ‘Poor’ weather conditions tend to reduce bird feeding activity and the transit ‘traffic' associated with it. The majority of birds (although not all the species which represent the most significant aircraft strike hazard) are insect feeders. This means that the effect of heavy rain is particularly noticeable, since many insect species will ‘take cover’ in foliage or surface vegetation. However, and especially if this rain is in the form of limited duration showers, the aftermath of a shower often results in mass insect re-emergence and the opportunity for birds to indulge in a ‘feeding frenzy’! Specific bird congregations may also be associated with all-day feeding at rubbish dumps and when birds use local convection sites to soar with little energy expenditure either to ‘loaf’ or, in the case of hawks and vultures, to loiter for food. Since large airports can be significant ‘heat islands’ compared to the surrounding local environment, they are very conducive to a local convective effect even without the visual evidence provided by cumulus-type cloud formation being initially evident. Migration - mainly away from the Equator in spring and towards it in autumn - is another matter and much of this movement takes place at night as well as by day. As well as occurring as a group activity, it often involves generalised routes or flyways. The occurrence of migration, in terms of timing and detailed routing, are tied to weather conditions; this is because migratory movement during extremes of weather - abnormally cold temperatures, rain, severe wind turbulence, or thick fog - are not conducive either to bird energy budgets or bird navigation. The occurrence of significant tailwind components at migration altitudes can affect the numbers of birds en route very