Annexes 1, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, and 19 (Ch 3.1) to the Chicago Convention include the requirement for States to establish a State safety programme (SSP) aimed to achieve an acceptable level of safety in aviation operations. The objective of these paragraphs is to harmonise and extend provisions relating to safety management to all categories of aviation service providers - aircraft operators, air navigation service providers, certified aerodrome operators, maintenance organisations, organisations responsible for type design and/or assembly of aircraft and training organisations. The framework for the implementation and maintenance of a State’s safety programme is contained in Chapter 11 of the ICAO SMM. It consists of four components and ten elements, outlined hereunder: a. CAA Safety Standards The State has promulgated a national legislative framework and specific regulations to ensure compliance with international and national standards, and that define how the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) will oversee the management of safety in the State. This includes the CAA’s participation in specific activities related to the management of safety in the State, and the establishment of the roles, responsibilities, and relationships of organisations in the system. The safety standards are periodically reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and appropriate to the State. b. CAA Safety Responsibilities and Accountabilities The State has identified and defined the CAA’s requirements, responsibilities and accountabilities regarding the establishment and maintenance of the State’s safety programme. This includes the directives to plan, organise, develop, control and continuously improve the State’s safety programme in a manner that meets the State’s safety needs. It also includes a clear statement about the provision of the necessary human and financial resources for the implementation of the State’s safety programme. c. Accident and Incident Investigation The State has established an independent accident and incident investigation process, the sole objective of which is to support the management of safety in the State and not the apportioning of blame on liability. d. Enforcement Policy The State has promulgated an enforcement policy that allows operators/service providers to deal with, and resolve, events involving safety deviations and minor violations internally, within the context of the operator/service provider safety management system (SMS), to the satisfaction of the authority. The enforcement policy includes provisions for the CAA to deal with events involving gross negligence and wilful deviations through established enforcement procedures. a. Safety Requirements for Service Providers SMS The CAA has established the controls which govern how operators/service providers will identify operational hazards and manage safety risks. This includes the requirements, specific operating regulations and implementation policies for operator's/service providers’ SMS. The requirements and specific operating regulations are periodically reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and appropriate to the operators/service providers. b. Approval of Service Providers Acceptable Levels of Safety The CAA has agreed on, and approved, acceptable levels of safety with individual operators/service providers. These acceptable levels of safety are commensurate to the complexity of individual operator's and service provider’s specific operational contexts and the availability of individual resources to address safety risks. The agreed