acceptable levels of safety are expressed by multiple safety performance indicators and safety performance targets, never by a single one, as well as by safety requirements. The agreed acceptable levels of safety are periodically reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and appropriate to the operators/service providers. a. Safety Oversight The CAA has established mechanisms to ensure that the identification of operational hazards and the management of safety risks by operators/service providers follow established regulatory controls (requirements, specific operating regulations and implementation policies). These mechanisms include inspections, audits and surveys to ensure that regulatory safety risk controls are appropriately integrated into the service providers’ SMS, that they are being practiced as designed, and that the regulatory controls have the intended effect on safety risks. b. Safety Data Collection, Analysis and Exchange The CAA has established mechanisms to ensure the capture and storage of data on operational hazards and safety risks at an aggregate State’s level. The CAA has also established mechanisms to develop information from the stored data, and to actively exchange safety information with service providers and/or other States as appropriate. c. Safety Data Driven Targeting of Oversight on Areas of Greater Concern or Need The CAA has established procedures to prioritize inspections, audits and surveys towards those areas of greater safety concern or need, as identified by the analysis of data on operational hazards and safety risks areas. a. Internal Training, Communication and Dissemination of Safety Information The CAA provides training, awareness, and two-way communication of safety relevant information to support, within the CAA, the development of a positive organizational culture that fosters the development of an effective and efficient State’s safety programme. b. External Training, Communication and Dissemination of Safety Information The CAA provides education, awareness of safety risks and two-way communication of safety relevant information to support among services providers the development of a positive organizational culture that fosters safe practices, encourages safety communications and actively manages safety with the same attention to results as financial management. Although the implementation and continued operation of safety management systems by operators/service providers is at the core of a State’s safety programme, the scope of the safety programme is much broader. It also includes safety activities assigned to State authorities, as well as management and development of interfaces between a wide spectrum of organisations and institutions sharing the responsibility for the safety of air operations. These organisations can be grouped in several broad categories: International organisations (International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), European Commission, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), EUROCONTROL, etc.);. Contracting States to Chicago Convention, respectively national authorities responsible for civil aviation (CAAs);. Regulated entities - aviation service providers, equipment manufacturers, training organisations, etc.;. Industry and professional associations and unions.. Achieving acceptable levels of safety globally, regionally and locally requires that the interfaces between the entities in the above categories are also managed consistently. ICAO recognises that there are circumstances where States should develop a State operated SMS. According to ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual “…a State does