and this identified related contributory factors in both categories. In respect of the way the Company was being run generally, it was concluded that there was considerable evidence of a complete lack of a meaningful safety culture at Solitaire Air and there had been a systemic failure of its management to correct known problems. The formally-stated Cause of the excursion was “flight crew failure to discontinue the unstabilised approach and their persistence in continuing with the landing despite a number of EGPWS alerts”. Fifteen Contributory Factors were documented identified as follows: The 47 minute delay prior to departure from Amman influenced the crew decision to land on runway 19 at Aqaba to save time.. The straight in unstabilised approach was the main result of the aircraft high energy for consecutive phases between 1000 feet aal and the touchdown point.. The higher than permitted tailwind component which was recorded as an average of 16 knots during the final approach and landing phases.. An incorrect landing configuration contributed to the high speed of the aircraft and explained both the First Officers inability to control the prolonged float of the aircraft and the Captain’s inability to complete the roll out on the runway after taking control.. The Captain, as pilot monitoring during the approach, was aware of the tailwind, however he accepted the prevailing conditions without discussing the operational limitations of the aircraft with the pilot flying.. The failure of the crew to discontinue the unstabilised approach and make a go around helped to develop the situation.. Poor situational awareness of the crew and their lack of coordination.. The deliberate disregard of EGPWS alerts without correcting the aircraft attitude.. A lack of CRM for task sharing and decision making – CRM was not evident during the approach phase of flight.. The failure of the airline to provide its pilots with clear and consistent guidance and training regarding company policies and procedures related to stabilisation criteria and the necessary actions to be followed including the conduct of go around.. An inability to recognise the two critical elements, namely fixation and complacency that affected the decision to land the aircraft when the approach had not met the stabilisation criteria.. The negative organisational factors were evidenced in terms of operational pressure that was exerted by the management of Solitaire Air.. Inadequate risk management by the operator in that repeated reports of duty time exceedances were not known to or observed by its operational safety management personnel.. Non-compliance with State Regulations on the proper training of crews was found in respect of incorrect completion of the Captain’s CRM conversion training.. The non availability of properly customised flight safety documentation (FCOM, FCTM and QRH) which includes the manufacturer-recommended standard operating procedures.. Twelve Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Solitaire Air reviews its crew resource management and threat and error management training, provides refreshers for all flight crew and incorporates threat and error management in both ground school and simulator training.. that Solitaire Air emphasises the need for