agl, more EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ Alerts occurred with the latter being repeated at 90 feet agl as Flap 30 was selected with the speed still at 200 KCAS and repeated again at about 60 feet agl because the flaps were still in transit to 30. On reaching 25 feet agl, the rate of descent reduced to zero and remained there with pitch attitude also zero as the aircraft floated above the runway and the excess speed bled off. Flap 30 was reached 4 seconds later. With the aircraft still floating in an almost level attitude and the First Officer unable to put it on the runway, the Captain was recorded as calling “my control” which was immediately acknowledged and touchdown eventually occurred at 159 KCAS with just over 800 metres of the 3,000 metre-long runway remaining. Flap 40 was selected 3 seconds after touchdown along with reverse thrust, ground spoilers and maximum braking which all began to slow the aircraft down. However, it still left the end of the paved surface 14 seconds after touchdown at 50 KCAS and, after deviating slightly to the right to try and avoid further impact with the runway 01 approach lighting, finally came to a stop after further 14 seconds some 270 metres beyond the end of the runway and 60 metres to the right of its extended centreline. The thrust reversers were not stowed until the recorded speed reached 25 knots over the sandy surface. Passengers and crew were subsequently disembarked using steps and taken to the terminal. The available CVR data indicated that the crew did not conduct the descent, approach or landing checks and showed that after each of the first three EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alerts had occurred, the Captain had followed it with the successive responses “no problem”, “leave it, leave you fly” and “continue”. Although no Vref appeared to have been calculated, the aircraft ELW of 49 tonnes (the MLW was 51.7 tonnes) would imply a Vref of 135 KIAS which would have meant the eventual touchdown was made at Vref + 25. The Investigation found that the Captain had not received all the training specified in the company Air Operations Manual after missing a ground school CRM course because he was required to fly. It was found that his attendance had nevertheless been falsely signed off by the former Accountable Manager as CRM Instructor. After the event under investigation, CARC Inspectors were reported to have found that implementation of the mandated Company SMS was minimal and “behind the required position on the implementation phased approach plan”. It was particularly noted that whilst the Company’s aircraft were fitted with QARs, “these recorders were not utilised as a source of reliable information that enabled the Solitaire Air SMS to identify operational risks such as unstabilised approaches”. Since the Investigation was easily able to determine that the identified “Active Failures” had occurred within a context of “Latent Failures”, a detailed analysis was undertaken using the HFACS system