go around manoeuvres whenever required and especially when an approach becomes unstabilised during both instrument and visual meteorological conditions and encourages company pilots to report unstabilised approaches whenever they occur.. that Solitaire Air provides its First Officers with the necessary training related to assertiveness.. that Solitaire Air reviews its reporting policy and monitors the effective implementation of it in terms of maintaining the confidentiality of reporters and developing the required management follow up and control measures. The Operator should have a sound and effective non-punitive safety reporting system that shall be implemented throughout the organisation in all areas where operations are conducted.. that Solitaire Air reviews the company safety management system and provides staff with the required and effective SMS training by emphasising the methods required to create a safety culture within the organisation.. that Solitaire Air reviews crew duty time rules in a way that results in a more realistic duty time calculation which includes factors that may affect the compliance with CARC regulations.. that Solitaire Air develops a more effective flight data monitoring programme that enables the management to address the hazards encountered during ongoing operations and helps to provide corrective actions proactively through trend analysis of captured operational deviations. This can be made by more frequent data download and analysis.. that Solitaire Air conduct more frequent co-ordination meetings between its various operational departments to discuss the challenges encountered and provide ongoing follow ups for the corrective actions required.. that Solitaire Air provide correctly validated operations and flight safety documents (FCOM, QRH, FCTM, etc.) so that their operating crew are provided with the correct and customised SOPs.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Commission (CARC) Flight Standards Directorate increases surveillance of AOC holders with emphasis on the actions of flight crew and their adherence to SOPs by conducting more frequent flight deck observations.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Commission (CARC) Flight Standards Directorate reviews regulated operators’ flight safety documentation to ensure that it is customised for the types and registrations of aircraft operated by each operator.. that the Civil Aviation Regulatory Commission (CARC) Inspectorate evaluate the Accountable Manager and Post Holders in terms of their responsibilities and authorities to ensure that they are able to demonstrate a commitment to the management of safety and a sound knowledge of safety management system principles and practices within the organisation for which they are responsible including, in particular, knowledge of their own role.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 3 December 2018 and subsequently released.