whilst on the ground at Kittilä, he had spoken to the airline's Maintenance Control Center (MCC) on the telephone and after explaining what had happened and that the suspected cause was a temperature inversion, the MCC decided that the aircraft could continue flying. Two days later, the aircraft commander had spoken to the on-call Company Chief Pilot, who happened to be the Company DFO and briefed him on the occurrence. This management pilot "did not perceive the incident to be serious" and did not take any action in respect of either the aircraft or the pilots. After Boeing had examined the downloaded flight data, they concluded that an elevator restriction caused by a blockage in at least one of the elevator PCUs, each of which is operated through two input cranks, appeared to have occurred. Further analysis by both Boeing and the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) confirmed that a such a blockage had built up gradually at cruise altitude prior to the incident approach and that in order to have led to the extent of restriction evident, the most likely explanation was a blockage of either three of the four input cranks or all four of them. The Investigation carried out tests to establish the extent to which it was possible for ground de-icing fluids to enter the 737-800 Tail Cone in the direction of the elevator PCU input cranks and it was confirmed that quite considerable amounts of fluid could do so and the cranks could easily be exposed to fluid which could then freeze and prevent their normal movement. Similar tests on a Boeing 737-300 gave similar results and it was concluded that the identified issue was relevant to all 737 variants, not just the 737NG ones. The Investigation found that until advised by the Board as a consequence of their Investigation, Boeing had been unaware of this risk. It was also found that both Norwegian and SAS had been regularly experiencing winter season events where greater force than usual had been required to move the control column. A 2009 event to a Turkish operator's 737 Classic, which has only one input crank per elevator PCU, was also noted - although this had been found to be caused by a foreign object disabling one of the PCUs. Safety Action taken by Boeing in 2013 in response to the findings of PCU blockage in the investigated incident were as follows: Revisions to the Boeing 737 FCOM requiring that ground de/anti-icing should be carried out with the stabiliser trim set within the take off range rather than, as previously advised, in the fully-forward position.. Revisions to the Boeing 737 Aircraft Maintenance Manual to require that the application of ground de/anti-icing fluids should be carried out at an angle from the front and not from the side and with the stabiliser trim set within the take off range.. A Preliminary Report detailing the initial findings of the Investigation was issued on 19 November 2013. This noted that at that