direction leading to a rapid increase in pitch and a consequent drop in airspeed. The latter caused the A/T to command full thrust which caused a further pitch increase. Initially, there was no crew intervention, but as the pitch reached +12° (it had been +1.5° before the uncommanded pitch change), both pilots began to push their control columns forward. After 20 seconds, two seconds after the pilots had managed to exert sufficient force to get the control columns to the forward mechanical stop which FDR data showed had involved exerting almost 80 kg, the pitch reached a maximum of +38.5° and the airspeed dropped to 118 KCAS. A climb of almost 2000 feet occurred during a 24 second period - at mean rate of climb of over 4800 fpm. The pilots were eventually able to begin slowly lowering the nose using this elevator input. Calculations made by Boeing indicated that the elevator had been extremely slow to respond, doing so at a rate of only 0.2°/second, compared with the normal rate of 50°/ second. It was found that during the pitch up phase, no attempt had been made to disengage the AP, the A/T or manually run the electric stabiliser trim in the nose-down direction and neither was the maximum engine thrust which had been set by the A/T reduced. It was noted that had one or more of these actions been taken , it "would have resulted in the aircraft levelling off at an earlier stage". According to the aircraft commander's subsequent statement, he believed that the AP had disconnected soon after the aircraft nose began to rise. Only after the pitch had begin to reduce did the pilots apply manual stabiliser trim input, which resulted in the AP automatically disconnecting. Pilot training guidance from the operator in the event of an upset with the automatics engaged such as occurred in this case was noted to be "to return to manual flying by disengaging the AP and A/T". As the pitch reduced through +10°, "the pilots quickly pulled the control column back with a force of approximately 44 kg and this overcorrection resulted in the pitch increasing again to +16°. The angle of attack at this time was "about 25°" and the Stall Warning and Stick Shaker activated for four seconds. Subsequent calculation showed that the prevailing stall speed as configured and at a 1g wing load, was 121 KIAS, but since the wing load at the time of the lowest airspeed was only 0.3g, no actual stall had occurred. Once the pilots had regained control, they put the aircraft into a holding pattern and, suspecting that the upset had been caused by a "severe temperature inversion" advised this as the reason for their "missed approach". After verifying normal flight control function, a second approach was commenced and an uneventful landing followed. After engine shutdown, the aircraft commander did not make an entry in respect of the occurrence and the aircraft continued in service. He advised the Investigation that