time, Boeing did not intend to rely on these procedural changes to provide full mitigation of the risk of ground de/anti icing fluids affecting the function of the elevation control system and that their "long term mitigation strategy was to make some sort of change of the design of the system which will prevent fluid impingement onto the control system components". However, Boeing subsequently stated that they had concluded that the changes being considered "would introduce an unacceptable risk of Foreign Object Debris (FOD) that could impair safety negatively" and would not be pursued. In respect of the flawed crew response to the upset recovery, the Investigation came to the conclusion that although Norwegian "has a training concept which seems to be well founded and the company should be commended for exceeding the regulatory authorities' minimum requirements in respect of theoretical instruction, simulator training, and line training" It was, however, also noted that "in spite of this, the flight crew did not seem to have sufficient system understanding and automatic reflex to handle the incident in an optimum manner". In this connection, the Investigation noted that Norwegian stated that they had found the 1997 video 'Children of the Magenta Line' (which can be seen on SKYbrary from the Cockpit Automation - Advantages and Safety Challenges article in which a representative from American Airlines describes basic principles for handling automated aircraft "to be very useful in illustrating the importance of teaching pilots to switch to manual control of the aircraft if they need to handle an Upset Recovery situation". The Investigation also considered that the aircraft should have been grounded after the occurrence and it was noted that a conversation with the on call Chief Pilot should have occurred before further operation of the aircraft and that even when such a conversation occurred two days later, there was no recognition of the potential significance of what had happened. The absence of recordings of calls to both Maintenance Control and Operations Control at the time of the event, in particular the former, was also noted. As this has since been rectified, it was decided that there was no need for a draft Safety Recommendation on this subject to be included in the Final Report. In Conclusion, the Investigation formally identified seven "Material investigation results of significance for aviation safety" as follows: During its approach to Kittilä, the aircraft was close to stalling. The outcome of a stall could have been catastrophic.. The analysis of data from the flight data recorder shows that three or four of the Input cranks on the aircraft's elevator Power Control Units were blocked, most likely due to ice. Calculations made by Boeing indicate that the elevator was extremely slow in responding. With only 0.2°/second, compared with the normal 50°/second. This indicates 1:250 compared with the normal response. At the end of the scenario, the blockage ceased.. Fluid and humidity will penetrate the Tail Cone Compartment in connection with de-icing of Boeing 737. Increased humidity and spray settling