An Investigation was carried out by the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), which were both located in the tail section of the aircraft and not damaged by the impact or the post-crash fire, was successfully downloaded by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that although the 64 year old aircraft commander had "extensive prior experience of flying in Papua New Guinea", he had gained only 500 of his 18000 hours on the accident aircraft type having qualified on it 8 months previously. The 40 year old First Officer had 391 hours experience on the DHC8. The DHC8-100 aircraft type had been operated by Airlines PNG since 2003. Pilot training at Airlines PNG was found not to require that the proficiency in the propeller overspeed emergency procedure be demonstrated. It was established that after a 10 minute cruise at 16000 feet during which convective activity had been avoided laterally whilst crossing high terrain, a descent had begun in order to be able to position visually towards Madang and avoid thunderstorm activity which was reported to be in its vicinity. Just under three minutes after the descent from 16,000 feet had begun and with the aircraft passing 10,500 feet at approximately 4,200 fpm in VMC, the aircraft reached VMO and an overspeed warning began to sound. Neither pilot had noticed the increasing airspeed. The PF raised the nose of the aircraft in response to the warning and this reduced the rate of descent to about 2000 fpm but the overspeed warning continued, so he retarded the power levers back "quickly" and shortly after this both propellers oversped simultaneously, exceeding their maximum permitted speed of 1,200 RPM by over 60 % and seriously damaging the left hand engine and rendering both engines unusable. Villagers on the ground reported hearing a loud „bang‟ as the aircraft passed overhead. The noise in the fight deck became "deafening", rendering communication between the pilots extremely difficult, and internal damage to the engines caused smoke to enter the flight deck and passenger cabin through the air-conditioning system. The sudden emergency situation "caught both pilots by surprise". "Confusion and shock on the flight deck (was) compounded by the extremely loud noise from the overspeeding propellers" and it was clear that the aircraft commander was, at least initially, unaware what had happened. However, the consequences were soon recognised and both pilots agreed that there was 'nothing' left in terms of useable engine power. At this point, about 40 seconds after the propeller overspeeds began, the left propeller was windmilling and the left engine was no longer producing any power because of the damage caused to it by the overspeed. The right engine was operating at flight idle, although it was not possible to unfeather it and so it could not produce any thrust. FDR data indicated that when the propeller overspeeds had begun, both engine torque indications had dropped