to zero and had remained there for the rest of the flight. It was also found that both propellers had increased in a few seconds to over 60 % above the maximum permitted propeller rpm. The aircraft commander instructed the First Officer to transmit a MAYDAY call to Madang TWR and this was done. It was found that emergency checklists and procedures had not been followed and the crew had directed their attention instead to where they were going to make a forced landing. The descent continued at a high rate with the windmilling left propeller creating extra drag and the asymmetry between it and the feathered right propeller making the aircraft difficult to control. It was calculated from the recorded data that the rate of descent between the onset of the emergency and arrival at the crash site had averaged 2,500 fpm and had at one point briefly exceeded 6000 fpm accompanied by a recurrence of the earlier overspeed warning which had led indirectly to the emergency. It was calculated that optimum handling at this time could have extended the airborne time following the initial propeller overspeed from approximately 4 minutes to approximately 10 minutes. As the chosen landing area was approached, the First Officer asked the commander if he should shut both engines down and the latter replied that he should shut "everything" down. Approximately 800 feet above ground level and 72 seconds before impact, the left propeller was feathered and both engines were shut down. The commander stated afterwards that, having initially decided to make the landing on the river bed, he changed his mind when he realised that it contained large boulders. The alternative area then used beside the river bed also contained boulders but they were beneath the vegetation and thus not readily visible from the air. The aircraft impacted terrain tail first at a relatively shallow angle of approximately 5 degrees at 114 knots with the flaps and the landing gear both retracted. The distance travelled from the first ground impact to the main wreckage site was about 200 metres. During the impact sequence, the left wing and tail became detached and the front of the aircraft fractured behind the flight deck and rotated through 180 degrees, so that it was inverted when it came to rest. The available evidence indicated that a post-impact fuel-fed fire had began during the impact sequence when the aircraft was about halfway along the wreckage trail. After it finally came to a stop, the fire appeared to have completely consumed much of the wreckage with the exception of the tail section. On the basis of the fuel uplifted at Nadzab, it was estimated that there would have been approximately 1820 litres of fuel on board the aircraft. The flight deck section of the fuselage had ended up furthest away from the fuel tanks - the source of the post impact fire and had partially separated from the fuselage and had rotated so that it was upside down, blocking