the ceiling-mounted cockpit emergency exit. According to the pilots, there was a gap in the side of the fuselage large enough for them and the Flight Attendant to crawl through. When they emerged from the aircraft, they reported noticing that one of the passengers - the only one to survive - was already outside the wreckage. He stated the smoke and fire were very intense and that he had escaped through a gap in the roof above his seat position. It was clear that the other passengers had had very little time to evacuate before the cabin was completely engulfed by the fire. However, the bodies of two other passengers were found located outside the fuselage on the right hand side adjacent to the row 4 emergency exit Various aspects of the emergency were reviewed: In the absence of any identifiable mechanical component failures, movement of the power levers behind the flight idle gate by the Captain is considered to be the only plausible explanation for the simultaneous double propeller overspeed. It was noted that the AFM included an explicit prohibition on the in-flight operation of the power levers aft of the Flight Idle Gate stating that such operation "will cause propeller overspeed, possible engine failure and may result in loss of control".. Although it is not possible to exclude alternative explanations completely, the evidence suggests the Pilot-in-Command reacted spontaneously to the VMO overspeed warning and that the action of moving the power levers below the Flight Idle gate - facilitated by removing the Flight Idle gate release triggers as done on every flight once on the ground - was probably unintentional.. The uncomanded feathering of the right engine propeller occurred because of a malfunction in the PCU beta switch system. Had it been possible to unfeather it, it is likely that useful power may have been available. However, expert knowledge of the propeller control system - beyond that which any pilot could be expected to possess – would have been needed to achieve such an unfeathering.. The malfunction of the PCU beta right engine switch was a fault which could not have remained undetected in normal operation because the propeller would feather immediately the power levers were moved from the ground range to flight range prior to take off. It was concluded that the switch "probably stuck in the closed position as a consequence of the propeller overspeeds, perhaps because of propeller vibration". It was noted that this fault had been linked to incorrect application of installation procedures during routine overhaul and that the PCU involved would have eventually been recalled for checks. However, the extensive thermal damage to the unit precluded any examination or testing to determine the cause of the switch malfunction and it was therefore impossible to exclude this origin as a potential cause for the sticking switch.. During the propeller overspeed, the beta warning horn, designed to ensure pilots are immediately aware if one or both power levers are inadvertently retarded into the prohibited ground