it remained in service. Although FDR data indicated that the PCU fitted to the right hand engine had caused an uncommanded feather, destruction of the PCU in the post crash fire meant that it was not possible to definitely attribute this to the effects of the quality lapse.. The landing gear and flaps remained retracted during the crash landing which led to a higher landing speed than could have been achieved if the gear and flaps had been extended as well as to increased impact forces on the airframe and its occupants.. None of the prescribed Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedures or their checklists were used by the flight crew after the emergency began and the left engine propeller was not feathered after the engine had failed.. Subsequent to the accident, it was noted that Bombardier had identified a problem in the beta warning horn system which may have led to faults in it not being identified during routine testing of the system. Three Safety issues were identified by the Investigation as follows: A significant number of DHC-8-100, -200, and -300 series aircraft did not have a means of preventing movement - whether intentional or unintentional -of the power levers below the flight idle gate in flight, nor a means to prevent such movement resulting in a loss of propeller speed control.. The aircraft manufacturer identified a problem in the beta warning horn system that left the system susceptible to failures that may not have been identified during regular and periodic tests of the system.. After the accident, the facility that overhauled the Propeller Control Unit (PCU) installed on (the right hand engine) at the time of the accident identified a quality (lapse) relating to the use of incorrect reassembly procedures for the installation of the beta switch within the propeller control unit. (This) quality (lapse) may have led to uncommanded (feathering) of the right propeller.. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident findings, and in particular the Safety Issues identified was noted to have been taken by Bombardier, Transport Canada, the PNG CAA, the operator Airlines PNG and Pacific Propeller International, the propeller overhaul facility referred to in one of those Safety Issues. The Final Report was made publicly available on 15 June 2014. In the light of Safety Action taken during course of the Investigation, no Safety Recommendations were made.