range in flight, did not initially sound, and when it did begin do so, did this only intermittently. If the beta warning horn had functioned normally, the pilots may have recognised what was happening straight away and been able to take action quickly enough to prevent the propeller overspeeds from damaging the engines. However since the commander said afterwards that he "was not sure he had ever heard the beta warning horn before the day of the accident", he may not have realised what it signified even if it had sounded as soon as he lifted one or both of the power lever triggers.. Some time after the accident, Bombardier identified a problem with the beta warning horn and issued an SB requesting customer feedback. Five of the 91 aircraft covered by these responses were found to have faulty beta warning horn systems and the problem was attributed to "worn micro-switch retaining brackets". Because of the damage caused by the crash landing and post-impact fire, it was not possible to determine why the beta warning horn had malfunctioned on the accident flight.. One reason the crew gave for not actioning any formal emergency response procedures was that there was insufficient time to do this. However, given the time actually available, it was considered that "their perception of time during the emergency may have been affected by stress".. The Investigation Findings included the following: The aircraft commander moved both power levers rearwards below the flight idle gate and into the beta (ground only) range shortly after Vmo was exceeded and the overspeed warning had occurred. This action was only possible after the release latches at the minimum power setting permitted in the air had first been lifted. It led directly to a loss of propeller speed control, to the double propeller overspeed and a loss of forward thrust to the extent that a crash landing became inevitable.. Prior to the overspeed warning, the aircraft commander had allowed the rate of descent to increase to 4200 fpm.. The beta warning horn malfunctioned and did not sound immediately when one or both of the flight idle gate release triggers were lifted. When the beta warning horn did sound, it did so intermittently and only after the double propeller overspeed had begun. However, the sound of the beta warning horn was likely to have been masked by the noise accompanying the propeller overspeeds.. There was an uncommanded feathering of the right hand propeller after the overspeed commenced due to a malfunction within the propeller control beta backup system during the initial stages of the overspeed of that propeller. The MRO where the right hand Propeller Control Unit (PCU) had last been overhauled was found to have incorrectly applied beta switch reassembly procedures specified in an SB relating to the PCU. This quality lapse affected a considerable number of PCUs which had all been identified as subject to recall; the one fitted to the accident aircraft was due for recall which would have occurred had