any impediment to its use as a diversion airport and that “the diversion to Melbourne resulted in an increase in the time that the flight was exposed to the higher risk environment of single engine operations”. Four Contributory Factors which led to the event were identified as follows: In response to an engine oil low pressure (ENG OIL LO PR) ECAM, resulting from a fractured shaft within the oil pressure pump, the flight crew continued to monitor the engine parameters instead of shutting the engine down. Due to a mistaken understanding that the alert was a false indication, the flight crew subsequently increased thrust.. The Airbus A330 engine oil low pressure (ENG OIL LO PR) abnormal procedure included the conditional instruction 'if the condition persists'. This may be interpreted as either requiring the flight crew to wait a certain period of time to determine the continuation of the condition, as apparently interpreted by the flight crew, or, as intended by Airbus, that the condition has not changed as a result of the previous procedural step.. Contrary to operating procedures, the flight crew made two attempts to relight the failed engine.. The crew diverted to Melbourne instead of the nearest suitable aerodrome. This increased the time that the flight was exposed to the higher risk environment of single engine operations.. Safety Action taken by AirAsia X as a result of the event and known to the Investigation prior to its completion was noted as having included the following: The content of the Operations Manual in respect of restarts following an engine failure, which stated that a failed engine should not be restarted when the cause of that failure is unknown or there is insufficient information to determine the cause, was emphasised to flight crew through the issue of ‘Flight Safety Notice’ which also reiterated the requirement to land at the nearest suitable airport when a ‘LAND ASAP’ notification is displayed.. A flight crew training package was developed to identify lessons learnt from the event in respect of engine failure, engine restarts and diversion decision making to be included in annual recurrent training.. The Final Report was released on 19 December 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.