no sign of a recovery and “the engine continued to run down and failed” triggering a level 2 ‘ENG 2 FAIL’ message and its associated abnormal procedure appeared on the engine/warning display. The crew commenced the displayed procedure which was noted to have included taking “a decision about whether the engine was damaged”. The flight crew stated that they had “determined that the engine was not damaged” and following the required procedure, the engine master switch was selected to off which led to engine shut down some five minutes after the sudden loss of oil pressure had occurred. Five minutes later, the flight crew confirmed to ATC that they intended to divert to Melbourne and the flight was re-cleared to track direct to waypoint ‘ARBEY’ and from there direct to Melbourne descending initially to FL 250. They then used SATCOM to call company Maintenance Control and once in contact reported the engine shutdown due to low oil pressure and the engine stalls. They also “requested advice regarding the preferred diversion destination as either Adelaide or Melbourne” and were told that although there was a preference for Melbourne due to technical support concerns with Adelaide, the decision was for the Captain to make. ATC then requested more information about the problem and were informed accordingly. Two starter-assisted attempts to relight the failed engine were subsequently made, both on the premise that in the crew’s opinion the failed engine was not damaged. The first of these occurred 13 minutes after the engine had been shut down and was unsuccessful, resulting in an ECAM ‘ENG 2 START FAULT’ message. The flight crew then asked ATC which runway was in use at Adelaide and whether that airport had a curfew and were told that a curfew was in force there but it would be waived if the flight declared an emergency. The flight crew responded that their intention was to continue to Melbourne and “there were no further communications between the flight crew and ATC about Adelaide”. The diversion proceeded without further event although a second attempt to relight the failed engine was made 90 minutes after the first and occurred shortly before the descent into Melbourne began. This resulted in completion of the start cycle but with concurrent engine vibration and a failure to reach sufficient engine rotation speed to disconnect the starter motor which led the flight crew to cease the restart and shut down the engine again. The flight subsequently landed at Melbourne 2 hours and 16 minutes after the right engine had first indicated its abnormal status and after a total of 4 hours 22 minutes airborne. Examination of the engine involved following its removal from the aircraft found that the engine’s oil pressure pump drive shaft had failed at its ‘shear neck’ and that damage to the engine HP assembly bearings “was consistent with engine operation without oil pressure” - the whole HP assembly had seized due to bearing stress. It was noted that the drive shaft ‘shear neck’