An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data were retrieved from the FDR but the CVR was discounted as a relevant source due to the post-failure diversion flight time having been in excess of 2 hours. However, useful data were recovered from the FADECs and ATC and crew interviews were conducted. It was noted that the Captain had a total of about 8,700 flying hours which included approximately 2,540 hours on type. The First Officer, who had been designated as PF for the flight, had a total of about 3,265 flying hours of which an unspecified number were on type. It was also noted that the operational flight plan stated that the flight was an ETOPS one, with a maximum diversion time in the event of engine failure of 2 hours in still air, although the first ETOPS operating area was about 400 nm beyond Alice Springs. This operational flight plan gave the only Australian ETOPS alternate aerodromes as Alice Springs and Darwin. Just over two hours into the flight, the indicated oil pressure of the right engine dropped within 7 seconds from 90psi to zero and the corresponding level 3 red warning was activated. The corresponding procedure was shown on the upper central EFIS screen, the engine/warning display, and the system display below it showed oil system parameters. In response, the Captain took over as PF and 14 seconds later the right engine thrust lever was retarded to idle, after which the applicable procedure required that the engine involved should be monitored and then shut down if the problem persisted. The crew reported that the only abnormal engine indication was the (zero) oil pressure and were thus “reluctant” to shut the engine down since they considered that the explanation might be that the oil pressure warning was false. About 3½ minutes after the right engine thrust lever had been set to idle, it was advanced to the CL position (which under the autothrust system, which remained engaged, permits any thrust up to en route ‘normal’). This action, according to the crew, was done “with the intent of checking/troubleshooting the engine”. However, a significant spike in engine vibration was recorded and after approximately 40 seconds, the engine stalled. This resulted in a corresponding level 2 ECAM message and the associated abnormal procedure appearing on the engine/warning display and the engine system schematics appearing on the system display below. The flight crew responded by returning the thrust lever to idle and shortly afterwards, they declared a ‘PAN PAN’ to ATC stating that they had experienced an engine stall and requesting descent to FL 250. This exchange continued with the crew stating that they were “breaking off the airway doing a left turn” and declaring that they would probably divert to Melbourne. Within less than a minute of this exchange with ATC, the right engine, now with its thrust at idle, stalled again accompanied by a significant spike in recorded engine vibration and this time, there was