is where the shaft diameter is intentionally reduced to provide a weak point as “a controlled site for failure should the pump shaft seize, thereby providing protection from further damage to the engine”. The cause of the shaft failure was found to have been “fatigue cracking that (had) originated at multiple sites within the shaft bore” with these cracks growing and weakening the shaft “until the remaining material failed in overstress”. The origin of this fatigue cracking could not be determined. It was evident that the drive shaft failure had not been the ‘clean break’ envisaged by the design as occurring in the event of drive shaft seizure - see the illustrations below. The oil pressure pump was found to have completed 2,250 cycles and 13,597 hours since new. It had also recently been removed from the engine for “inspection and rebuild as part of checks for another engine issue” which had included NDT as part of the rebuild. Since being reinstalled in the engine, it had completed a further 6 cycles and 20 hours. It was found that the oil pressure pump model involved is common to both the Trent 700 and the Trent 800 (fitted to Boeing 777 aircraft) and that the engine manufacturer was aware of two previous pump failures although these had both occurred due to pump bearing seizure and had resulted in a fracture perpendicular to the shaft axis. It was noted that applicable Airbus Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) fully adopted by the operator included general guidance on how to respond to engine malfunctions which included “When the flight crew identifies an abnormal parameter, the flight crew should use all the information available to analyse the engine malfunction (and) should not consider only this abnormal parameter to perform their analysis”. It also stated that “if possible, the flight crew should keep the engine running in flight (unless) a procedure requires an engine shutdown (since) [...] even at idle, the engine powers the hydraulic, electric and bleed systems”. The Investigation considered the procedural response of the flight crew to each of the ECAM procedures they were presented with and made observations in each case as follows: Engine Low Oil Pressure - The flight crew delayed completing the procedure while they analysed the oil system parameters and the likely reason for the alert. After about 3.5 minutes, the flight crew advanced the thrust lever, and 30 seconds later, the engine stalled. It was considered that there was ambiguity in the ECAM procedure relative to the clear intent of the engine manufacturer’s operating instructions. The latter clearly required the engine to be shut down if the low oil pressure alert did not cease once the thrust lever was back at idle whereas the relevant Airbus FCTM content “urged a bias towards deferring any action that would result in shutting an engine down and to look beyond the abnormal parameter”. It was considered likely that whilst continued operation of the engine at idle thrust with zero oil pressure