would have eventually resulted in sufficient bearing damage that stalls and engine failure would occur, the subsequent increase in thrust would have accelerated that result and probably increased the extent of engine damage.. Engine Stall - The flight crew reacted to the stall condition in accordance with the procedure; however, about 30 seconds later the engine stalled again and then failed.. Engine Fail - The procedure included a restart (relight) procedure, being the first procedural action, the selection of the engine start selector switch to the ignition position. The flight crew shut the engine down in accordance with the engine failure procedure.. Engine Shut Down - The shut down procedure was designed to put the aircraft in a configuration which enabled single engine operations and does not include an option to, or guidance to consider, restarting the engine.. Land ASAP (Amber) - This appeared following the engine shutdown and was defined in the FCOM as meaning “consider landing at the nearest suitable airport”. The definition included a note, stating that the suitability criteria should be defined in accordance with the operator's policy.. Engine Start Fault - This occurred during the unsuccessful first restart attempt and because a light up did not occur within the specified maximum elapsed time. It was also observed that both engine restart attempts appeared to have been contrary to relevant SOPs since “there were a number of factors that should have alerted the flight crew that there was a problem with engine 2 and not to attempt a relight”.. In respect of the diversion made, it was noted that the engine failure rule contained in the OM required a diversion to the nearest suitable airport. However, the OM also stated that an en-route alternate should have RFFS Category 7 and the Captain stated that his decision to divert to Melbourne “was based, in part, on the Adelaide RFFS being notified as being Category 5, below that required". The flight crew also stated that “two elements that supported the decision to divert to Melbourne were passenger wellbeing and easier recovery of the aircraft” and it was noted that “both elements have an apparently commercial nature, but neither commercial considerations nor these specific elements are included in the determination of the suitability of an airport for diversion”. It was noted that at the position when the PAN was declared, the flight was 205 nm from Alice Springs, 545 nm from Adelaide and 815 nm from Melbourne. All of these were experiencing ‘benign’ weather conditions. It was noted that although the Operational Flight Plan had stated that the flight “was an ETOPS flight limited to 120 minutes diversion time” for which the nominal equivalent distance was 823 nm, the engine failure had not occurred in an ETOPS segment of the flight and so its requirements were not applicable. However, it was observed that Alice Springs was available and nominated on the operational flight plan as an en route alternate airport and Adelaide was a company-preferred alternate not subject to