The EGPWS annunciation was reported to the Operator by the crew as required but the event was not reported to the CENIPA, the Brazilian Aeronautical Accidents Investigation and Prevention Centre, until 29 days after it had occurred following recognition by the Operator of its significance during routine review of OFDM data. On receipt, the Agency classified it as a Serious Incident and began an Investigation. As a result of the delay in notification, the only relevant full range of recorded flight data available was that on the QAR, relevant FDR and CVR data having been overwritten. However, the EGPWS NVM was downloaded and its data was correlated with the QAR data. It was noted that the Training Captain in command who had been PF for the investigated approach, had a total of 7,183 flying hours of which 2,682 hours were on type. He had been employed by the airline for approximately 10 years and was “preparing to become an Airbus A330 commander”. The First Officer had a total of 4,650 flying hours which included 3,200 hours on type and during the investigated flight he had been “under evaluation” with respect to the possibility of promotion. It was established that the destination TAF available prior to departure from Congonhas had included the possibility that the destination weather may deteriorate whilst the flight was en route. There was also a NOTAM advising that the runway 28 ILS at Galeão would be out of service, although the ILS approaches to runways 10 and 15 were unaffected. As the flight reached the vicinity of its destination, ATC had advised that the arrivals runway was 28 with only the RNAV (GNSS) Y (non precision) approach procedure available. The weather had indeed deteriorated and the lowest observed cloud was now 2,500 metres prevailing visibility in slight drizzle and mist with the lowest cloud BKN at 300 feet aal - below the approach procedure MDA. The RNAV (GNSS) Y procedure chart is reproduced below and with the airport and runway elevation being 28 feet, it can be seen from this that there are two possible MDAs, 417 feet QNH if LNAV/VNAV automation is used and 470 feet QNH if only LNAV automation is used. Due to the weather deterioration, it quickly became clear that arriving aircraft were repeatedly unable to obtain the required visual reference at MDA and were going around as a result. ATC APP advised the inbound flight that as a sequence of four aircraft ahead had gone around, TWR had decided to close the airport for landings and it would therefore be necessary to take up a holding pattern at 3,500 feet. However within minutes, TWR ATC had realised that their action in closing the airport to landing aircraft, which had been based on the 300 feet ceiling being below the specified “ceiling required” of 400 feet for the LNAV/RNAV approach and 500 feet for the LNAV-only approach was incorrect because of a change in State Regulations effective from 22 June 2017 which had