used by some crews at Rio de Janeiro Santos Dumont in order to obtain earlier visual reference with the runway than would otherwise be achieved. This decision was only made by the Captain and communicated to the First Officer (from whom there was no adverse response) at the point where it was quickly decided to make an approach and had not been included in the earlier initial approach brief. Both pilots were familiar with this breach of procedure at Santos Dumont but neither had any experience of performing such an approach at Galeão. This decision meant that the prescribed stabilised approach criteria were inevitably going to be exceeded (the mandatory discontinuation of the approach when not stabilised at 1000 feet agl was ignored) and the final stepdown fix identified as GLO83 on the chart was going to be intentionally ignored. It was found that once the “dive” part of this ad hoc approach had been commenced, the First Officer had alerted the Captain to the fact that the aircraft was “too low” and the Captain’s response of increasing the rate of descent rather than, as the First Officer had expected, reducing it went unnoticed by the latter who by this time had joined the Captain on looking outside for any visual reference. The prescribed 660 feet altitude at the GLO83 position, which was 2 nm from the runway threshold, was in fact reached with 2.67 nm to go with descent continuing. It was further found that the requirement for use of the lower of the two procedure MDAs, 417 feet - that automatic control of both the VNAV and LNAV channels must be used with the AP in ‘FINAL APP’ mode - was not met since the selection of V/S mode to increase the rate of descent for the “dive” disconnected FINAL APP mode and meant that the crew became responsible for compliance with the vertical flight profile and the applicable MDA therefore became the higher figure of 470 feet. It was not clear which of these MDAs had been inserted into the Flight Management Guidance Computers (FMGC). The material failure of the crew to comply with approach SOPs which led to an excessive workload was considered to have included amongst other things: a degree of ambivalence amongst older pilots as to the continued use of a “dive and drive” approach at (only) Santos Dumont without any clarity as to the acceptability in this specific case of an otherwise no longer used non precision approach technique.. a failure by the Company to align their approach procedures with those which had recently been promulgated by the regulatory authorities removing “cloud ceiling” as a criterion for an approach ban.. the amount of operationally-relevant information directed at pilots through multiple communications channels without any prioritisation may have favoured low assimilation of important information.. the FCOM did not cover the use of the V/S mode as a means to fly an RNAV approach, the only alternative to the (recommended) ‘FINAL APP’ mode being the