NAV FPA combination.. the willingness of the crew to ignore the annunciated EGPWS warnings was considered to evidence “gaps in the crew's knowledge of aircraft systems” since even after the event, there had been no recognition of the potential gravity of the situation and that such flaws in the crew’s knowledge had “contributed to a low level of situational awareness”.. Two observations about the involvement of ATC in the investigated event were identified: The brief closure of Galeão airport to arriving aircraft had been explicitly contrary to the new regulatory directive which had removed cloud ceiling as a criterion relevant to such a decision. However, the quick recognition of this error (within about 3 minutes) was noted.. The continuing designation of runway 28 as the arrivals runway at Galeão when the cloud base lowered to 300 feet with the usual ILS procedure unavailable and then denying a request made by an another aircraft to make an ILS approach to runway 15 and accept the 5 knot tail wind component at touchdown which that would have involved in accordance with applicable ATC procedures was considered to indicate the need for a review of their content.. Eight Contributory Factors to the investigated Serious Incident were identified as follows: Aircraft Control Skills - The use of the Vertical Speed mode associated with the selection of an excessive rate of descent contributed to the destabilisation of the approach.. Attention - During the landing procedure, the pilots did not observe relevant factors that would indicate a destabilised approach. In addition, the First Officer did not notice that the Captain had increased the rate of descent instead of reducing it after he had alerted him to the fact that the aircraft was too low. This inattention on the part of the crew contributed to the occurrence, as it facilitated the descent of the aircraft outwith the prescribed stabilised approach parameters.. Attitude - Failure to comply with the procedures established in the aerodrome approach chart contributed to the occurrence of the Serious Incident, as it added greater risk and greater complexity to the management of the aircraft.. Crew Resource Management - Although it was not possible to analyse the data of the voice recorder of the aircraft, a deficiency in the co-ordination of the flight deck activity was evident including the non-compliance with several operating procedures, including prescribed stabilised approach parameters, the response to the ‘Too Low, Terrain’ EGPWS Warning and the requirements of Company Operational Directive (DOP) 28/17.. Team Dynamics - The interaction of the pilots during the approach and landing moments was compromised by the absence of a detailed briefing on the technique to be used for the approach and the work overload which they encountered by choosing a procedure divergent from the prescribed one and thus favouring the continuation of the flight below the established minimum limits.. Piloting Judgment - The evaluation of a dive and drive approach based on the final approach of the São Paulo Congonhas runway 28 procedure proved to be