removed ceiling as a determinant for the closure of airports to approaches and left just visibility as a reference for such a decision. ATC APP advised that the airport was now accepting arrivals again and asked the flight if they wished to commence an approach to which the crew responded that they would consider the option and then advise their decision, the observed conditions having been notified as an unchanged 300 feet aal ceiling and an unchanged 2,500 metres visibility. Almost immediately, APP then advised that the traffic ahead in the arrivals sequence, a Cessna Beechjet, had “managed to land” and in response, the crew immediately responded with “affirmative sir, 6284 will then try an approach”. On transfer to TWR, the controller advised that the Beechjet had, on request, reported having seen the runway from 400 feet. Thereafter, the A319 crew continued their approach for a further 2½ minutes continuing below the applicable MDA of 470 feet without acquiring visual reference before transmitting that they were going around. As this go around was being initiated from 295 feet QNH, with 2.34 nm still to go until reaching the runway, two successive EGPWS ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ Warnings were annunciated as a result of an increase in the height of the undulating terrain ahead of the aircraft which reduced its terrain clearance to 162 feet. It was found from the QAR data that the vertical profile which had been flown by the aircraft had begun to increasingly deviate below that prescribed - see the illustration below - soon after passing the 1670 feet QNH required at the procedure FAF, designated as the GL 142 stepdown fix depicted on the approach chart. This QAR data, in conjunction with the available EGPWS data, also provided an explanation for the EGPWS activation, which it was determined had been the predictive ‘Terrain Clearance Floor’ mode. It was noted from the data that the crew had not responded to the EGPWS activations as per the prescribed FCOM Abnormal and Emergency Procedure memory actions but had simply continued with their go-around procedure. The pilots subsequently stated that there had been “no apparent reason” for the terrain proximity alert and it was found that the crew believed that a full evasive response to an EGPWS alert should only be performed if there was a concurrent ‘PULL UP’ annunciation whereas the FCOM “makes clear that the manoeuvre should be performed in the case of all EGPWS Cautions occurring at night or in IMC”. The fact that the ‘PULL UP’ annunciation is inhibited during operation of the Terrain Clearance Floor mode was also noted - something which “could have (had) catastrophic consequences” if the go around manoeuvre had not been taking place anyway. The premature descent made after passing the stepdown fix G142 at the FAF was found to have been intentional and attributable to the late decision to disregard the published continuous descent procedure vertical profile once past the FAF and to make a “dive and drive” approach as regularly