inadequate as it did not bring any operational advantage to the crew or comply with approach stabilisation criteria and safety restrictions.. Perception - The lack of precision regarding the perception of the performance of the aircraft during the final approach resulted in restrictions imposed by the chart vertical profile being overlooked which indicated a lowering of the level of situational awareness presented by the crew.. Decision-making process - The decision to proceed with the approach, as well as the technique chosen to carry out this procedure, showed a precipitous and imprecise assessment of the risks involved in that type of operation.. Two Potential Contributory Factors were also identified: Organisational processes - The excess of existing communication channels in the airline, the lack of prioritisation of messages of greater operational relevance, as well as the possible difficulties in communication between the different sectors may have led to the emergence of a scenario unfavourable to the proper assimilation of operational procedures and standardisation by the flight crew.. Support systems - The communication of operational procedures, such as those for a cloud ceiling below the minimum for transition to visual reference on the approach charts which were dealt with in Company Operations Directive 28/17, was not robust and may have contributed to the low assimilation of the crew of the guidance, defined by the airline.. As a consequence of these Findings, six Safety Recommendations were made on completion of the Investigation as follows: that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) act together with Oceanair Airlines (Avianca) to ensure that the company clearly defines an Operational Directive which establishes the policy of the airline on the use of the “dive and drive” technique by its crew. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 01]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) act together with Oceanair Airlines (Avianca) to ensure that the company reinforces the dissemination of the procedure, established within the company, on the execution of an IFR approach when the reported ceiling and/or visibility are lower than those presented in the respective charts. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 02]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) act together with Oceanair Airlines (Avianca) to provide theoretical instruction on EGPWS for all Company pilots. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 03]. that the Airspace Control Department (DECEA) evaluates the pertinence of including an indication of the stepdown fix GL083 on the instrument approach chart for the RNAV Y approach to runway 28 at Rio de Janeiro Galeão, with the purpose of increasing the situational awareness of the pilots, regarding the vertical limits of the approach. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 04]. that the Airspace Control Department (DECEA) evaluates the pertinence of including the nominal indication of Stepdown Fixes on the approach charts for non-precision procedures whenever there is a designation nomenclature established for the respective point. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 05]. that the Airspace Control Department (DECEA) re-evaluates the established criteria for runway selection at Rio de Janeiro Galeão considering the lessons learned in this Investigation. [IG-105/CENIPA/2017 - 06]. The Final Report was completed on 29 January 2019 and