An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB assisted by recorded radio communications for both GND and TWR and radar data for aircraft on final approach to runway 27. A Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR)/SPECI sequence around the time of the incursion was found to indicate that there had been fog with rain and/or drizzle throughout, with visibility varying between 200 and 800 metres and Runway Visual Range (RVR) varying between 550 metres and 800 metres. It was noted unless it is very busy, ATC control of traffic at and in the immediate vicinity of the airport is normally achieved using a TWR controller who also looks after ground movement. If the additionally-available GND frequency is in use, this information is included in the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast. On the morning of the investigated event, the GND frequency was in use “principally for the purpose of Controller training”. It was established that a bird scaring vehicle operated by the airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services had been cleared to holding point ‘A1’ just south of the downwind end of runway 27 by GND (see the airport diagram below taken from the official report) and instructed to contact TWR for permission to enter the runway. Two minutes later, the Investigation found that there had been a carrier wave transmission on the TWR frequency which had been immediately followed by an ATC instruction to a Flybe-operated ERJ190 which had just landed on runway 27 to “Report Vacated”. It was established that the bird scaring vehicle had then entered the runway and had begun to drive along it, stopping for a time on the northern side, opposite Taxiway F, where the driver had observed some birds. The birds dispersed and the vehicle continued along the runway. At about the same time, the TWR controller changed to facilitate a routine break and the handover included the information that the bird scaring vehicle was holding at A1 but had not yet checked in on the TWR frequency. The replacement controller attempted to call the vehicle to confirm his position but when there was no reply, he asked GND to attempt contact and after receiving reply he reminded the driver that he needed to contact TWR before entering the runway. The response was considered “hesitant” and led GND to ask for confirmation that the vehicle was still at A1. The driver replied “Negative, um I’m leaving the runway at B” which is at the opposite end of the runway to the holding point where the vehicle was understood to be. After a further exchange with GND, it became apparent that the vehicle had entered and driven the full length of the runway without permission. TWR, aware of this exchange, was about to instruct an Embraer 121 aircraft on short final to go-around but the aircraft declared a go around due to lack of visual reference first. When it proved impossible to make further contact with the bird scaring vehicle, ATC took action to