safeguard the runway and manoeuvring areas until it had been confirmed that the vehicle had returned to the fire station, after which normal operations were resumed. The Investigation found that the vehicle involved, which was a general purpose one normally used for bird scaring was fitted with a radio and that the driver would usually also carry a separate portable radio. The portable radio was intended to be used as a back up in the event of radio failure or if the driver needs to temporarily leave the vehicle. However, it became apparent that some drivers habitually used the portable radios for normal communications when the GND frequency was in operation and that a significant number of RFFS personnel did not properly understand the correct radio communication procedures. The vehicle driver stated after the incursion that it was his second bird dispersal patrol of the day and that he had been aware that LVPs were in force and that both ATC frequencies were in use. He said that because he understood that it was necessary to monitor both frequencies, he had tuned the vehicle radio to GND and the portable radio to TWR. He stated that upon exiting the fire station, he had established contact with GND at Holding Point H and been cleared to proceed to Holding Point A1 and to contact Tower. Upon arrival there, he reported having contacted TWR using the portable radio and received a clearance to enter the runway and to report vacated. Safety Action by Jersey Airport as a result of the event was based on a comprehensive internal investigation which made a number of safety recommendations, including one to review driving procedures on the airport. Subsequently, Safety Notices were issued requiring aeronautical radios installed in vehicles to be tuned to the active frequency or the frequency instructed by ATC and for portable radios to be used only for emergency backup and when drivers were out of the vehicle on the manoeuvring area for purposes such as marshalling or inspection. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on in March 2011. No Safety Recommendations were made.