transfer their attention to the ESIS instead since the corrupted PFD had been "simply too confusing to start looking for two small, white attitude bars". Changing to the ESIS would also prevent fixation on the erroneous information given the difficulty a single pilot would have in removing it if flying manually at low level. The Investigation noted that the event had involved the spatial disorientation of the PF and that this subject had been dealt with in depth in a 2007 ATSB research report which highlighted the fact that the human visual system "provides around 80 per cent of orientation information" so that in was to be expected that without any transfer to external visual reference "the overriding presence of incorrect visual information" had initially deprived the PF of the majority of their orientation information. It was therefore considered that if a key instrument display like the PFD ceases to function normally, it is essential that both the fact such a failure has occured and the extent of it are clearly communicated to the pilot so that they do not, even transiently, react to incorrect information. Safety Action taken in response to this event whilst the Investigation was in progress and known to it included the following: The Aircraft Operator replaced the RadAlt aerials on its whole PC12 fleet and took steps to provide guidance and enhanced pilot training to cover SVS malfunctions.. OEM Honeywell issued a 'Pilot Advisory Letter' which reminded users of the secondary status of their SVS functionality and advised pilots "to follow the primary flight indications presented on the PFD at all times" (although note the above-quoted view that this advice was unhelpful and should have instead advised pilots faced with an SVS corruption of their PFD to transfer their attention to the ESIS). Honeywell also advised that they were examining how to prevent the display of an SVS image on the PFD when incorrect data is assessed as valid by the source RadAlt.. The Investigation detailed the following Safety Message in respect of the event: Incorrect instrument indications that are not associated with a failure mode present pilots with a complex and challenging situation. This situation may be exacerbated during single-pilot (rather than multi-crew) operations, where there is a lack of external visual references (such as at night or in instrument meteorological conditions), under high pilot workload conditions, or where a pilot is experiencing an elevated level of fatigue. The image of terrain on the primary flight display is powerful and compelling. This incident highlights the manner in which an inaccurate synthetic vision image can rapidly lead to a degree of spatial disorientation. Pilots need to ensure that they are familiar with the limitations of the synthetic vision system and how to effectively deal with erroneous information as well as system failure modes. Organisations that operate aircraft fitted with similar technology should ensure that appropriate information and training is available to pilots, including when and how it should be used when it is not approved