An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The flight data were downloaded from the Aircraft Condition Monitoring System and used to support the Investigation. It was noted that both pilots were "highly experienced". The aircraft commander, who was present as a Check Pilot and was acting as PM from the right hand seat, had over 15,000 total flying hours which included 3,000 on type and the PF, who had over 11,000 total flying hours and over 2,600 hours on type, was in the left seat. Since the aircraft operator did not have access to a full flight simulator for the type, it was found that "most pilot training was conducted in the aircraft". It was noted that both PFDs were normally configured to present the SVS image as a background. However, the SVS was not certified for primary control input or navigation use and although it was automatically activated at engine start, it could then be de-selected by the pilot. It was further noted that the Electronic Standby Instrumentation System (ESIS) did not have the SVS background. It was established that as the aircraft climbed through about 250 feet agl at about 110 knots whilst still over the runway about 18 seconds after a normal take-off, the pilots saw the RadAlt indication wind down to zero and almost immediately, the low altitude awareness display had risen to meet the altitude readout (see the illustration below). There was no annunciation of a RadAlt failure. The SVS image on both PFDs was then reported to have shown "the runway move rapidly left and off the screen" whilst the representation of the ground "appeared to rise rapidly up to meet the Zero Pitch Reference Line" (ZPRL). In response, the PF pulled back on the control column and the flight path indicator moved up correspondingly to about 15° pitch. The recorded data showed that this increase in pitch did not create a sufficient Angle of Attack (AOA) (AoA) to activate the Stall Protection System. The PF explained that his movement of the control column was in direct response to the impression created by the SVS image "that the aircraft was sinking rapidly towards the ground". He stated that there had been "no vestibular sensation that the aircraft was descending, nor had there been any indication of a strong wind that may have caused the aircraft to drift off the runway centreline", but that "the resulting sensory confusion" had caused him to experience some motion sickness. The Check Pilot reported since the ESIS was not on his side, he had immediately looked out and had been "able to discern a visible horizon due to the moonlight" and had alerted the PF to the nose-high attitude. This led the PF to switch their focus to the attitude and airspeed on the ESIS which prompted them to return the pitch to the previous 8° pitch up. Airspeed, which had fallen to 101 KCAS due to the pitch up, returned to the original