target of 110 KCAS. As the aircraft climbed through 850 feet the SVS image returned to normal without intervention and after raising the gear and flaps, the PF deselected SVS mode on their PFD. The Check Pilot retained SVS mode on their PFD and observed that there were no further problems. The flight was continued and completed as planned. Maintenance subsequently found that both the transmit and receive antennas for the RadAlt had failed. These antennas were subject to on-condition replacement and had been installed for over 9000 hours. After replacement of both these antennas and the associated transmitter/receiver, there was no repetition. It was confirmed that the RadAlt was a significant data source for the SVS image and that since its output was combined with the TAWS runway and obstacle database accessed using GPS position, a corruption of vertical reference would have resulted. It was concluded that the reported shift of the SVS depiction of the runway to the left was likely to have been a correct but exaggerated response to a slight drift of the aircraft to the right relative to the runway centreline just prior to the RadAlt failure, magnified when it failed by the sudden input of zero altitude. The RadAlt Low altitude display appears automatically if the detected height of the aircraft reduces below 550 feet. A example of the SVS image on each PFDQ with annotations is shown below: Both pilots stated that "they had previously experienced failure of primary flight instruments at low level and at night in different aircraft without synthetic vision systems (and) had been able to disregard the erroneous or failed instruments and reference the standby instruments to maintain control of the aircraft and situational awareness" However, they felt that "the prominence of the SVS display was such that it is difficult to ignore erroneous information and locate valid information" with "the image of the ground rising up and the runway disappearing rapidly sideways" taking the focus of the PF away from anything else. Both pilots noted that the same sequence during single pilot operations could have been a more serious event. It was also noted by both pilots that with the corrupted PFD SVS image showing, it had been impossible to discern the valid attitude information on the PFD and use it to revert to flying "power and attitude". The Investigation noted that whilst it is possible for the pilot to remove the SVS image from the PFD, this requires either two button presses or the use of the cursor control device, both of which are "very difficult to do at low level while maintaining control of the aircraft by keeping the right hand on the thrust lever and the left hand on the control column". It was considered that the "Pilot Advisory Letter" issued by OEM Honeywell in response to the occurrence which "reminded pilots to look at the primary flight indications presented on the PFD at all times" was unhelpful and should have instead advised pilots to