An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). Relevant CVR data were overwritten but both aircraft operators provided QAR data covering the event and a full recording of air traffic communications between the two aircraft and the Tambolaka Aeronautical Communications Officer (ACO) was available. It was noted that the 31 year-old CRJ1000 Captain, who was PF for the flight had a total of 5,776 flying hours experience but the amount of this time on type was not given. Their 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 795 flying hours experience but the amount of this time on type was also not given. The flying experience of the ATR72 pilots was not given. Flight Information Service at Tambolaka was provided by a 29 year-old “Aeronautical Communication Officer”. All those involved were Indonesian nationals with valid qualifications for their jobs. The Investigation noted that the day before the occurrence, the CRJ1000 Captain had felt unfit during his morning flight duty but after finishing his duty at midday had rested at his hotel and the following day had “felt better”. However, the following day he was hospitalised and diagnosed as having typhoid. It was established that when the Wings Air inbound flight was about 56 nm from Tambolaka at 14,500 feet, the crew had advised the ACO that they were about 15 minutes away and this was acknowledged. Meanwhile, the Captain of the about to depart Garuda flight had briefed his First Officer that after takeoff, they would climb to about 400 feet aal before turning left to join airway W43 and continuing the climb. He subsequently stated that this was the usual Garuda Indonesia departure procedure for Tambolaka although the Investigation concluded that, in the absence of any evidence that this was a documented company procedure, it was in fact merely ‘custom and practice’. One minute after the departing aircraft had requested and received engine start approval from the ACO, the inbound aircraft announced that it was now 36 nm from Tambolaka and requested descent and was instructed to descend to 10,000 feet and call reaching. A couple of minutes later, the departing aircraft called ready to taxi and was instructed to taxi to runway 10 and report ready for departure. The ACO then called the inbound aircraft to request its position and was told it was “about 23 nm on radial 096° from Tambolaka passing 11,500 feet” and the ACO then informed it that a CRJ1000 aircraft with the callsign GIA460 was entering runway 10 to backtrack. On being then told that the inbound aircraft had reached 10,000 feet, the ACO instructed it to descend to circuit altitude and join left downwind for runway 10 which was correctly read back. As the CRJ1000 was backtracking, its Captain “advised the PM that the inbound flight would be joining downwind right hand for runway 10". When the CRJ1000 PM advised that they were ready to receive their departure air traffic