that since the initial call to the departing aircraft by the Tambolaka ACO was not prefaced by the unit’s full callsign - Tambolaka Aerodrome Information – this might have led the Captain to confuse the type of service being provided as air traffic control rather than flight information.. Some of the information passed by the ACO to the CRJ1000 used instruction phraseology and the crew sometimes requested a clearance from the ACO. It was considered that “these mixed-up communications” indicated a lack of clarity as to whether the service status was that of air traffic control or flight information which might also have led the crew to assume that the flights would be separated by the ATS provider.. The manner in which the departure clearance was relayed to the departing CRJ1000 by the ACO as a clearance to fly at altitude 25,000 feet to Kupang did not contain the clarification that this clearance applied only upon entering Kupang airspace which it was considered might have led the Captain to incorrectly assume that the flight was approved to continue climb to altitude 25,000 feet without restriction - it was noted that the pre-selected target altitude had been set to this figure prior to takeoff.. The Investigation formally identified the Contributory Factor in respect of the occurrence as “pilot justification based on available information of the inbound ATR72 that was not properly assessed and without proper crew coordination this resulted in the CRJ1000 departing following the common practice to turn left after departure”. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that AirNav Indonesia should ensure that all phraseology used while providing flight information services are conducted in accordance with the ATS SOP to make clear determination of service status air traffic control services and flight information services. [04. A-2018-18.01]. that Garuda Indonesia emphasise the (use of the) reporting system including self-assessment reports to ensure that medical conditions which may degrade pilot performance can be identified and mitigated in a timely manner. [04. O-2018-18.02]. that Garuda Indonesia ensure that all pilots implement Crew Resource Management described in the OM-Part A. [04. O-2018-18.03]. that Garuda Indonesia ensure that all pilots are aware that air traffic control service that includes traffic separation is not provided in Class ‘G’ airspace (and that) the separation between aircraft is the responsibility of each pilot based on their decision. [04. O-2018-18.04]. that Wings Air ensure that all pilots are aware that air traffic control service that includes traffic separation is not provided in Class ‘G’ airspace (and that) the separation between aircraft is the responsibility of each pilot based on their decision. [04. O-2018-18.05]. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 23 July 2020.