The Findings and Conclusions from the June 2013 Go-Around Safety Forum held in Brussels contain many useful ideas for consideration including Strategies and Conclusions for various stakeholders. These conclusions are not necessarily recommendations, but are valuable for stakeholders to use as starting points to improve go-around safety. Some of these are summarised below. Eight Safety Improvement Strategies were agreed at this Forum. All of these strategies are ultimately relevant to training, i.e. policies and procedures need to be learnt and practiced, however, one strategy was specific to go-around safety training. Strategy 4 Ensure that go-around training and awareness appropriately reflect different risk execution scenarios.. GEN1 - EUROCONTROL Agency should review the ATCO Training Common Core Content to consider the applicability of adding specific objectives and supporting comments related to ATCO responsibilities regarding go-around/missed approach.. GEN2 - Aircraft Operators and ATC should improve the mutual understanding of each others' go-around practices/procedures.. GEN3 - The Industry partners should develop a go-around training aid.. AO7 - Provide ongoing training to enhance psychosocial awareness and management, the components and their contribution to non-compliance during the approach phase.. AO12 – Pilots must be able to demonstrate that they are able to safely execute go-arounds commenced from high energy and low energy states at the point where the go-around decision is indicated.. AO13 – Pilots must be able to exercise tactical judgment as well as procedural compliance when deciding to go-around below the mandatory stabilised approach gate so that safe execution is not prejudiced by an inappropriate delay in the decision. Validation of this must be achieved by realistic training scenarios.. AO14 – Go-Around training should include a range of operational scenarios, including go-arounds from positions other than DA/MDA and the designated Stabilised Approach Gate. Scenarios should involve realistic simulation of surprise, typical landing weights and full power go-arounds.. AO15 – include lessons learned from operational events/incidents into go-around training.. AO16 – Clear guidance should be provided to pilots on how to act in respect of the three stages of cross-monitoring during approach, landing and go around i.e. - noticing/alerting/taking control. Observing members of augmented crews should have a clear understanding of their monitoring role.. AO17 – Pilot training to execute GA in automatic modes should be explicitly included and Aircraft Operator automation policy should address the go-around procedure.. AO18 – Pilots should have a clear understanding of how the pitch control system works on the aircraft type they fly. This should be validated by both theoretical testing and suitable simulator exercises conducted with full rather than reduced power/thrust available at typical landing weights.. ATM3 – ANSPs should review and if necessary enhance the provision of go-around risk awareness training for controllers.. ATM4 – Ensure that the importance of a stabilised approach and compliance with final approach procedures is included in training and briefing for air traffic control staff (European Action Plan for the Prevention of Runway Excursions Recommendation 3.3.1). Implementation Advice - Training should include: Appropriate speed control instructions Timely descent instructions. The importance of