An Investigation was carried out by the Colombian Grupo de Investigación de Accidentes Aéreos (GRIAA). The FDR and CVR were recovered from the crash site and data relevant to the Investigation was successfully downloaded from both, although the CVR stopped recording for unexplained reasons 2 hours 57 minutes into the flight and the FDR stopped recording due to lack of electrical power just over 3 minutes before impact. Relevant ATC radar and voice recordings were also available. Both pilots were Bolivian nationals and both held ATPLs. Shortly before the accident, the 36 year-old Captain had recorded 6,692 total flying hours which included 3,417 hours on type. Since 2013, he had been a part owner of the airline and involved in its management as well as being a Captain on its flights. He had 285 hours as an Instructor on the RJ85. The 47 year-old First Officer had 6,923 total flying hours which included 1,474 hours on type. He had 20 years service as an Officer in the Bolivian Air Force and since then had acquired P1 ratings for the B462 and the F27 and a P2 rating for the RJ85. It was established that a Brazilian football team had chartered the aircraft to take them from Sao Paulo to Medellín (Rionegro) and then, four days later, to return from Medellín to Chapecó (Brazil) but the Brazilian authorities would not accept an airline which was not domiciled in either Brazil or Colombia operating these flights so it was arranged for another operator to bring the passengers from Sao Paulo Garulhos to Santa Cruz where they boarded the accident flight. The accident aircraft had earlier in the day positioned to Santa Cruz from Cochabamba. When the dispatcher filed a FPL for a non-stop flight to Rionegro at FL 280 with an Estimated En-route Time (EET) of 4 hours and 22 minutes, it was found that the AIS Office had identified “inconsistencies” in it including that the fuel endurance given was the same as the Estimated Enroute Time (EET) to Rionegro and had requested that it should be changed and re-submitted. However, it was stated that the dispatcher had declined to change the plan in respect of any of the highlighted details and said that on the matter of the of the EET being the same as the endurance, “the actual flight time would be less than that on the plan”. The AIS Offfice accepted the FPL but sent a report to the Bolivian DGAC about the incident stating that under the relevant regulations, they were not empowered to reject it. The Captain requested that maximum fuel (9,300kg) should be loaded whereas the Investigation found that the minimum fuel required to conduct the flight non-stop would have been 12,052kg, approximately 3 tonnes more than the maximum possible fuel load. An initial statement by an unspecified survivor was noted as including that the aircraft would make a refuelling stop at Cobija, a Bolivian airport en route and close to the Brazilian border but this