airport only stays open at night by arrangement and on this evening, it had closed 25 minutes after the accident aircraft took off. After departing from runway 34 at Santa Cruz with a third ‘Observer’ pilot occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seat, the aircraft initially climbed to reach FL260 after 23 minutes. Then, after 8 minutes at that level, the climb was continued to the filed level of FL 280 which was reached 40 minutes after takeoff. After an hour at FL 280, a final climb to FL 300 was made. During the cruise, the CVR recorded conversations about fuel management and how best to optimise fuel use but about 2½ hours into the flight and shortly before transferring to Bogota ACC, one of the pilots remarked that they would divert their route to Bogota to refuel. However, when Bogota ACC then confirmed a more or less direct track towards the intended destination in Medellín TMA, CVR data indicated that this clearance had been enough to remove the option of a ‘Tech Stop’ at Bogota from the crew’s active consideration and an approach briefing for Rionegro was given. Apart from a very brief deviation requested by the crew for weather avoidance soon after check in with Bogota, the essentially direct track towards the destination was maintained. However, after 25 minutes on the ACC frequency, the CVR ceased recording for no identifiable reason. After almost 4 hours airborne, FDR data showed that a LOW FUEL alert had been annunciated. At this point the aircraft was approximately 190 nm from destination, 135 nm from the airport at Cali and 77nm from the airport at Bogota. No mention of any fuel endurance concern was made to ATC and 13 minutes later, there was a change of ACC radio frequency as the flight was transferred from the Southeast Sector to the Northwest Sector. No mention was made of low fuel status on the new frequency either but after 5 minutes on it, descent from FL 300 to FL 250 was accepted as was a re-clearance to FL240 six minutes later. After 4 hours 21 minutes airborne, the flight was then transferred to Medellín APP and re-cleared to the RNG VOR at FL 210 - this VOR is 10 nm from touchdown on the extended centreline of runway 01 at Rionegro, the runway in use. Then as the flight approached the RNAV waypoint at GEMLI, also on the extended centreline for runway 01 but at a range of just over 16 nm, the accident aircraft crew requested to take up the hold there at FL 210 aware that there were aircraft ahead at lower levels in the RNG VOR hold as well as one on final approach which had been given priority after reporting a “fuel leak” (see the illustration below). After one hold had been completed in 4 minutes by the accident aircraft, the crew, after 4 hours and 31 minutes airborne, asked APP for “priority due to a fuel problem” - the