a fuel emergency which added to the complexity of managing traffic in the RNG VOR Holding Pattern.. A total of 11 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that the DGAC Bolivia should review its policies and procedures for the surveillance of air operators, so as to ensure they are planned on the basis of a risk assessment exercise. [REC 01-201637-1]. that the DGAC Bolivia should strengthen normal criteria on financial, operational and technical requirements, both during the certification process and in the surveillance of air operators providing transport services, whether domestic or international and whether for cargo or passengers, particularly for aircraft classified as ‘large’. [REC 02-201637-1]. that the DGAC Bolivia should strengthen its normal criteria for inspection, certification and surveillance of international non-scheduled air charter operations in order to verify compliance with the rules, subsequent to the granting of Air Operator Certificates. [REC 03-201637-1]. that the DGAC Bolivia should strengthen regulations on certification, inspection and monitoring of Air Navigation Services (ANS) and the extent of the resource that performs these functions. [REC 04-201637-1]. that the DGAC Bolivia should issue a document emphasising to air operators the need for strict compliance with procedures related to the planning and administration of fuel for all types of flight, especially in relation to the minimum amount of fuel to be on board for an intended flight. [REC 05-201637-1]. that the DGAC Bolivia should review procedures for approving and controlling English language proficiency of crews operating international flights to comply with the prevailing requirements. [REC 06-201637-1]. that the Bolivian Airport and Air Navigation Services Agency (AASANA) should optimise the management of ATS Notification / AIS management by implementing a control mechanism to verify that the Flight Plan fuel endurance complies with the regulations relating to its adequacy for the estimated flight time as a basis for accepting or rejecting a Plan. Also, it should strengthen the Operations Manual and review the adequacy of the available human resources for provision and supervision of Air Navigation Services (ANS). [REC 07-201637-1]. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should review the Annexes to the Convention and relevant ICAO Documents and issue guidance to States in relation to financial, administrative and safety requirements which should be required of international charter operators, which are carried out on aircraft classified as ‘large’. [REC 08-201637-1]. that the Aeronautical Authority of Colombia should implement a review by the Head of the Air Transport Office of the regulations RAC 3.6.5.6 and the GSAC 2.0-12-017, which deal with the authorisation of charter flights, with the instruction to improve and ensure compliance with legal, regulatory and operational safety by operators performing such flights. [REC 09-201637-1]. that the Aeronautical Authority of Colombia should improve coordination between the Directorate of Air Navigation Services and the Centre for Aeronautical Studies, in order to ensure that the academic programme at the latter that is given to ATC personnel corresponds to current operational needs and similarly, to review the Manuals to ensure that they