and trim sheet for the accident flight had been left at Santa Cruz and no copy of it was found at the accident site.. Considerable evidence was found that the airline involved had a history of not complying with the fuel policies established in its Operations Manual in relation to the minimum amounts to be carried on international flights.. The aircraft flew in RVSM airspace but although it complied with the technical requirements for such airspace, the requisite approval for entry to such airspace was not held.. The request by the crew to take up the RNAV hold at GEMLI was invalid as the aircraft operator’s approvals did not include that for the PBN operations which this required.. Neither pilot held a valid language proficiency certificate which was a requirement when conducting international flights. The Captain had previously held one but it had expired and the First Officer had never held one.. Four Probable Causes of the Accident were identified as follows: The inappropriate planning and execution of an international flight, since the amount of fuel available to make the intended flight did not include reserve fuel or contingency fuel which are required by the applicable aeronautical regulations.. The sequential shutdown of all four engines while the aircraft was in the GEMLI holding pattern as a result of the exhaustion of all (useable) fuel on board.. Inadequate decision-making by the management of the aircraft operator attributable to a lack of focus on operational safety.. A loss of situational awareness and inappropriate flight crew decision-making after they had become fixated on continuing the flight with an extremely limited amount of fuel - they were aware of the low level of remaining fuel but did not take action to land at an en-route aerodrome to refuel so as to allow the flight to continue safely.. Seven Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The premature configuration of the aircraft for landing during descent in GEMLI holding pattern which reduced the aircraft’s gliding range as the crew sought to reach the designated landing runway at Rionegro.. Latent deficiencies in the planning and execution by the aircraft operator of non-scheduled public transport flights in respect of the amount of fuel required.. Some specific deficiencies in the planning of the accident flight by the aircraft operator.. A lack of supervision and operational control of the flight by the aircraft operator, which failed to oversee either the planning of the flight or its in-flight progress thus depriving the flight crew of decision-making support.. The absence of timely declarations to ATC requesting "priority" or declaring an "emergency" during the flight, especially when it became obvious that the remaining fuel endurance may be insufficient, which meant ATC could not respond appropriately.. A significant organisational and operational deviation by the aircraft operator from the procedures approved by the Bolivian DGAC when awarding its AOC.. A delay in the approach of the flight to the runway at Rionegro caused by its late request for priority and its late declaration of