first time ATC had been made aware of any fuel endurance concern. The controller responded by offering radar vectors and an approach beginning in 7 minutes behind the first of the three aircraft below in the hold. This was initially accepted but three minutes later, a “fuel emergency” was declared and an immediate start of descent requested. In response, ATC cancelled the approach clearance just given to the aircraft ahead and approved descent which began at once with the thrust reduced and the air brakes extended. Flap 24 was then selected and the FDR-recorded airspeed began to steadily reduce. After 4 hours 35 minutes airborne, fuel starvation began to take effect. Engine 3 began to run down first, followed by engines 4, then 1 then 2 over a two minute period. Power to the FDR was lost soon after the final engine ran down and Mode ‘C’ returns ceased. The aircraft was 15½ nm from the runway (threshold elevation 6,967 feet amsl) and the final recorded parameters were altitude 15,934 feet amsl with 115 KCAS and 142 knots ground speed. The crew announced “a total electrical failure without fuel” to APP who replied that the runway was clear, that it was raining and that the Airport Fire Service had been alerted. Three minutes after the loss of FDR data, with the controller attempting to give guidance for track adjustment onto the extended centreline, the crew announced in their final transmission that they were passing 9,000 feet QNH and the controller replied that they were 8.2 nm from the runway. Within seconds, the aircraft had impacted sloping mountainous terrain just below the highest point on an approximate track of 310°. It was destroyed by the effects of this impact and a subsequent slide downslope of approximately 460 feet but there was no fire. Most of the wreckage was found at an altitude of 8,240 feet. In analysing the assembled evidence, the Investigation highlighted various aspects concerning the conduct of the flight. These included, but were not limited to the following: It was not possible to carry out an inspection of the fuel system because of the damage caused to it at impact but all other evidence pointed to fuel exhaustion as the primary cause of a loss of control.. The economic situation of the aircraft operator was deficient as a result of a lack of regular flights and this was also evident in the lack of a proper organisation and remuneration arrears to their employees. It was also found that the liability insurance maintained by the aircraft operator excluded operation of the accident aircraft in Columbia.. Operational safety at the Airline was deficient and without a clearly implemented Safety Management System, a risk management and tools to allow decision-making to maintain an adequate balance between productivity and safety. It was noted that the departure of the accident fight from Santa Cruz had been made 348 kg above the certified MTOW and there was no evidence that a copy of the load