The major causal factors for fuel exhaustion occurrences are pilot-related: Inaccurate pre-flight planning is the most common factor for fuel exhaustion events. Examples of this are: Incorrect assessment of fuel quantity. This includes both the amount of fuel on board, and the rate of fuel consumption. The chance of fuel exhaustion is reduced if the pilot accurately determines the amount of fuel on board prior to starting. This should entail the use of a fuel quantity crosscheck using a number of sources, including fuel quantity gauges, dipsticks, flowmeters/ totalisers and calculations from previous refuels and fuel usage, (regularly checked for accuracy). Miscalculation of fuel required. These included problems with, or not calculating consumption rates and not allowing for contingencies.. Incorrect assessment of fuel quantity. This includes both the amount of fuel on board, and the rate of fuel consumption. The chance of fuel exhaustion is reduced if the pilot accurately determines the amount of fuel on board prior to starting. This should entail the use of a fuel quantity crosscheck using a number of sources, including fuel quantity gauges, dipsticks, flowmeters/ totalisers and calculations from previous refuels and fuel usage, (regularly checked for accuracy).. Miscalculation of fuel required. These included problems with, or not calculating consumption rates and not allowing for contingencies.. Loss of fuel situational awareness Inattention to fuel supply. Deciding to continue with the planned flight regardless of being aware of a low fuel problem.. Inattention to fuel supply.. Deciding to continue with the planned flight regardless of being aware of a low fuel problem.. In addition to the above, it is common for training sorties to be flown with full tanks, or in situations where fuel does not become a real safety consideration. This may cause pilots to become complacent during their checking procedures, or to disregard warning signs when they occur. Behaviour patterns (good or bad) are often formed early in the training process. These patterns are often reverted to during periods of relaxation or stress. If pilots become complacent towards fuel management during the early stages of training, this behaviour, although it may not be typical of the pilot, may be reverted to later in their career in certain circumstances, with potentially fatal consequences.