This article explains the reasons for and the measures against fuel exhaustion. Fuel exhaustion, is a situation where there is no more fuel onboard. Unlike Fuel Starvation there is nothing to be done about re-establishing the flow of fuel. Most of these occurrences lead to a forced landing or a ditching. Nevertheless, an ATSB study from 2015 (see Further Reading) showed that fuel exaustion results in fewer fatalities than fuel starvation. A possible reason for this could be that the pilots involved in fuel starvation scenarios consider more options than just a forced landing, sometimes leading to inappropriate choices and fatal outcomes. Studies have examined the possibility of certain flight types being more prone to fuel related incidents. While fuel exhaustion accidents and incidents occur in all types of aviation operations and no firm conclusions may be drawn, there are a few aspects suggesting that certain operations are generally riskier in this regard as they are more vulnerable to any inaccuracies in the pilot’s knowledge about the amount of fuel on board. Examples of these are: Certain types of flight regularly carry just enough fuel for the flight, with little margin. Charter operations may be flying with minimum fuel required because a flight’s profitability will depend on carrying the maximum payload, which means no unnecessary fuel be carried.. Experience on the particular aircraft type may be an issue in the private/business category as it leads to pilots being less familiar with the aircraft.. Fatigue has been found to increase human error rates and may be a contributing factor to fuel-related events in the agricultural category where long working hours are the norm. Also, the high mental workload in agricultural operations may narrow their attention to tasks such as avoiding terrain and other obstacles as well as continually recalculating load requirements, resulting in reduced monitoring of the aircraft’s fuel system.. Exhaustion occurrences are normally either the result of a gross error in the fuelling of an aircraft before flight, or the result of a number of seemingly minor aspects of fuel planning and management during the flight. Incidences of fuel exhaustion often happen close to the flight’s destination and, if it occurs when the aircraft is close to landing, it may offer the pilot less time and opportunity to successfully manage the situation.