The advice in this section is derived from common sense, best practices and lessons learned from relevant studies. It is not intended to supersede or replace local instructions and procedures. Visual inspection before issuing a clearance for runway entery or crossing – this may reveal a (possibly unknown or forgotten) aircraft that is about to land without a clearance.. Visual observation of all traffic to confirm all clearances are properly complied with. The probability that an aircraft (with a valid landing clearance) may attempt to land on a wrong runway or taxiway should always be considered.. Maintenance of situational awareness is critical. Forgetting about an aircraft being on the final is a common reason for landing without clearance. Establishing and following procedures for strip handling (e.g. placing marks or moving the paper strips) can be a simple and effective solution;. Coordination with adjacent units (especially approach units) is essential. If the situation permits, the tower should be advised that an aircraft is about to call. If this is not possible due to congested traffic a procedure for electronic handover/takeover may be considered.. Relying only on pilot reports in congested traffic situations is sometimes not advisable. The pilots may forget that they need to make a position report or they may not be able to do it due to the high frequency occupancy. In some cases, assistance from the approach could be helpful if the situation permits (e.g. the approach controller advises the tower via hotline when an aircraft is over a specified position). Surveillance systems such as ASMGCS might also be a viable option;. Strict adherence to standard phraseology and readback/hearback procedures is essential for preventing misunderstandings and detecting expectation bias. This is especially true for “expect landing clearance” instructions.. The overall use of the phrase “expect landing clearance” might need to be considered. Generally, a pilot approaching an aerodrome is expecting a landing clearance anyway and will continue to expect it regardless of whether a specific instruction for this is received. It may be a good idea to use the phrase on special occasions only (e.g. if a training or an airworthiness flight is intending to perform a go-around or a touch-and-go).. Sometimes aircraft land without a clearance even though all ATC procedures are strictly followed and all memory aids are used correctly. The process has two independent sides (ATC and flight crew) and each of them may contribute to an event on their own. If the controller spots an aircraft that has (almost) touched down without having received a landing clearance, the following factors need to be considered: Instructing the flight crew to go around or even informing them that they have no valid landing clearance might worsen the situation. The crew (being startled by the fact) may execute and abrupt manoeuvre resulting ultimately in loss of control, tail strike, runway excursion.. A go-around instruction might sometimes be a safer option if there is imminent collision danger (e.g. there is another aircraft or vehicle on the runway and