The Immediate Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was determined as “the failure of the aircraft commander to identify the active portion of the runway and the closed portion of the runway”. Five Contributory Factors were also identified as: Inadequate flight preparation by flight crew.. A visual approach below the ideal aircraft path.. Non-marking of the closed portion of the runway with an “X” in accordance with the applicable recommendations.. Partial visibility of the previously obscured horizontal markings on the portion of the runway, which was out of use.. Lack of information on the displaced runway 12 threshold on the ATIS broadcast and/or in information given to the aircraft in question by the air traffic controller.. Safety Action to be taken by Dubrovnik Airport to reduce the risk of further similar events was identified as: Direct advance notification to all aircraft operators using the airport of temporary changes to normal availability of the manoeuvring area.. Continuously monitoring any temporarily closed part of a runway to ensure that compliance with all planned risk mitigation measures is maintained.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Van Air Europe should define procedures that will enable its flight crews to more easily review specifics of NOTAM information, especially when NOTAM information refers to other complex documents such as an AIP-SUP. [AIN04-SR-17/2019]. that Van Air Europe should implement all the corrective measures specified in its own analysis of the subject event. [AIN04-SR-18/2019]. that Dubrovnik Airport should introduce procedures which include the use of the horizontal runway closure marking “X” as the first safety measure which would warn the pilots about the status of a manoeuvring surface (and) such markings should be present until the manoeuvring area is available for use. [AIN04-SR-19/2019]. that Dubrovnik Airport should include in its internal procedures the measures M1 and M2 defined in their document “Analysis of the event related to safety MOR29NOV2018” of the subject event (and) such measures should become standard practice at Dubrovnik Airport. [AIN04-SR-20/2019]. that Croatia Control should, in cases where a runway threshold is displaced, use the term “displaced threshold” in information published via ATIS and/or information issued by the controller to aircraft on approach. [AIN04-SR-21/2019]. that the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency should, when approving airport construction and reconstruction projects, fully verify compliance of the project with the requirements of ICAO Annex 14 and of EU Regulation CS-ADR-DSN related to horizontal marking of manoeuvring areas. [AIN04-SR-22/2019]. that the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency should, during the performance of construction works at airports, increase the number of supervisions in order to verify compliance of construction works with the approved documentation which specifies “Management of Airport Operations During Construction Works”. [AIN04-SR-23/2019]. The Final Report was completed on 29 April 2020 and subsequently released to unlimited access.