this document which contained the detail on runway closure. Phase 2 of the runway reconstruction works (construction area shown cross hatched in red). [Reproduced from the Official Report] On the day of the event, the aircraft and flight crew involved were to operate six flights over an 11 hour period of which the Split-Dubrovnik sector was the third. Prior to the first flight, the Captain stated that he had reviewed relevant NOTAMs and had “noted information on permanent construction works and the shortened runway at Dubrovnik but […] he had failed to notice the information about the displaced runway threshold”. The Investigation noted too that “the flight crew had not thoroughly examined the more detailed information on the construction works which was contained on available Jeppesen Airport Cards”, which included reference to the displaced runway 12 threshold. The flight from Split to Dubrovnik Airport proceeded normally and the Captain subsequently stated that during the landing briefing for runway 12 “he did not realise that the runway threshold had been displaced and which portion of the runway was being used”. Once an approach to runway 12 had been approved by ATC, he reported having “descended the aircraft at the standard descent rate for a visual approach, without checking the procedure for the instrument approach to the runway 12”. It was noted that no comment in relation to the displaced runway threshold in operation was made by ATC at any time during the approach. The Captain stated that the descent profile he had flown was in fact shallower than necessary and considered that “due to the curvature of the runway and the construction machines in the middle of the runway”, he had failed to see the displaced threshold lights or the relocated PAPI and that had he done so, it “would have helped him to understand the situation”. It was reported that these were both illuminated. When the First Officer said (twice) during the approach that she could “see construction vehicles in the middle of the runway”, the Captain had responded that “the situation was the same runway as last week without realising that the working machines were much closer than before, and that they were operating in the middle of the runway”. He stated that “during the entire approach there was no activity on the closed portion of the runway from which it could be concluded that something was different”. He said that although he had seen that there were no markings on the runway (nor was there a white ‘X’ to indicate closure) he had thought this was because of current construction work (Phase 1 of which, involving the opposite half of the runway, had been in progress the previous week). He stated that he had informed both Van Air Europe and Trade Air about the event after completing all flights that day. The First Officer stated that the reduction in runway length to 1424 metres was included in the ATIS and that they both knew this was the case