After prompt notification of the event from both the Dubrovnik Airport and Croatia Control, the Croatian Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic Accident Investigation Agency (AMRTAIA) began an Investigation the same day. It was noted that the aircraft involved was fitted with a CVR and an FDR but there was no reference to the downloading of relevant data or use of such data by the Investigation or to inform the internal investigation carried out by the aircraft operator. It was noted that the Captain (born in 1959), had been PF for the flight and was a Slovenian national. He had a total of 7,110 flying hours of which 5,880 hours were on type and had begun his career as a civil pilot after 27 years as a military pilot. Prior to the investigated event, he had made 17 flights to Dubrovnik between May and November 2018. The First Officer (born in 1979) was a Czech national. She had a total of 466 flying hours of which 193 hours were on type. It was further noted that the aircraft operator involved, Van Air Europe is an ACMI (Aircraft, Crews, Maintenance, Insurance) contractor to Trade Air who in turn hold a contract to provide domestic air service in Croatia on Public Service Obligation (PSO) routes. It was noted that in February 2017, the same Van Air Europe aircraft that was involved in the event being investigated “was involved in another Serious Incident, the Investigation into which had concluded that the crew decided to land in conditions of strong wind with a lateral component of twice the permissible limit for the aircraft in question (and that) following this incident, the UK Civil Aviation Authority suspended the authorisation for Van Air Europe aircraft to operate in the UK”. It was found that at the time of the event a major runway reconstruction project was under way at Dubrovnik where, when fully operational, the single runway would have been 3,300 metres long and 45 metres wide. At the time of the event the longitudinal profile of the runway in its 12 direction was characterised by a brief and minor upslope until the TDZ followed by a minor negative slope thereafter. The reconstruction project had commenced at the beginning of November 2018 and was due to be completed in mid March 2019. At the time of the investigated event, Phase 2 of the project was under way and involved the work over the full width of 1732 metres of the northwest and central parts of the runway. This resulted in the length of runway remaining available for operational use being reduced to 1425 metres at the southeast end - see the illustration below. A NOTAM in respect of Phase 2 of the project had been issued with a commencement date of 25 November 2018 and whilst it referred to the Runway 12 and its IAPs, it gave no other detail and merely referred to AIP SUP 013/2018 being in force from the same date and it was