but that it did not make it clear which runway had a displaced landing threshold. She also noted that the vehicles she had seen on the runway were towards the middle of the runway and that the first part of the closed area had been completely free of obstructions. However, before being guided off the closed runway, they had to wait for “smaller rocks” to be removed from their exit route. After the event the Airport Operator reviewed their compliance with the project planning document in respect of Phase 2 in matters which might have been contributory to the actions of the flight crew. They found only that after three days of heavy rain since all surface painted markings on the closed runway area had been obscured, this covering had slightly faded to the extent that it was just possible to discern limited evidence of parts of the obscured markings. However, it was also recognised that there was scope for better advance communication with aircraft operators using Dubrovnik on any temporary non-availability of parts of the manoeuvring area. The Investigation considered the arrangements made for visually communicating non-availability of part of the normally available runway. It was noted that ICAO Annex 14 and other guidance documents stated that a white ‘X’ marking is not necessary if a runway or part of it “is only closed for a short duration and when the information on its closing information is published by an adequate warning issued by the AIS provider” but that they also “do not define the meaning of the terms ‘short duration’ or ‘adequate warning’. The Investigation was informed that the closed marking ‘X’ was not placed since the entire closed area was the construction site where the pavement surface was being removed”. However, it was noted that such temporary ‘X’ markings are usually not painted but provided using tailored fabrics secured by pavement fasteners or mounted on a portable structure. The Conclusions of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the following remarks: The regulatory standards applicable to the subject event are not precisely defined in certain areas, which leaves certain freedom to the organisations involved to define specific conducts, such as applying horizontal markings or defining information to be transmitted via ATIS or through controller via radio.. Flight preparation is an important segment when it comes to the safety of the flight itself. The information provided to the flight crew during preparation has a significant impact on flight decisions. In the present case, it was established that the preparation was inadequate for the subject flight. The level of complexity in the documentation which flight crews review during flight preparation can make it difficult to understand certain information by the crew, especially if the flight crew operates several flights in a row. In such cases, an additional role in preparation of the flight itself can be assumed by the operations centre of the operator, which by its action can alert the flight crew to certain risks and dangers..