For air traffic control, the regulatory authority issued reporting categories that were derived from ESARR 2 dealing with reporting and assessment of safety occurrences in ATM. Reportable occurrences in this field therefore include: Separation losses between aircraft where no avoiding action was carried out. Inadequate separation (where no minima exists). Runway incursions. Aircraft deviation from clearances. Deviation from procedures. Failure of communication function. Failure of surveillance function. Failure of data processing- and distribution function. The investigation process is one of the most important parts of a safety culture. The reports received by Naviair (Danish air navigation service provider) range from small deviations or technical malfunctions, to serious losses of separation. Naturally, not all situations will receive the same amount of attention and interest from the investigators. While all reports are evaluated, in order to gain maximum flight safety benefit, priorities have been established for dealing with the reports. The evaluation tries to establish whether immediate correction is required. These situations would typically be cases of separation losses between aircraft or serious procedural or technical issues. All separation losses between aircraft are investigated thoroughly, and these incidents are categorised and include the following: Separation minima infringement. Runway incursion where avoiding action was necessary. Inadequate separation between aircraft. The investigation includes the gathering of all factual data such as voice recordings, radar recordings, flight progress strips, etc. This is followed by interviews face to face with the involved controller(s) and other personnel relevant to the situation. The investigator then produces a written report (within a maximum of 10 weeks), the purpose of which is to recommend changes to prevent similar incidents. The incident investigators are trained in both investigation techniques and human factors. In addition, they are generally required to maintain their operational status, which enhances the credibility of the controllers and the investigation process.