A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Korean Aviation and Railway Accident Investigation Board (ARAIB) based on relevant data from the FDR in both aircraft and recorded ATC and meteorological data which were all aligned to a common time base. The 37 year-old Training Captain in command of the Airbus A319 was occupying the right hand seat and had a total of 11,032 hours flying experience which included 9,473 hours on type and 5,224 hours in command. A 31 year-old First Officer undergoing command upgrade line training and occupying the left seat had a total of 6,870 hours flying experience of which all but 250 hours were on type. Another First Officer with a total of 2,190 hours flying experience all but 290 hours on type was occupying the supernumerary crew seat and acting as Safety Pilot. The 48 year-old Training Captain in command of the Boeing 737 had a total of 9,225 hours flying experience which included 3,856 hours in command. The 39 year-old First Officer was undergoing line training on type and had a total of 3,277 hours flying experience and the investigated flight was the third sector of his second day of line training. A 31 year old Captain was occupying the supernumerary crew seat and acting as Safety Pilot. He had a total of 6,415 hours flying experience which included 2,491 hours in command. The 24 year-old Air Force GND controller had just over three years experience and was also qualified to act as TWR (Runway) controller. The 26 year-old Air Force TWR controller had almost seven years experience and was also qualified to act as GND controller and, for the nine months preceding the investigated event, as a shift leader. Both controllers had approval to control civil traffic issued by the Korean Transportation Safety Authority and were working the night shift. Cheongju is a joint military/civil use airport with ATC provided by Korean Air Force (KAF) controllers approved to handle civil air traffic. There are two parallel concrete runways, 24R/06L and 24L/06R, with the northern runway which is 2,744 metres long and 60 metres wide allocated for civil use and the narrower (45 metres wide) southern runway used for military flights. The northern runway does not have a parallel taxiway or direct access from the terminal apron to either end of the runway which means that departing civil aircraft have to enter via taxiway B3 at the mid-point and then backtrack to begin their takeoffs. The Cheongju Aerodrome Diagram with the tracks of the two aircraft superimposed. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The ground tracks of the A319 (red) as it entered the runway to back track for takeoff and the 737 (yellow) which had just touched down. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The runway in use was 24R and a Boeing 737 was on an ILS final approach and working the approach radar frequency. Ninety seconds after calling established on the LOC, it had 4 nm to touchdown and the radar controller