the centreline which was sufficient to prevent a collision. The presence of fog patches on the aerodrome meant that the controllers would have needed to supplement their visual monitoring of clearance compliance by reference to surface radar. The fact that the conflict occurred in such conditions at night would have complicated the controllers’ judgement of the limits of visual surveillance and the GND controller subsequently stated that he had not seen the A319 enter the runway. He had handed the aircraft to the TWR controller without confirming its position as procedurally required and by this time it had already entered the runway. The responsibility of China Southern Airlines to ensure that its pilots were provided with training compatible with their operational exposure to risk was reviewed and it was concluded that it had been “insufficient” and too reliant on “self learning”. The importance of immediately clarifying any lack of clarity in respect of any clearance limit was considered to have been inadequately emphasised based on the “arbitrary interpretation” by all three pilots of the taxi clearance limit and the universal distinction between GND controller authority and the exclusive runway control authority of a TWR controller. The performance of the two KAF controllers involved was reviewed. It was observed that the critical requirement for verbal communication of clear and unambiguous clearance limits and the corresponding requirement to obtain a correct read back from pilots had been ignored by the GND controller. The absence of adequate monitoring of the progress of the A319 by the same controller was also noted. The prevailing ATC procedures at Cheongju were reviewed and found to state that it was “recommended” that a taxi clearance should use either of the following alternative formats: Runway (number), Taxi via (route as necessary) or. Runway (number), Taxi via (route and/or hold short instructions as necessary). This overall guidance was observed to allow the issue of a departing aircraft taxi clearance without necessarily including a clearance limit at or prior to entering the runway. It was noted that this was contrary to ICAO Doc 4444 section 12.3.4.7 which requires that a taxi clearance must, where relevant, include specification of a “holding point” or “hold short of runway number”. It was considered that “ground controllers need to use clear control terms when issuing taxi clearances" by supplementing the procedures which had been in force at Cheongju Airport at the time. Since all departing aircraft must enter and backtrack the runway before lining up for takeoff, this was considered to be of particular local importance. In respect of approval to enter active runways, it was observed that the China Southern Airlines flight crew did not properly understand the taxi instruction issued by the GND controller but did not seek to confirm its contents which it was considered should be of particular concern at airports that have few aircraft movements. It was noted that R/T communications for pilots at the airline were conducted as part of “communication training” and it was found that a