pilot holding an ICAO English Level 4 qualification did not receive any additional training related to air traffic control communications. It was noted that at other similar large airlines, much more pilot training on ATC control procedures and terminology was normal and that in comparison, China Southern Airlines “lacked control procedure training courses and training time for flight crew”. It was concluded that “as a result, flight crew lacked an adequate understanding of control procedures and control terminology”. This was considered in particular to extend to a lack of pilot appreciation of the fact that ground movement control on any active runway is reserved to TWR (runway) controllers. It was judged that in respect of ATC procedures and terminology, China Southern Airlines’ pilots needed to be provided with improved training runway usage procedures. It was noted that Cheongju was categorised in the China Southern OM as a Class ‘B’ airport in line with their policy for military airports or others with slight operational anomalies. The necessary route qualification required Captains to obtain “1-2 hours of self-study” and complete 2 flights to the airport concerned, with route qualification received after the second one. In the case of the investigated flight, the visit to Cheongju was the route qualification flight to operate there in command. The Investigation considered that compared to other airlines' air traffic control procedures training courses and training hours for similar airports, this was below the normal and such training needed to be enhanced. A consequence of the absence of both a parallel taxiway and direct access to the ends of both runways was noted as an unusually short taxi out to reach the runway holding point. This routine use of the active runway for taxiing was considered to introduce vulnerability to mistakes by controllers or pilots in respect of taxi clearances and would have justified the use by the GND controller of a supplementary instruction such as “Hold short of Runway 24R on B3”. It was also noted that although flashing Runway Guard Lights were in place at the B3 holding point, these would have no relevance to a pilot who mistakenly believed that they had been cleared to enter the runway. The absence of a controllable illuminated stop bar at the holding point was noted and it was considered that had one been installed and illuminated, it would have reliably identified the runway holding point and indicated even in low visibility conditions that the clearance limit had been reached. The fact that the A319 flight crew had mistaken a poorly-given clearance "Runway 24R, taxi via B3" to mean "Taxi to Runway 24R" was clearly critical to the incursion. However, it was considered that despite the non-standard phraseology used, such a clearance could not have authorised entry to the runway and should not have been “interpreted arbitrarily”. Had it raised any doubt, this should have been queried. It was concluded that CRM between the flight crew in respect of ATC communications did not function properly because “there was