The issue with a person "not being there" can be dealt with at both organisational and personal level. The organisation must establish procedures and distribute tasks in such a way that people are provided enough time and resources to complete them, meaning they do not have to work "in background mode" while providing air traffic services. On a personal level, it is a matter of self-discipline to focus on the tasks at hand. Unfortunately, there is no formal, measurable way to address this issue. On the other hand, both erosion of skills and not being up-to-date can be mitigated by placing a formal requirement for minimum hours, i.e. to exercise the licence privileges every so often. Many countries have strict rules about this. Additionally, the following factors may be considered: The basic problem may be more related to individuals than to the system. This makes it especially difficult to design indiscriminate procedures.. Reducing the number of unit and sector endorsements is a step to consider. While working interchangeably between a tower and approach units at the same aerodrome (or a tower and ground) is perfectly acceptable and adding a degree of flexibility, adding endorsement for ACC sector(s) or supervisor duties to those may prove to be too much. This is especially true for people who combine office work with being a controller.. Regular competence checks or the introduction of continuous assessment are a good preventive tool.. Studying recordings of RTF exchanges with an instructor will help to detect errors in phraseology.. In the European Union, the procedures for maintaining and assessing controller competence are described in the Unit Competency Scheme. This is a document that is required so that the unit complies with Regulation 2015/340 and contains, among other things: A minimum of hours for exercising the privileges of the unit endorsement within a defined period of time, which does not exceed 12 months (but can be shorter, e.g. 6 or 3 months). It is also possible to define several minima, e.g. a quarterly and a yearly one. If the requirements are not met, appropriate remedial procedures are defined, e.g. simulator training, supervision by an OJTI, assessment procedures, etc.. A maximum continuous period (90 days at most) when the privileges of a unit endorsement are not exercised. If this period is exceeded then appropriate procedure is executed for competence assessment and/or training. It is acceptable to define different procedures for different situations. Generally, the longer the period is, the more training will be required. It is possible, however, to prescribe the necessary training based on e.g. simulator assessment.. A special provision defining how the OJTI's time spent instructing is to be counted in this regard. The Regulation sets an upper limit of 50%, meaning that, at most, half these hours are treated as being in position. Note that if an OJTI instructs trainees in a simulator, this is not counted towards the minimum required hours..