An Investigation into the accident was initially commenced by the Directorate of Civil Aviation Netherlands Antilles (DCANA) but on 17 November 2009 the Dutch Safety Board (DSB) received a request from the of the Ministry of Traffic and Transport of the Netherlands Antilles to take over the Investigation and began work immediately. The DSB Investigation sought to established the full circumstances of the accident as well as carry out a review of the emergency services response to it. It was noted that the aircraft was not required to be fitted with either a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) or Flight Data Recorder (FDR), nor had it been so fitted. However recorded radar data showing the progress of the flight was available. It was noted that the Pilot had achieved his first command relatively recently on the BN2 Islander having gained most of his commercial multi-engine flying experience as a Co-pilot on the DE HAVILLAND CANADA DHC-6 Twin Otter undertaking similar VFR operations to the ones he was now flying on the Islander. It was established that the aircraft had taken off from Curaçao for Bonaire with all ten seats occupied including the one next to the pilot. Climb to a cruising level of FL035 for the overwater flight to Bonaire had proceeded normally, but when the pilot throttled back to cruise power upon reaching this level, the right engine had failed. After unsuccessful attempts at a restart, the pilot had been observed to feather the failed engine propeller and maintain directional control by use of rudder. Despite the failure occurring whilst the aircraft was still over or very near land - and only about a quarter of the way along the planned route - the Pilot continued the flight towards Bonaire. It was found that although the flight was VFR and the cruise altitude was therefore at the discretion of the Pilot, the normally chosen cruise altitude was 2000 feet. Although no reason for this decision could be determined, the Investigation did find circumstantial evidence in the form of irregularities in the loadsheet prepared by the pilot for the flight which indicated that he may well have been aware that the aircraft was overloaded - the Investigation view on this subject was stated as: “The ninth passenger and the values for the baggage, cargo and fuel weights were not shown on the load and balance sheet filled in by the pilot…..and the only possible explanation for this is that filling in the weight of the ninth passenger and the correct baggage, cargo and fuel weights would have made the total take-off weight on the sheet higher than 6600 lb. This would have been reason for keeping the aircraft on the ground as it would have exceeded the (absolute maximum) weight limit of 6600 lb that was being applied by Divi Divi Air. The supposition is justified that the pilot must have been aware that the aircraft was being overloaded.” As the flight progressed, it became apparent that altitude could not be