used for the radio communication with Curaçao TWR does not record the actual time so that the Investigation could not accurately determine the timeline related to TWR radio communications.. The alerting and the emergency services on Bonaire were poorly coordinated and therefore did not operate optimally. Findings in respect of this factor were formally stated as: The incident site command that should have taken charge of the emergency services in accordance with the Bonaire Island Territory crisis plan was not formed. Insufficient multidisciplinary drills had been organised and assessed for executive officials who have a task to perform in accordance with the Bonaire island territory accident crisis plan. They were, therefore, insufficiently prepared for their task.. The incident site command that should have taken charge of the emergency services in accordance with the Bonaire Island Territory crisis plan was not formed.. Insufficient multidisciplinary drills had been organised and assessed for executive officials who have a task to perform in accordance with the Bonaire island territory accident crisis plan. They were, therefore, insufficiently prepared for their task.. The fire service and police boats could not be deployed promptly after the accident.. The Investigation noted the following Safety Action taken as a result of the Accident: (1) The Directorate of Civil Aviation of the Netherlands Antilles: introduced a requirement for all Antillean airline companies flying the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft to base their load sheets on the actual weight of passengers and their hand luggage. Following consideration of data collected during the initial application of this requirement, a new standard weight of 80kg per adult was set for use as an alternative means of calculating the total weight of passengers and their hand baggage.. complied an inventory of the different types of Britten-Norman Islander in the Netherlands Antilles and their various limiting weights, including the climb-limited take-off weight.. (2) Divi Divi Air: introduced a maximum of nine people including the pilot permitted on board each BN2 flight.. introduced passenger weighing at both Curaçao and on Bonaire on 5. November 2009 and subsequently, as permitted, changed to the new 80 kg standard weight after CAA consideration of the results of this had been sent weekly to the Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) for three months. has stopped the carriage of newspapers on the first (BN2 operated) flight of the day.. a maximum refuelling (at Curaçao) to half full after every return flight.. The maximum allowed take-off weight has been reduced to 6300 lb.. the standard altitude between Curaçao and Bonaire will now be 3500 feet and the standard altitude for the return to Curaçao will now be 4500 feet.. It is now required that a check is performed to ensure that passengers are briefed by ground staff and the pilot to ensure completeness.. All Britten-Norman Islander Safety Instruction Cards have been changed and replaced.. The Safety Instructions Card is now also shown at the check-in desk.. The load and balance sheet has been improved and replaced.. Pilots have received instruction regarding the proper use