no traces of extraordinary wear and tear. Overall, it was considered that both engines had been in good condition. The magnetos and carburettors were too corroded after seawater immersion to be functionally tested but no mechanical problems were found to indicate that the engines were not capable of producing power. It was concluded that the left engine was still providing high power up to the ditching. From the statements of the passengers in respect of the attempted restarting of the right engine following its failure, it could be concluded that it did not stop due to an engine seizure and that this conclusion was supported by the absence of any indications of overheating or lack of lubrication of engine parts. The main focus of the Investigation became what was soon discovered to have been the systemic failure of Divi Divi Air to operate safely and a concomitant systemic failure of the system of Regulatory Oversight to resolve this situation. Although there had not been significant consequences of this in the investigated accident, there were also concerns at the apparent fitness for purpose of the available emergency response ‘system’. The Investigation concluded that the three Causal Factors which had contributed to the accident were: After one of the two engines failed, the flight continued to Bonaire. By not returning to the nearby situated departure airport, the safest flight operation was not chosen – continuing to fly after engine failure was contrary to the general principle for twin-engine aircraft as set down in the Civil Aviation Regulations for the Netherlands Antilles (CARNA) which is to land at the nearest suitable airport.. The aircraft could not maintain horizontal flight when it continued with the flight and an emergency landing at sea became unavoidable - the aircraft departed with an overload of 9% when compared to the maximum structural take-off weight of 6600 lb. The pilot who was himself responsible for the loading of the aircraft was aware of the overloading or could have been aware of this. A non-acceptable risk was taken by continuing the flight under these conditions where the aircraft could not maintain altitude due to the overloading.. The pilot did not act as could be expected when executing the flight and preparing for the emergency landing - the landing was executed with flaps up and, therefore, the aircraft had a higher landing speed - the pilot failed to ensure that the passengers had understood the safety instructions after boarding and made insufficient attempts to inform passengers about the approaching emergency landing at sea after the engine failure so that they were unable to prepare themselves sufficiently.. The following three Contributing Factors were also identified: Divi Divi Air management paid insufficient supervision to the safety of, amongst others, the flight operation using Britten-Norman Islanders. This resulted in insufficient attention to the risks of overloading. Findings in respect of this factor were formally stated as: Although the maximum structural take-off weight of 6600 lb was used as limit during the BN2 flight