maintained on one engine - radar data (see the diagram below) showed that the aircraft descended at an average rate of approximately 140 fpm from the moment the engine failed until the ditching. Eventually, approaching Bonaire, it became obvious that a ditching would be inevitable. This was performed without flaps set and with the stall warning system sounding as impact with the water approached. Contact with the water resulted in the left front door being torn off such that the cabin rapidly filled with water. However all nine passengers were able to exit the aircraft and formed a group in the water with those wearing life jackets supporting those who were not. The Pilot was trapped in his seat by the distortion of the front of the aircraft caused by the impact and had also hit his head on the cabin structure and been knocked unconscious. Despite efforts by passengers to release him, he was still trapped and apparently unconscious when the aircraft sank shortly afterwards and according to the subsequent post mortem died from drowning. The Investigation found that although there was no specific ditching procedure in the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM), instructions for ditching were included in the Divi Divi Air General Operating Manual. These stated that in order to minimise impact forces by landing at as low a speed as possible, the flaps should be selected their maximum setting for any ditching with one engine inoperative. These instructions also stated that “a stall situation should be avoided because it will result in uncontrolled impact with the water surface:. Corresponding pilot training was found to have been provided on these points. In was additionally established that Company Pilot Line Training emphasised that on the Curaçao to Bonaire route, a return to Curaçao should be made “even when engine problems occur past halfway (point) due to the prevailing eastern trade wind, the better landing options on the east coast of Curaçao and the better technical and assistance facilities on Curaçao”. The reported deformation of the front of the aircraft structure caused during the ditching was confirmed following the recovery of the wreckage – see the illustration below: In respect of the weight of the aircraft, it was found that on the instructions of the pilot the accident aircraft had been refuelled prior to departure to full tanks. Although it was noted that the Britten-Norman Islander fuel type was not available in Bonaire and so return fuel had to be carried, it was found that a maximum fuel load was sufficient for three return flights on the high frequency service on the Curaçao - Bonaire route and that Pilots often uplifted fuel sufficient for multiple return flights in order to save time. Despite every attempt being made, it proved impossible for the Investigation to determine why the right engine had malfunctioned. On this subject, the Investigation noted that disassembly and examination of both recovered engines found no indications that parts had overheated or suffered from insufficient lubrication and there were