did not include an illustration of the pouches under the seats nor instructions on how to open these pouches. The life jacket was shown with two and not a single waist belt and the life jackets had a different back than the actual life jackets on-board.. Due to the high noise level in the cabin during the flight it is difficult to communicate with the passengers during an emergency situation.. The safety instruction cards did not include an illustration of the pouches under the seats nor instructions on how to open these pouches. The life jacket was shown with two and not a single waist belt and the life jackets had a different back than the actual life jackets on-board.. The oversight of the Netherlands Antilles DCA (currently the Curaçao CAA) of the operational management of Divi Divi Air was insufficient in relation to the AOC authorisation for use of the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft. Findings in respect of this factor were formally stated as: The operational restrictions that formed the basis for using 6600 lb (as a MTOW) were missing in the AOC, in the C of A of the accident aircraft and in the approved General Operating Manual of Divi Divi Air. The restrictions require flight only during daylight, under VMC and when a route is flown from where a safe emergency landing can be executed in case of engine failure. The required (demonstrable) relationship between actual and assumed average passenger weights used for drawing up the load and balance sheet was missing. The failure of Divi Divi Air’s internal supervision system for the load and balance programme. Not noticing deviations between the (approved) safety instruction cards and the life jackets on-board during annual inspections. The standard average passenger weight of 80kg set after the accident offers insufficient security that the exceedance of the maximum allowed take-off weight of flights with Antillean airline companies that fly with the Britten-Norman Islander will not occur.. The operational restrictions that formed the basis for using 6600 lb (as a MTOW) were missing in the AOC, in the C of A of the accident aircraft and in the approved General Operating Manual of Divi Divi Air. The restrictions require flight only during daylight, under VMC and when a route is flown from where a safe emergency landing can be executed in case of engine failure.. The required (demonstrable) relationship between actual and assumed average passenger weights used for drawing up the load and balance sheet was missing.. The failure of Divi Divi Air’s internal supervision system for the load and balance programme.. Not noticing deviations between the (approved) safety instruction cards and the life jackets on-board during annual inspections.. The standard average passenger weight of 80kg set after the accident offers insufficient security that the exceedance of the maximum allowed take-off weight of flights with Antillean airline companies that fly with the Britten-Norman Islander will not occur.. Finally, three Other Factors identified as a result of the Investigation as follows: he recording system