operation of Divi Divi Air was accepted by the oversight authority, formal consent had not been granted for this. A standard average passenger weight of 160 lb was in use for BN2 load and balance sheets whilst the actual average passenger weight was significantly higher. This meant that passenger weight was often lower on paper than was the case in reality. A take-off weight of exactly 6600 lb completed on the load and balance sheet had occurred in 32% of a survey of these inter island BN2 flights conducted during the investigation. This is considered to be a strong indication that the luggage and fuel weights completed were incorrect in these cases and that, in reality, the maximum structural take-off weight of 6600 lb was exceeded. Exceedances of the maximum structural landing weight of 6300 lb occurred in 61% of the same survey of inter-island flights. The exceedance of the maximum allowed take-off weight had been recorded for all three of the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft in use and with different pilots. Insufficient attention had been paid to aircraft weight limitations during training. Lack of internal supervision with regard to the load and balance programme. Combining management tasks at Divi Divi Air, which may have meant that insufficient details were defined regarding the related responsibilities.. Although the maximum structural take-off weight of 6600 lb was used as limit during the BN2 flight operation of Divi Divi Air was accepted by the oversight authority, formal consent had not been granted for this.. A standard average passenger weight of 160 lb was in use for BN2 load and balance sheets whilst the actual average passenger weight was significantly higher. This meant that passenger weight was often lower on paper than was the case in reality.. A take-off weight of exactly 6600 lb completed on the load and balance sheet had occurred in 32% of a survey of these inter island BN2 flights conducted during the investigation. This is considered to be a strong indication that the luggage and fuel weights completed were incorrect in these cases and that, in reality, the maximum structural take-off weight of 6600 lb was exceeded.. Exceedances of the maximum structural landing weight of 6300 lb occurred in 61% of the same survey of inter-island flights.. The exceedance of the maximum allowed take-off weight had been recorded for all three of the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft in use and with different pilots.. Insufficient attention had been paid to aircraft weight limitations during training.. Lack of internal supervision with regard to the load and balance programme.. Combining management tasks at Divi Divi Air, which may have meant that insufficient details were defined regarding the related responsibilities.. The safety equipment and instructions on-board the Britten-Norman Islander aircraft currently being used were not in order. Findings in respect of this factor were formally stated as: Due to the high noise level in the cabin during the flight it is difficult to communicate with the passengers during an emergency situation. The safety instruction cards