The REC database was created with the intention of integrating results from working groups such as the ADREP 2000 study group (Corrie, 1995). It also took into consideration studies from: The French Aeronautics and Space Research Center (ONERA, 1998) on the development of a reporting system and safety analysis tools in GA. The French Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC, 1999) on the development of a methodology for Operational Incident Reporting and Analysis Systems (OIRAS).. The list of keywords in REC was created by using adaptive keywords: Recognizing the evolutionary nature of an OIRAS as an organizational learning tool, certain keyword groups will be 'living lists' that will expand as more data are received from operators and as analysts challenge and expand their own thinking.. For each occurrence, positive factors were encoded such as those that: Prevented an accident. Mitigated the consequences of the incident. Ultimately permitted the actor to restore normalcy to the situation. In a consistent manner, a list was empirically generated with known recovery strategies, as well as known protections and defenses against dangerous outcomes of failures. They all resulted from the analysis of voluntary reports with a strong emphasis on human factors. The resulting list of 17 numbered factors shown in Table 2 is revisited and updated on a regular basis. Figure 2 illustrates their frequency in the REC database. A single occurrence can have several of these factors that worked together to complement each other. The few occurrences that are only descriptive (i.e., with no explanatory factors or causes) do not generally include such a positive factor. Between 2000 and May 2005, 904 positive factors were recorded in a consistent manner. Eighty-one percent of the occurrences include one or more recovery factors. Priority was placed on data quality, rather than quantity, in order to produce a comprehensive and consistent dataset for analyses. This is supportive of the notion that ideas to improve human performance and prevent accidents can come from individual occurrences without having to wait for a "sufficient" sample of incidents to occur[9]. The distribution in Figure 2 illustrates predictable results. It shows that training instructions are probably the most efficient way to prevent accidents in GA. The introduction in ICAO’s documentation on LOSA also highlights that “training interventions can be reshaped and reinforced based on successful performance, that is to say, positive feedback” (ICAO, 2002). Thorough visual detection is also a frequent safety net in the prevention of collisions. Some factors are related to outside interventions, and others highlight the key role of ATC and the decision-making process.