and “why.” It complements factual information (e.g., “who,” “where,” “when,” “what”). Technical safety barriers or nets can already be recorded in the ADREP 2000 taxonomy[1], as implemented in the European Coordination Centre for Aviation Incident Reporting Systems (ECCAIRS). [So far, only technical (“hard”) barriers can be recorded in the ADREP taxonomy, throughout ECCAIRS (European Co-ordination Centre for Aviation Incident Reporting Systems). There are dedicated fields:- in the Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT) section of the “Aircraft” topic for: GPWS/TAWS/GPWS/TAWS (section 440 in ECCAIRS): Ground Proximity Warning System / Terrain Awareness and Warning System, - in the “ATS Unit” topic for: ATM safety nets (section 870) that can flag: Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) (attribute 380): Short Term Conflict Alert, Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) (attribute 370): Minimum Safe Altitude Warning System, APWI (attribute 364): Area Proximity Warning Information, Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System (attribute 367): Aerodrome Surface Movement Guidance Control System, - in the “Separation topic” for: Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS)/Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) alerts (attribute 563): Airborne Collision Avoidance System / Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System. Remark: The presence of these systems, the failure of their expected function, the reaction of the front-line operators characterizing the coupling of the human system can be captured in these fields. Albeit already embedded in the taxonomy, they are not often used.] When analyzing how human defenses may have prevented or lessened the severity of incidents, it is not currently possible to keep track of positive factors such as a successful third party intervention or the correct and timely application of the relevant procedure. If these successful human interventions were recorded, the resulting database would serve a proactive role in accident and incident prevention. This would be in addition to the current reactive paradigm in which data are used to define a defense (a new system or regulation) after an accident. The exchange of these proactive safety data within and between the different organizations involved in safety would be a valuable prevention tool.