A taxonomy is a classification of items into specially named groups based either on shared characteristics or on established relationships as inferred from experience. Taxonomies are useful in understanding how diverse elements, such as the causes of accidents or incidents, relate to each other. Databases structured with appropriate taxonomies make it possible to assess how frequently each causal element occurs. The current international standard for aviation accident/incident databases is the ICAO Accident/Incident Data Reporting System (ADREP) 2000 taxonomy. It encompasses a causal model built on the human factors SHELL model. Its factors can be articulated at active and systemic levels in a dynamic approach. The ADREP 2000 taxonomy enables an analyst to break down an occurrence into a list of events, each of which is described by descriptive and explanatory factors. In the structure shown in Figure 1, modifiers are available for both descriptive and explanatory factors. [632 modifiers are available in ADREP 2000. They underscore deficiencies by using negative words, such as: NOT … (e.g., not aborted, not activated…) or. UN… (e.g., unable to reset, unacceptable, unclear…) or. TOO… (e.g., too early, too close, too high…) or. OVER… or UNDER… (e.g., overestimated or underestimated…)]. Now, only failures (active or latent) are encoded by the ADREP taxonomy. The purpose of the coding is to keep track of the frequency (recurrence) of these encoded factors. By comparing frequency with an assessment of severity, risk levels of various undesirable events can be defined. If the factor categories contained both negative and positive modifiers, the data would be inappropriate for calculating risk factors because the frequency of occurrence of each factor would mix both causes of and prevention of the resulting problem. By definition, positive factors cannot be causal in accidents or incidents. For example, if the explanatory factor “human interface-standard operating procedures” encoded with a positive modifier such as “appropriate” were to be aggregated together with the causal factor of “inappropriate human interface-standard operating procedures,” the result would be an erroneous inflation of the causal frequency of this factor. [In ADREP 2000, the code of this factor is: 401010000. Its definition is: “Factors related to the interface between liveware [human] and Standard Operating Procedures, e.g. the procedure is inappropriate or the manner in which the procedures are written down is ambiguous.”] Encoding only negative factors in the ADREP 2000 taxonomy ensures that the resulting database can be used to assess the risk associated with human factors causal elements in accidents and incidents. Unfortunately, without the inclusion of positive factors, the current framework makes it difficult to identify actions or situations that were preventive rather than causal (e.g., stopped an incident from becoming an accident). Therefore, it would appear beneficial to develop dedicated taxonomy entries for positive factors. The data to form these factors would necessarily come from the operating experience of the people in the system. The causal structure found in the events and factors section of ADREP 2000 corresponds to analyzed data and seeks to provide answers to the questions “how”