The REC database contains reports from GA and focuses on decision making. From a human factors standpoint, commercial aviation can learn much from GA, especially when it comes to a more in-depth analysis of the decision-making process. This is because: In GA, especially in visual flight rules (VFR) operations, the recurrent training requirements and procedures (i.e., the “soft” defenses) are minimal (BEA, 2004). Therefore, when a situation becomes increasingly difficult for a pilot (e.g., adverse weather), he or she cannot fall back upon detailed and specific procedures to make the appropriate decision for flight safety. Fewer procedures also imply a less pervasive operational structure (e.g., no flight operations department) to support and help the front-line actor. The absence of an organizational structure may also mean reduced opportunities to benefit from the experience of others in similar situations.. The spectrum of decision possibilities is much broader in GA than in commercial aviation where crews are operating within better defined boundaries and measurable thresholds. That is why the REC system decided to tackle voluntary GA reports with emphasis on decision making.. The analysis of each decision undertaken during the process of a report was based on safety principles and not on strict application of rules and procedures. The objective was to learn as much as possible about why the occurrence happened. Regulations aim to define the limits of the expected safe range of actions. Although comprehensive, regulations cannot possibly foresee the entire spectrum of decision-making situations a pilot may face. GA judgments and decisions are made along a risk continuum without many defined benchmarks. Commercial aviation decision making is overlaid by regulations that often define precisely what is allowed and what is forbidden (see Figure 3).. The REC system is dedicated to collecting and disseminating this type of information to pilots and others in the aviation system. The REC approach ensures that the context of the reported decision making and actions is adequately identified, documented and reported (Benner and Rimson, 1996). It aims to avoid the retrospective fallacy that can be encountered in some investigations when the actors cannot describe their “stream of decisions” (Vaughan, 1996). Many airline pilots undertook their basic training in GA. In some public transport accident investigations, deficiencies in initial training were identified as contributing factors. Conversely, the judgment and decision making that are core parts of the training of a VFR pilot are generally not revisited in the program for commercial qualification and instrument or type ratings and can be vital to saving the day. For example, the final report of an incident in which a pilot had to perform a “dead-stick” landing in a commercial aircraft stresses: “Although he [the pilot] had never received formal training on gliding approaches, he had experienced doing power-off approaches to landing in a number of aircraft types that he had flown.”