control the oxygen flow to all users.. Diluter-demand. When installed, diluter-demand regulators will be located at each crew position. Depending upon user selection, the diluter-demand regulator can provide 100% oxygen, 100% oxygen under positive pressure or a mixture of oxygen "diluted" with cabin air on a specific, altitude based schedule. As an example, at 8000', the regulator might send 100% ambient air to the mask whereas at 41000', it would provide 100% oxygen. The regulator also works on "demand". That is, the oxygen or air-oxygen mixture only flows into the mask during inhalation. Note that the regulator might be a stand alone unit or it could be incorporated into the mask itself.. An oxygen mask is provided at each flight deck station. The mask could be of the "full face" variety incorporating smoke goggles or a "mouth and nose" type mask with smoke goggles available separately. The masks at the pilot stations will incorporate microphones to allow internal and external communications. Masks are fitted to the face utilizing various suspension harnesses. For aircraft which routinely fly above 25,000', masks are generally of the "quick-donning" variety. These are designed to allow them to be put on in 5 seconds or less using only one hand and often utilize oxygen system pressure to activate an inflatable harness for quick donning. For diluter-demand systems, selectors for normal, 100% and positive pressure maybe incorporated into the mask itself. If not, they will be found on the associated regulator. Diluter-demand oxygen masks are stowed with the selector in the 100% oxygen position and should be reselected to the normal (or diluting) position when mask utilization is required for other than a smoke or fume event.. The mask could be of the "full face" variety incorporating smoke goggles or a "mouth and nose" type mask with smoke goggles available separately.. The masks at the pilot stations will incorporate microphones to allow internal and external communications.. Masks are fitted to the face utilizing various suspension harnesses. For aircraft which routinely fly above 25,000', masks are generally of the "quick-donning" variety. These are designed to allow them to be put on in 5 seconds or less using only one hand and often utilize oxygen system pressure to activate an inflatable harness for quick donning.. For diluter-demand systems, selectors for normal, 100% and positive pressure maybe incorporated into the mask itself. If not, they will be found on the associated regulator. Diluter-demand oxygen masks are stowed with the selector in the 100% oxygen position and should be reselected to the normal (or diluting) position when mask utilization is required for other than a smoke or fume event.. In non-pressurised aircraft which routinely fly above 10,000', passenger oxygen is typically provided by either a fixed or a portable system. Fixed systems draw their oxygen supply from a pressurised cylinder of gaseous oxygen. This can be a dedicated cylinder or it might be the same cylinder that is used to supply the flight deck occupants. An oxygen manifold runs from the