An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were successfully downloaded from the aircraft as was relevant engineering data from the Digital Access Recorder (DAR). Additional data was obtained from the Non Volatile Memory in the Centralised Fault Display System (CFDS), the Brake and Steering Control Unit (BSCU), the Fire Detection Units (FDUs) and the Engine EECs. It was established at an early stage from photographic evidence supplied to the Investigation that the fan cowl doors on both engines had been unlatched prior to aircraft pushback from the parking gate. A Special Bulletin was published on 31 May 2013 to report initial findings and this included one Safety Recommendation as follows: that Airbus formally notifies operators of A320-family aircraft of the fan cowl door loss event on A319 G-EUOE on 24 May 2013, and reiterates the importance of verifying that the fan cowl doors are latched prior to flight by visually checking the position of the latches. [2013-011]. It was established that during the take off from runway 27L with the First Officer (who had also conducted the first flight of the day external pre-flight check) as PF, the fan cowl doors from both engines had almost entirely detached during rotation. A number of passengers had seen these doors "flapping" during the take off and their subsequent detachment but, although a series of Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) fault messages began to occur, the flight crew were unaware what had happened until later. The pilot of another aircraft lining up on the same runway soon after the A319 had departed "observed a significant amount of debris on the runway, prompting them to transmit a PAN call to air traffic control". Some passengers pressed their cabin call buttons or shouted to the cabin crew to attract their attention and the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM), considering this "highly unusual" attempted to call the flight deck by interphone. Although this was noticed by the aircraft commander, procedures at that stage of the flight did not require a response and the assumption was made by the SCCM that the pilots must be busy dealing with a problem. Early indications of an EPR mode fault on the right engine and loss of the yellow hydraulic system were in fact being actioned. When the aircraft levelled at 6000 feet, he First Officer advised the aircraft commander that he thought something had hit the right wing. Four minutes after take off, a PAN was declared to ATC advising of an engine and hydraulic system problem and that a return to land would be made. Two minutes later, after "several agitated passengers" had drawn her attention to the visibly-damaged right engine, the SCCM reported this to the commander using the interphone. The SCCM had not sought or otherwise gained information from the passengers that some had observed a fuel leak and so had not been able to tell the commander of this. ATC then advised that