aircraft external inspection by the operator's pilots, nor was this required. The fact that the tug driver who had performed the pushback from the gate had also not noticed the unlatched doors during the inspection he was required to carry out was also noted but it was found that no meaningful training had been provided. A longstanding history of A320-family aircraft fan cowl doors loss events was noted. It was found that prior to the investigated event, there had been 34 previously recorded instances of such fan cowl door loss on these aircraft - 21 events to aircraft fitted with IAE V2500 engines like G-EUOE and 13 events to aircraft fitted with CFM-56 engines. Three further instances of fan cowl door losses were known to have occurred whilst the Investigation was in progress. The response to a questionnaire sent by Airbus to selected operators during the Investigation showed that 69% of previous events had followed the opening of the fan cowl doors in order to check and or top up IDG oil level. It was also found through this survey that there was "a marked correlation between fan cowl door loss and whether the fan cowl door latches were positioned on the inboard or outboard side of the fan cowl" and noted that the two engine options had the latches fitted to opposite doors and that "across both engine types, engines with fan cowl latches positioned on the inboard side of an installed engine were approximately three times as likely to be the subject of a fan cowl loss than the corresponding engine on the other side of the aircraft". A series of actions taken by Airbus over many years in an attempt to mitigate both aircraft release to service and aircraft departure with unlatched cowl doors was noted, including amendments to manuals and publication of awareness-raising literature, much of the latter having been circulated within MROs and aircraft operators including British Airways. The Airworthiness and Design context of the event was considered at length. It was concluded that although various measures had been take to address the continuing occurrence of departures with unlatched fan cowl doors, these had been only partially effective. It was noted that the event investigated had been "by far the most serious fan cowl door loss event to date because it was the first recorded event in which the departing fan cowls damaged an engine’s fuel system, causing a significant fuel leak and a subsequent uncontained fire". It was considered that "the nature of the fan cowl opening and closing tasks renders them vulnerable to the limitations of human performance" and that "procedurally-based safety actions are limited in their effectiveness and are likely to remain so". An earlier (2000) AAIB Investigation into a fan cowl door loss event was noted to have recommended a flight deck warning to alert crew to unlatched fan cowl doors which had not been considered necessary by the French DGCA. Whist it was noted that enhanced methods of open fan