commander to evacuate the aircraft on the left side, away from the fire" and the commander ordered this by PA. Despite some mishaps, no serious injury resulted and the evacuation was complete just over a minute after fire chief's instruction to initiate one. It was considered unusual for the decision to evacuate to have been "transferred to the fire chief, although he had no authority to order an evacuation". It was also considered that, in respect of the delay in the shutting down the left engine in the presence of clear evidence that the aircraft was on fire, had highlighted that leaving an engine running whilst determining whether an evacuation was necessary "can hazard rescue and evacuation activities" and that "the risk of injury to passengers during an evacuation.......has to be balanced against the risks of (their) remaining on board the aircraft". It was established that the operating crew had both been experienced on the aircraft type, the aircraft commander and the First Officer respectively having 6600 and 4100 hours on it. The investigated event involved flying the aircraft for much of the time without an A/T and it was noted that the Commander stated to the Investigation that "he had last flown the A320-series aircraft using manual thrust seven years before the accident" and the First Officer that "apart from simulator training, he had never flown the A320-series aircraft using manual thrust". Damage to the Aircraft was confirmed by inspection that the inboard and out board fan cowl doors had detached from both engines, three of them separating by de-lamination of the composite structure. The majority of the remnants were recovered from the departure runway. An examination of the aircraft found that the right engine had been extensively fire-damaged and that a low pressure fuel pipe on this engine had been punctured by a piece of the inboard fan cowl that had remained attached to engine. It was concluded that, on the evidence available, the engine fire had probably started when the yellow system hydraulic fluid, which had been liberated within a 2 minute period beginning immediately after take off, had been ignited by electrical arcing of an adjacent damaged wiring loom which was generating a temperature above the 470° C required for auto-ignition of the fluid. Although fuel leakage had commenced at about the same time, it was suspected that it was changes in the airflow around the exposed engine as the flight progressed which had allowed the leaking fuel to 'take over' as the source of fuel for the fire, eventually allowing the fire to become sufficiently aggressive to trigger the engine fire warning four minutes prior to landing. Although further fuel supply to the fire would have ceased once the engine was shut down, it was clear that there had still been a sufficient accumulation to sustain the fire until it was extinguished by AFRS action after landing. It was found that at the calculated actual fuel leak rate, which had increased after thrust had been