reduced at the top of climb and which had been slightly higher than the First Officer's in-flight estimate, had the engine not been shut down when it was, it was likely that it's fuel supply would have been exhausted prior to touchdown. Nearly 3 tonnes of fuel was found to have leaked from the right engine during the flight. The inoperative systems by the time the aircraft landed included the following: A/T. Spoilers 2 and 4. Thrust Reverser 2. Yaw Damper 2. PTU. Engine 2 Bleed, Gen2, Pack 2. Wing anti-ice. Normal Braking. Normal speed flap deployment. Alternate braking (braking in accumulator pressure only). Autobrake. Antiskid. Normal Left Engine Control (only N1 rated mode available). Structural damage caused by impact from the released cowl doors was found to the: Inboard leading edge slats. Fuselage skin close to both wing roots. Over-wing fairings. Inboard flaps. Left belly fairing. Right wing leading edge damaging part of slats 3 and 4. Outboard flap track fairing on the right wing. Left horizontal stabiliser leading edge and lower skin. Left main landing gear - damage to the landing gear bay door and a hydraulic pipe. The right main landing gear outer tyre was also found to be fully deflated after manual braking without anti skid protection during the landing. It was noted that the investigated event was the first instance where fan cowl door loss had resulted in such extensive damage or in any way led to the elevation of the level of resultant risk to that seen in this case. The response of the Aircrew was examined and in respect of the Commander and SCCM it was noted to have been less than optimal. In the case of the Commander, it was also noted that his actions had, at times, been in conflict with SOPs beyond the extent which might have been expected and had been explicitly contrary to training. However it was considered that "it is impossible within the training environment to fully replicate the complexities and cognitive and emotional loading that a real emergency produces and there does not appear to be any Safety Recommendation which could realistically address this". The release of the aircraft to service in an un-airworthy condition was examined in detail. It was found that after minor overnight maintenance on a terminal gate by two Line Maintenance Technicians working together, the unlatched fan cowl doors had been a consequence of an interrupted routine which had required them to be opened to accomplish an IDG oil check and possible oil replenishment, a significant failure to follow the prescribed Aircraft Maintenance Manual procedures for this task and the inadvertent completion if the interrupted task on an A321 parked nearby on which they had completed similar minor maintenance earlier in the same shift. The failure to follow the AMM procedures involved in opening fan cowl doors was found to be widespread and regularly tolerated rather than an exception to normal practice. It was discovered that findings of unsecured cowl doors were