not being reported as safety risk events within Engineering if the condition was rectified prior to release to service in a remotely-signed Aircraft Technical Log. The operational risk of such situations was not detected before release to service was therefore unappreciated. It was also found that "aircraft swap errors" had previously occurred in the operator's line maintenance operation at Heathrow but that no reports had been raised about these either "and therefore no mitigating actions had been taken to prevent their recurrence". It was concluded that both Technicians had been working in accordance with their employer's working time policy and that "the quantity and scope of planned work" for their shift was achievable, not excessive or unusual and within the scope of their Licensed Maintenance Authority (LMA) approval. It was additionally noted that "adverse weather conditions were not a factor in the sequence of events". However, it was noted that both Technicians were working an overtime shift which was part of a "significant level of planned and overtime working" which was attributable to staff shortage. It was considered that the risk of fatigue when the normal shift pattern was augmented by overtime working "was not (being) accounted for or measured in an objective way". The applicable EASA Regulation under Part 145.A.47(b) was noted to require that "the limitations of human performance in the context of safety-related tasks are accounted for when planning work and shifts" but that "there is currently no additional guidance material provided to assist maintenance organisations in assessing whether their working time policies are effective or compliant". It was also noted that since British Airways' working time policy was "closely aligned with the AMC material proposed by EASA as published in NPA 2013-01(C)" then had they been implemented, these AMCs would not have prevented the Technicians’ working as they had and therefore the potential context of fatigue disclosed in this event. The failure to detect the unlatched fan cowl door status once the aircraft was on the parking gate after release to service and prior to flight was accepted to be problematic. The relative difficulty of detecting unlatched doors during a flight crew pre flight inspection was acknowledged. The pictures below reproduced from the Official Report were, entirely co-incidentally, taken whilst the aircraft was on the gate prior to the investigated departure. The first one shows the gap between the outboard fan cowl door and the nose cowl on the right engine which provides evidence that the doors are not secure and the second shows the two open latches protruding visibly below the fan cowl doors of the left engine: It was noted that the fluorescent paint which should have been visible on the protruding open latches was hardly visible, but nevertheless it was found that flight crew type conversion training and documented SOP did draw attention to the need to positively check that doors were latched. In this connection, it was noted that there was no provision for regular checking of the correct conduct of an