"You've left multiple engine parts and there was smoke as you left the runway at Heathrow" and shortly afterwards, the SCCM came back on the interphone to report that the left engine fan cowl was also missing and that the right engine cowl had struck the right over-wing emergency exit. With the aircraft approximately 27 nm east of Heathrow, an ECAM fuel imbalance message was annunciated (this occurs when a 1500 kg imbalance is reached) and was recognised as a sign of a likely fuel leak. ATC were advised of this and that it appeared that about 5 tonnes of fuel remained (the aircraft had departed with 7.6 tonnes on board). The First Officer estimated that the leak rate was about 100 kg/minute. Then, with the aircraft established on the Instrument Landing System (ILS) for runway 27R at Heathrow and 9.4nm from touchdown, the right engine fire warning activated and, without any advice to or confirmation from the First Officer, the Commander immediately carried out (correctly) the corresponding memory drill which included shutting the engine down and discharging the first engine fire extinguisher shot. The CVR recording showed that he had stated his attention to shut this engine down anyway just before the fire warning occurred following an earlier crew discussion about the possibility of fuel starvation due to the leak. An un-commanded AP disconnect occurred and the First Officer transitioned to flying the aircraft manually. The commander declared a MAYDAY to ATC. The second engine fire extinguisher shot was discharged after the requisite interval but the fire warning continued. The commander took control at about 500 feet agl. An Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Alert for "Too Low Flaps" occurred at 236 feet agl because the landing configuration was not in the normal 'CONFIG 4' position at a pre-determined distance from the runway and the system override switch was selected. An uneventful touchdown was followed by a non-standard selection by the aircraft commander of reverse thrust on the left engine and then, as it slowed, the aircraft was turned so that the right engine was on the downwind side of the fuselage and stopped. The total airborne time was 27 minutes. ATC advised that they could "still see flames" and then that "flames coming still" but that the AFRS were "putting it out". Contact with the fire crew chief was established on 121.6 and, in answer to a question from the Commander as to whether an emergency evacuation was required, the fire crew chief observed that the left engine had not been shut down and told him to "hold". The Commander began a PA to the passengers to "remain seated" and whilst this was in progress, the fire chief then "asked the crew to shut down the left engine". The First Officer did so, which had the effect of removing electrical power from the COM 2 radio which was the one set to 121.6 and thus temporarily interrupted communications. Once they were restored, the fire chief "instructed the