Put simply, the LDR must be less than the LDA. Already within the dispatch phase of a flight the flight crew has to assess the landing performance of the aircraft both at the destination and the alternate aerodromes (including destination alternate(s), enroute fuel alternate or re-dispatch/re-clearance aerodromes). This is primarily done by determining the landing field length limited weight which in addition to the landing distance consideration also includes missed approach climb gradient considerations. This weight should allow a landing which brings the aircraft to a complete stop within 60-80% of the LDA in dry conditions (depending on aircraft type) and within 115% of the dry-LDA in wet conditions using the most favourable (longest) runway, however assuming maximum manual brake application. On top of that flight crews are also required in the dispatch phase to make a runway suitability check by additionally calculating the LDTA for the most likely to be assigned runway taking into account the actual kind of brake application used (e.g. selected autobrake setting), which in marginal cases with wet, slippery wet or contaminated runway conditions may exceed the LDA. In such cases dispatch is only allowed with one or even two alternate aerodrome(s) where a safe landing based on a LDTA assessment can be made. Inflight, which means enroute, but not more than 30minutes prior to expected arrival, another assessment of LDTA for both, destination and alternate aerodrome(s), has to be performed by the flight crew to determine the operational LDR. These values shall include a 15% safety margin. As mentioned before regulations specify safety factors that must be applied in determination of the landing field length limit and the LDR (see further reading). In general the LDR depends on a number of factors, principally: Aircraft performance (LDR and landing speed) is calculated by the pilots using printed tables or a computer or an Electronic Flight Bag application. This calculation takes account of the above factors, including additional safety factors. It is assumed for these calculations that the aircraft will be at a specified height (normally 50 ft) crossing the runway threshold at the correct speed, and that aircraft handling will be in accordance with procedures detailed in the AFM and company SOPs. Safety factors vary according to the aircraft type (turbo-jet or turbo-prop), the runway conditions (dry, wet, slippery wet or contaminated). Special provisions apply to steep approaches and to short landing operations including specific approval requirements from the competent authority.