Handling. Landing an aircraft is a difficult process requiring considerable manual dexterity. The pilot or, int he case of multi-crew aircraft, the flight crew must achieve the following goals: Unserviceability of any of the devices which affect the aircraft braking (brakes, anti-skid, reverse thrust, lift-dump, etc.) can have a serious effect on landing performance. Note: Dry and wet (including damp surfaces) landing performance calculations usually assume that reverse thrust is not available while slippery wet or contaminated performance calculations may, depending on aircraft certification, assume full reverse thrust available. Considerations for an engine failure during landing flare leading to a reduced deceleration capability might also be applicable in the certification process.) Major unserviceability (e.g. engine malfunction) complicates handling considerably; however, any unserviceability, even if not serious on its own, may add to control difficulties. The complexity of the landing task (even with Autoland) is such that even in ideal conditions, a perfect landing is virtually impossible, while any deviation from the ideal adds to the actual landing distance needed. Runway Surface Conditions. The maximum landing mass and the LDR greatly depends on the runway braking conditions. If these have been inaccurately reported or if the runway is wet, slippery wet or contaminated when its condition was reported as being dry, the landing distance achieved will be significantly increased. The presence of runway contamination such as standing or running water, snow, slush or ice on the runway has a particularly serious effect on landing performance and if it cannot be cleared, it must be reported as accurately as possible using runway condition codes (RWYCC) as given by the Global Reporting Format. Special techniques must be used by pilots when landing on contaminated runways. Weather Conditions. The maximum landing mass is also calculated based on the expected wind and temperature. Significant changes to the reported conditions will affect the landing distance achieved, especially in the case of tailwinds. Strong cross-winds, turbulence and wind shear make handling difficult and are likely to result in an increased flare and thereby significantly increased landing distance needed. Effect of Factors on Landing Distance Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) Briefing Note 8.3 — Landing Distances contains the following diagram which shows the approximate effects of various factors on landing distance: Figure 2 - Landing Distance Factors