After notification of the event by the Hellenic Air Accident Investigation and Aviation Safety Authority (AAIASB), ten days after the hard landing had occurred, the aircraft was grounded in Kosovo and an Investigation commenced by the Kosovo Aeronautical Accident and Incident Investigation Commission (AAIIC) and notified to all relevant parties on 20 December 2017. Relevant data from the DFDR was available but that on the CVR had been overwritten due to the delay in reporting. It was noted that the Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 10,078 flying hours of which 688 hours were on type and that the First Officer had a total of 7,356 flying hours of which 406 hours were on type. Data from the DFDR confirmed that the flight had proceeded normally until the landing. During the landing briefing, the crew had noted the light surface wind (330° at 7 knots) and agreed that a “positive” (i.e. firm) landing should be made because of a notified wet runway (but good braking action) in light rain/snow (a surface temperature of 2° C was being reported). The VOR/DME approach track was offset by 8°and the missed approach point (MAPt) was at 1.5 nm from the threshold where visual alignment with the runway is made. It was established that the Captain had disconnected the AP at 2000 feet agl and the approach to the 2500 metre-long runway 35 at Pristina had continued manually with the gear already down and full flaps/slats set. The A/THR (autothrottle) remained engaged and the autobrake was set to medium, the ground spoilers were armed subsequently. Visual contact with the runway was obtained at 1000 feet agl the PM confirmed that the approach was stable and it remained so thereafter. At 500 feet agl, the necessary right turn onto the extended runway centreline was made. From the beginning of the flare at 20 feet agl until touchdown, full back side stick was applied and as the pitch angle gradually increased from +2° to +3.5°, the rate of descent decreased from around 880 fpm to around 420 fpm and the airspeed decreased from the target VAPP towards VLS. Touchdown occurred on the runway centreline with (subsequently established) 3.04 g vertical load factor and a 0.3 g lateral load factor, the latter consistent with the aircraft nose being 3° to the left of track. A post flight discussion between the pilots and the cabin crew was reported to have accepted the Captain’s assessment that “whilst the landing was a little bit hard it had been within the limits” and no entry about the landing was made in the Aircraft Technical Log. The flight deck Data Management Unit (DMU) was out of paper, so the ‘Load 15’ Report, which is automatically generated (amongst other things) for any landing registering more than 2.6 g was not automatically printed out. Also, as the aircraft’s ACARS was not configured to automatically transmit the report to the aircraft operator’s offices, the aircraft subsequently continued in service, operating