a further four return passenger flights between Pristina and Basle. It was noted that absence of paper in an aircraft DMU had been recorded in the aircraft Technical Log 7 days prior to the occurrence of the investigated hard landing. It was also noted that as an MEL allowable category ‘D’ defect, the time before recertification could be up to 120 consecutive days. Two days after the hard landing event, the First Officer “had a private talk with the Training Manager of the Operator regarding the night of the incident because he was doubtful about that landing” and after this conversation, action was taken to load paper into the DMU. A ‘LOAD 15’ report was then found to show that a 3.04 g landing had occurred, which exceeded AMM limits and therefore rendered the aircraft subject to detailed inspections before further flight. These found that some inspections and any necessary maintenance action could not be performed at Pristina because of a lack of hydraulic jacks and so Airbus provided an NTO (no technical objection) to facilitate a ferry flight to Craiova, Romania where an approved MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) completed the inspections and carried the out replacement of all four main landing gear wheels and the right hand main gear shock absorber. Release to service was certified on 28 December 2017. A series of Contributing Factors relevant to the investigated severe hard landing were documented as follows: The side stick inputs made by the Captain in the few seconds before touchdown - there were several nose up and nose down inputs at very low height.. A late full back stick applied by the PF at 20 feet agl. This action was too late to change the vertical descent rate, so the hard landing was unavoidable at this point.. The prevailing weather conditions - it was snowing and the runway was wet.. The decision of the flight crew to make a positive touchdown resulted in an increased rate of descent.. Touchdown occurred with a high rate of descent (880 fpm) and was the direct cause of the severe hard landing.. The Captain had reduced peripheral vision to the left because of the allowable despatch of the flight with his side window heating inoperative.. Three Findings as to Risk were also made: The flight crew failed to comply with their responsibility to make a report if they think that there has been a hard or overweight landing.. The absence of paper in the flight deck Data Management Unit which prevented the automatic printout of a hard landing (Load 15) report was allowable under the MEL.. The aircraft continued to fly 8 more sectors without the inspection which was required and therefore the safety of flight operations may have been compromised.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Orange2Fly should implement an ACARS system or ensure that there will be no shortage of paper in aircraft DMUs. [AAIIC 2018-01]. that Orange2Fly should provide safety training