go around once he became aware of the occupied runway had been contrary to standard procedures in such situations. The Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: After clearing runway 26R after its landing, the MD-83 was involved in a runway incursion by entering runway 26L during its subsequent taxiing despite being cleared to hold short of that runway. It is important to note that entering and back tracking on an active runway needs an explicit clearance from the TWR controller and shall be read back otherwise an aircraft must stop before the holding position markings until receiving further clearance to continue.. Having observed the 26L incursion by the MD-83, the controller failed to instruct the ATR72 about to touch down on the same runway to go-around. It is important to note that the type, position and altitude of an aircraft approaching an occupied runway does not alter a controller's required response.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the State Aviation Administration of Ukraine revise the existing supervision of the flight operations of Ukrainian airlines which are operating on behalf of operators in Iran and agree the related coordination and agreement with the Iranian Civil Aviation Organization (CAO).. that the Iranian Airport & Air Navigation Company require controllers to issue after-landing taxi clearances to arriving aircraft only after ensuring that an aircraft has reached taxi speed on the runway.. that the Iranian Airport & Air Navigation Company emphasises the importance of controllers using a reasonable rate of speech and standard phraseology in their radiotelephony communications and of giving pilots an opportunity to read back clearances.. that the Iranian Airport & Air Navigation Company establish or revise procedures for operation at airports which have parallel runways with centrelines less than 760 metres apart.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 14 July 2018.