Many factors which will affect the pilot's ability to utilise a Head Up Display to full advantage. These include, but are not limited to, seat position, screen brightness, symbology recognition and trend interpretation, proficiency, fixation avoidance, use of "caged" mode (if available) and the appropriate use of screen declutter capability. Appropriate seat position is critical to the effective use of the Head Up Display. In general, the HUD, once deployed, is in a fixed position. It is, therefore, a requirement to adjust the seat position to the HUD as it is generally not possible to adjust the HUD position to the seat. In most installations, there is a "test" function which can be activated to generate reference symbols at the top and bottom of the screen. Proper seat height is achieved when both symbols can be seen simultaneously without significant head movement. The appropriate longitudinal seat position is achieved when information at the outer edges of the screen can be viewed without significant head movement. Rudder pedals should then be adjusted to the seat position. Screen brightness is an essential element when considering the effective use of a Head Up Display. If symbols are too dim, they may be difficult to see or interpret. Conversely, if they are too bright, objects outside of the aircraft may be obscured. In aircraft where Enhanced Vision (EV) information is also presented on the HUD combiner, it is important that the EV information does not overwhelm the HUD symbology. In most installations, it is not possible for the EV information to be brighter than the HUD symbology. To accommodate personal preference, HUD systems will often have both a system brightness control and a separate Enhanced Vision brightness control. The contrast between the two should be adjusted using the EV brightness control such that the HUD symbology can be seen clearly over the EV picture. The overall brightness of the display should then be adjusted such that the HUD information can be seen without obscuring external references. There is often an automatic brightness mode which will adjust the HUD relative to changing ambient light after first making a manual adjustment for the existing conditions. However, many pilots prefer to make their own brightness adjustment as the light changes by leaving the system in manual mode. The scope of the information displayed on the HUD will vary by both manufacturer and model. However, the volume of information can be enormous and may potentially include (but is not limited to): Each of these parameters has its own associated symbology which, in general, is presented in a specific area on the combiner. The pilot must be able to recognise and accurately interpret each of the HUD symbols in order to use the equipment effectively. The afore mentioned HUD symbology is often associated with trend information indicators for parameters such as altitude or airspeed. As an example, during climb or descent, a trend indicator (if incorporated) will show what the altitude will be after a specified time interval assuming