has its own associated symbology which, in general, is presented in a specific area on the combiner. The pilot must be able to recognise and accurately interpret each of the HUD symbols in order to use the equipment effectively. The afore mentioned HUD symbology is often associated with trend information indicators for parameters such as altitude or airspeed. As an example, during climb or descent, a trend indicator (if incorporated) will show what the altitude will be after a specified time interval assuming that vertical speed remains constant. Appropriate interpretation of that trend information will allow the pilot to make smooth and timely attitude and thrust adjustments to achieve the desired flight path. As is the case with any tool, practice is the key to proficiency. To be able to use the Head Up Display effectively under any weather or light conditions, the pilot must establish and maintain proficiency through regular use of the equipment. During high workload periods of flight, such as the takeoff/departure or approach/landing phases, fixation on the flight director information often occurs. This can lead to an overall loss of situational awareness. To overcome this, the pilot should develop the same "crosscheck" mentality used in normal instrument flight and flying in VMC conditions, while including the external visual scan that the HUD system so easily affords. In general terms, the flight path vector (FPV) symbol is the pilot's primary point of reference on the HUD. Whilst airborne, the FPV indicates where the aircraft is going at any point in time. In the vertical plane, the symbol moves up and down on the screen in response to changes in pitch. However, in the horizontal plane, the symbol moves left or right in response to the drift angle due to the wind. In a strong crosswind, the flight path vector symbol can be driven to the outer edges of the combiner screen. Some pilots find this distracting and sometimes difficult to interpret. To mitigate this issue, some manufacturers have included the ability to "cage" the flight path vector to the vertical axis at the centre of the combiner. In "caged" mode, the FPV will move up and down in response to pitch change but will not move left or right in response to wind. In caged mode, the exceedance of a specific drift angle will result in the generation of an additional symbol on the HUD screen. This "ghost" FPV indicates the true path of the aircraft. If fitted, the use of "caged" mode is purely a matter of pilot preference. Some pilots never use it, some use it for all phases of flight whilst others will select it for takeoff and then switch to uncaged mode during the climb or cruise phase. The individual's decision should rest in an understanding of how and why the FPV moves as it does and, through practice, in the determination of the mode with which they are most comfortable. Many Head Up Display units can be selectively "decluttered" by the pilot.