A marshaller will provide stopping guidance usually by reference to ground markings, which may not be visible to the pilots. The crew may have no way to be sure that the marshaller is aware of the correct aircraft type, particularly at night, so in addition to the usual attention to potential obstructions it is especially important to be sure that the correct stopping point is achieved. On some stands a mirror allows the pilot to see the ground markings beneath the aircraft and can stop with the nosewheel on the appropriate mark. In this case mirror reversed aircraft type markings are needed for ease of reading, possibly in addition to the usual ones. Monitoring is not possible. Ground markings, usually on the left side of the aircraft only, may consist of lines annotated with the aircraft type which are aligned with the pilot at the stopping point. A simple but more accurate system is the Side Marker Board. This board is positioned so that it is alongside the flight deck, the aircraft should be stopped when the marker appropriate to the aircraft type is abeam the pilot. With care, this may be used from either seat, and monitoring is possible. PAPA (Parallax Aircraft Parking Aid) has a horizontally slotted black marker board mounted to one side of the head of the stand. Behind the marker board, a vertically oriented white fluorescent light shines through the slot and appears to traverse the slot as the aircraft moves forward. Marks on the board identify the correct alignment of the light according to aircraft type. Generally the alignment between the illuminated light and the marks on the board is not perpendicular to the stand centerline so the system can only be used from the LHS and accurate monitoring is not possible. Any lateral displacement from the stand centerline will cause an incorrect stopping position indication. With both Side Marker Board and PAPA, the board is offset from the gate centreline and so the pilot must continually switch attention between it and the azimuth guidance. Alternatively, the stop position may be indicated (independently of azimuth guidance) by means of a stand alone ‘traffic light’ system, which is often operated by remote control from the ramp or by an automatic system. APIS++ and Safedock have displays that provide similar indications. The display shows the aircraft type. Distance to go and rate are displayed in the form of a bar that rises up the display. When the correct position is reached ‘STOP’ will be displayed. If the stop position is passed then ‘TOO FAR’ will be displayed. Additionally the display may simply show the distance to go in metres and other information.