and the subsequent crash". Although pilot training records provided by the Operator indicated that the CRM training required had been provided, the "specific content of this training program was not disclosed by the operator nor was oversight of the actual training provided by the FAA POI". The Investigation found "a strong indication that the eight required elements of an effective CRM program were not presented in sufficient detail to be effective" and noted that whilst "much is unknown in this accident scenario because conventional on-board recording devices were not available", it was the case that "early recognition of divergence from the intended flight path (situational awareness) is a necessary component of the CRM concept". The Investigation considered the evidence that might have indicated whether the SkyWay Enterprises' (SWE) senior management were as concerned about operational safety as they claimed at interview. The findings were formally summarised as follows: "Investigation revealed that an atmosphere to maintain the status quo prevailed within the Company. Management did not provide any method to communicate safety issues with the employees through internal company media (email or bulletin) or to maintain a voluntary safety reporting system. Following conversion of the SD3-60 fleet to cargo only, management removed the safety equipment mandatory for passenger carrying from the aircraft. The list included TCAS, GPWS, a radar altimeter, an attitude gyro, and the autopilot, along with removal of the FDR and CVR. This action provided considerable weight savings and eliminated continuing maintenance expenses on the units. However, the equipment removals are examples of the negative attitude toward safety and consideration of pilot workload exhibited by company management. Removal of the autopilot increased the exposure to crew fatigue and possible errors in a high air traffic environment. With the removal of the FDR, a flight data monitoring program is not possible. Removal of TCAS equipment increased the exposure of the travelling public and flight crews to the risk of an in-flight collision between a passenger carrying aircraft and an SWE operated cargo flight. Also: Manufacturers’ Safety Bulletins applicable to the SD3-60 airframe and PWC engines were not incorporated into the fleet unless they were FAA mandated.. There were no corporate provisions/arrangements for (daytime) crew rest areas at local FBOs on the islands. Flight crew exposure to fatigue during their waiting time between the outbound and return flights to Puerto Rico seemed of no concern to SWE.. FAA inspectors described their relationship with SWE management as “difficult”.. There was a resistance and reluctance toward compliance and timely resolution of deficiencies.. It was noted that the Operator's business model of "minimum compliance with regulations and resistance to change" and the "geographical and cultural factors of its international operations […] were allowing the formation of attitudes in pilots and maintenance personnel that are less than proactive toward safety initiatives" and that "training of the next generation of young pilots and maintenance engineers is seriously challenged in this environment (which) can be a breeding ground for the learning of bad habits" in FAA Part