135 operations - which are not required to adopt the SMS approach advocated by ICAO that at the time of the Investigation, the FAA only required from Part 121 carriers. It was considered that evidence gathered during the Investigation did not indicate that FAA oversight of the operation had led to a meaningful understanding of operational risk in the SWE Puerto-Rican based operation. It was recognised that achieving meaningful FAA oversight of Part 135 operations presented a major challenge because the FAA priority is "passenger carrying operators or those identified as high risk" and noted that in the case of SWE, the responsible Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) at Orlando "did not consider SWE to be a high risk carrier prior to the accident". It was considered that "in the near future, FAA oversight will need to adopt more than the current self-described 'snapshot in time' form of compliance oversight". Rather, the Administration will "need to adopt a uniform, balanced approach that combines inspections for regulatory compliance along with audits of safety management practices that identify how operators manage their risks". The formally-documented statement of Cause was as follows: "The PF experienced a loss of control while initiating a turn to the required departure heading after take-off. Flap retraction and its associated acceleration combined to set in motion a somatogravic illusion for the PF. The PF’s reaction to pitch down while initiating a turn led to an extreme unusual attitude and the subsequent crash. (The extent of) PM awareness of the imminent loss of control and any (subsequent) attempt to intervene could not be determined. Crew Resource Management (CRM) performance was insufficient to avoid the crash." A Contributory Factor was also identified as: departure from an unfamiliar runway with loss of visual references (black hole), night and rain with gusting winds.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the United States Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the facts, analysis and conclusions contained in the Final Report of this loss of control accident (N380MQ) and of similar recorded cases of CRM (cockpit resource management) breakdown during a loss of control. Following this evaluation and collection of detailed data from additional known sources, the Sint Maarten Civil Aviation Authority recommends the United States Federal Aviation Administration, within one year, publish a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to extend the current 14 CFR Part 5 Safety Management Systems (SMS) rule to all Part 135 operators.. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 23 September 2016.