just under three hours later. A detailed investigation of the recovered wreckage and available data found that "there was no evidence of any aircraft related defect or malfunction that could have contributed to the accident". It was also noted from the certified load and trim sheet for the accident flight that the actual take-off weight had been just under 80% of the MTOW and that the Centre of Gravity had been near too the mid-point of the allowable range. It was found that the use of a hand held GPS by the Operator's pilots was routine and this had been facilitated by FAA-approved Operator action to install a GPS antenna and cabling to the instrument panel nine years earlier. However, it was noted that the FAA Principal Operations Inspector (POI) responsible for SkyWest for the three years leading up to the accident had told the Investigation that "he was not aware of GPS use in the cockpit". The Investigation noted that the prevailing easterly winds at Sint Maarten overwhelmingly (for over 90% of opening hours) favour departures from runway 10 which is also the only permitted instrument landing runway and that "night departures from runway 10 overfly an illuminated area during initial climb out". Unusually, the surface wind on the night of the accident meant that with gusts up to 20 knots from directions between 220° and 270° being reported, a departure in the 28 direction was appropriate. It was considered that the "take-off direction on runway 28 toward the open sea was relatively unfamiliar to the both the PF and the PM" and noted that such "a lack of visual references after passing over a shoreline at night is described by many pilots as a black hole effect". It was considered that the flight deck authority gradient was "notable and may have affected crew performance". However, in the absence of CVR data, there was "no evidence upon which to make a determination on the Captain’s attitude toward teamwork or the possible inadequate assertiveness of the First Officer in the performance of pilot not flying/pilot monitoring duties". The Investigation attempted to identify distractions that could have led to the accident. It was considered that the flap retraction which was likely to have occurred at about 400 feet agl would have produced longitudinal acceleration which would have been accompanied by an apparent pitch up sensation to which the magnitude of susceptibility to misperception "varies between persons and circumstances" and may reasonably have been heightened by the complete lack of external visual cues whilst still clear of cloud. The start of a left bank to take up the required departure heading when combined with potential effect of flap retraction was considered to have been "sufficient to be misinterpreted as a sensation of pitch up leading to a somatogravic illusion" which it was concluded could explain "the PF’s unintended mishandling of the flight controls and a desire to pitch down while initiating a left turn (which) quickly led to an extreme unusual attitude