An Investigation was carried out by the Sint Maarten Civil Aviation Authority in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles. Flight recorders were not installed nor required on this cargo configured aircraft. It was found that neither CVR nor a FDR had been installed in the aircraft, both having been removed during conversion of the aircraft to cargo-only operations in 2000 on acquisition from American Eagle Airlines. It was noted that this action was in accordance with the applicable FAA requirements. Data contained on a hand-held GPS which was recovered from the submerged wreckage were successfully downloaded by the NTSB and in combination with limited radar data, were enough to determine the approximate flight path during and after take-off. It was noted without further comment that "the operating company chose not to participate in the Investigation". It was found that the 49 year old-Captain had been employed by the Operator for "about four months" prior to the crash after a previous employer where he had worked as a SD3-60 First Officer had ceased operations and had been checked out as a SD3-60 Captain soon afterwards. Available records indicated that he had accumulated a total of 5,318 total flying hours which included 362 hours on type in command. The 26 year-old First Officer had been employed by the Operator for just over a year and had accumulated 1,040 total flying hours which included the 510 hours on type gained since joining the Operator. It was found that the two pilots had been on the same duty on both of the previous two days as on the day of the accident - a morning flight from San Juan to Sint Maarten and an evening flight back to San Juan. It was established that having been cleared to take off from runway 28 and instructed to initially turn onto and maintain heading 230°, the aircraft was observed to make a normal take-off and begin climbing. However, as it passed overhead the end of the 2,300 metre-long runway, it continued climbing out over the sea in dark night conditions. About a minute after becoming airborne in what was reported as intermittent heavy rain, ATC observed the aircraft begin to descend both visually and on radar and a radio call to the aircraft was not returned. The lowest reported cloud base at the time was 1,300 feet with scattered TCU "in all quadrants" and visibility was 4,000 metres. The Investigation noted that "take-offs from runway 28 present no visual landmass past the immediate shore line" which occurs soon after the end of the runway. Data downloaded from the NVM of a subsequently-recovered hand-held GPS device indicated that once beyond the departure runway threshold, the aircraft had reached a maximum recorded GPS altitude of 433 feet whilst making a groundspeed of 119 knots. Two further GPS data points over the sea showed the aircraft losing altitude whilst airspeed increased. The annotated track superimposed on a Google Earth-based background is shown below. The first aircraft debris was located