An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss BFU which classified the event as both a Serious Incident, requiring an Investigation under ICAO Annex 13 principles, and a Category ‘A’ AIRPROX under the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) system (meaning a collision nearly occurred). It was established that the loss of separation initially arose as a result of an error made by a supervised ATC trainee and that both aircraft had been correctly following their ATC clearances. It was found that the Airbus A318 had been flying east towards the Trasadingen VOR at FL 380 when given a descent to FL 360 by the trainee controller which was not noticed by the OJTI. Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) activation alerted to the potential conflict with the B737 heading north towards the same position at FL 370 and the OJTI told the trainee to instruct the A318 to descend at a minimum of 3000 fpm. In the absence of a reply from the A318 to the instruction to increase rate of descent even after it had been repeated, the trainee requested that the OJTI take over and the latter instructed the B737 to descend to FL 360 and the A318, which had already reported a TCAS RA descent, to turn 20° to the right. The PF on the A318 was the First Officer and the PF on the B737 was the aircraft commander. TCAS on both aircraft was confirmed to have generated coordinated RAs which were followed, with the B737 RA (only) reported to have been preceded momentarily by a Traffic Advisory (TA). As a result of the RA descent by the A318, the RA climb by the B737 and the turn given by the ATC OJTI to the A318 and actioned, the two aircraft crossed above Trasadingen at an actual separation of 1.4 nm laterally and 725 ft vertically. It was found that in order to achieve the ATC trainee-instructed rate of descent of 3000 fpm for only a 2000 ft change of cleared altitude, the A318 crew had disconnected the AP prior to the TCAS RA activation. The commander of the A318 (the PM) reported having seen the B737 (only) during the right turn. The Investigation concluded that the following factors contributed substantially to the occurrence: An intervention by the supervising air traffic controller which was too late, because he had not realised that the trainee air traffic controller was overwhelmed by the challenging traffic situation.. Within the Zurich air traffic control unit there was no function for monitoring clearances with regard to possible conflicts.. The Investigation also concluded that the following factors contributed to the development of the occurrence: The fact that air traffic control received no confirmation of a high rate of descent by (the A318). The fact that the supervising air traffic controller was working without a headset.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation: That the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure that the Zurich Area Control Centre is