In order to reduce interruptions and distractions, actions are required at both the company and personal levels. Company policies and procedures should be designed with full knowledge of the sources and effects of interruptions and distractions. Likewise, the training for both flight and cabin crews should include information on interruptions and distractions and advice on how to decide when an interruption is warranted. A good first step in a prevention program involves assessing the exposure of both the company and flight crew personnel to interruptions and distractions. Strategies can then be developed to prevent or deal with the identified problems. It is important to: Maintain a high level of interaction and communication among flight crew members and between the flight and cabin crews without simultaneously increasing interruptions and distractions. Effective communication involves a two-way transfer of information, not just a simple one-way consultation. Schedule actions that can be controlled (e.g., initiation of normal checklists) during periods that are less prone to disruption in order to prevent interference with actions that cannot be controlled (e.g., ATC communications). Recognize the range of potential sources of interruptions and distractions and to understand their effect on the flow of cockpit duties. Reduce interruptions and distractions by adopting appropriate policies and rules. Acknowledge that the flight crew does not have control over all sources of interruptions/distractions and, thus, mitigation is needed as well as prevention. Develop prevention strategies and lines-of-defense to minimize the exposure to interruptions and distractions. Develop or adopt specific techniques to lessen the effects of interruptions and distractions.. There are no absolute methods to prevent or control interruptions and distractions. The effectiveness of efforts will depend to some extent on factors such as an airline’s operating environment, prevailing rules and the cultural background of the crewmembers. Nevertheless, there are some good general rules to follow including: Adhere to the Sterile Cockpit Rule (U.S. FAR - Part 121.542) as an integral part of SOPs because it has the potential to reduce interruptions and distractions. The Sterile Cockpit Rule limits unnecessary conversations and communications during taxi, takeoff, landing and below 10,000 feet. Include the Sterile Cockpit Rule in preflight briefings and in Crew Resource Management training with the cabin crew. Avoid the most frequent causes of interruptions and distractions including: Non-flight-related conversations Distractions by cabin crewmembers Non-flight-related radio calls Non-essential public-address (PA) announcements.. Non-flight-related conversations. Distractions by cabin crewmembers. Non-flight-related radio calls. Non-essential public-address (PA) announcements.. There are specific ways to help control each of the major factors that promote interruptions and distractions discussed earlier. These include: Communications Brief all jump-seat riders on the Sterile Cockpit Rule Put headsets on during critical phases of flight (e.g., for any operations below 10,000 ft) Plan PA announcements for low workload periods Keep intracockpit communications brief, clear and concise Pause or end conversations in advance of approaching the next defined target or the next altitude restriction/constraint.. Brief all jump-seat riders on the Sterile Cockpit Rule. Put headsets on during critical phases of flight (e.g., for any operations