An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The 2 hour CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the CVR was deactivated about 53 minutes after the landing. It was established that the 58 year-old Captain had 15,700 total flying hours which included about 9,035 hours on the 737 and 10,400 hours in command. He had joined Southwest Airlines in 1999 as a 737 First Officer and been upgraded to Captain six years later. He stated on interview that since his last medical, "he had started to wear glasses and that he was wearing them at the time of the incident". He had not previously flown to Branson. The 62 year-old First Officer had 20,538 total flying hours including 9,880 hours in the 737. He had joined Southwest Airlines in 2001 and had subsequently failed two command upgrade attempts. His Medical required him to have near vision glasses available and on interview stated that he was not wearing them at the time of the investigated event. He had flown to Branson once before, a little over six months previously. The flight deck Supernumerary crew seat was occupied by a Company Dispatcher "as an observer". It was established that during the cruise, it was agreed that runway 14 would be used for landing at destination off a visual approach "backed up with an RNAV instrument approach" and use of the HUD fitted only to the Captain's side, the latter being used in VMC mode with use being an option rather than a Company requirement for visual approaches. The Captain was recorded as stating at this time that he was "setting up the runway 32 LOC DME on his avionics". Prior to descent, the First Officer as PF briefed the approach during which he "indicated a plan to have radar vectors to the approach and let the RNAV line them up for a visual" and noted that the inbound track on final approach was 143°. The expected airport lighting was not included in the brief and was not required to be. Subsequently, ATC cleared the flight to descend to 24,000 feet and then, two minutes later, direct to destination. As the aircraft descended through 18,000 feet, the First Officer called for the descent checks. Eight minutes later when the aircraft was approximately 60 nm northeast of destination, it was cleared to continue descent to 4,000 feet, advised expect a visual approach to runway 14 and to proceed direct to the final approach fix for the RNAV 14 approach. During the next few minutes, the aircraft was transferred to Springfield ARTCC and the flight crew (and the dispatcher occupying the supernumerary crew seat) "discussed the navigation fixes and stations on the navigation display and compared them to the lights visible from the flight deck". They then collectively "confirmed which lights they believed to be Branson and which lights they believed to be Springfield". Springfield advised Branson TWR that the aircraft was "20