miles northeast of them for a visual approach to runway 14" and then advised the aircraft crew that their destination airport was at "eleven o'clock and one five miles" to which the Captain responded "field in sight". Springfield then cleared the flight for a visual approach to runway 14, terminated radar service and instructed the crew to contact Branson TWR. The Investigation noted that the corresponding ATC radar recording showed that the airport in the relative position given by the controller to the aircraft was actually M Graham Clark not Branson, the latter being at that time 20 miles away in a 10 o'clock relative position. When the Captain checked in with TWR and reported passing 6,600 feet for 3,000 feet, TWR cleared them to land on runway 14. Six minutes later, the aircraft touched down approximately 90 metres past the displaced threshold of runway 12 at M Graham Clark Downtown Airport. As the aircraft decelerated, the Captain was recorded as saying "this ain't it" and an application of maximum braking brought the aircraft to a stop approximately 90 metres before the end of the runway paved surface. Thirty seconds later, the Captain called Branson TWR and stated "I assume I'm not at your airport". Both pilots subsequently stated that once they had what they believed to be their destination in sight, they had ceased referring to the available on-board navigation guidance and relied completely on outside visual reference. It was noted that the Southwest Airlines Flight Operations Manual specified pilot flying and pilot monitoring duties for all approaches and required that both pilots "monitor flight and navigation instruments and crosscheck for consistency and accuracy" and that documented guidance was provided that "flight crews should, when conducting a visual approach, reference an issued charted procedure contained in the FMC navigation database to assist with lateral and vertical guidance to the correct runway". The Investigation noted that whilst the HUD can be "used for descent rate reference in VMC mode by adjusting rate of descent to hold a reference line over the point of intended touchdown, (it) does not provide navigation or flight director guidance in that mode". It was noted that Branson Airport is 8 miles SSE of the city of Branson and the single grooved concrete runway was 2175 metres long and 45 metres wide. For the 14 direction of use, there was a PAPI on the left side of the runway and with the full length as LDA and outlined by runway end identification and high intensity edge lights. The non-Towered M Graham Clark Downtown Airport was located 1 mile south of the city with a single grooved asphalt runway 1139 metres long and 30 metres wide. The 12 direction of use had no visual approach slope guidance and an 88 metre displaced threshold giving an LDA of 1051 metres. The available runway end identification and medium intensity runway edge lights had to be activated by pilot control via the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency (CTAF). It was noted