that Branson TWR did not have radar and that Springfield would lose radar contact with aircraft arriving in the Branson area once aircraft descended below between 2600 feet and 2200 feet altitude. The effect of this was that no MSAW Alerts were provided during the investigated event. It was also noted that although the Branson TWR controller stated that they had switched on the runway edge lights after receiving notification of the arriving aircraft from Springfield and prior to it checking on their frequency, no record of lighting in use were kept. Whilst accepting that the actions of the pilots meant that they had been responsible for the wrong airport landing, the Investigation considered that aspects of the ATC service provided had facilitated the misidentification. It was concluded that "issuing a landing clearance for an aircraft to land at an airport when it has not yet passed other nearby airports may confuse pilots, particularly when executing a visual approach". FAA Procedures applicable at the time were found to allow ATC to clear an aircraft for a visual approach to an airport located in "close proximity" to another with which it may be confused without restriction, provided that the location of such an airport was notified. It was noted that this requirement had not been satisfied by the identification by the Springfield ARTCC controller of the potentially confusing airport as the intended destination and the absence of any mention of a potentially confusing airport in the vicinity of the intended destination. The Investigation found that the Probable Cause of the event was "the flight crew's failure to properly identify the airport and runway of intended landing". The following Contributory Factors were also identified: the flight crew's failure to comply with procedures for use of navigation information and visual cues to verify the airport and runway of intended landing.. the air traffic controller's issuance of erroneous airport geographic information without including the location of proximate airports.. Safety Action taken by Southwest Airlines as a result of the investigated event included modifying their requirements for any visual approach brief to include explicit reference to runway lighting. On 4 May 2015, during the course of this Investigation, and aware of other related events under concurrent investigation, the NTSB issued by letter a Safety Recommendation to the Federal Aviation Administration in respect of ATC Service provided to IFR flights as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration amends air traffic control procedures so that controllers withhold landing clearance until the aircraft has passed all other airports that may be confused with the destination airport. [A-15-9]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 2 September 2015 and subsequently published.