unfit to fly. However, it was concluded that "no action could have been taken by authorities and/or his employer to prevent him from flying that day" because the pilot had failed to inform them or his AME of his 'relapse' (which was expressly contrary to the obligations placed on holders of all Pilot Medical Certificates) and no other party - the physicians treating him who knew he was ill and colleagues or family members who might have observed corresponding indications - had done so. All available information on the First Officer's medical history, including documentation related to the consultations with private physicians which he had sought during the four months prior to the crash, was collected by the German Air Accident Investigation Agency, the BFU, and shared with the BEA. This was then "analysed in detail by a German expert in aviation medicine and a German psychiatrist" and this analysis was then reviewed by "a team of experts, formed by the BEA, and composed of British aeromedical and psychiatric experts as well as French psychiatrists". This team concluded that "the limited medical and personal data available to the safety Investigation did not make it possible for an unambiguous psychiatric diagnosis to be made". However, it was noted that the majority of the team "agreed that the limited medical information available may be consistent with the (First Officer) having suffered from a psychotic depressive episode that started in December 2014, which lasted until the day of the accident" although "other forms of mental ill-health cannot be excluded and a personality disorder is also a possibility". It was observed that the assessment had been hindered by the refusal of both the relatives of the First Officer and his private physicians to be interviewed by the BEA and/or the BFU and the absence of any means to compel this. Toxicological examinations of his remains found at the accident site were noted to have found traces of two antidepressant medications and one sleeping-aid medication. The Investigation noted that "depressive disorders and medications used to treat depression are usually medically disqualifying for pilots" and that "aviation authorities have not unified their approach on the consequences that the use of specific antidepressants and/or use of psychotherapy may have on pilot medical certification" with some regulatory authorities allowing pilots taking specific antidepressants such as Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI), to fly subject to mandatory monitoring. It was also noted that a psychotic disorder or psychosis, which it appeared likely that the First Officer had been suffering from in the period leading up to the crash "is characterised by a loss of connectedness with reality, in the form of delusions, hallucinations, or disorganised thoughts" and that "it may be chronic, intermittent, or occur in a single episode". Expert medical opinion to the effect that "serious mental illness such as acute psychosis was relatively rare and its onset difficult to predict" was noted. A key finding of the Investigation in respect of the First Officer's clear unfitness to fly