information on the applicants medical history of depression. The same waiver was included in each subsequently-issued Class 1 Medical Certificate including the one still current at the time of the crash, issued on 28 July 2014 and valid until 14 August 2015. There was no interruption to continuity of successive annual Medical Certificates because the non-specialist AMEs involved in each extension/renewal did not detect any symptoms causing them concern in respect of mental health. The Investigation noted that "the waiver issued neither included the requirement for regular specific assessments by a psychiatrist nor reduced the time in-between two assessments". Following the issue of the Class 1 Medical Certificate in July 2009, pilot training had been re-commenced the following month and continued during 2010, 2011 2012 and 2013. From 15 June 2011 until 31 December 2013, he was "under contract as a flight attendant for Lufthansa while continuing his training". Pilot training eventually culminated with the initial issue of a Multi-crew Pilot Licence - MPL(A) - endorsed with an A320 Type Rating on 11 February 2014, by which time he had been transferred to Germanwings to be prepared for line operations. This transfer was in line with the system for initial pilot training which meant that at the end of their training by the Lufthansa Flight Training School, "the management board decides where to allocate the personnel, between the Group’s operators: Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines, or Germanwings." After training at Germanwings, he had qualified as a First Officer there in June 2014 and by the time of the investigated event, he had accumulated 540 hours on the A320 out of a total of 919 flying hours. Then, in December 2014, the now-qualified First Officer "started to exhibit symptoms, possibly associated to a psychotic depressive episode" and "consulted several doctors, including the psychiatrist treating him on at least two occasions, who prescribed anti-depressant medication". The Investigation found that during the month prior to the crash, "a private physician diagnosed a psychosomatic disorder and an anxiety disorder and referred the co-pilot to a psychotherapist and psychiatrist" and, just two weeks before it, "diagnosed a possible psychosis and recommended psychiatric hospital treatment". On both occasions, sick leave certificates were issued as were several others by different physicians during February and March 2015. It was found that "not all of these sick leave certificates were forwarded to Germanwings" and that there had been "times when the co-pilot flew during some of these periods of sick leave, in particular on the day of the accident". It was also found that during this period, a psychiatrist had prescribed "anti-depressant and sleeping aid medication". The Investigation noted that in the three months prior to the crash, he "had had six documented periods of sickness...and had flown on 35 days over that same period". The Investigation concluded that on the day of the crash, "the pilot was still suffering from a psychiatric disorder, which was possibly a psychotic depressive episode, and was taking psychotropic medication" and was quite clearly