six recommendations in its Final Report to the Commission on 17 July 2015 and subsequently followed up with an Action Plan on 7 October 2015.. The German Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) set up a 'Task Force - Airline Safety' under the auspices of the German Aviation Association (BDL) to "determine what lessons could be leaned from the crash". This published a Final Report in November 2015.. The UK Department for Transport (DfT) tasked the UK CAA in April 2015 "to review the assessment of mental health in pilots and to consider whether any changes to the current assessment system should be proposed". 'A Mental Health Working Group' was therefore established and made 11 Recommendations. Neither these nor any Report on how they were arrived at has yet (March 2016) been published but the text of all the Recommendations was included in the Official Report of this BEA Investigation (pps 79-80).. The FAA in the light of both the Germanwings crash and the disappearance of the Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777 in 2014 established in May 2015 the Pilot Fitness ARC which developed as yet (March 2016) unpublished recommendations.. The (US-based) Aerospace Medical Association which had already setup a 'Pilot Mental Health Expert Working Group' following the JetBlue Incident in 2012, reconvened following the Germanwings crash to review and update its Recommendations which were then published.. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation in respect of Causes was as follows: The collision with the ground was due to the deliberate and planned action of the co-pilot who decided to commit suicide while alone in the cockpit. The process for medical certification of pilots, in particular self-reporting in case of decrease in medical fitness between two periodic medical evaluations, did not succeed in preventing the co-pilot, who was experiencing mental disorder with psychotic symptoms, from exercising the privilege of his licence. The following factors may have contributed to the failure of this principle: the co-pilot’s probable fear of losing his ability to fly as a professional pilot if he had reported his decrease in medical fitness to an AME;. the potential financial consequences generated by the lack of specific insurance covering the risks of loss of income in case of unfitness to fly;. the lack of clear guidelines in German regulations on when a threat to public safety outweighs the requirements of medical confidentiality.. Security requirements led to cockpit doors designed to resist forcible intrusion by unauthorized persons. This made it impossible to enter the flight compartment before the aircraft impacted the terrain in the French Alps. A total of 11 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation covering: the medical evaluation of pilots with mental health issues;. anti-depressant medication and pilot flying status;. the balance between medical confidentiality and public safety;. the routine analysis of in-flight pilot incapacitation;. the mitigation of the consequences of the loss of a professional pilot licence;. the promotion of pilot support programmes.. These were as follows: that the EASA require that