A Safety Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Wreckage at the accident site, which was located in mountainous terrain at an altitude of 5085 feet (1550 metres) amsl, was highly fragmented - the largest parts of the aircraft were about 3 to 4 metres long - and was spread over an area of 4 hectares in a sloping, rocky ravine - see the illustration. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) were both recovered and their data successfully downloaded. The Quick Access Recorder was also recovered but found to have been subjected to too much damage for its data - the same as that on the FDR - to be read. A GPWS/TAWS Warning "Terrain, Terrain, Pull Up, Pull Up" was found to have been activated 25 seconds prior to impact and to have remained active until impact occurred. The synchronised recorded data was used to construct the descent profile and track and to establish that there was no evidence of any relevant aircraft fault, that the aircraft had responded to intentional flight management inputs with the AP engaged and that these inputs had been made by the First Officer whilst the Captain was being intentionally prevented from returning to the flight deck after leaving it shortly after the aircraft had reached its FL380 cruising level. Once alone in the flight deck, it was noted that the First Officer had not responded to any ATC or crew intercom calls. Collision with terrain occurred less than 9 minutes after the Captain had left the flight deck and the descent had been continuous. A Preliminary Report detailing the initial progress of the Investigation was released on 6 May 2015. This included the conclusion that "During the cruise phase, the co-pilot was alone in the cockpit. He then intentionally modified the autopilot instructions to order the aeroplane to descend until it collided with the terrain. He did not open the cockpit door during the descent, despite requests for access made via the keypad, the cabin interphone and knocks on the door." FDR and CVR data (see the illustration below) also showed that during the outbound flight, whilst the Captain was absent from the flight deck for a period of just over 4 minutes, an ATC clearance to begin descent from the cruising level FL370 had been received, initially to FL 350 and then soon afterwards to FL 210. Initially, the selected altitude of FL 350 had been set and then it was "decreased to 100 ft for three seconds and then increased to the maximum value of 49,000 ft" before being returned to FL350. Almost immediately, the clearance to FL 210 was given and initially set before being again reduced to 100 ft for most of the next two minutes until just before the buzzer to request access to the flight deck by the Captain was recorded, at which point it was set to FL 250. Before reaching this level, a further