clearance to FL170 was received and set and the rest of the flight was completed normally. It was noted that "due to the engaged autopilot modes, the changes in selected altitudes described above did not influence the aircraft descent flight path" and the Investigation concluded that these actions "may be interpreted as a rehearsal for suicide" and that all the actions of the First Officer could only be interpreted as determined by an intention to commit suicide. The Investigation established that the flight deck door locking mechanism was one commonly fitted to A320 series aircraft for the purposes of preventing access to the flight deck except when permitted by its occupant(s). It was noted that inward opening door had, as would usually be the case, an outward opening escape hatch in its lower section and that the usual, in this case three, cameras were installed to allow the occupant(s) of the flight deck to clearly see the area of the forward cabin just outside the door. The Investigation noted that both pilots were German nationals. The 34 year old Captain had, after initial pilot training with Lufthansa, served initially as a First Officer on the A320 at Condor Berlin and then, for just over 4 years as a First Officer on the A330 Family/A340 Family fleet at Lufthansa. Then, he had been transferred to the Lufthansa Group's wholly-owned subsidiary Germanwings where he had received command training on the A320 and completed his qualifications as a Captain on type just over 6 months prior to the investigated event. By this time, he had accumulated 259 hours in command and had accumulated a total of 6763 flying hours. The 27 year old First Officer was found to have been selected for ab initio pilot training by Lufthansa in 2008 and been issued with a Class 1 Medical Certificate by an Aeromedical Examiner (AME) employed by the Lufthansa Aeromedical Centre (AeMC) in April 2008. He had then commenced pilot training in September 2008, but after only two months, this had been "suspended for medical reasons" for nine months before restarting due to a period of depression which included hospitalisation. His Class 1 Medical was not renewed in April 2009 "due to depression and the taking of medication to treat it" and his application to the Lufthansa AeMC for renewal three months later was rejected and the LBA (German CAA) were informed. Then, two weeks later, following an assessment by a psychiatrist at the same AeMC which concluded that "the depressive episode was over", the AeMC issued him with a restricted Class 1 Medical Certificate "with a waiver stating that it would become invalid if there was a relapse into depression". No further referral to the LBA was made at this time; the effect of the waiver was that any AME about to conduct an assessment for the extension or renewal of the Certificate must contact the licence issuing authority (the LBA) before proceeding with such a medical evaluation in order to appraised of