An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Accident Investigation Board, the CIAIAC. FDR and CVR data were available to aid reconstruction of the event and a full readout was made. It was established that the takeoff from Lanzarote had been unintentionally made without the flaps/slats being set to the required position. FDR data showed that roll oscillations in both directions of up to 60° angle of bank had occurred and that with each one, the aircraft had lost altitude, in one case by as much as 140 feet. The oscillations had persisted for the first thirty seconds of the flight, beginning at a speed of 159 knots and continuing until the speed exceeded 200 knots. The aircraft manufacturer advised the Investigation that the stall speed for the aircraft at the prevailing takeoff weight with 0° trailing edge flaps and with the slats retracted would have been 161 knots but that the effect of the oscillations would have increased this figure to approximately 202 knots. Although it was noted that other factors such as the center of gravity and spoiler deflection do affect the stall speed, such subsidiary factors were assessed as of minor relevance to a situation as dynamic as the one that occurred. The Investigation therefore concluded that the flight crew had lost control of the aircraft after rotation because it had stalled as a consequence of the unapproved configuration following the crew’s failure to comply with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and specifically to properly use normal checklists. The failure of the TOWS to activate during the take off was attributed to the fact that the circuit breaker for the Left Ground Control Relay, which controlled the left ground-air sensing system, had been tripped prior to the first flight of the day from Madrid to Lanzarote by maintenance personnel but not reset. The incident flight crew had then failed to check the CB panel concerned prior to their first flight. The effect of this was that the information being sent to the TOWS, as well as to all other systems reliant on the left ground-air sensing circuit, was that the aircraft was airborne, when the TOWS is inactive by design. It was also established that the fact that various aircraft systems other than the TOWS had sensed that the aircraft was ‘in flight’ when it was on the ground had resulted in a number of abnormal indications during the earlier taxi out at Madrid. These had been ignored by the crew and it was noted that they had included an annunciation of a stall protection system fault which was identified by the Investigation as a ‘no go‘ item. It was also established that the test which had been performed by the ground engineers involving the tripping of the left ground control relay c/b to check strobe light function was not in accordance with guidance provided by the aircraft manufacturer, being not part of the ‘Daily Check’ or the 3 day ‘Service Check’ which specified such a test only