as part of a 1A Check at 450 hour intervals. However, such a test was apparently habitual during both these regular line engineering tasks for this operator’s fleet. Minor revisions to the manufacturer’s guidance subsequent to the incident were noted by the Investigation and considered to resolve any perceived ambiguity. Overall, the aircraft was found to have been fully serviceable and the incident broadly attributable to the fact that “the discipline in the cockpit regarding the performance of operational procedures was deficient”. The formal statement of causes of the Incident as determined by the Investigation was as follows: “The crew lost control of the aircraft after the rotation due to the stall of the aircraft just after takeoff, because it was performed in a non approved configuration, that is with the slats retracted and 0° flaps. Thus was caused by a lack of discipline of the crew in complying with standard operating procedure and, specifically, with the checklists. It also found that the following factors contributed to the incident: The shortage of training received by the crew once hired and which did not allow them to gain sufficient knowledge of company procedures; the irregularities that took place during the supervised training flights; and the poor oversight of the flight crew.. The maintenance practices to check the strobe lights and which were performed due to ambiguity in the task cards issued by Boeing for doing the “Service Check”.. Both maintenance and flight crews failed to follow written procedures (AMM and FCOM, respectively) since they didn’t reset the left ground control relay c/b prior to flight.. The lack of cleanliness that made (it) more difficult to identify the c/b condition.. The failure of the operator to determine why the left ground control relay circuit breaker tripped repeatedly.. Improper supervision by Austrocontrol of the processes (for) the AOC and which resulted in the lack of compliance with OM and training requirements going unnoticed.. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved by the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC) on 28 October 2009 and included four Safety Recommendations as follows: That MAP more accurately define the tasks to be performed by each flight crew member with regard to flight procedures and checklists, the method for executing them and the phases of flight during which they must be executed, in keeping with the principles of CRM, such that they fulfill their function as a deterrent to mistakes. (REC 26/2009). That MAP review its training and supervisory programs for newly-hired crews so as to ensure that new crews receive adequately documented information and that their training leads to an in-depth knowledge of the company’s standard practices and to their proper execution. (REC 27/2009). That Austrocontrol verify compliance by charter company operators with EU OPS regulations, particularly in reference to obtaining and maintaining their AOCss with regard to training, especially during periods of heightened demand for flights, where there is an increase in the hiring of technical personnel. (REC 28/2009). That