two forward doors. The two rear doors were not opened because it was considered by the cabin crew stationed there that (both) door sills were "too close to the ground". A passenger on a stretcher was evacuated with the assistance of the ground rescue services. It was noted that the Captain had logged more than 100 flying hours in every one of the six months prior to the accident which it was considered "may have led to pilot fatigue". It was also noted that after the earlier diversion to Surabaya, one of the passengers had expressed his disappointment at the decision to divert there and thus delay arrival at Yogyakarta directly to the Captain and that circumstantial evidence indicated that this may have influenced his subsequent conduct of the flight. The Investigation considered that the evidence from the CVR, in particular the absence of comment or intervention by the First Officer in respect of the unstabilised approach were indicative of poor Crew Resource Management. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the accident had occurred as a consequence of a combination of fixation and complacency which led to the decision to continue the unstabilised approach to a landing contrary to Operator SOPs in respect of both Stabilised Approach criteria and response to Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Warnings. Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA) should review the way its quality system controls the Operator in respect of: the conduct of pilot training the monitoring of pilot duties to ensure "acceptable fatigue level". the conduct of pilot training. the monitoring of pilot duties to ensure "acceptable fatigue level". that Sriwijaya Air should: ensure pilot compliance with SOPs and CRM though Line Operation Safety Audit (LOSA), line check and proficiency check. monitor the pilot duties to ensure an "acceptable fatigue level". ensure that the internally-planned safety actions notified should be systematic and focused to overcome safety issues as described in the documented analysis performed by the Investigation and that progress in this respect should be subject to periodic oversight by the Safety Department.. ensure pilot compliance with SOPs and CRM though Line Operation Safety Audit (LOSA), line check and proficiency check.. monitor the pilot duties to ensure an "acceptable fatigue level".. ensure that the internally-planned safety actions notified should be systematic and focused to overcome safety issues as described in the documented analysis performed by the Investigation and that progress in this respect should be subject to periodic oversight by the Safety Department.. The Final Report was published in 2013 and the following year was made available in English language translation.