An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian KNKT (NTSC). The SSFDR and SSCVR were both recovered from the accident site and the data used in the Investigation. It was found that the 58 year old Captain had 29,801 hours flying time; the amount of this in the 737 was not stated. The 28 year old First Officer had 562 hours total flying time; again the amount of this on the 737 was not stated. It was established that because the ILS for the runway in use at Yogyakarta was out of service, a VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) approach was flown - with the Captain as PF. According to the AIPs chart for this procedure referred to by the Investigation (the one for Cat A/B aircraft), the applicable OCH was 380 feet and the minimum visibility was 1600 metres. The weather report issued shortly before the accident gave cloud as BKN/1400 feet and the visibility for runway 09 as 2000 metres. There was no evidence on the CVR that an approach briefing or the reading of any Checklists had occurred, although there was some discussion in relation to aspects of the VOR/DME procedure. The transition to a visual final approach was reported to ATC at about 1200 feet and the AP and A/T both disconnected. The aircraft was transferred to TWR and landing clearance was given. Below 1000 feet, the track was "relatively constant" but the initial sighting of the Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems showed that the aircraft was high. Corrective action led to a persistently high rate of descent peaking at over 2000 fpm whilst engine thrust remained at flight idle until below 200 feet. Below 600 feet, 3 EGPWS 'Sink Rate' Alerts were annunciated, two of which were followed by PULL UP Warnings. None of these led to any appropriate response except co-incidentally. Touchdown, initially followed by a bounce, occurred at a recorded speed of 156 KCAS, 18 knots above the reference speed corresponding to the ELW of 52 tonnes. Final configuration for landing - flaps reaching 40° from 30° - did not occur until after touchdown due to their selection at greater than the applicable limiting speed resulting in load relief at any airspeed greater than 158 KCAS. After landing, thrust reversers appeared to be briefly deployed but then N1 was at Idle until the end of the runway approached when they appeared to have been deployed again. Maximum (auto) brake pressure and the armed ground spoilers were automatically activated immediately after touchdown. As the end of the runway approached and it became clear that the aircraft would not stop on the paved surface, the Captain intentionally steered it to the left. The final stopping position (see below) placed the tail of the aircraft 75 metres from the end of the runway and 54 metres to the left of the extended runway centreline. The nose and right main landing gear collapsed and the subsequent emergency evacuation was via the slides at the