Most of the legal issues that arise under contingency take place when two different legal entities (i.e. two different States, two different ANSPs, civil and military ANSP) collaborate in contingency situations (contractual liability), or when execution of contingency measures has an impact on third parties (third party liability). This raises issues of liability. Under Article 28 of the Chicago Convention; States are responsible for the (safe) provision of air navigation facilities and services in their airspace. Any failure to exercise fully and correctly this responsibility may incur the liability of the State. Liability vis-à-vis third parties has to be distinguished from the contractual liabilities between the concerned parties in a service provision environment. The third parties' liability regime (i.e. actions by plaintiffs) is governed by national laws and sometimes public or private international law. The allocation of liability between the cooperating parties, as well as possible recourse actions, place of jurisdiction, dispute settlement procedures between the players (e.g. States, national supervisory authority (NSAs), and ANSPs) can be organised through agreements, contracts or regulatory acts. This is of particular importance in the context of contingency plans involving several ANSPs and/or cross-border cooperation. However, if written agreements can arrange the liability between the parties, they cannot arrange the right of actions of potential victims. Delegations of services or arrangements between ANSPs do not lift/remove the responsibilities and potential liabilities of the delegating ANSP (e.g. failing ANSP), which remains the one originally designated by the State in which airspace the service is provided. The liability of the air traffic controllers (ATCOs) involved in an accident when working under degraded or contingency modes would remain, but the level of the due diligence exercised would probably be assessed against the particular context and help mitigating the liability exposure. As a last remark, it should be outlined that the type of damage for which the liability of players can be invoked depends also from applicable national laws. National laws would help determine for instance whether economic damage suffered by airlines after the closing or restriction of airspace could be the subject of a claim. Insurance Legal aspects of contingency also relate to insurance cover. In applying SES legislation, in particular Regulation 2017/373, ATM/ANS.OR.D.020 Liability and insurance cover, ANSPs are in principle covered against the risks resulting from their operations, mostly via insurance policies or State guarantees. This coverage should extend to the execution of contingency measures by the ANSP as an ‘aiding’ unit, and also if possible to support provided by other ANSPs to the ANSP as a ‘failing’ unit. Cross Border Issues The cross-border provision of services under contingency raises further legal issues. In accordance with SES legislation, cooperation between ATS providers (and, where applicable, cooperation involving designated MET providers) requires written agreements subject to State approval. Applied to cross-border cooperation between foreign air traffic service providers (ATSPs), this principle requires the approval of the two States concerned. For other air navigation services Communication, Navigation, Surveillance and Aeronautical Information Services (CNS, AIS) this requirement does