An Investigation was carried out by the Transportation Safety Board of Canada (TSB). The aircraft FDR and CVR were removed and their data, covering the accident departure, were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 12,500 flying hours including 8,000 hours on type and had 12 years’ experience with the aircraft operator. The First Officer had commenced employment with the aircraft operator in an airside ground handling capacity in 2016 whilst completing his basic training as a professional pilot. He passed his initial pilot proficiency check on the DHC8-100 five months prior to the accident, by which time he had accumulated a total of around 1000 flying hours of which 300 were on type. It was noted that the Captain’s licence had been issued subject to a restriction that when using its privileges, he must be accompanied by another pilot holding an unrestricted medically valid pilot licence, a condition which was satisfied for the duty in question. The aircraft operator had been made aware of this restriction but had taken no action to ensure compliance with it. It was established with the prevailing weather conditions including surface visibility equivalent to 3200 metres in light snow, an on stand airframe de icing-treatment using Type 1 fluid was followed by a Type 4 anti-icing treatment after completion of which, the engines were started. Before commencing taxi for departure runway 26, the airport FSS (Flight Information Service Officer/Operator) passed the most recent Aircraft Movement Surface Condition Report (AMSCR). This indicated that the central 33 metres of the runway was covered with snow to a depth of 0.25 cm and the remaining 6 metre-wide runway margins with snow to a depth of 2.5 cm metres with snow windrows parallel to and just clear (by 1.5 metres) of the lit runway edge. However, as the aircraft approached the runway access as cleared, the FSS advised that permission to take off for Montréal in accordance with the issued route clearance had been temporarily withdrawn. The aircraft returned to the apron and the engines were shut down and the passengers deplaned. Soon after this a new takeoff slot about an hour later was given. As it approached, the passengers were re-boarded and Type I de-icing fluid was again applied. The engines were then started and taxi to runway 26 was commenced. The previously communicated AMSCR was still the most recent. As entry to the runway was completed, a rolling takeoff was commenced with the aircraft 5 metres left of the runway centreline and tracking 4° to the left of it. The runway edge lights along the entire runway were clearly visible but the runway centreline markings were obscured by snow. The initial tracking was maintained so that - unappreciated by the crew - the aircraft continued to slowly increase its divergence from the runway centreline as it accelerated and it was not until a speed of approximately 80 knots had been reached 12 seconds after