the takeoff roll had begun that the Captain realised that the aircraft was about to depart the left hand edge of the runway. It was too late to make a correction and once off the paved surface, the left main landing gear was the first to hit the snow windrow which caused the aircraft to spin to the left approximately 5°. After briefly attempting to correct the ground track the Captain “decided to reject the takeoff by reducing engine power” but when seeking to retard both power levers with his right hand, the Captain “caught the right engine lever with his little finger, pushing it completely forward” whilst only retarding the left engine power lever which considerably increased the veer left. His attempt to control the aircraft using the rudder pedals was unsuccessful and five seconds later, after the nose wheel and right main landing gear had also hit the snow windrow, the aircraft hit a “compacted snowbank” almost a metre high which ran parallel to and about 12 metres from the runway edge and immediately spun rapidly to the left. The Captain finally reduced power on the right hand engine and the aircraft came to a stop approximately 900 metres from the threshold of the 2300 metre-long runway on a heading of 147° some 60 metres to the left of the centreline. The engines were shut down, the FSS was advised of the runway excursion. The Captain then gave the order to evacuate “but then changed his mind when he noticed that there was no danger and everyone could remain inside the passenger cabin” and wait for the emergency services to arrive after which the passengers, only one of whom sustained (a minor) injury, were deplaned and taken back to the passenger terminal. The aircraft was found to have been substantially damaged, in particular when it hit the snowbank, at which point sections of both propellers had broken off and damaged each side of the fuselage. The aircraft nose, belly and landing gear were also damaged. The Investigation noted that the (obscured) runway centreline markings, the installed runway and taxiway lighting and snow clearing procedures were all in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and at the time of the accident were respectively fully serviceable / followed. Site trials conducted by members of the investigation team confirmed that the installed runway lighting had provided the pilots with adequate visual reference to ensure their aircraft remained in the centre of the runway during the takeoff roll even when the centreline markings were not visible provided that they had looked far enough ahead along the runway. However, in the accident takeoff roll, it was concluded that the Captain, as PF simply “did not look far enough ahead for long enough to notice that the aircraft was deviating to the left” before it departed the runway. It was also noted that in accordance with the aircraft operator SOPs, a pre-takeoff briefing was required to be given by the designated PF but that it