was evident from the CVR data that no such briefing had been given. The clearly evident change in runway edge lighting perspective if an aircraft accelerating down the runway at night fails to remain at or near to the centreline was also clearly demonstrated during other work during the Investigation with a deviation as little as 9 metres on the 45 metre wide runway involved being clearly discernible and very clearly obvious if an aircraft was at the left hand edge of the runway (see the illustration below). The PM role played by the First Officer during the accident takeoff roll was found to have been ineffective in detecting the Captain’s failure to make any corrections to the initial misalignment as the speed increased. In the presence of a very significant authority gradient, this was attributed to the First Officer’s belief that it was “unnecessary to monitor the departure path or to double-check the Captain’s actions because the latter had much more experience” and possibly also the fact that the Captain had felt obliged to monitor the First Officer’s actions quite closely given his low experience which would have compromised his focus on the external view. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: Causes and Contributing Factors: The pilot flying did not look far enough ahead for long enough to notice that the aircraft was deviating to the left before veering off the runway.. Given that the pilot monitoring was not looking out the window to monitor the aircraft’s path, he did not notice the deviation and was therefore unable to help the pilot flying correct the deviation in the path during the take-off roll.. The strong authority gradient between the pilots reduced the effectiveness of monitoring, which resulted in a failure to detect and correct the deviation from the departure path.. During the takeoff-rejection procedure, the pilot flying accidentally caught the right engine power lever with his finger, pushing the lever completely forward, and placed only the left lever in the idle position, which produced a significant dissymmetry in the torque and accentuated the deviation from the path, resulting in the runway excursion.. Since the pilot flying was able to place only 1 power lever in the idle position, it is highly likely that he did not have his right hand on the levers, contrary to what is stated in the standard operating procedures. Consequently, he was not ready to quickly and safely reject the takeoff.. Risk: If pilots do not carry out a take-off briefing, they may not have a shared mental model of the actions that must be taken during the takeoff, increasing the risk of an accident.. If the roles and responsibilities of the pilot flying and pilot monitoring are not well defined, monitoring may not be effective, increasing the risk that an aircraft’s deviation from its path may fail to be detected and corrected.. If the accompanying pilot is not informed of the other pilot’s state of health before the flight, the