An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). The aircraft was fitted with two CVFDRs. The relevant voice data had already been overwritten because of continued operation but relevant flight data from the recorders was successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation. ATC recorded data was also obtained. It was a noted that the 48 year-old Captain had accumulated 13,067 total flying hours including 1,195 hours on type. The 37 year-old First Officer, who was PF at the time of the event, had accumulated 4,480 total flying hours including 2,006 hours on the ERJ170. It was also noted that the flight during which the accident occurred was the first time the two pilots involved had flown together. It was established that the flight had been uneventful until the aircraft was descending from its cruise level FL220 and being positioned in accordance with its ATC clearances towards final approach at its destination. After flying level at 11,000 feet with the AP engaged approximately 2 minutes and 10 nm behind an Airbus A340-600 which was also at 11,000 feet and also being radar vectored towards an approach at Haneda, ATC gave a clearance to descend on current track to 8,000 feet and reduce speed to 230 KIAS. Shortly after the Captain had advised the cabin crew that continued smooth flying conditions were expected and that the passenger seat belt signs would be switched on at 10,000 feet, recorded flight data showed that as the aircraft had passed 10,800 feet, it began to be affected by light turbulence. Then, 10 seconds later as it continued descent through 10,600 feet, the turbulence increased markedly and, on account of an uncommanded and increasing roll to the left, the PF disengaged the AP and returned the aircraft to wings level manually. After 10 seconds of this increased level of turbulence, it quickly dissipated and there was no recurrence for the remainder of the flight, which subsequently landed on runway 23. The Captain had, soon after the turbulence had ceased, asked the senior member of the cabin crew - who had sustained what was subsequently classified as a serious injury - if everything was alright in the cabin, and she had said it was and had not mentioned anything about any injuries to herself or to her colleague when in fact both had fallen in the aft galley area with consequent injury. It was also noted that the Captain, who had been aware of the heavy aircraft ahead, had strongly suspected a wake vortex origin for the turbulence and had, on that basis, made a reassuring PA once it was over. The Investigation carefully examined all possible sources of the turbulence encountered and, after reviewing meteorological data which showed that very stable high pressure conditions had prevailed, concluded that the disturbance had been caused by the passage of the aircraft through wake vortices generated by the preceding Airbus A340. It was found that the time when the severe turbulence rapidly disappeared could be