"System wide" events present an aircraft commander with challenges that are not covered by routine contingency planning and which, if not handled well, can quickly jeopardise the safety of the aircraft. Examples of system wide events could include: Acts of War or Terrorism - For example, the closure of US airspace following the attacks of 11 September 2001, or airspace closure associated with the imposition of a no-fly zone over Libya in April 2011.. Natural Events - For example the closure of many airports in Japan following the earthquake and tsunami of 11 March 2011 or airspace closures over Europe on 15 April 2010 due to volcanic ash.. Adverse Weather Conditions - For example, widespread and unexpected closure of airports in northern Canada as a result of advection fog following changing wind conditions, or closure of airports following heavier than expected snowfall across a wide area. Tropical revolving storms can also produce widespread weather effects covering destination and nearby alternate airfields for a considerable time.. NOTE: This article does not address the more dynamic situation of operating to a destination where, at dispatch, the weather at destination and the standard diversion airfields is (legal but) hovering on limits and with the potential to improve or deteriorate; normal in-flight weather monitoring and contingency planning would then apply. The 9/11 scenario was unusual because a government made a unilateral decision and any form of discussion was met with the threat of being shot down; the crew’s choice of diversion was taken away and aircraft went where the military could process them and determine the threat they posed. In contrast, the Japanese tsunami/nuclear reactor accident left more room for decision making on the flight deck. A SWE will usually involve both a change of route and of the airfield of next landing. A re-route as a consequence of an SWE will not usually allow the original destination to be reached for the following reasons: Even if there is no airspace closure, the change of landing airfield to one outside the areas previously briefed will involve a change of route.. Even if the destination airfield is unaffected, if airspace is closed over an area wide enough to exclude previously briefed en-route alternates, it is very unlikely that the original destination will still be within range.. Therefore, this article assumes that both the route and next landing airfield will change. Once on the ground, the feasibility of continuing to destination can be assessed with more complete information on the extent and expected duration of the event. Alternative means for conveying the passengers to their destination, such as ground transportation, can also be considered.