Early recognition of the commencement and scale of a SWE is desirable but the event type will affect how rapidly the extent becomes evident. The start of military action may close airspace over a wide area simultaneously but it will usually be made known to ATC, through whom aircraft can be notified promptly. Adverse weather, which eventually closes airfields over a wide area, may spread relatively slowly and may come to affect what initially seems a useful landing airfield. Similarly natural disasters may have ongoing effects that spread beyond the area initially affected. Early indications may be gained through monitoring ATC communications and communications between other aircraft. If the onset of a SWE is suspected, information sources that will improve situational awareness include: Air Traffic Control - ATC may be able to provide: information on the nature, duration, and consequences of the event, including the impact on ATC service provision and availability of airspace and aerodromes; guidance on revised routings and information regarding availability of alternate destinations.. information on the nature, duration, and consequences of the event, including the impact on ATC service provision and availability of airspace and aerodromes;. guidance on revised routings and information regarding availability of alternate destinations.. However, be aware that the ability of ATC to provide such information and services may be affected by both the event and the sudden requirement to handle numerous re-routings and diversions, that may cause controller overload. Company Flight Watch - Company flight watch centres may have information and advice to assist decision making. They may also be able to provide information on the intentions of other company aircraft and provide company preferences for the alternate destination which the crew can take into consideration in decision making.. Other Aircraft - especially where the ATC service has been degraded, other aircraft can be a source of useful information regarding the availability of alternate aerodromes, usable frequencies for communications etc.. Internet -. Some aircraft types may give access to the internet, usually as part of an in-flight entertainment system, but those sources may be of questionable reliability or contradictory; the task of gathering and assessing such information can easily become a distraction.. Although information from other aircraft can be useful, guard against allowing the assessment of another pilot to override your own judgement. The most reliable sources of information will be ATC and your operator. Advice from other ground-based agencies may be based on priorities shaped by the responsibilities of the person offering advice who may have little background in aviation. Ensuring the safety of the flight must take precedence and the priority must be to fly and navigate the aircraft at all times: Aviate, Navigate, Communicate.