The Dutch Safety Board was informed of the event the following day and commenced a Serious Incident Investigation using recorded ATC radar and GND frequency transcripts to corroborate (or otherwise) the statements of those involved. It was noted that all four pilots involved were experienced A320 pilots and familiar with the particular complexity of ground manoeuvring at Amsterdam as operated. The Easyjet A320 Captain had a total of “around 9,500 hours” flying experience and their First Officer had a total of “around 3,400 hours” flying experience. The SAS A320 Captain had a total of “around 15,500 hours” flying experience and their First Officer had a total of “around 11,500 hours” flying experience. The Captains of both aircraft were acting as PF during their respective taxi in. Runways 18C and 18R were in simultaneous use for landings. The Easyjet A320 had landed on runway 18R and was initially cleared to taxi via taxiway Z and then to cross taxiway Z2 and continue north on taxiway ‘A’ to its allocated gate H1 (see the illustration below). Half a minute later, the GND controller added “Scandinavian on the left at the end of Zulu waiting for you” which was correctly read back. The Easyjet crew stated that they had clearly seen the other A320 taxiing south on taxiway ‘B’ and estimated its speed as “around 20 knots”. When their aircraft turned left and began heading north, the Captain stated that he still had the other A320 in sight. As they approached the intersection of taxiway ‘Q’ with taxiway ‘A’ and ‘Z’, the Easyjet Captain reported seeing the other aircraft approaching them from the left “at an angle of about 45 degrees”. Then, between taxiways A26 and A27, as the two aircraft continued to close, the Captain noted that the SAS A320 was not slowing down so, as a precaution, he reduced speed to 10 - 15 knots and when it became obvious that the other A320 was not going to stop as advised by GND, he made an emergency stop. He stated that once stopped, he had seen the right wing tip of the other aircraft passing the nose of their aircraft from left to right at an estimated distance between the wing and the nose of 3-4 metres. It was clear that if the Easyjet Captain had not stopped then a collision was certain to have occurred. Immediately after the near miss, the Captain expressed his concern and surprise to both the SAS crew and the GND controller and the SAS crew apologised for their error. The Easyjet A320 then continued north on taxiway ‘A’ as previously cleared. The ground tracks of the SAS AA320 (red) and the Easyjet A320 (blue) up to the conflict point. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The SAS A320 had landed on runway 18C and been cleared to taxi via taxiway B and taxiway Q for gate C10 but with the condition that “when turning at Quebec give way to the Easy right side from Zulu”. This