condition was only partially confirmed by the First Officer with “give way to the Easy, Scandinavian 87L”. The Captain claimed that “the controller did not indicate the position of the aircraft or from which direction it would come”. The GND controller involved noted that as the outlines of aircraft he could see from the VCR were less visible at night than they would be at daylight, he had “additionally used ground radar to monitor the movement of aircraft” and he recalled that his frequency had been quite busy. He stated that in issuing taxi-in clearances to both aircraft, he had foreseen that they may well arrive at the same intersection at a similar time which was why he had made the clearance to the SAS 320 conditional. Both instructions had been given around 1½ minutes prior to the potential intersection crossing conflict. He stated being aware that the SAS aircraft “did not mention the place where they had to give way and the direction where the aircraft would come from” but had not challenged it. He had no further communication with either aircraft until after the conflict and added that when he had “occasionally monitored the movement of both aircraft" on radar both aircraft were continuing as instructed and he had "expected both aircraft to comply with their instructions" and had been unaware that they had almost collided until he heard communications between the two flight crews immediately after the occurrence. It was observed that: the First Officers of both the aircraft involved were ‘head down’ during the period leading up to the near collision, both reportedly reviewing the electronic airport chart in relation to the taxi in clearance they had been given. This meant that the respective Captains lookouts had not been duplicated and their compliance with the issued clearance was not being monitored.. the fact that the SAS Captain did not notice the conflicting Easyjet A320 despite being told to expect to see it and where this would be was suggested by him to be a result of “the darkness in combination with a large amount of background lighting (including but not limited to) the motorway lighting in the background (which) can make it difficult to detect the relatively modest lights from other taxiing aircraft, especially when these are still far away”.. all taxiways in use at Amsterdam have their green centreline continuously illuminated “contrary to some other airports” where only taxiway routes to be followed in accordance with a specific clearance have lit centrelines.. In a situation where the GND controller is unable to monitor compliance with clearances issued, a challenge in the event of an incomplete clearance readback is essential and “more active control and provision of instructions when both aircraft are approaching each other is essential”.. The Cause of the Serious Incident was recorded as "the crew of the aircraft that had to give priority not noticing the other aircraft in time". Six Contributory Factors were also identified: The early instruction of the ground controller