the IFR room and in the control tower cab, except if it is located in the exclusion zones that are intended to avoid false warnings. All the labels of the track flash red and white alternately. An aural “Low altitude alert” warning is also issued.” The Investigation concluded that the Causes of the Serious Incident were: Misidentification of the step down fix by the crew.. Inadequate control of the final glide path by the crew.. And that Contributory Factors were: the publication of two FAPs, one of which is to be used on instruction from the controller, including the fact that its use was extended to the non-precision approach.. the absence of information to the crew identifying the exact version of the final approach procedure to use.. Since the Investigation found the routine altitude for level flight on a closing radar heading to final approach for both precision and non-precision approaches was based on a FAP at 3000 feet and that ”ANSP procedures did not require that crews be informed of the exact identification of the final approach procedure in use prior to their approach”, four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DGAC ensure that crews are informed with sufficient notice of the full identification of the final approach procedure to be followed.[FRAN 2013 001]. that the DGAC ensure that the DSNA (the ANSP) identifies any non-precision approach charts with several final approach fixes (FAF) and removes this type of publication. [FRAN 2013 002]. that the DGAC clarify the “compendium of cartographic techniques” used by procedure designers by removing from non-precision approaches any of the following possibilities:. - the representation of an insert showing the position of a FAF on instruction from a controller - the representation of several intermediate segments at different altitudes [FRAN 2013 003] that the DGAC ensure that radar vectoring practices include the need to guide crews to a published altitude for the start of the final approach.[FRAN 2013 004]. The Final Report was published in French in January 2013 and in English translation on 22 April 2013.