An Investigation was begun by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) upon being informed, late, of the occurrence. It transpired that following the event, ANSP staff had complied an incident report which did not include the aircraft registration marking and then sent this to the BEA the next day as the means of notification. The Investigation noted that “this delay prevented the BEA from removing the flight recorders and obtaining the testimony of the crew, who left with the aircraft later (the same day)”. However after some difficulty in establishing the identify of the aircraft operator, assistance from the Tunisian authorities, from which country the aircraft had been on short term lease to the Turkish airline involved, was obtained, in particular QAR data which included the event was supplied. It was noted that “the Turkish authorities did not respond to the request from the BEA investigators to arrange meetings with the crew and executives of the airline (involved).” Prevailing weather conditions taken from the Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR)S before and after the time of event included a surface visibility of 5000 metres and lowest cloud at 500-600 feet aal. The applicable MDA for the approach flown was 1250 feet QNH, equivalent to 429 feet aal. The Investigation recorded pilot details which showed that the Swedish First Officer was inexperienced both overall and on type and also less than half the age of the 64 year - and highly experienced - Turkish Captain. Although there was no conclusive evidence as to the pilot designated as PF for the approach, the Investigation noted that it was the Captain who had made all radio transmissions to ATC, which might be taken to indicated that the First Officer had been PF. Examination of the various sources of evidence available showed that, after failing to follow the closing radar heading given (but not acknowledged) towards the cleared LOC-only final approach track, the aircraft, level at 3000 feet in accordance with normal ATC practice, had overshot this track before returning and establishing from the opposite side. Thereafter, the final approach track (and also the subsequent go around track) had been flown accurately but descent from 3000 feet QNH had commenced shortly before the aircraft had reached lateral position for the FAF defined at range 10nm / 4000 feet QNH. Altitude had then remained continuously below the procedure vertical profile, following a smaller descent angle but still frequently taking the aircraft below the promulgated minimum safe altitude. QAR data showed that the approach had been flown with the AP engaged in CMD mode until three seconds before the controller advised the MSAW alert to the crew and that the A/T had been engaged in MCP speed mode until the crew responded to the ATC instruction to go around by calling and initiating one. The minimum height of 250 feet agl was recorded 19 seconds after this go around call. The Investigation found that the closing radar heading for the LOC had not been set and