that the LOC mode had not been armed. It was also noted that during the subsequent descent, “the monitoring of the approach path using the published distance / altitude correlation table, a technique mentioned in the operator’s procedures in addition to the use of the green arc, was clearly not applied”. It was noted that neither the controller phrase advising the crew of the MSAW Alert nor the immediately-following instruction to go around because of it, were in accord with applicable regulations and procedures but that the latter in particular was common practice at Lyon. The Investigation found that it was routine practice at Lyon to vector inbound aircraft to join final approach at 3000 feet QNH whether for an ILS or a LOC/DME approach. Although the AIP Chart available to ATC showed a FAP (for ILS approaches) at 3000 feet QNH/6.9 DME, the Jeppesen chart used by the crew (shown below) showed only a FAF at 4000 feet QNH/10 DNE. Although it was not possible to establish the form in which the procedure flown would have been stored in the incident aircraft FMC, checks on an aircraft with a similar fit indicated that it was likely that only the Jeppesen-charted 4000 feet QNH FAF would have been shown. The Investigation noted that in the case of any non precision approach, “one would expect the pilot to initiate the descent at the precise value specified”, the implication (not validated because of lack of crew interview and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recording) being that this circumstance might go some way to explaining the initiation of a premature descent. The mis-flown vertical profile compared to the IAP profile - note that this diagram shows the 3000 ft FAP which appears as a boxed ‘note’ on the AIP chart but was not on the corresponding Jeppesen Chart [reproduced from the Official Report, see Annex at the end of this summary article for the description of each event at the numbered points] The situation in respect of charting of the FAF and FAP at some other French airports was examined and varying situations were found. In the similar case of Nice, however, the Investigation was advised that any LOC approach would always descend from the charted FAF, with only the height of the ILS FAP being subject to variation by ATC. The Investigation noted that the MSAW system which alerted ATC to the below-profile position of the aircraft as it approached terrain was designed to function as follows: “The principle of this system is to calculate an extrapolated position approximately 35 seconds from the radar track. This position is then compared with a digital model of the terrain and a database of obstacles. If the extrapolated position is located at a height below a certain threshold in relation to the ground or to obstacles, respectively 300 ft or 600 ft for one and the other of the two extrapolation hypotheses, a warning is generated. It is then displayed on all the radar screens in