An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) based on ATC data and information from the DHC8 pilots. It was established that the DHC8 had contacted Sydney Departures passing 1,900 feet for 3,000 feet on a heading of 090° and were then re-cleared to 5,000 feet and given a direct track to a waypoint which put them on an approximately north easterly track. As the aircraft climbed through 3,800 feet with the AP engaged and the First Officer as PF, ATC advised that a short delay was likely before climb above 5,000 feet was possible due to traffic above. The relative positions of the two aircraft at that time are shown on the illustration below. Soon after this, the crew reported having changed the selected speed from 185 knots to 210 knots and seeing the altitude capture mode annunciated "almost simultaneously". Aware that a speed change made with altitude capture active on the aircraft they were flying meant the AP defaulting to pitch mode which it then did, the PF decided to disconnect the AP and manually reduce the rate of climb. The Captain selected the IAS and ALT SEL modes and the PF then "attempted to reconnect the AP". However, this did not occur and neither pilot noticed this or that the aircraft was continuing to climb and had exceeded 5000 feet. They then became aware visually of the conflicting 777 and identified it on their TCAS displays. As the altitude alert sounded indicating exceedance of the FMS selected altitude of 5,000 feet, the PF reported having noticed the exceedance on his altimeter and beginning to pitch the aircraft down manually to return to 5,000 feet. The maximum altitude reached during the altitude deviation before this descent began was 5,600 feet. Prior to the altitude deviation, the STCA was activated at both the Departures and Arrivals controller positions and both controllers began to monitor the altitude of the DHC8 to ensure that it maintained 5,000 feet on reaching. When the Departures controller saw the climb continuing, they "requested confirmation that the aircraft was maintaining their assigned altitude and issued a heading instruction to turn the aircraft away from the 777". When the Approach controller observed the continued climb, they instructed the 777, which had been cleared to 6,000 feet, to stop descending. In response, the flight crew of the 777 advised that at that time they were "over the top of the other aircraft and would be able to see it again shortly". The 777 levelled at 6800 feet and the DHC8 crossed its track about ½ nm behind it in the vicinity of the "projected point of crossing" marked on the illustration below. It was noted that although the two aircraft had remained more than 1,000 feet apart vertically as they crossed, under the prevailing air traffic regulations, this did not meet the requirements for separation in the circumstances which prevailed. The explanation for this was given as "in applying vertical separation using pressure-derived