increased from 42 degrees to 80 degrees to the right. Given the neutral position of the elevator, because of the high bank angle the pitch increased to 25 degrees attitude nose down (AND). The aircraft therefore quickly lost altitude and its speed increased to 207 KIAS. At 16:56:12 UTC the first officer made the commander aware that they should turn left to ZUE: "turning left to Zurich East, we should left". At 16:56:15 UTC, at a bank angle of 65.8 degrees to the right, the commander muttered unclearly: "oh na-na". Three seconds later at 16:56:18 UTC, DEP requested confirmation that the aircraft was turning to the left […]. The first officer responded immediately: "moment please, standby". DEP then instructed the crew to continue the right turn: "ok, continue right to Zurich East." In the final phase of flight, beginning at 16:56:20 UTC, the aircraft went into a spiral dive. As a result of massive aileron deflections, the aircraft attained a maximum bank angle of 137 degrees to the right. The engines still provided high power, since setting of climb power had not yet been terminated. At a speed of 250 KIAS the over speed warning horn sounded. At 16:56:24 UTC the first officer vigorously warned the commander to turn left: "turning left, left, left, left… left!" At the end of the data recording at 16:56:25 UTC the aircraft still exhibited a bank angle of 76 degrees to the right. The nose of the aircraft had dropped to 63 degrees AND at an air speed of 285 KIAS. Several witnesses observed the aircraft breaking out of the clouds in a steep descent and performing a right turn. At 16:56:27.2 UTC the aircraft crashed in an open field near Au, Nassenwil, ZH. None of the three crew members and seven passengers survived the impact.” The Report further uncovers that the medication Phenezepam was discovered in the remains of the commander: “It is conceivable that in this period the commander’s confusion about the current attitude dominated his perceptions and that he was having trouble interpreting the EADI display at all and reconciling it with his mental picture of flight path and attitude. Once again, an enhanced effect due to the medication cannot be excluded.” The Cause of the accident was given as: “The flight crew reacted inappropriately to the change in departure clearance SID ZUE 1Y by ATC.. The co-pilot made an entry in the FMS, without being instructed to do so by the commander, which related to the change to the SID ZUE 1 standard instrument departure. In doing so, he omitted to select a turn direction.. The commander dispensed with use of the autopilot under instrument flight conditions and during the work-intensive climb phase of the flight.. The commander took the aircraft into a spiral dive to the right because, with a probability bordering on certainty, he had lost spatial orientation.. The first officer took only inadequate measures to prevent or recover from the spiral dive.”. The following is stated as