The event was identified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the CAAC assisted by Quick Access Recorder data and flight crew interviews. An examination of the aircraft by engineers in Ningbo on arrival found that it remained airworthy. The Investigation also found, on the basis of a flight crew telephone conversation with the Sichuan Airlines’ Head of Flight Operations following their arrival in Ningbo, the flight crew had been permitted to continue their planned duty. It was found that the aircraft had continued towards its intended destination despite clear information that the intensity of convective weather in the vicinity of the aerodrome was increasing. ATC also advised that, although an improvement was expected within half an hour, other aircraft had diverted. As the aircraft was establishing on the ILS LOC, ATC advised that the previously-advised ‘light thunderstorm’ had now worsened such that “the terminal area is now covered by thunderstorm” and “strong lightning is observed to the west of the terminal area”. Nevertheless, the approach was continued. After establishing on the ILS LOC for runway 03 with the AP and A/T engaged, the ILS GS was captured but QAR data showed that the thrust set had been insufficient to maintain airspeed during descent. As a result, the aircraft pitch attitude had begun to increase as the AP attempted to maintain the selected profile. The pilots appeared not to have noticed this unusual pitch attitude or the decreasing airspeed. The recorded data showed that, when the airspeed loss had reached 12 knots below the applicable Vapp of 126 knots the aural ‘SPEED’ Warning (which indicates a low energy condition) had been annunciated. The crew response this was contrary to the prescribed Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) response and ineffective. With the AP and A/T still engaged and the A/T response not sufficient to arrest the 7knots/second rate of airspeed reduction, 12 seconds later, the Alpha Protection function was triggered with the aircraft pitch attitude at 34° up. The Alpha Floor function and its automatic application of TO/GA thrust and disconnection of the AP followed almost immediately, but a concurrent and significant change in wind velocity meant that the Stall Warning was activated only one second later with actual airspeed at that time estimated as having been between 93 KCAS and 81 KCAS compared to the calculated actually-applicable stall speed as flown of 79 KCAS. During the 6 second stall warning activation, to which the initial crew response was not in accordance with the prescribed QRH drill, the aircraft entered a fully stalled condition with a right wing drop to in excess of 40° and the rate of descent reached 3924 fpm. QAR data showed that the minimum airspeed reached was 74 knots and that the minimum height above the ground, reached some 13 seconds after the Stall Warning had begun had been 884 feet. From this point, the crew had effected a recovery of control and begun a climb and there had been no further aircraft control