issues. However, it was noted that the effect of the rapid descent whilst stalled had been to trigger an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE, PULL UP’ Warning. Having confirmed that the aircraft had remained in Normal Law throughout the incident sequence, the Investigation noted that both Flight Augmentation Computers (FACs) had ceased to function in quick succession during the stall, although both had been successfully reset almost immediately. It was established that both the FACs and all other technical functioning of the aircraft systems had been in accordance with design. The triggering of a Stall Warning so rapidly after activation of the Alpha Protection and Alpha Floor function was attributed to the inappropriate crew response to the SPEED Warning, which itself had followed a failure to monitor the flight instruments. The period during which the aircraft had been fully stalled was attributed to the inappropriate crew response to the Stall Warning, but it was noted that crew had eventually been able to recover the situation. Overall, it was also concluded that the presence of windshear in the form of a sudden increase in tail wind component had been a factor which had had a material bearing on the sequence of events but that “during this flight, the crew didn’t act properly in making decision about weather, operating equipment and handling flaps under the weather condition of the day”. It was further concluded that “although the Alpha Protection function was activated before stall, it was still quite hard to effectively stop the aircraft from stalling, because the energy produced by the weather at that time had exceeded that of (the correctly functioning) auto protection system”. It was also noted that despite the evidence that windshear had been present during the incident, the severity of it had been insufficient to trigger the Windshear Alerting System with which the aircraft had been fitted. The formal Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The crew did not pay enough attention to the complex weather condition and their decision-making ability was weak. The crew had made wrong decisions in the severe weather condition. Although ATC informed the pilots of the weather conditions and other planes’ diversion, the flight crew continued to launch the approach.. The alternative plan prepared for complex weather condition was insufficient. When wind shear became obvious, pilots took no resolute action to stop the approach.. The crew failed to respond as per the Operations Manual. When the aircraft attitude was gradually deviating from norm, air speed decreased and the low energy warning appeared, the pilots intervened in the AP control by choosing the speed manually instead of pushing the throttle forward as required by QRH 2.03. This led to a complex situation, including increasing attitude, low airspeed, Alpha Protection triggered and stall.. The Crew Resource Management was a chaos. When aircraft was in complex conditions, both pilots reacted instinctively, introducing to dual side stick inputs for as long as 12 seconds.. The Cause of this “serious air transport incident” was the “flight crews’ inappropriate