The three potential major consequences, which result from airspace infringements, are: Mid-air collision:. The worst-case scenario. Only the collaboration of all aviation sectors can prevent this. Loss of separation:. An infringement leading to loss of separation or close proximity of aircraft could have a number of consequences, e.g. loss of control due to wake vortex encounter, violent avoiding manoeuvres, and injuries to passengers or crew as a result. Disruption to flight operations:. Especially in congested airspace there is potential for a significant increase in controller and pilot workload due to the need to break off an approach, change aircraft sequence for landing, or implement other contingency measures, as well as the resulting R/T congestion. The most commonly infringed airspace structures are Terminal Manoeuvring Areas (TMAs) and airport Control Zones (CTRs). The majority of infringements occur during level flight by the infringing aircraft rather than on departure or approach. Airspace infringements are caused by a range of user types, including OAT (Operational Air Traffic) and commercial air transport. However, analysis of the incidents reported by European ANSPs clearly indicates the majority of infringements are committed by GA VFR flights, although there is some local variation due partly to variations in local airspace and rules. Airspace infringements occur when an aircraft enters notified airspace without previously requesting and obtaining clearance from the controlling authority of that airspace or enters the airspace under conditions that were not contained in the clearance. Notified Airspace includes controlled airspace structures in ICAO airspace classes A to E, such as Airways, Terminal Control Areas (TMAs), Control Zones (CTRs) or aerodrome traffic zones (ATZ) outside controlled airspace, as well as restricted airspaces, such as danger areas, restricted areas, prohibited areas and temporary segregated/reserved areas. Although VFR flights do not require clearance to enter Class E airspace, serious incidents have occurred between VFR and IFR flights in such airspace due largely to limitations in the “see-and-avoid” principle. All classes of aircraft are prone to airspace infringement, but the majority of incidents recorded involve General Aviation (GA). Airspace infringements create a significant safety risk. This safety risk often cannot be controlled by ATC. Many infringements result in losses of separation with commercial passenger-carrying aircraft, or inadequate separation where there is no prescribed separation. Furthermore, the disruption to the operation of the ATM system caused by airspace infringements is significant. There is also an increasing incidence of airspace infringement by unmanned aircraft (UAs), commonly referred to as drones. UA use is currently limited compared to future predicted usage. The rapidly expanding UA market – especially the potentially overwhelming increase in the use of UAs for commercial logistics, delivery and taxi flights – means that actions to manage the safety risk of airspace infringement must also take into account the emerging UA phenomenon. However, because of the emerging nature of the UA phenomenon it is not possible to assess the potential impact of their use on Airspace Infringement risk. Therefore, because of the projected timescales involved in the current EAPAIRR project, drones