The safety recommendations and best practices in this action plan are arranged in tables for each of the following groups of action owners: AD: Airspace Design. ANSP: Air Navigation Service (including FIS) Providers. AU: Airspace Users (civil and military). AIM: AIM and MET services providers. REG: Regulatory authorities (national and supranational). Some of these action owner groups may be included in one organisational entity. For example, the provision of AIS or MET services may fall within or outside the responsibility of the ANSP (civil or military), but all entities providing such services should consider that list of actions. Not all actions are phrased in precise terms as measurable achievements that can be ‘ticked off’ when completed. Some are, intentionally, phrased in more general terms - such as ‘improve’ or ‘harmonise’. This recognises that some actions are matters of degree and that there should be flexibility for action owners to decide how far they need to go, in line with their particular operational context and safety needs. It is acknowledged that different action owners will start from different positions. While airspace infringement is an important operational risk across much of Europe, the nature and scale of the problem varies between States. The complexity of the airspace structure, the scale of military flying activity, the scale and maturity of both commercial and general aviation sectors, the scope and nature of air traffic service provision and State’s regulatory and legislative frameworks are the factors which will shape the local airspace infringement risk reduction strategies and determine the most appropriate and effective actions to be taken by individual States. Therefore the number of Action Plan recommendations that can be implemented is likely to differ from State to State. National authorities should play the leading role in establishing and promoting local implementation priorities and actions in consultation with airspace users and service provider organisations.