Source: EUROCONTROL Airspace infringement, also known as “unauthorised penetration of airspace”, is a major operational hazard that can result from the division of airspace into different classes and structures, with their associated procedures and services, and its joint use by different categories of users, often with competing objectives and different operational requirements and capabilities. Infringements are not rare events in busy European airspaces and, without prompt action by air traffic controllers and pilots, could result in a loss of separation, or even mid-air collision. Recognising the severity of this threat to aircraft operations and the need to ensure the safe use of airspace and sustainable development of commercial, military and general aviation in the short, medium and long term, the major aviation stakeholder groups in Europe agreed that coordinated actions should be taken to control this aviation risk. The launch of the Airspace Infringement Safety Improvement Initiative in 2006 provided the vehicle for achieving this goal. The first Action Plan was initiated in 2006, and was the key deliverable of the European Airspace Infringement Initiative. The Action Plan, delivered in 2009, presents a set of safety improvement measures and provides guidance on how they can best be implemented. This action was partially adopted throughout the European Aviation Industry. The plan was developed with the support of, and active contributions from, organisations representing the airspace users, service providers, regulatory and military authorities. Notable contributions were made by the International Council of Aircraft Owner and Pilot Associations (European region), Europe Air Sports, Association of European Airlines, International Air Transport Association, the European Commission and EUROCONTROL. Ten years after that publication the issue of Airspace Infringements is still present, as is the associated risk. Many local and regional initiatives have been running for a number of years. These have resulted in the sharing of many best practices and have gone some way to reducing the risk slightly, but they have come nowhere near to eliminating it. With a further developed aviation industry, which has seen increased traffic in both General Aviation and Commercial Aviation and Flexible Use of Airspace (FUA) by the military, the environment has changed as well. Other developments like the evolution of Flight Information Service, 8.33khz implementation, development of surveillance and detection equipment, changes in airspace structures and activations, and last but not least the rapidly increasing professional and recreational drone activities may have an impact on the risk as well. All the aforementioned elements and the open ends to the questions, demand a renewed European Airspace Initiative. Again, the ultimate goal is to develop a risk reduction action plan and support airspace users, civil and military service providers and national authorities in implementing the recommended safety improvement measures for the timeframe 2020-2030. CANSO and EUROCONTROL chair the initiative which draws on the expertise and close support of a working group of stakeholders. The recommendations have been divided in 5 domains: Airspace Design (AD), Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSP), Airspace Users (AU), Aeronautical Information Management (AIM) & Meteorology and Regulators