Approach-and-landing accidents account for 55 percent of hull losses and 50 percent of fatalities. (Flight Safety Digest, “Killers in Aviation,” 1999.) It was fortunate that this accident did not result in loss of life. The accident report stated that the probable cause of the event was the pilots’ excessive speed and steep flight path angle during approach and landing and their failure to abort the maneuver when stabilized approach criteria were not met. It conceded that ATC contributed to the accident by imposing a runway change and positioning the aircraft for a too-steep, or “slam-dunk,” approach with no other alternative than a go-around. However, discussing the event in human factors terms provides more subtle clues as to what might have precipitated this flight into an almost irreversible chain of events. It includes some latent issues within the training organization. Most airline training focuses on specific maneuvers and not enough on exercising judgment in realistic scenarios that feed back on behavioral and even technical issues. In this case the respective issues were: The following points bring to light the human factors elements in this particular case: Any runway change during descent also carries implied or explicit pressure to accept ATC instructions without much time to consider the new assignment. Reflecting industry concerns with on-time performance and fuel efficiency and unaware of the risks associated with rushed approaches, the crew went into press-on-itis mode and demonstrated its flexibility to integrate into traffic and keep operations fluid. A contributing factor may have been the familiarity with runway 08 instead of the more challenging approach to runway 33 with a circle-to-land near terrain that was canceled by ATC. Time was short, so the pilots did not consult the onboard performance computer. Although this would have indicated that the landing was possible, it could have alerted them to various implications for the new approach. ATC vectored the aircraft on a heading to base leg to the final approach course at 230 kt, which placed it at its outer limits for descent and slowdown in the remaining distance to touchdown. It was a not uncommon “slam-dunk” clearance that challenged the crew to get stabilized in speed, descent rate and glideslope before landing. Neither pilot expressed concerns about the ATC instructions nor did they communicate their thoughts about descent planning. The increased workload may have interfered with their perception and situational awareness of the risks involved. When facing high workloads, crews can fall into a reactive thinking process that reduces cognitive demands and strategic risk and situation assessment. Slightly more than one minute passed between the clearance to approach visually and the first configuration change. From then on, the captain’s situational awareness that the aircraft was high and fast was confirmed by the quick succession of actions to configure the aircraft for landing. These actions also suggest that he did not recognize how important it was to slow down in the air as much as possible before attempting to stop the aircraft on the runway. The most