efficient way to accomplish this is to level off, extend the gear, slow down and configure all the way to flaps 40 degrees, then resume descent. Also contributing to the captain’s decision to descend before slowing down was the fact that he was rather surprised at being closer to the airport than he actually thought after passing the waypoint navigational aid. The attention of both pilots may have focused on the threatening perspective of runway 08, which appeared foreshortened, steep and well beyond any normal approach. It created tunnel vision under heavy workload and stress, possibly disrupting judgment and depleting resources for critical thinking and decision making. There is a normal tendency among pilots to begin descending when the airplane display indicates the aircraft is high on approach. This quickly makes the display appear normal. When this occurs, knowledge of the total energy concept and discipline help pilots to choose slowing before descending, though this makes the display initially appear worse. Dissipating total energy can only happen by increasing drag (gear extension before flaps) or extending distance to landing; descending more rapidly does not lead to a total energy decrease. The steep descent gradient, the abnormally high airspeed, the excessive descent rate and the idle throttle setting did not trigger any reverse reaction. Neither did cues such as the GPWS “sink rate“ and “pull up” warnings. These continuous auditory warnings throughout the final seconds before landing were a possible distraction. Just before the flare, the crew had apparently also been subject to extra distraction due to concerns that the aircraft ahead had not cleared the runway, largely because of the excessive final approach speed. Warning systems, although designed for accident prevention, can often have an unintended interference effect. The airline also provided specific guidelines with precise stabilized approach gates that call for proper pilot not flying (PNF) monitoring, specific callouts and go-around/missed approach criteria. Most approaches involve some degree of leeway to deviate within realistic tolerances before discontinuing the approach, which facilitates the crew decision-making tasks. This may in particular strengthen the resolve of first officers when having to challenge their captains. It also creates the necessary bonding to guide a captain’s decisions. The absence of verbal challenges from the first officer through callouts on excessive airspeed, off-scale glide-slope deviation, excessive sink rates, improper flap speed configuration or standard altitudes confirms poor crew resource management (CRM), required to keep the PF abreast of what’s happening and getting feedback on his situational awareness. The first officer only reconfirmed the landing clearance 40 sec after clearance to land on runway 08 was issued and executed the landing checklist silently. He was too busy to verbalize it, dropped less crucial tasks to cope with excessive workload and lack of time, which impaired proper safety assessments. This vulnerability led to overconfidence bias — a tendency to overestimate one’s own abilities — and to confirmation bias — a tendency to hold on to a preconceived plan and to seek elements confirming it. It meant the