Some airports have instances of slam-dunk events that illustrate the importance of prevention and countermeasures. Among the salient protections should be when there is a change in operating runway and insufficient time available to prepare the approach, a crew must focus more on being prepared for a go-around. The following strategies are recommended in order to avoid this type of incident: Perform accurate risk assessments and tactical decision making based on Weather and winds Approach type Risk of specific threats such as workload, a slam-dunk approach and being too high, too fast and too close. Weather and winds. Approach type. Risk of specific threats such as workload, a slam-dunk approach and being too high, too fast and too close. Conduct effective briefings that fully review the approach procedures, profile and aircraft configurations, including specific approach callouts. Explicitly define task sharing with clear monitoring of critical flight parameters such as airspeed, glideslope, sink rate, flap-speed configuration and altitudes. Explicitly agree on approach criteria limits beyond which a go-around or other recovery action will begin. Maintain critical thinking and decision making to avoid disrupting judgment. Avoid press-on-itis and stress by not yielding to ATC or time pressures to rush as you may fall prone to other human factors such as overconfidence, confirmation bias or tunnel vision. Maintain communications and buy time to create common situational awareness among crewmembers. Applicable principles lead to simple guidelines that can avoid trouble if applied correctly: Communicate with each other through briefings, callouts, concerns and risk assessments to make sure that the entire team is on the same wavelength. Do not fixate on completing the landing at first attempt. Cross check what you see, hear and feel with available flight instruments. Keep discipline by applying proper descent and braking techniques after landing (SOPs), by attending to warnings such as GPWS “sink rate” and “pull up”. Maintain proficiency through training to exercise CRM, airmanship and judgment.