Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS) can be distinguished from other methods intended to collect safety data from normal operations based on the following ten operating characteristics that are unique to NOSS: 1. Over-the-shoulder observations, with clearly defined stop rules, during normal shifts NOSS observations are performed by an observer situated close to or behind the controller working the operational position where the observation is taking place (direct observation). This set-up is similar to on-the-job training (OJT) in ATC, where the instructor sits close to or behind a trainee. The NOSS observer will make short personal notes on a small notepad about certain operational situations, which will enable the observer to later reconstruct the situation when writing a narrative about the observation. One of the attributes that distinguishes NOSS from other safety data collection mechanisms is that NOSS captures data from normal operations only, i.e. the successful daily operations for which no safety occurrence reports are generated. This implies that if, during a NOSS observation, a safety occurrence takes place, that particular observation will be terminated and the data will not be included in the NOSS report. From a systems safety perspective, it is important to realise that in such an event the safety data are not lost to the organisation, but are captured by the other mechanisms the organisation has in place. For the NOSS project, however, that particular observation session is by definition no longer being conducted in normal operations, and consequently the data from that session will not be used for the NOSS report. The point in the operations of an organisation where normal operations are interrupted by a reportable occurrence or, in other words, the point where a NOSS observation session has to be terminated, is referred to as the “stop rule” for the NOSS observations. Stop rules will differ from one ATS provider to the next, depending on the existing safety data collection mechanisms in the organisation and indeed in the State concerned. The stop rule for use in a NOSS project shall be discussed and defined during the training of the observers. NOSS observations are conducted only at operational positions where no OJT instruction or checks are taking place. The reason for this is that NOSS is designed to provide an organisation with a profile of its systemic strengths and weaknesses in managing threats, errors and undesired states during normal operations. Whilst an organisation may spend a considerable amount of time training people to become qualified air traffic controllers, the organisational expectation should be that normal operations are provided by fully qualified controllers. It is thus only fair to consider the systemic performance from that perspective. Note. There is no reason that an organisation cannot monitor safety in daily operations while observations are taking place or during checks and/or OJT sessions. For a NOSS, however, checks and OJT situations must be excluded. 2. Joint management/controller association support Allowing observers to sit in during normal operations is not something that is easily accepted by aviation professionals.