not be used for disciplinary purposes under any circumstances. Any breach of confidentiality or trust can mean the end of using NOSS in an organisation. 5. Systematic observation instrument based on the Threat and Error Management (TEM) framework The target for NOSS is the operational context in which air traffic controllers do their work. NOSS is designed to allow an observer to see the threats, errors and undesired states that are dealt with during normal operations in an organisation through the eyes of the controllers. The observers are trained to recognize threats, errors and undesired states and how they are linked. The observers take minimal notes during the observations and fill out predesigned observation reporting forms after the observation has been completed. These forms are structured to help elicit the threats, errors and undesired states from the narratives provided by the observers and also aim to capture how the identified threats, errors and undesired states were managed and what countermeasures were used by the controllers. It is not expected that the observers will capture 100 per cent of all threats and errors made during the observation period. Emphasis is on the thoroughness of the data that is captured, even though some threats and errors are not captured. 6. Trained and standardised observers NOSS observers receive training in which the application of the Threat and Error Management (TEM) framework to ATC operations is explained. They are furthermore trained in using the NOSS observation forms and applying the appropriate codes from the NOSS coding tables. The training includes guidelines for the conduct of NOSS observations in the specific workplaces that will be observed, as well as guidelines on how to act if a safety occurrence happens during an observation (“stop rule”). After the classroom part of the training, the candidate observers must perform at least two practice observations and fill out the associated reporting forms. The training facilitator will provide feedback to individual observers on the reports they have submitted. This one-on-one interaction between the facilitator and the observers helps ensure that all observers have the same view of what is expected of them (standardization) before they perform an actual NOSS observation. 7. Trusted data collection sites Even though the data collected in a NOSS are de-identified and confidential, they still possess a certain degree of sensitivity for the organisation concerned, and it is therefore of great importance that a trusted site to store the data be selected and assigned. The premise is that the data from NOSS belongs to the ATS provider organisation where the NOSS is conducted. It is therefore the responsibility of the organisation to determine where the data will be stored. The data from most of the airlines that performed a line operations safety audit (LOSA), a similar method as NOSS for use in the flight deck environment) is kept by a body called The LOSA Collaborative (TLC) that was specifically created for that purpose. The airlines concerned agreed that their LOSA data are to be kept there