report, the SIA shall solicit comments from the authorities concerned, including EASA. The final report shall be made public in the shortest possible time and if possible within 12 months of the date of the accident or serious incident. If the final report cannot be made public within 12 months, the SIA shall release an interim statement detailing the progress of the investigation and any safety issues raised. The SIA shall forward a copy of the final report and the safety recommendations as soon as possible to the: safety investigation authorities and civil aviation authorities of the States concerned, and the ICAO;. addressees of safety recommendations contained in the report;. European Commission and EASA.. Safety recommendations may be issued by the SIA in a formal letter, after appropriate consultation with relevant parties. Such recommendations may contain any preventive actions considered necessary to enhance aviation safety. A safety recommendation shall in no case create a presumption of blame or liability for an accident, serious incident or incident. Within 90 days of the receipt of the letter the addressee of a safety recommendation shall inform the SIA that issued the recommendation, of the actions taken or under consideration, and where appropriate, of the time necessary for their completion and where no action is taken, the reasons therefore. The SIA shall respond within 60 days of the receipt of the reply by signifying its opinion on the adequacy of the reply. Each entity receiving a safety recommendation, including the authorities responsible for civil aviation safety at State and EU level, shall implement procedures to monitor the progress of the action taken in response to the safety recommendations received. Safety investigation authorities shall record in the central repository established under Commission Regulation (EC) No 1321/2007 all safety recommendations issued by them or received from third countries, as well as the responses thereto. EASA and the competent Member State authorities shall collaborate in the exchange and analysis of information covered by Regulation 376/2014 - Reporting, Analysis and Follow-Up of Occurrences in Civil Aviation. This shall cover online access to information contained in the central repository established under Regulation (EC) No 1321/2007. Confidentiality of such information shall be ensured and its use shall be limited to what is strictly necessary to discharge safety related obligations. In order to ensure a more comprehensive and harmonised response to accidents at EU level, each Member State shall establish a civil aviation accident emergency plan at national level. Such an emergency plan shall also cover assistance to the victims of civil aviation accidents and their relatives. States shall ensure that all airlines established in their territory have a plan for the assistance to the victims of civil aviation accidents and their relatives. States shall audit the assistance plans of the airlines established in their territory. Each EU Member State concerned by an accident (by virtue of fatalities or serious injuries to its citizens) shall appoint a person as a point of contact and information for the victims and their relatives.