as the judicial, civil aviation, search and rescue authorities, on the other hand, cooperate with each other through advance arrangements. Those arrangements shall respect the independence of the SIA and allow the technical investigation to be conducted diligently and efficiently. The SIA should be granted immediate and unrestricted access to the site of the accident and all the elements necessary to satisfy the requirements of a safety investigation should be made available to them, without compromising the objectives of a judicial investigation. Article 11 of the Regulation establishes a number of entitlements of the investigator-in-charge which shall ensure that he has the authority to take the necessary measures to satisfy the requirements of the safety investigation. The EU State in the territory of which an accident or serious incident occurred shall be responsible for ensuring safe treatment and protection of all evidence. Safety investigations shall not apportion blame or liability. They shall be independent of, separate from and without prejudice to any judicial or administrative proceedings. Article 14 of the Regulation establishes a list of records that shall not be made available or used for purposes other than safety investigation, such as: identity of persons who have given evidence;. opinions and notes of investigators;. draft reports;. FDR data;. cockpit voice and image recordings, and their transcripts;. written or electronic recordings and transcriptions of recordings from air traffic control units;. occurrence reports filed under Regulation 376/2014 - Reporting, Analysis and Follow-Up of Occurrences in Civil Aviation, etc.. However, it is recognised that the administration of justice or the competent authority in a EU Member State may decide on the disclosure of records according to national law. Member States are invited to limit the cases in which such a decision of disclosure may be taken. Article 15 of the Regulation stipulates that: the anonymity of those involved in an accident or incident shall be protected;. information, deemed relevant to the prevention of accidents and incident, shall be communicated to aircraft (and equipment) manufacturers, maintenance organisations, aircraft operators and training organisations;. EASA and national civil aviation authorities receive relevant factual information obtained during the safety investigation, except information referred to in Article 14(1);. victims and their relatives or their associations or public are appropriately informed without compromising the objectives of the safety investigation.. Article 20 of the Regulation obliges EU airlines to provide to the SIA in charge and to the other concerned entities: the validated list of all the persons on board - as soon as possible, and at the latest within two hours of the notification of the occurrence of an accident;. the list of the dangerous goods on board - immediately after the notification of the occurrence of an accident.. Each safety investigation shall be concluded with a report in a form appropriate to the type and seriousness of the accident or serious incident without apportioning blame or liability. The report shall protect the anonymity of any individual involved in the accident or serious incident. Before publication of the final