The Regulation applies to safety investigations into accidents and serious incidents: The Regulation does not apply to safety investigations into accidents and serious incidents which involve aircraft engaged in military, customs, police or similar services. Each EU Member State shall appoint a national civil aviation safety investigation authority (SIA). The SIA shall be given sufficient resources and budget to conduct full safety investigations and be independent of other aviation authorities (e.g. certification authorities, airworthiness authorities, etc), and of any other party or entity, the interests of which could influence its objectivity. The SIA remit may be extended to include gathering and analysis of aviation safety related information, in particular for accident prevention purposes. A safety review shall be published annually at national level in order to inform the public of the general aviation safety level. Safety investigation authorities shall establish a European Network of Civil Aviation Safety Investigation Authorities (the Network), composed of the heads of the SIA in each of the EU States. The Network shall seek to improve the quality of investigations conducted by SIAs and to strengthen their independence. In particular, it shall encourage high standards in investigation methods and investigator training; provide advice to regulatory bodies; promote best safety investigation practices and facilitate cooperation between the SIAs. European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) shall be invited as an observer to the meetings of the Network. Safety investigation authorities shall invite EASA (provided there is not conflict of interest) to appoint a representative to participate as an adviser: Every accident or serious incident involving aircraft other than those specified in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 shall be the subject of a safety investigation. Safety investigation authorities may decide to investigate also other accidents, serious incidents or incidents when they expect to draw safety lessons from them. A SIA shall notify without delay the European Commission, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), the International Civil Aviation Organisation (International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO)), the EU States and third countries concerned in accordance with the international SARPS of the occurrence of all accidents and serious incidents of which it has been notified. EU Member States shall ensure that SIAs, on the one hand, and other authorities likely to be involved in the activities related to the safety investigation, such as the judicial, civil aviation, search and rescue authorities, on the other hand, cooperate with each other through advance arrangements. Those arrangements shall respect the independence of the SIA and allow the technical investigation to be conducted diligently and efficiently. The SIA should be granted immediate and unrestricted access to the site of the accident and all the elements necessary to satisfy the requirements of a safety investigation should be made available to them, without compromising the objectives of a judicial investigation. Article 11 of the Regulation establishes a number of entitlements of the investigator-in-charge which shall ensure that he has the authority to take the necessary measures to satisfy the requirements of the safety investigation. The EU State in the