vehicle was then driven back along the runway to the first of a series of centreline lights (No 104) which had to have the torque on their securing bolts checked. The torque wrench to be used for this task was a Bluetooth-equipped electronic version which indicated to the user when the correct torque was applied and simultaneously transmitted these data to a mobile device which recorded corresponding time and time of the work. On attempting to use the wrench, it was discovered that the Bluetooth connection could not be achieved and so the team left the runway and drove to the maintenance base “in order to get it to work as required”. The two technicians involved stated that on reaching the maintenance base, one of them had left the vehicle and had been quickly able to get the wireless connection to work. They returned to the vehicle a couple of minutes later and, with ATC permission, returned to the runway to resume their work checking centreline light security, again beginning at light number 104. After about 15 minutes, ATC advised that the next inbound aircraft was 20nm from touchdown so they exited the runway and returned to the engineering base to establish when runway access would again be possible and having been told this would be after the next landing aircraft - the 757 - they returned to their vehicle and for the first time noticed the ladder was missing. An annotated extract of part of the aerodrome diagram. [Reproduced from the Official Report] They stated that they initially “thought was that the ladder had been borrowed and proceeded to drive to where they thought the person who might have the ladder was working” but had then found that “this person was not working that night”. Before they could do anything else, they received a call from the Airport Duty Manager regarding the ladder that had been found on the runway. The first of the three aircraft did not land until 26 minutes after the vehicle had initially cleared the runway which was 37 minutes after the ladder had fallen from the vehicle. It was considered that given the position where the ladder was found and the main and nose landing gear track width of all three aircraft, each had “narrowly missed the ladder”. It was further considered that had the ladder been struck by the main or nose landing gear directly following touchdown, is likely that this would have caused the break-up of the ladder and consequently “a high risk of an explosive tyre burst”. Such an explosion would “probably have resulted in high energy fragments hitting the aircraft, thus damaging the airframe or exposed vulnerable hydraulic and electrical components in the landing gear bays” with a nose landing gear impact introducing the additional risk that the "nose gear would collapse and the resulting debris be ingested into an engine”. However, whilst there was no evidence to indicate that any of the three aircraft had hit the ladder, its