A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the airport had SMR and that all vehicles used airside were fitted with transponders to allow ATC to identify each vehicle and its position on the TWR display but that the system installed was not intended to facilitate the detection of FOD. It was established that the first report to ATC that there might be something in the TDZ was from the crew of the second aircraft to land who reported that they may have seen something in the TDZ but were unsure if it was an object of some sort or a paint marking on the runway. On hearing this, the crew of the first aircraft to land had then commented that “they may have also possibly seen something” just after the aiming point marks in the TDZ. The TWR controller therefore asked the crew of the third aircraft “if they were happy to continue given the reports from the two previous aircraft”. The Investigation noted that the local ATC procedures manual required that if it has been decided that a Special Runway Inspection Procedure (SRIP) should be carried out as in the case of a report of possible FOD, only approaching aircraft within 4nm (such as the third aircraft in this event) may continue to a landing. The procedures manual was found to require that the controller must transmit to such an aircraft “request your intentions?” with this question being deliberately open so as not to influence the crew in their decision. However, it was found that the controller had actually transmitted “are you happy to continue?” to which the crew had responded that they were. It was noted that although the Tower VCR affords a comprehensive view of the airport manoeuvring area, at night the effectiveness of this view is restricted even in good visibility simply because of darkness so there was no possibility that the presence of the ladder would have been discovered without either a positive sighting from an aircraft passing near to it or a runway inspection. The two man maintenance team involved had, after completing their initial task to inspect the runway 33 approach lighting, which had required the use of the step ladder they had placed in the back of their pickup truck secured with a bungee, driven the full length of the runway to inspect the centreline and edge lighting was all functioning normally. With the vehicle at a speed calculated to have been travelling at around 45 mph, the bungee retention of the ladder, which was in any case overhanging the load area (see the illustration below), failed and the ladder was deposited on the runway approximately 500 metres past the threshold. The vehicle did not pass this point again and after later leaving the runway was twice captured on CCTV footage without the ladder being on board. The ladder as loaded onto the vehicle involved. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Having completed the inspection, the