position in relation to the track of the nose and main landing gear wheels meant that during all three landings, the clearances involved must have been minimal if touchdowns had been made on the centreline. It was considered that, given the on-frequency comments of the first two aircraft after their landings and the language then used by the controller to communicate with the third larger aircraft, it is likely that both they and the crew of this aircraft did not believe the possible object to be of significance with “the overriding impression seeming to be that it was just paint or a marking on the runway”. As observed, the language actually used by the controller was not as intentionally prescribed and in relation to their perception of the risk that existed, the crew of the third aircraft subsequently commented that the language used “re-enforced the impression that there was nothing to be concerned about (which) together with the belief that it was probably paint, led to their decision to continue to land”. It was observed by the Investigation that having been specifically warned to look out for something in the touchdown zone, the crew of the third aircraft sighted an object and were able to correctly identify it as a ladder. The fact that the crews of the two preceding aircraft had not been able to confirm the presence of an obstruction, as opposed to suspecting they may have seen something unusual could reasonably be attributed to the fact that they would have been concentrating their attention on the touchdown and the speed of the aircraft at that point. The UK CAA as safety regulator was asked to provide data from the MOR system involving FOD on the runway at UK airports and only one other event where a ladder was found on a runway was included and their investigation of the event concluded that in this case, the steps involved were dropped from a departing aircraft. Other reports of large items found “in the runway environs” included a pallet and a hay bale produced during grass cutting. None of these events had led to any reported aircraft damage but the data provided did include “numerous” reports of items from airside engineering and operations being dropped or left on runways or taxiways, although all of these events involved small items such as “screwdrivers, wrenches, mobile phones and handheld radios”. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The ladder fell from WV4 during the drive along the runway, at the point where it accelerated in the touchdown zone after the end of the supplementary lights. The means of securing the ladder in the rear of the open back vehicle using a bungee was not suitable. The bungee was available for use within the maintenance organisation’s facility, but its provenance was not known. More suitable securing equipment was available although not readily to hand. Safety Action taken or intended to be taken by the airport operator in response to