An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The aircraft was not fitted with an FDR nor was it required to be. The 30 minute CVR was recovered from the wreckage and its data were successfully downloaded but due to a loud tone of around 400 Hz and associated harmonics, the quality of the recording was poor. The 40-year old Captain was a Columbian national and held FAA and Columbian professional pilot’s licences. He had about 6,170 total flying hours which included about 1,020 hours on type of which 670 were in command. Since joining Execuflight five months prior to the accident, he had flown about 167 hours. The 50 year-old First Officer was an Italian national with an FAA licence and was PF for the accident flight. He had joined Execuflight three days before the Captain and had about 4,382 hours total flight time which included 482 hours on type, all as second-in-command. Multiple independent sources stated that "neither pilot had difficulty understanding or communicating in English". The Investigation found that Execuflight did not hold all the prescribed information about the previous backgrounds of either pilot. The Captain was found to have had his previous employment by a Part 91 operator terminated ten days after he had failed to attend Hawker 800A recurrent training just over a month before he joined Execuflight. The First Officer had also had his previous employment terminated after performance recorded as consistently and significantly below "acceptable standards" during conversion training for a Boeing 737 type rating just over three months prior to joining Execuflight. It was established that the accident flight had been the pilots’ second flight of the day on the second day of a planned 2 day 7 sector trip with the same pilots and passengers on board for each sector. The previous sector had been from Cincinnati Municipal to Dayton Wright Brothers. On departure for Akron, the flight climbed to 17,000 feet. During the cruise, the pilots unknowingly selected the incorrect frequency for the Akron Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS) and based their subsequent briefing for the Akron LOC approach to runway 25 on the weather for another airport 108 miles southwest of their destination. CVR data showed that although the intended runway 25 approach had a MDA of 1,540 feet, when the First Officer asked the Captain what the MDA was, he replied with the MDH. Further confusion followed when the crew appeared to mix up the MDA/MDH for alternative (RNAV) approaches to runway 25 with the LOC approach they were going to fly when the First Officer was attempting to establish the field elevation. Eventually, the MDH of 473 feet was understood. The aircraft subsequently descended through 10,000 feet at just under 300 knots, contrary to the applicable permitted maximum of 250 KIAS. A minute later, the correct frequency for the Akron ASOS was tuned and gave the weather as overcast at 600 feet with visibility ½ mile in mist with a surface wind of 240° / 8 knots.