but failed to do so.. Execuflight’s casual attitude towards compliance with standards illustrates a disregard for operational safety, an attitude that likely led its pilots to believe that strict adherence to standard operating procedures was not required.. The Captain’s degraded performance during the flight was consistent with the effects of fatigue, but insufficient evidence exists about his normal sleep to determine whether he was fatigued at the time of the accident.. As a result of circadian disruption and Execuflight’s improper crew scheduling that did not provide the First Officer with adequate rest for his preceding trip, the First Officer was likely experiencing fatigue; however, the extent to which fatigue contributed to his deficient performance on the accident flight could not be determined.. The non-precision approach procedure that many Hawker 700- and 800-series pilots are trained on does not meet the stabilized approach criteria published in the then-current Advisory Circular 120-71A.. Many Hawker 700- and 800-series pilots are receiving inconsistent training regarding the meaning of “landing assured” that may conflict with the language of 14 Code of Federal Regulations 91.175(c)(1).. Despite the guidance in Advisory Circular 120-108, many operators do not train their flight crews how to perform a continuous descent final approach (CDFA) and to use a CDFA whenever possible.. The Federal Aviation Administration failed to provide adequate oversight of Execuflight’s pilot training, maintenance, and operations.. This accident again shows that Federal Aviation Administration guidance for principal operations inspectors regarding conducting 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 pilot-in-command line checks on flights other than in regular revenue service is not effective in identifying pilots who are not complying with standard operating procedures.. This accident illustrates that the Federal Aviation Administration’s Surveillance Priority Index was ineffective in identifying 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 operators in need of increased surveillance.. Had an adequate functional test of the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) installed on the accident airplane been performed with the engines running or by downloading and reviewing CVR content from an actual flight, the poor quality of the CVR recording may have been detected and corrected.. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "the flight crew’s mismanagement of the approach and multiple deviations from company standard operating procedures, which placed the airplane in an unsafe situation and led to an unstabilised approach, a descent below minimum descent altitude without visual contact with the runway environment and an aerodynamic stall." The following Contributory Factors were also identified: Execuflight’s casual attitude toward compliance with standards;. Execuflight's inadequate hiring, training, and operational oversight of the flight crew;. Execuflight's lack of a formal safety program;. The Federal Aviation Administration’s insufficient oversight of the company’s training program and flight operations.. Thirteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should require all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 operators to install flight data recording devices capable of supporting a flight data monitoring program. [A-16-34]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should,