Akron APP instructed the flight to slow up as the one ahead was slower and had not yet made an "on-the-ground" report. The aircraft established on the LOC and levelled at 3,000 feet QNH as restricted by ATC and the First Officer stated that he would slow up and take gear and flap early to assist this. The Captain noticed an abnormally high pitch attitude developing and commented accordingly. Radar evidence showed that at this time, the pitch attitude had increased from 5° nose up to 12° nose up in the space of one minute whilst the estimated airspeed had dropped from 150 knots to 125 knots. With 4 nm to go to the FAF (final approach fix) for the selected LOC approach procedure - equivalent to about 1 nm to the FAF which would need to be crossed at the minimum permitted 2,300 feet in order to maintain a CDFA - ATC cleared the aircraft to descend on the LOC and complete the approach. However, level fight continued for a further 2 minutes before descent began (see the illustration below). During this time, the Captain alerted the First Officer to the low airspeed - 120 knots - and commented that the First Officer could not keep decreasing speed. When the First Officer responded with "why", the Captain replied "because we gonna stall. I don't want to stall". The APP controller then instructed them to change to the local advisory radio frequency and soon afterwards, the crew of the aircraft which had just landed there off the same approach advised that they had "broken out at minimums (right at a) mile" to which the Captain responded "appreciate it". Just before descent from 3,000 feet was commenced, the First Officer called for full flap (45°) and the airspeed began to reduce from 130 knots. The FAF was crossed just over 10 seconds later at 2,700 feet QNH with the aircraft at an estimated 109 knots and an increasing rate of descent. Ten seconds later, the descent rate had reached about 2,000 fpm and the Captain said with emphasis, "don't dive....don't go two thousand feet per minute... when you're 1,500 feet above the ground or minimums". Thereafter, radar data indicated that 40 seconds after passing the FAF, the aircraft had reached and continued below the MDA in the absence of the prescribed visual reference with an airspeed of approximately 113 knots and an 830 fpm rate of descent. Four seconds after MDA, the Captain stated, “ground... keep going” followed a few seconds later by “okay level off guy”. Almost immediately, "the CVR recorded a rattling sound consistent with the activation of the stick shaker" followed three seconds later by the same again and two seconds after that by an EGPWS 'PULL UP' annunciation. The first sounds of impact followed after a further two seconds. A motion activated security camera captured a view of the aircraft in a left-wing-down attitude about 1.8 nm from the runway threshold and "an explosion and post crash