fire were observed on the video" just after the aircraft went off camera. Witnesses saw the aircraft descending in a left-banked turn before it hit the apartment building. The building and two nearby cars as well as the aircraft were destroyed by the impact and fire and two other adjacent buildings were also damaged by the fire. It was concluded that "the impact forces of the accident were survivable for some occupants, but the immediate and rapidly spreading post-crash fire likely precluded the possibility of escape". It was estimated that the AoA at the time control was lost "exceeded 15°" and noted that according to the aircraft manufacturer, the critical (stalling) AoA with flaps at 45° is 15.5°. A large number of procedural irregularities and organisational failures relevant to the accident flight and to flight operations by Execuflight generally including significant regulatory non-compliance were identified during the Investigation. Some evidence was also found that duty for both pilots during the four days prior to the accident, and especially for the Captain, had resulted in "maximum sleep opportunities" between duties which were restricted enough to be conducive to fatigue. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: As a result of the flight crew’s failure to complete the approach briefing and the Approach Checklist as per standard operating procedures, the Captain and First Officer did not have a shared understanding of how the approach was to be conducted.. Before the airplane reached the final approach fix, when the First Officer reduced airspeed and placed the airplane in danger of encountering a stall, the Captain should have taken control of the airplane or called for a missed approach, but he did not do so.. When the airplane reached the minimum descent altitude, the approach was not stabilised and the Captain should have called for a missed approach according to standard operating procedures, but he did not do so.. When attempting to arrest the airplane’s descent, the First Officer did not appropriately manage pitch and thrust control inputs to counter the increased drag from the 45° flap setting, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall.. The Captain’s failure to enforce adherence to standard operating procedures and his mismanagement of the approach placed the airplane in an unsafe situation that ultimately resulted in the loss of control.. The flight crew did not demonstrate effective crew resource management during the accident flight.. Deficiencies in Execuflight’s crew resource management (CRM) training program, including the cursory review of CRM topics, the lack of appropriate evaluation of CRM examinations, and the lack of continual reinforcement of CRM principles, resulted in the flight crew receiving inadequate CRM training.. Although the flight crew’s multiple deviations from standard operating procedures (SOPs) concerning weight and balance on each flight of the 2-day trip likely did not directly contribute to the accident, these deviations represent a pattern of routine disregard for SOPs.. Execuflight’s management had multiple opportunities to identify and correct the flight crew’s routine disregard for standard operating procedures regarding pre-flight planning