left hand side may be inadequate unless the occupant moves specifically to view them, since their view is a sideways one of switches which are routinely selected between the up (OFF) to the centre (AUTO) position or occasionally to the lower (HIGH) position (see the illustrations below). In terms of the general checklist philosophy for trapping the potential crew error of climbing after takeoff without the packs on, it was noted that there is a supplementary procedure to cover a no engine bleed or unpressurised takeoff which requires reconfiguration of both the bleeds and the packs after takeoff so that the primary check of pack status was actually the after takeoff checklist which Boeing advised was also where any unintentional packs-off takeoff would be detected. Consequently, the Investigation did not regard the absence of a similar check in the after start checklist as contributory. The First Officer’s lengthy break from flying and some significant gaps in his training programme “may not have allowed him sufficient time to consolidate the (required) procedures to an intuitive level that was resilient to error”. It was noted that, in general, “acquired skills decay over time and consistent rehearsal and application are essential for long-term retention”.. The discussion about liaison with the ground crew and the steering bypass pin which occurred at the same time as the after start procedure would have required the pack switches to be returned to on and may well have constituted a distraction for the First Officer which would not then have been picked up since the after start checklist did not include verification that this had been done.. The First Officer’s previous experience in command may have contributed generally to a “relaxed level of supervision” by the Training Captain who noted that “the First Officer had got it right before”.. The receipt of a string of ATC instructions at the same time as the after takeoff procedures and checklist were run was likely to have constituted another material distraction, especially when compounded by the Training Captain’s desire to ensure that the First Officer appreciated the level bust risk which the routinely high rate of climb and a relatively low initial stop altitude represented.. The relative difficulty of distinguishing the pack switch positions from the left side pilot position unless great care was taken was evident.. The operator’s reliance on periodic and informal rather than specifically designated air conditioning and pressurisation system checks during the climb once the after takeoff checks have been completed.. It was noted that the ATSB had previously investigated three other similar events but, as in the current case, although an incorrect system configuration was not identified despite multiple procedures and checklists, the crew had in each case immediately recognised the cabin altitude warning and had responded accordingly, in contrast to such a takeoff ending in a fatal accident to another 737 in 2005. Two Contributory Factors which led to the event were identified as: The aircraft did not pressurise due to an incorrectly configured pressurisation