after the flaps are fully retracted, called for the PM to complete four actions, the first of which was to “set or verify engine bleeds and air conditioning packs are operating” and after these were complete, the After Takeoff checks should run. These checks were read out and responded to by the PM and also responded to by the Captain and included a requirement for both pilots to make an explicit check on the position of the pack switches. On the departure in question, they were actioned at about the same time as a series of instructions were given by ATC involving cancellation of the SID, re-clearance to climb to FL 280 and to fly a radar heading which was then almost immediately replaced by a “direct to” clearance. Neither pilot detected the incorrect pack switch position. The Captain recalled “rushing” the after takeoff checklist so as to discuss how to mitigate the “traffic threat” associated with the noise abatement departure procedure being flown with particular regard to the high rate of climb required relative to their initially cleared altitude of 5,000 feet. He also stated that when the check item including the packs switching status was called, he remembered “looking at the pack switches and the cabin altitude and differential gauges” and noting that the gauge readings were “as expected” and not identifying that the pack switches were set to ‘ OFF’. It was noted that the fact that the pressurisation controller was observed to be correctly set and had closed the outflow valve was likely to have led to a natural temporary delay in the cabin altitude beginning to rise, giving the Captain a misplaced impression that if the pressurisation system was working normally, there was no reason to suspect that the pack switches might be OFF. The First Officer explained that his workload in flying the aircraft during the busy departure had prevented him from making the check, the last formal one of pack selection status. About six minutes after takeoff as the aircraft was passing 13,500 feet in the climb, the cabin altitude warning horn sounded. The First Officer saw that both packs were off and immediately switched the selector to auto and the Captain then took over control and selected ‘altitude hold’. The aircraft reached a maximum height of 14,900 feet two minutes later whereupon the Captain disengaged the AP and began a descent to 10,000 feet, during which the warning ceased. It was reported that both pilots had donned oxygen masks in accordance with the cabin altitude warning procedure “during this time”. Once level at 10,000 feet, the remainder of the cabin altitude warning checklist was completed and, as the cabin pressure was by then under control, the planned flight was continued without further event. It was noted that the air conditioning and pressurisation system panel was in its ‘usual’ location above the First Officer’s position and that the view of position selected on the three-position pack switches for a pilot seated on the