An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Data were retrieved from both the FDR and CVR but only that from the former was analysed. These data confirmed that although both engine bleed switches had been ‘on’ from takeoff, both air conditioning packs had been ‘off’ throughout that time. FDR parameters did not include cabin altitude but it was considered that since the cabin oxygen masks had not automatically deployed, it was unlikely to have exceeded 14,000 feet. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 21,511 flying hours which included 949 hours on type. He had joined the operator six years previously as a direct entry A320 Captain having had previous airline experience as an A320 Training Captain and had subsequently been promoted to that role before being moved to the Boeing 737 in 2016 as part of the operator’s introduction of the type. His 737 type rating had been followed by completion of line training eighteen months prior to the investigated event and two months later, he had commenced instructional duties on type. The First Officer had a total of 18,300 flying hours which included 27 hours on type. Prior to joining the operator and commencing his 737 type rating and line training, he had not flown at all for two years but was an experienced pilot who had previously flown away from Australia as a Captain on other types which included the Boeing 767 and Boeing 777. His 737 line training had commenced four months prior to the investigated flight with five sectors in a Full Flight Simulator (FFS) after which actual flying training had commenced three weeks prior to the investigated flight, which was his 12th line training sector. In accordance with the operator’s standard minimum requirements, a Safety Pilot had been present for the first eight sectors after which their presence had been assessed as no longer required. It was established that both air conditioning packs had been switched off in line with the applicable SOPs for engine start. The ‘Before Taxi’ memory procedure followed engine start and although this included the First Officer selecting the air conditioning packs from OFF to AUTO, this was not done and the Captain did not notice. Completion of this procedure required the Captain to call for the ‘Before Taxi Checks’. These, however, do not include a check of the position of the pack switches. However, the Captain recalled that “at about the same time as the commencement of the procedure they (had) discussed the method of confirming (that) the ground crew had removed the steering bypass pin” in respect of an inconsistency between the flight crew and ground crew manual procedures and the fact that “the ground crew expect a certain procedure for confirmation that (flight) crew have acknowledged it’s removal” which might well have constituted a distraction. Takeoff subsequently occurred without the switches being reset to ‘ON’ and without either pilot noticing. Once airborne, the (after) takeoff procedure, which should begin