An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Investigation Agency, the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC). Using DFDR and CVR data, the Investigation found that below 100 feet agl, both the trainee First Officer as PF and the aircraft commander has simultaneously made sidestick inputs in an attempt to arrest a descent caused by a sharp downdraft but their combined sudden input had triggered the threshold for AOA protection which had negated their control input. It was noted that the actual AOA was not abnormal and that the protection activation was attributable to a predictive algorithm in the software involved. An attempt by the aircraft commander to begin a go around had not had the intended effect before the aircraft hit the runway in a slightly nose down attitude at 4.35g. The nose landing gear had collapsed and the aircraft had come to a stop after an 1100 metre ground run. As the aircraft approached its final resting place, directional control had been lost but the aircraft had remained on the runway. Airframe damage was so extensive that the aircraft was declared a hull loss. It was considered that: if the windshear had appeared higher, the TOGA setting would probably have been triggered by the alpha floor protection.. if the configuration of the aircraft had been FLAP 3, the alpha prot value would have been higher and maybe would not have triggered the AOA protection.. if both pilots had not pulled both sidesticks at the same time, the system would probably not have predicted or anticipated a high angle of attack that was actually never very high.. if the go-around had been initiated earlier, it could have been possible to recover level flight before the hard contact with the runway.. It was noted that during the earlier part of the approach, there had been some signs of conditions conducive to low level windshear but that Iberia SOPs for Bilbao did not suggest such a hazard given the light surface wind velocity. The location of the airport in relation to surrounding terrain alignment was considered to be conducive to mountain wave generation in the conditions which had prevailed at the time of the accident and it was noted that there was an opportunity to improve crew alerting in this respect subject to review by meteorological experts. The wisdom of conducting early stage line training with the trainee as PF was also question and it was concluded that there had been an absence of adequate operator guidance in this respect Once the root cause of the accident had been identified as the way the protection software had activated AOA protection in accordance with the design criteria, the following Preliminary Safety Recommendation was issued on 12 March 2001 in conjunction with the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA): that the Certification Authority of this type of aircraft, the French DGAC should define with the manufacturer and immediately issue, safety measures to prevent the repetition of this kind