of events in aircraft of the A-320 family and in other aircraft equipped with similar flight control systems.. Pending this action, on 23 March, Airbus released a temporary revision to AFM operating procedures which was issued as a telegraphic Airworthiness Directive by the French DGAC and applicable to all A320 and A319 aircraft fitted with the same standard of Elevator and Aileron Computer (ELAC) as the accident aircraft. It was noted that these modifications had been retrofitted Fleet-wide by the end of 2002. The subsequent software modification was certified by mid 2001 and the corresponding Mandatory Service Bulletin was published in September 2001. The Cause of the accident was formally stated as: “the activation of the angle of attack protection system which, under a particular combination of vertical gusts and windshear and the simultaneous actions of both crew members on the sidesticks, not considered in the design, prevented the aeroplane from pitching up and flaring during the landing”. Four further Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the INM (National Meteorological Institute) conduct thorough research on meteorological phenomena within the area of Bilbao, aimed at improving our knowledge of the development of turbulence, gusts and windshear in the vicinity of the airport, and to use this information to improve operations during the approach phase.. [REC 20/06] that Iberia improve the instruction of their A320 crews in order to avoid the simultaneous activation of the sidestick by both pilots without pushing the override button, regardless of the type and composition of the flight crew.. [REC 21/06] that Iberia establish adequate restrictions in its Operation Manual in respect of crew members undertaking line flying under supervision to taking into account the different phases of flight and the characteristics of the airports of operation.. [REC 22/06] that the Spanish Aeronautical Authority (DGAC) consider, as a valid criteria for the approval of commercial air transport operators, the inclusion in their Operation Manuals of adequate restrictions applicable to crew members line flying under supervision.. [REC 23/06] The Final Report of the Investigation is avaliable for reference.