CAP 746 emphasises the need for aerodromes to anticipate contingencies and to prepare response plans for: Failures of their meteorological observing sensors and systems that process the content of observations — Preparation includes automatic notification of malfunctions, immediate replacement of equipment, reliably estimating any missing data elements, alternative methods of logging reports from semi-automatic observing systems, and notifying end users of missing data elements. The publication states: “Wherever possible, the observing equipment should be designed in such a manner that … the system alerts the user to a failure of part or all of the equipment or power supply or … that such faults should be obvious to the user.”. Observer reversion to manually assessing present weather when automated observation systems malfunction — Typically, Met observers must be ready to use a combination of their own vision, backup instruments and assistance from reference documents, as appropriate.. Regarding automated present-weather detectors, however, CAP 746 states, “Guidance given by weather sensors can be misleading, such as when light drizzle and mist occurs; without observing from outside the building, it is often difficult for an observer to determine whether drizzle is present or merely dampness caused by mist or fog.” Disruption in availability or delay/cessation of Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR), also known as routine aerodrome meteorological reports — Potentially unsafe impacts on flight operations make a compelling case to have procedures that anticipate this contingency. For example, procedures should enable flight crews/aircraft operators to select alternate aerodromes, dispatchers to change fuel-upload plans and air traffic controllers to resolve disrupted provision of their ATS; and,. Cancellation of an aerodrome forecast — Disruption or cessation of METARs — i.e., incomplete/invalid METARs or METAR releases exceeding the maximum allowed time intervals between reports (typically 30 minutes) — leave weather forecasters without site-specific data they require to confirm forecasts.. Predefined conditions dictate when to notify stakeholders of each failure to issue a forecast or the cancellation of a scheduled forecast due to missing or erroneous information in a METAR. Among negative effects on flight operations are interference with the normal flight planning and contingency management by aircraft dispatchers, and the related work by ATS managers and air traffic controllers. CAP 746 states, “The meteorological forecaster is required to take account of all meteorological variables when preparing an aerodrome forecast; METARs are used to verify base conditions before forecasting how these elements will change with time. Missing information in the METAR may lead to greater inaccuracies in the forecast, which may impact on tactical planning by pilots, operators and other aerodrome service providers.” Safe uses of official and unofficial Met reports — Each type of report — e.g., METARs, special reports, terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), automatic terminal information service (ATIS), SIGMETs (information on specified types of en route weather information that may affect the safety of aircraft operations) and the weather report versions designed for ATS — has limitations that must be respected by users (see CAP 746).. Archives and logs of Met observations and the content