The U.K. CAA’s Civil Aviation Publication (CAP) 746, "Requirements for Meteorological Observations at Aerodromes," is a good reference on this subject for all stakeholders worldwide. U.K. CAA similarly states that CAP 746 guidance was designed to globally promote best practices. Moreover, this guidance is valuable regardless of whether a given member state in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has declared differences — via the aerodrome section of its Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) — between its current standards and full compliance with ICAO’s standards and recommended practices in ICAO Annex 3, Meteorological Service for International Air Navigation. (An example of a declared difference in the U.K. AIP is that Runway Visual Range (RVR) tendencies and significant variations are not reported in the United Kingdom.) An earlier SKYbrary article about CAP 746, titled "Weather Observations at Aerodromes," primarily focuses on technical details of Met observations, from Edition 1 in 2003 to the present. This article complements the earlier article, focusing on Edition 4’s: strategic advice for aerodromes and air traffic services (ATS) on preventing disruption of the flow of aerodrome Met observations;. risks of human factors/system anomalies that can degrade Met observations in ways that impact flight operations on or near aerodromes;. lessons learned from one related aeroplane accident; and,. opportunities for local experts to compare their aerodrome’s performance.. Essentially, Met observers and forecasters depend on well-maintained infrastructure and backup systems for data collection, processing, validation and distribution. They assume that pilots, dispatchers, air traffic controllers, aviation meteorologists and other stakeholders also will keep up-to-date on information applicable to their domains. (Note: ICAO sets aeronautical meteorological requirements. The World Meteorological Organisation’s Commission for Aeronautical Meteorology (CAM) issues technical methods and recommends best practices for providing aeronautical meteorological services.)