GSIP findings since 2014, based on regional stakeholders’ survey responses and their accounts of their own safety information exchanges, reinforced the importance of sharing relationship-building ideas, workable methodologies and practical solutions. Among notable findings are: Safety management systems were widely adopted by 2015, and 65 percent of the organizations surveyed already were using safety performance indicators (SPIs) linked to ICAO’s critical accident categories;. While there was strong consensus on proactively exchanging the data from voluntary and mandatory safety reporting programs, agreement on the significance of data analyses often proved hard to achieve;. Effective processes for defining taxonomies and capability in hazard and risk identification are necessary to collaborate and to accomplish safety information exchange;. Stakeholders agreed that examples of how risk assessment processes are completed are highly useful; and,. Aviation leaders in government and industry need to explicitly promote growth of safety data exchange initiatives; without wide participation, the ability to assess risk is limited.. The latest FSF report on GSIP findings during three years explains the broad issues considered to be high priorities. The following findings note the wide range of global stakeholders, and suggest opportunities for near-term enhancements to safety information exchange: The aviation industry needs common understanding of ICAO safety performance targets (SPTs) and SPIs;. The industry needs guidance for safety data alerting;. Industry still has a high level of SMS–state safety program implementation variability;. Bowtie models are a useful tool to understanding deeper issues of risk;. There is a need to define new components of GSIP Level 4 Toolkit intensity (i.e., a future aspirational tool for all organizations, domains and stakeholders); and,. The industry desires information-sharing improvements.. References: Safety data collection and processing systems are described in ICAO Annex 13, Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation, Attachment E..