aircraft operator in support of the change to the go-around procedure. The Investigation also noted that initial aircraft type training for both the flight crew, who both had relatively low type experience had been provided by a Contractor using Airbus SOPs rather than those of the Operator with a subsequent ‘transition’ simulator session conducted by Operator to learn their specific procedures and checklists. The Investigation Findings were as follows, quoted in full and unedited: Contributing safety factors The pilot in command did not correctly move the thrust levers to the take-off/go-around position when carrying out the first missed approach procedure.. The aircraft operator had changed the standard operating procedure for the go-around. The change resulted in the flight crew being unaware of the flight mode status of the aircraft during the first part of the first missed approach.[Significant Safety Issue]. Other safety factors The aircraft operator did not conduct a risk analysis when changing the go-around procedure, nor did its safety management system require one to be conducted. [Significant Safety Issue]. Flight crew undergoing initial endorsement training with the third party training provider were not trained until later to the procedures and systems used by the operator. [Minor Safety issue]. The aircraft operator did not comply with accepted document change procedures when modifying the standard operating procedure for the go-around. [Minor Safety Issue]. There was no provision in the current CASA Regulations or Orders for third party flight crew training providers. As such, the responsibility for training outcomes were unclear. [Minor Safety issue]. Other key findings The aircraft operator did not comply with the incident reporting requirements of its safety management system, which was part of its operations manual, or with the reporting requirements of the Transport Safety Investigation Act 2003.. Safety Action taken during the Investigation and as a consequence of the occurrence included: ATSB Issue of a ‘Safety Advisory Notice’ to highlight the potential for unintended consequences when changes to standard operating procedures are introduced without first conducting an appropriate risk analysis. Aircraft Operator The standard operating procedure for a go-around has been modified in line with the procedure promulgated by the aircraft manufacturer.. A review of existing flight training arrangements is being conducted.. Changes to document control procedures have been implemented to indicate when specific operator-initiated changes to procedures are made.. Revisions have been made to the content of the SMS in respect of occurrence reporting.. The SMS has been amended so that any change to an aircraft operating procedure requires the completion of a formal risk analysis prior to implementation.. Aircraft Manufacturer The go-around procedure in the Airbus FCOM was revised to emphasise the critical nature of the actions by flight crew during a go-around. Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority Noting the absence of regulatory clarity in respect of third party flight crew training providers, advice has been given of an intention to revise the applicable Regulations as a matter of priority. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 24 February 2010 and may