An Investigation of the event as a Serious Incident by the ATSB did not commence until 11 September 2007 and was prompted by media interest following the Operator’s failure to fully report the event. The Operator had no awareness of any event until a flight crew report was filed two days later and as this did not disclose the seriousness of the occurrence, this only became apparent during an internal investigation commenced on 2 August. The more serious nature of the event was not disclosed to the ATSB by the Operator until a request following the media interest referred to above. The Investigation found that during the initial part of the missed approach with the AP remaining engaged, the aircraft commander as PF had not moved the thrust levers to the TO/GA position with the result that the aircraft automated flight mode did not transition correctly to Go Around. The flight crew had failed to notice and /or respond to this and descent towards the runway had continued at increasing airspeed for the next 8 seconds to a minimum recorded height of 38 ft above the runway before the aircraft responded to manual flight crew inputs and began to climb away, albeit erratically at first It was noted that a procedure of moving the thrust levers to the TO/GA position for a short time and then retarding them to another position, colloquially referred to by some of the Operators’ pilots as a ‘TOGA tap’, was used widely by line and training pilots despite the absence of any approved procedure in the aircraft operating manuals by that name. The flight crew of the incident aircraft were aware of this ‘procedure’ - although it was not applied ‘correctly’ during their mis-flown go around. Operator management pilots told investigators that a ‘TOGA tap’ could be used to minimise the chances of exceeding flap limit speeds during a go-around. It was also noted by the Investigation that Airbus had published a go-around procedure with the requirement to check and announce the aircraft’s flight mode as part of the initial actions of the go-around. That requirement was included to ensure that the crew could confirm the necessary changes to the aircraft’s flight mode. However, the aircraft operator had then changed that and moved the positive confirmation of the flight mode to a much later position in the procedure. The changed procedure required that a call be made only after a positive rate of climb was obtained. As a result, the aircraft continued to descend, with the crew distracted by unexpected warnings and a subsequently increased workload, this call did not occur and the crew never confirmed the correct aircraft flight mode. The Investigation also noted that the aircraft operator had implemented a safety management system (SMS) that included a change management process. That process indicated that a change of this type to a standard operating procedure could be undertaken without a formal risk analysis. The investigation was unable to obtain any additional documentation from the