The most notable changes to Regulaiton 2019/947 are summarized below: Added 11 new definitions.. Added a provision for cross-border operations for LUC certificate holders as well as an applicability date of that provision (02.12.2021). Until that date Member States may accept declarations made by UAS operators based on national standard scenarios. Such declarations shall cease to be valid from 02.12.2023.. In order to improve the conspicuity of UAS flown at night and make it easily distinguishable from a manned aircraft, a green flashing light should be activated on the UAS. This requirement is applicable from 01.07.2022.. The responsibilities of the UAS operator in the "specific" category with respect to record keeping are described in more detail. These include records for personnel, their qualification and the UAS operations performed, including unusual technical or operational occurrences.. Added 2 standard scenarios for UAS operations in the "specific" category (Appendix 1 to the Annex): STS-01 – VLOS (visual line of sight) over a controlled ground area in a populated environment STS-02 – BVLOS (beyond VLOS) with Airspace Observers over a controlled ground area in a sparsely populated environment.. STS-01 – VLOS (visual line of sight) over a controlled ground area in a populated environment. STS-02 – BVLOS (beyond VLOS) with Airspace Observers over a controlled ground area in a sparsely populated environment.. The provisions of this scenario are summarized as follows (refer to Appendix 1, Chapter 1 for details): The UAS must maintain a height of 120 m above earth at most. Еxceptions are possible in case of high obstacles.. Carriage of dangerous goods is not allowed.. The UAS must be kept in VLOS at all times. This may be achieved with the help of an observer provided the relevant requirements are met.. The flight must be conducted over a controlled ground area meeting specified criteria, including provisions for buffers.. The ground speed for untethered UAS is limited to 5 m/s (approx. 10 kt).. The remote pilot must hold a certificate of theoretical knowledge and an accreditation of completion of practical skill training (provisions are included for remote pilot training, assessment and certificate validity).. The flight must be conducted with an UAS marked as class C5 as described in Regulation 2019/945.. The remote pilot must operate only one UAS at a time and must not operate it from a moving vehicle nor hand over the control to another command unit.. The UAS operator is responsible for: developing appropriate procedures, including an operations manual and contingency/emergency procedures; ensuring that the UAS meets the regulatory requirements; the organization of the particular operation.. developing appropriate procedures, including an operations manual and contingency/emergency procedures;. ensuring that the UAS meets the regulatory requirements;. the organization of the particular operation.. The provisions of this scenario are summarized as follows (refer to Appendix 1, Chapter 2 for details): The UAS must maintain a height of 120 m above earth at most. Еxceptions are possible in case of high obstacles.. The flight must be conducted over a controlled ground area entirely located