in a sparsely populated environment.. The minimum flight visibility must be more than 5 km.. The UAS must be in sight of the remote pilot during the launch and recovery phases.. If the UAS is not in VLOS of the remote pilot, it must be within 1 km distance and follow a pre-programmed trajectory.. An exception to the above is the situation when the remote pilot is assisted by observer(s). The UAS may be flown within 2 km from the remote pilot provided the other requirements are met.. The remote pilot must hold a certificate of theoretical knowledge and an accreditation of completion of practical skill training. These are similar to the STS-01 requirements but there are additional subjects and areas to be covered for practical skill training and assessment.. The flight must be conducted with an UAS marked as class C6 as described in Regulation 2019/945 and have an active system to prevent it from breaching the flight geography.. Before starting the operation, the remote pilot must ensure the UAS is programmed to remain within the expected volume of airspace and that the means to terminate the flight are operational.. The remote pilot must operate only one UAS at a time and must not operate it from a moving vehicle nor hand over the control to another command unit.. The observers must be informed of any deviations of the UAS from the intended path.. The UAS operator is reposnsible for: developing appropriate procedures, including an operations manual and contingency/emergency procedures; ensuring that the UAS meets the regulatory requirements; the organization of the particular operation, including appropriate placement of the observers and ensuring appropriate means of communication.. developing appropriate procedures, including an operations manual and contingency/emergency procedures;. ensuring that the UAS meets the regulatory requirements;. the organization of the particular operation, including appropriate placement of the observers and ensuring appropriate means of communication..