An Investigation was carried out by the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC). It was noted that the flight was the tenth of the day for the 34-year old pilot, who held a CPL and had accumulated 1550 hours in total and 205 hours on type. He had been wearing a parachute and following the initial loss of control authority reported that he had considered the possibility of jumping but considered that such action was only appropriate "as a last resort". In fact he had been able to visually confirm that the horizontal stabiliser and elevator remained in a fixed position and with the benefit of the high altitude at which the problem had occurred was able to establish that use of the electric stabiliser trim would enable sufficient pitch control to make an attempt at landing a safe proposition option. ATC were advised of the situation and, during a subsequent visual check of the tail prior to the landing attempt, were later able to advise that "nothing unusual" was apparent. A long shallow approach was dictated by the limited pitch control available. A go around had to be flown from the first approach because the aircraft was too high but the second approach resulted in a landing on the centreline of the 23 metre wide runway before a veer off to the left resulting from the complete absence of rudder authority. The rudder pedals had "jammed hard right" when the rudder partially detached. The Investigation concluded that "the pilot’s calm and relaxed reaction to a sudden emergency that exhibited no prior symptoms made it possible for him to correctly identify the fault and properly select the actions and potential solutions needed to regain control of the airplane". It also noted that "(his) actions were based on his sound knowledge of the aircraft’s systems and its performance". An examination of the aircraft disclosed that the upper axle of the rudder and the point where it was attached to the vertical stabiliser were missing and that this had resulted in the lower support of the rudder bending and partially breaking along with the torsion tube and the rudder, which fell to the left onto the upper surface of the left horizontal stabilizer and its associated elevator as illustrated. The left elevator skin was found to have been torn by the rudder trim tab lever and it was evident that this would have limited any rearward motion of the rudder once it had fallen onto the horizontal stabiliser. The upper hinge bolt missing from the rudder was not found within the rudder structure and it was therefore presumed to have been lost in flight. The washer corresponding to this bolt was found inside the rudder attached to the locking screw along with the lockwire which was broken and twisted at the hinge bolt end. The locknut on this locking screw was found riveted in place on the top part of the tooling hole. The outboard hinge bolts