check its fulfilment and confirm a similar safety level" was being maintained as required under EASA Part 'M'. The failure of a subsequent 100 hour check carried out by a different Pilatus engineer, which required inspection of the hinge bolts on the three control surfaces specified in AD 2011 - 0230 ADs, to detect any discrepancies was also noted. It was also found that this engineer was advised by the pilot that "he was having problems with the rudder, which was travelling beyond the base stops and this excess travel was leaving a mark in the area of the upper hinge bolt". It was found that "the mechanic (had) examined the settings on the rudder and checked the adjustment on the travel stops" and "based on his assessment and as no spare parts were available, he (had) told the pilot that the problem could wait until the next 100 hour inspection to be resolved". The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: All of the damage which occurred to the tail section of the aeroplane was associated with the detachment of the rudder.. The improper installation of the lock wire on the hinge bolts on both elevators was verified on the aircraft (counter-clockwise, opposite to the tightening direction).. Although the rudder hinge bolt was lost, all of the evidence found indicates that it too had been lock wired in the counter-clockwise (loosening) direction.. No direct relationship was found between any specific human factor and the improper installation of the lock wires.. The improper installation of the lock-wire on the hinge bolts was not detected during the dual inspection carried out by the same mechanic who performed the implementation of the AD.. During the [next and most recent 100 h inspection prior to the event], the improper installation of the lock wire on the hinge bolts was not detected.. The Cause of the event was formally stated as "the rudder detached during the flight due to the loss of the hinge bolt on its upper fitting, which had become loose due to its lockwire being attached in the wrong direction". It was additionally considered that a Contributing Factor in the loosening of this bolt was probably an excessive amount of load placed on the rudder during normal operations, possibly caused by the non-limited rudder travel consequent upon the mismatch of the rudder stop. Safety Action taken by Pilatus as a result of the investigated event was noted to have included the following: the removal of the MOE exemption which had allowed dual inspection requirements arising away from base - as when attending an operator to conduct maintenance - to be satisfied by the same engineer.. reviewed the design of the rudder hinge bolt and have plans to modify it in a way that the bolt is now installed from the top. Pilatus informed that this modification is outlined in the recommended SB 55-003 which will be issued soon.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as