on both elevators were examined and it was confirmed that subsequent to modification in accordance with Pilatus SB 55-001 R1, the lockwires had in both cases been installed in the counter clockwise, or loosening, direction. A check on the behaviour of a lockwire installed in this way showed that (after requiring an initial torque of 70 lb/in instead of the specified 45 lb/in plus run down torque) there was no resistance for the initial 2/3 of a bolt turn and that the wire remaining thereafter allowed the bolt to continue loosening with a progressively decreasing amount of force required until the lockwire broke before the hinge bolt was out of the hole. It was observed that its final appearance was clearly "very similar to that of the rudder hinge bolt lockwire". When the deflection of the rudder was examined, a mark was found indicating impact with the hinge fitting at either end of its travel which showed that rudder travel was exceeding the stops. It was also noted that "the screws on the stops that regulate this limit at the base of the aft fuselage had lost part of the plastic material that performs this function and were unable to limit the rudder’s range of travel within the required limits". It was concluded that the lockwire on rudder hinge bolt had very probably also been installed in the loosening direction. The Investigation established that modification in accordance with Pilatus SB 55-001 R1, which involved the replacement of the lockwire on the rudder upper hinge bolt and both elevator outboard bolts, had been mandated by European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) AD 2011-0230 and had occurred in April 2012. The AD was found to have been issued partly in response to an event in which it was suspected that loss of elevator and rudder hinge bolts could be attributed to incorrect torque and locking of the bolts. It was found that this maintenance input had been carried out by a single engineer employed by Pilatus who were the designated Continuing Airworthiness Management Organisation (CAMO) for the aircraft operator. In accordance with an amendment to the applicable Pilatus Maintenance Organisation Exposition in December 2011, any dual inspection requirement when working away from base - as when attending an operator to conduct maintenance - could be met by the same engineer "after a break of 10 to 15 minutes". It was noted that it was normal for Pilatus to send a single licensed engineer to do scheduled maintenance tasks and also that there was potential for time pressure to affect the chances of maintenance error on such detachments. It was found that "the amount of time scheduled for off-site inspections does not usually include contingency time, which typically requires overtime in order to comply with the client’s expectations and with travel schedules". It was noted that the FOCA, the Swiss safety regulator, had not issued any specific approval for an exemption from the normal requirements for independent dual inspection and thus "they could not