wide runway 33 (the displaced threshold gives a LDA of 1501 metres. The Training Captain stated that he had been occupying the right seat and acting as PF for the flight under investigation. After touchdown, at around 70 knots, he had passed control to the left seat pilot because only that position has a steering tiller on the aircraft involved. “One of the pilots” also stated that “the ailerons were not sufficiently deflected into the wind in conjunction with the hand-over which caused the aircraft to drift slightly to the left” but added that “the rollout proceeded normally after that". The other pilot stated that he “did not remember anything from the touchdown and rollout”. The approach and landing of the aircraft was seen by two airport staff, two pilots on the apron and the controller. All said that “the landing appeared wobbly” and the controller also remembered that the touchdown had occurred well past the runway threshold. However, none of those who might have been able to see the excursion recognised that it had happened. The Investigation reviewed the applicable ATR FCOM in respect of the procedure for crosswind landings and noted the following post touchdown sequence: the PF is to reduce the engine power to ground idle.. the PM is to monitor that both propeller low pitch lights are illuminated and if so calls “2 Low Pitch” after which the PF selects reverse.. At 70 KIAS, the PM calls “seventy knots” and the left seat pilot keeps or takes over the power levers and the steering tiller and the right seat pilot keeps or takes over the control column and deflects the ailerons into wind.. The pilots then confirm to one another which of them is responsible for manoeuvring the aircraft. If the pilot in the right seat has been PF, they must make the call “you have control” and receive the response “I have control”. If the pilot in the left seat has been PF, he simply calls “I have control”.. When the aircraft is landing on narrow runways less than 30 metres wide, the left seat pilot must be prepared to use the steering tiller immediately after the nose landing gear touches the ground, regardless of which pilot is PF.. In respect of the final point, it was noted that in this case, the runway was exactly 30 metres wide so it did not apply to the excursion landing. The ATR FCOM content on crosswind lands was replicated in the aircraft operator’s OM with the exception (not relevant to this Investigation) of a 30 knot crosswind limit rather than the 35 knot one in the ATR FCOM. It was found that in 2016, in response to a series of runway excursions involving the ATR 72, the manufacturer had issued a Flight Operations Information Message (FOIM) which had highlighted the risks of crosswind landings and stressed the importance of accuracy in deflecting the ailerons into wind and use of the rudder and nosewheel steering. It also “emphasised