Based on the initial findings of the local investigation, an Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK). The delay to the start of this Investigation meant that all relevant recorded flight data had been overwritten. It was noted that the flight was a line training flight for a pilot undergoing training for promotion to Captain on type. The 55 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 9,300 flying hours which included 198 hours on type and was occupying the right seat and designated as PF for the investigated flight. The 49 year-old Captain under training had a total of 9,200 flying hours which included 91 hours (and 42 landings) on type. It was established that during a routine check two days after the ATR 72 had landed, “a runway edge light outside the left part of the runway was lying on the grass” and subsequently “discovered that the edge light had been run over” and that there were tyre tracks on the runway which continued into the grass alongside it past the position of the edge light before turning back onto the runway. The lateral distance between these tyre tracks was found to be 4.1 metres and since the only aircraft with this gap between the two main landing gear wheels which had recently used the runway was the ATR 72 YL-RAI, further local investigation focussed on that flight. ATC R/T recordings of communications during the aircraft’s final approach were retrieved and showed that the controller had advised the flight of a 17 knot crosswind “on three separate occasions just prior to touchdown”. A report of the findings was sent to the Swedish transport safety regulator. The aircraft operator was also advised of the occurrence and, having been previously unaware of it, subsequently began an investigation by requesting reports from both of the pilots involved. These were “both […] dated 18 October 2018” and stated that “the landing was carried out without any deviations, with a wind direction of 250°-290° and a wind speed of 16–18 knots”, somewhat different to the record of the observed conditions which gave the mean wind velocity as 230° at 19 knots gusting to 32 knots and the instantaneous wind report of a 17 knot crosswind component provided to the flight by the controller. A copy of the Operator’s internal investigation report dated 13 December 2018 was submitted to the Latvian civil aviation safety regulator on 18 January 2019 and stated that “there were difficulties keeping the aircraft on the runway centreline due to gusty crosswinds (and that) during the rollout, the ailerons were not deflected against the wind, which contributed to the aircraft briefly coming off the runway to the left, out into the grass and possibly damaging the runway edge light”. The SHK Investigation interviewed both pilots in February and March 2019. Both confirmed that a crosswind was present during the approach and that the landing took place in the dark on 1710 metre long, 30 metre