the importance of moving the control column forward after touchdown so as to increase the effectiveness of nosewheel steering”. However, the aircraft operator “was not aware of the FOIM information on crosswind landings and it had therefore not been incorporated into their ATR 72 OM Part ‘B’". The identification of the excursion landing and the trajectory followed was indisputable based on the hard evidence available: The distance between the main landing gear tyre tracks was 4.1 metres, which was exactly the distance for an ATR-72 and also did not match that distance for any other aircraft which had landed at Trollhättan. The only aircraft of that type which had landed at the airport since the previous runway inspection was the aircraft with registration YL-RAI. The ground clearance of the ATR 72 nose landing gear doors and the underside of its fuselage is approximately 40 cm and the damaged runway edge light was 50 cm high. Taking these measurements and the location of the main gear tyre tracks together it was concluded that “the light was damaged in conjunction with the excursion”.. The distance between the main landing gear tyre tracks was 4.1 metres, which was exactly the distance for an ATR-72 and also did not match that distance for any other aircraft which had landed at Trollhättan. The only aircraft of that type which had landed at the airport since the previous runway inspection was the aircraft with registration YL-RAI.. The ground clearance of the ATR 72 nose landing gear doors and the underside of its fuselage is approximately 40 cm and the damaged runway edge light was 50 cm high. Taking these measurements and the location of the main gear tyre tracks together it was concluded that “the light was damaged in conjunction with the excursion”.. The insufficient application of into-wind aileron during the landing was “established” and that “furthermore, it is likely that the control column was not pushed sufficiently forward during the landing roll”.. Although the fact that the excursion was not reported by the crew could be an indication that the reality in respect of reporting culture at the aircraft operator was not in accordance with relevant directives, it was not possible to clarify why the incident was not reported and nothing was found to indicate that the operator’s approach to incident reporting would deter reporting.. The Cause of the Serious Incident was formally determined as "neither the operator nor the pilots had read ATR’s Flight Operations Information message (FOIM) regarding recommended procedures for crosswind landings and the operator’s pilots lacked full training in crosswind landings on the aircraft type”. Safety Action taken as a result of the Investigated event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included the following: RAF-AVIA decided to implement “Special Training Measures” in respect of crosswind landings on the ATR 72 and has begun regular downloading of QAR data.. ATR decided to introduce supplementary information on crosswind landings in the aircraft type FCOM and has also offered to