to Chubu due to the low remaining fuel quantity but this transmission was again not properly received by ATC and again therefore not recognised as involving urgency so the original radar heading instruction was confirmed and the flight instructed to climb to FL230 “to obtain receive better quality and full understandable calls” from it. Four minutes after this, after noting from the flight management computer (FMC) that the estimated fuel on arrival at Chubu would be close to Final Reserve, a third “emergency” communication was made to ATC advising that “remaining fuel quantity was getting critical even if the aircraft directly flew to the airport”. This time, the emergency communication from the aircraft was clear and the controller recognised and acknowledged the emergency status of the flight. A formal MAYDAY declaration was then made and the flight was cleared to route directly to Chubu and it landed there just under half an hour later with 1125 kg of fuel remaining, just above the Minimum Reserve of 1030 kg. An annotated vertical profile of the flight from the final stages of its descent to Toyama to its landing at Chubu derived from FDR data is shown below. The Investigation made a number of observations in relation to the information gathered: The prevailing weather conditions were “not involved” in the situation which arose.. The Operators OM was aligned with ICAO guidance on the matter of low fuel and required that declarations relating to low fuel should initially use the call ‘MINIMUM FUEL’ and then if the fuel remaining on landing will (not may) be less than the quantity designated as ‘Final Reserve’ then a ‘MAYDAY’ declaration shall have the word ‘FUEL’ added. It was noted that the quality of the recorded communications to ATC from the aircraft were not of sufficient quality to determine if the term ‘MINIMUM FUEL’ was used and the crew could not remember if they had done so.. In respect of the concerns of the crew that the route they were initially given was not the one they expected and that it was taking them on a longer route when fuel remaining was a concern was unfounded as the route via the Matsumo VOR would still have been shorter than the flight planned diversion routing even if the direct routing which had by then passed this VOR had not been given.. All ATC communications from the aircraft except those to Tokyo ACC during initial climb out of Toyama had been clearly received. It was therefore concluded that the temporary problems which Tokyo ACC had in receiving the initial diversion calls from the flight with sufficient clarity to appreciate the degree of concern being expressed in relation to fuel endurance had been a consequence of “complex influences of altitude, topography, weather, or the like”. This matter was not further considered.. The 'Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was formally determined as the landing conducted in the situation that the remaining fuel quantity was close to FINAL RESERVE after