The event was classified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). The FDR was downloaded and provided information useful to the Investigation and recordings of relevant ATC radar and communications were also available. It was noted that the 46 year-old Captain, who was PF, had a total of 9,808 flying hours experience which included 4,526 hours on type and that the 34 year-old First Officer had a total of 505 flying hours experience which included 228 hours on type. It was established that the flight had departed from Taipei with a declared fuel endurance of 4 hours 31 minutes against a planned fuel ‘no delay’ requirement of 2 hours 51 minutes. The ‘Final Reserve’ fuel quantity was pre-calculated as 1031 kg and the diversion fuel to the nominated alternate, Chubu, was 1525 kg. The diversion route to Chubu from Toyama was flight planned as via the Komatsu VOR (see the illustration of the reconstructed flight ground track below) and the weather there was good. The flight arrived at Toyama via the Komatsu VOR. The weather for the first approach was a wind from 360° at 9 knots, visibility in excess of 10km and cloud FEW (few) at 1000 feet and SCT (scattered) at 9000 feet. This first approach at Toyama was a circling approach to runway 02 and was discontinued at 400 feet agl when the rate of descent exceeded the operator requirements for a stabilised approach. The same approach was then repeated but discontinued 14 minutes later at approximately 100 feet agl when the indicated air speed exceeded the operator requirements for a stabilised approach. A third direct approach was then made to runway 20 but it too was discontinued at 1000 feet agl 13 minutes after the second one because the rate of descent was in excess of the maximum permitted to remain within the stabilised approach criteria. The fuel remaining at the commencement if this go around was about 2700 kg, just above the quantity planned for diversion to the designated alternate, Chubu, which was around 120 nm to the south of Toyama plus a final reserve (2560 kg). The Captain decided to commence a diversion to the alternate and Toyama TWR instructed the flight to call Tokyo ACC, the latter subsequently identifying the flight on radar 12 nm north of Toyama and instructing it to climb to FL150.Three minutes later, having received instructions to fly a south easterly heading which was contrary to the anticipated routing to the Komatsu VOR, the flight declared a ‘PAN’ requesting a direct routing to Chubu because the fuel quantity remaining was “in a tight situation”. This transmission was not clearly received by ATC and not explicitly acknowledged and when repeated on request, the direct routing request was not prefixed by ‘PAN PAN’ and consequentially not treated as an urgent request. Three and a half minutes after the first ‘PAN’ call, the crew made a second one, requesting a direct routing