Understand Aerodrome surface marking colour coding: white for runway markings yellow for taxiway markings including lead on/off lines to / from runway centrelines markings on apron and ramp areas for various subordinate purposes may use colours other than yellow such as the commonly used white for roadways.. white for runway markings. yellow for taxiway markings including lead on/off lines to / from runway centrelines. markings on apron and ramp areas for various subordinate purposes may use colours other than yellow such as the commonly used white for roadways.. Be aware that the yellow line markings which define the division between taxiways and runways are always continuous on taxiway side and always broken on the runway side, and that when crossing from the continuous-lines-first direction a clearance is required, whereas when crossing from the broken-lines-first-direction clearance is not required.. Understand Aerodrome Signs (different types will be used in combination with each other) ‘you are here’ = black square signs Mandatory instruction indicating restricted or prohibited access = white on a red background Arrow and identifier prior to an intersection = which directions lead where - black on a yellow background usually with a ‘you are here’ sign ‘this way to’ = black on yellow background with an arrow`. ‘you are here’ = black square signs. Mandatory instruction indicating restricted or prohibited access = white on a red background. Arrow and identifier prior to an intersection = which directions lead where - black on a yellow background usually with a ‘you are here’ sign. ‘this way to’ = black on yellow background with an arrow`. Understand Aerodrome Lighting Lit taxiway centrelines are green; green reflectors may be substituted Lit taxiway edges use blue lights; blue reflectors may be substituted Lit runway centrelines are white except near the end when they may change to red Lit runway edges use white lights except near the end when they may change to yellow A transverse row of red lights is a stop bar and must never be crossed. Lit taxiway centrelines are green; green reflectors may be substituted. Lit taxiway edges use blue lights; blue reflectors may be substituted. Lit runway centrelines are white except near the end when they may change to red. Lit runway edges use white lights except near the end when they may change to yellow. A transverse row of red lights is a stop bar and must never be crossed. Make it your business to know if there is a Local Runway Safety Teams (LRST) at your aerodrome and if so what they have been doing.. Have any runway hotspots been identified on your aerodrome? If they have been, know where they are.. Be clear how the implementation of Low Visibility Procedures (LVP) affects the rules and procedures for airside vehicle driving..