An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Transport Safety Board but its commencement was delayed because notification of the event was not given by the Operator until 20 days afterwards. The airline subsequently stated that the Investigation had failed to demonstrate that the damage found to the aircraft after the investigated hard landing was a result of it and expressed the opinion that "the classification of this occurrence and the obligation to investigate this occurrence is debateable". The Investigation noted that "the procedures for reporting occurrences in the airline's Operations Manual leave room for interpretation". It was also noted that as a consequence of the delay neither DFDR nor CVR data were available. Although the QAR data provided was equivalent to that which would have been recorded on the DFDR and was used to assist the Investigation, it was considered possible that because of the delay "the crew's recollections were possibly not as sharp". It was noted that the 40 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the investigated flight, had accumulated 3,667 total flying hours and the 32 year-old First Officer had accumulated 4,939 flying hours. However, both pilots had only 157 hours experience each on the aircraft type involved, having completed their type conversion training earlier in 2014. Based on the QAR data and the recollections of the two pilots, it was established that the weather forecast for Amsterdam prior to the flight indicated that around the ETA, the prevailing surface visibility at Amsterdam would be 3000 metres, temporarily 1200 metres in fog patches and with a 30% probability of a further reduction in visibility to 600 metres in fog with 100 feet vertical visibility before some clearing expected to begin around the ETA. The approach was briefed as a Cat 1 ILS with autoland - the ‘AUTOLAND1’ mode. Prior to positioning for the approach the ATIS gave the runway as 18C and the weather as 190/6 knots with visibility 1400 metres in fog and 1 okta of cloud at 1300 feet. As the aircraft was radar vectored onto final approach, the 18C IRVR was continuing to increase and was 2000m/1300m/550m two minutes prior to landing. The applicable ILS minimum altitude was 225 feet and the applicable Cat 1 RVR minima were 550m/125m/75m. Both pilots “assumed” that they had correctly configured the aircraft for a Cat 1 automatic landing as briefed and intended. The Captain reported that he saw the runway from a distance of approximately 4 nm and that, “at approximately 50 feet above the runway” (the height where the AP-commanded flare to land should begin for autoland), he “noticed that the aeroplane was continuing to fly towards the runway at a constant rate of descent and did not perform a flare”. QAR data confirmed this, recording a constant pitch attitude of +1.6 degrees. He stated that in an attempt to reduce the rate of descent, he had “pulled back on the control column at a low altitude” but could not remember whether he had disconnected