QAR data showed that although APPR1 had been selected after passing 1500 feet, the flaps were set to FULL at 1400 feet which on its own would have prevented operation of the automatic landing mode. The QAR data also showed that the BARO/RA minimums switch was in the BARO position throughout the 1500 feet/800 feet window where the Autoland arms, which again would, on its own, have prevented APPR1 mode activation. It was noted that “the FMA indications had still not changed when passing 150 feet above the runway threshold” which meant that a Cat 1 ILS with manual landing had been set up. Since the aircraft was in an allowable configuration, no error messages were generated. However, it was noted that the FMA indications for ‘AUTOLAND1’ and ‘APPR1’ are significantly different besides the presence of either ‘AUTOLAND1’ or ‘APPR1’ at various stages during the approach. The Investigation noted similar occurrences involving the same aircraft type operated by the same airline both before and after the one under investigation. In a 2009 event, the BARO/RA switch was not initially in the RA position and so the intended autoland was not flown and when the crew didn’t notice, a hard landing followed. The airline did not investigate this. In a 2015 event, a Cat III approach was initially briefed with reversion to a Cat 1 manual if the weather improved. Having reverted to the Cat 1 manual, a weather update from ATC prompted them to change to a Cat 2 autoland but they did not notice that their DH change resulted in the FMA ‘APPR2’ indication changing from white (signifying autoland) to green (signifying a manual landing) and again a hard landing followed. The aircraft manufacturer advised that they were not aware of other similar events. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The crew were incorrectly under the impression that they had configured the aircraft for an automatic landing. The indications of the automatic pilot did not lead the pilots to suspect that the aircraft was actually configured for a manual landing. The FMA indications that they saw during the approach were what they were used to seeing. Moreover, the aircraft was in a valid configuration, which meant no error messages were generated. As a result, both pilots had no reason to think that the aircraft was not flying in the correct mode for an ILS Category I approach followed by an automatic landing. The aircraft did not perform a landing flare and made a hard landing. The fact that the Cockpit Voice Recorder was no longer available has had adverse effects on reconstructing events and gaining insight into the crew’s considerations prior to the hard landing. The crew’s recollections of the incident had faded and/or may have been influenced by more recent flight experiences. The procedures for reporting incidents described in the airline’s operations manual leave room for interpretation regarding which incidents should be reported and what follow-up actions are required. This results in the loss