the AP which QAR data showed had occurred at less than 9 feet above the runway but before touchdown. It was considered that this disconnect had been a consequence of the Captain’s control column input rather than a pilot-commanded disconnect. The effect of the control column input was to increase the pitch attitude to a maximum of +8.6 degrees by the time the MLG touched after which the Captain then lowered the NLG to complete the landing. It was noted that in a correctly configured autoland, the A/T brings the thrust lever to idle at 30 feet agl; in this case, idle was selected between 48 and 34 feet above the runway. After the flight had arrived at its parking stand and the engines had been shut down, the CMC printed an alert message warning that the touch down had been at 2.78g. The printed alert was left in the aircraft Technical Log along with an entry that a hard landing had been made. A copy of the corresponding EICAS message generated by the hard landing was automatically sent to the airline maintenance office by ACARS. The crew then continued their duty with two further flights in a different aircraft. Some 12 hours after the hard landing had occurred, the Captain submitted an Air Safety Report (ASR) which apart from recording a hard landing and stating that Flaps 5 had been set (the QAR data showed that actually, FULL flap was the setting used) and some weather details, it “did not contain any additional background information” about the event. The flight recorders were not secured and “the crew were not grounded for a safety investigation”. It was then two weeks after the occurrence before the airline flight safety department “established that this hard landing required further investigation” and a further week before “the airline formally decided to institute an investigation” after which “the pilots could not be scheduled for an interview with investigators any earlier than 4 November 2014” - more than a month after the occurrence. It was noted that the aircraft was approved for ILS CAT I, II and IIIA Approaches with CAT I and II approaches followed by either a manual or an automatic landing but CAT IIIA approaches requiring an automatic landing. It was established that in order to perform an automatic landing, the rotary ‘minimums’ switch must be set to ‘RA’ rather than ‘BARO’ and the flaps must be set to a final position 5 before the selection of an AUTOLAND, which must be done between 1500 feet and 800 feet aal. For a Cat 1 approach, the rotary ‘minimums’ switch must then be changed to ‘BARO’ so that the correct minimums call is annunciated. The FMA at the top of each pilot’s PFD provides system status indications which, for a Cat 1 autoland, include the indication ‘AUTOLAND1’. Where a manual landing is to follow an automatic approach, the AP must be disconnected no lower than 50 feet agl. Contrary to the above, however, the