An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). Both the FDR and the 2 hour CVR were recovered and downloaded but the data on the FDR was found not to include the accident flight and more generally such earlier data as were readable “were not consistent with the previous flights recorded in the aircraft log”. It was found that the FDR had a 3 year history of unreliability and had been sent for attention at the same repair station but no cause of the problems could be identified. The data on the CVR was complete and covered the previous three flights as well as the accident flight. Because of the unavailability of any FDR data, the Investigation had a sound spectrum analysis of the CVR made in order to determine engine torque. There was no evidence that engine power had significantly increased prior to impact. It was also noted that although the aircraft was fitted with an EGPWS, there was no CVR record of the automatic “500” callout which this equipment should have generated on both the previous flight into Oksibil and the subsequent one from Oksibil back into Jayapura. There were also no EGPWS alerts or warnings prior to collision with terrain on the accident flight. . It was found that the 60 year-old Captain had 25,287 hours total flying experience including 7,340 on the ATR42/72 and the 44 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the accident flight, had 3,818 hours total flying experience including 2,640 hours on the ATR42/72. The accident flight was the fifth flight of the duty day for the crew and their second flight on the same Jayapura-Oksibil sector. It was established that an IFR Flight Plan had been filed to cruise at FL 155 on airway W66 as far as the waypoint MELAM. It was noted that the MORA for W66 was promulgated as 18,500 feet QNH. From MELAM, the Operator-issued ‘Visual Guidance Chart’ specific to the ATR42 should have been followed. This routing (see the first illustration below) would have taken the aircraft to the Oksibil overhead at 13,500 feet QNH from where another Operator-issued chart (see the second illustration below) depicted a ‘Visual Circling Approach’ to the 1,350 metre long runway 11 (aerodrome elevation 4,000 amsl). An associated Company ‘chart page’ marked ‘Oksibil Area Instruction’ provided detailed instructions on how to fly this approach. ATS at Oksibil was provided by a FIS. Whilst the Oksibil NDB ‘ZX’ was not mentioned on the Company visual guidance charts and there was no instrument approach procedure based upon it, it was found that on the day of the accident it had been inoperative but this status had not been the subject of a NOTAM. The aircraft departed Jayapura and the 40 minute flight was uneventful until on the visual sector after MELAM, the end of the IFR part of the route. Nine minutes before the destination ETA, the crew made their