in the Illustration below. This estimate of the ground track was plotted against the terrain below and the result, showing the EGPWS activations which would have occurred had it been functioning, is shown below. The Investigation formally identified two Contributory Factors in respect of the occurrence as follows: The deviation from the visual approach guidance under visual flight rules without considering the weather and terrain condition, with no or limited visual reference to the terrain resulted in the aircraft flying into terrain.. The absence of an EGPWS warning to alert the crew of the immediate hazardous situation led to the crew not being alerted to their situation.. A total of 9 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Trigana Air Services should review the approach guidance for Oksibil to ensure that it contains correct information and is easy to fly so as to minimise pilot workload. [04.O-2015-17.1]. that Trigana Air Services should ensure that any modification to the aircraft, especially if related to aircraft safety, is communicated to the aircraft manufacturer and/or DGCA. [04.O-2015-17.2]. that AirNav Indonesia should ensure that the current status of navigation aids is disseminated to air navigation users in a timely manner. [04.A-2015-17.3]. that AirNav Indonesia should ensure that the filing of flight plans and the execution of flight plans is in accordance with the regulation. [04.A-2015-17.4]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should develop regulatory requirement for training on any additional or modified equipment that affects the safety of aircraft operations. [04.R-2015-17.5]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should publish visual route guidance for airports without instrument approach procedures. [04.R-2015-17.6]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should consider the application of Performance Based Navigation (PBN) approaches for compatible aircraft to fly in areas where ground-based navigation system implementation is limited. [04.R-2015-17.7]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should ensure that aeronautical information for air navigation is updated in accordance with the current conditions, including the serviceability of navigation aids. [04.R-2015-17.8]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should coordinate with the manufacturer to provide several airports in Indonesia (including Oksibil) with an EGPWS high resolution terrain database. [04.R-2015-17.9]. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 29 December 2017.