first contact with the aerodrome FISO and reported being in the descent from an altitude of 11,500 feet at waypoint ABMISIBIL. After acknowledging the call, the AFISO “suggested the pilot should report when overhead the airport” but when the pilot replied that they “intended to fly direct to a left base leg for runway 11” the AFISO replied suggesting that the pilot could continue to approach and call when positioned on final for runway 11. Five minutes later, when he would have expected that the aircraft would be on final approach, the AFISO had attempted to establish contact but there was no reply. The wreckage of the aircraft was found on a ridge of the Tanggo Mountain in the Okbape District of Oksibil at approximately 8,300 feet amsl approximately 10 nm from the aerodrome on a bearing of 306°. From the CVR data it could be established that during the accident and previous flights there had been no crew briefing or Checklist reading from cruise until landing / impact, contrary to Operations Manual requirements. This violation in flight crew behaviour had not been identified by the aircraft operator and the Investigation was unable to establish whether this practice was specific to this crew or more widely prevalent. The unofficial weather observation made by the FISO to pass to the inbound flight gave a visibility of 4,000-5,000 metres and BKN cloud at 4,000 feet aal with cloud covering the area of the final approach path. Satellite imagery indicated that the Oksibil area was “covered by stratocumulus clouds”. It was noted that the airline averaged five flights per day on the Jayapura-Oksibil route using its three ATR 42-300 aircraft. It was noted that several ATR pilots reported sometimes finding the EGPWS CB tripped when conducting pre-flight Checks and when reset, that the system functioned normally. Trigana Air Service management also stated that several ATR pilots “including the pilot in command of the accident flight” had a habit of tripping the EGPWS CB. A witness statement provided to the Investigation stated that most of the time, the accident aircraft Captain “did not follow the visual approach guidance while conducting approaches at Oksibil” and it was noted from the CVR that the previous flight to Oksibil had also been made direct to left base runway 11. Several pilots stated that the reason for tripping the EGPWS CB was that they considered that its warnings were sometimes not appropriate. An estimate of the aircraft’s descent profile for the 9 minute period between MELAM and the impact position was made. Almost as soon as ABMISIBIL was passed 5½ minutes later, at an airspeed of about 200 knots, engine power and airspeed were reduced to something near to idle and 160 knots respectively and one minute later the flaps were set to 15, the engine power slightly increased and the landing gear was selected down. Impact occurred one minute after this with an estimated airspeed of 160 knots. The corresponding predicted flight track after MELAM is shown