An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board (DSB). Relevant data were downloaded from the aircraft FDR and CVR and available from the airport surface movement radar at a resolution greater than available to the runway controller in real time. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 3,653 flying hours including 1,802 hours on type and was a Line Training Captain for Swiftair. The First Officer had a total of 1,510 hours which included 1,300 hours on type. No evidence was found that pilot fatigue had played any part in the event. It was established that the taxi clearance initially given to the flight for a runway 24 departure had been to join the parallel taxiway A and proceed to the holding point on S7. After taxiing had commenced, the controller had asked the crew if they would like an intersection takeoff and when they replied in the affirmative, the controller had offered either S4 or S5 and after a preference for S5 had been expressed, the corresponding re-clearance was given. Although the First Officer had been designated as PF for the sector, the absence of a steering tiller at their seating position meant that until the aircraft was lined up on the runway, the Captain would be taxiing the aircraft and the First Officer acting temporarily as PM. As the aircraft approached the turn onto taxiway S5, the First Officer acknowledged a change from GND to TWR and checked in with TWR. As the aircraft made the turn onto S5, the TWR controller gave takeoff clearance and as the aircraft was turned right to align with the right side runway edge lighting without crew awareness, TWR instructed the aircraft to make a right turn onto a heading of 270° after departure. Once lined up, control was passed to the First Officer and it was the Captain who acknowledged the heading instruction. It was found that 20 seconds elapsed between the receipt of the heading instruction and the setting of takeoff power during which time there was no conversation between the pilots except for that consequent upon completing the Takeoff Checklist. After engine shutdown on completion of the planned flight the crew were alerted by hand signal from ground personnel that there was visible damage to the aircraft. Their subsequent inspection identified damage to the right side of the fuselage and to three blades of the right propeller, one of which had a metal wire embedded in it. The following morning, a formal inspection of the aircraft was made by the UK AAIB on request from the DSB and confirmed that the damage was confined to the right side of the aircraft. Several puncture marks and one puncture hole were found in the fuselage all associated with yellow paint marks contrasting with the white-painted fuselage. Damage to three right propeller blades was also found with yellow paint associated with leading edge damage to one associated with “yellow paint scuff marks”. Both nose wheel tyres were