played a role in the occurrence”, had not been achieved. The report was found to state that “no clear conclusions could be drawn and therefore no recommendations could be made”. The Investigation also noted that in response to a DSB Safety Recommendation following its investigation of a 2010 taxiway takeoff at Amsterdam, a risk assessment conducted by the collaborative ‘Schiphol Safety Platform’ (VpS) had identified requesting/offering an intersection takeoff as one of the top five risks during the pre-takeoff phase of departures, “there were no further conclusions, actions or proposals for mitigating measures associated with this risk assessment”. It was noted that there had previously been similar occurrences to that under investigation at both Amsterdam and, in similar circumstances, more widely. In October 2014, an almost identical event in which an aircraft had also lined-up on the right hand edge of runway 24 after entering via intersection S5 had occurred but because the error had been seen and reported by the pilot of another nearby aircraft, the situation was corrected. No risk mitigation action was taken by LVNL after this event yet it was noted during the Investigation that four of six “runway misalignment risk factors” identified in the June 2010 report of the ATSB study Factors Influencing Misaligned Take-off Occurrences at Night had been present. Investigations into similar events elsewhere since the publication of the ATSB report were noted as having included a 2013 event at Auckland New Zealand and a 2014 event at Biggin Hill UK. The occurrence of these and many other previous events was considered to have been made more likely because pilot situational awareness can be compromised by the difficulty of distinguishing edge lights from centreline lights when they are viewed along the runway axis given that both are white and the distinction depends on “the pattern of edge lights and the relationship of this pattern with other lights and visual cues”. The Investigation noted that “if individual edge lights could be identified as such directly, rather than through a process of interpretation”, it would be easier for pilots to detect an incorrect line up; it further observed that “modern lighting technology offers more options to identify lights directly than the tungsten lighting technology on which the current standards are based”. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: During takeoff, the crew interpreted the right-hand side runway edge lights as the runway centreline lights.. Several runway edge lights were struck by the nose landing gear and it is suspected that debris from a number of these lights caused the aircraft damage subsequently found.. The large turning angle required to align the aircraft with the runway centreline when entering at intersection S5 in combination with the discontinuity of the taxiway S5 centreline and absence of any taxiway centre line lighting contributed to the misalignment.. The absence of a continuous centre line marking on taxiway S5 leading to the centre line of Runway 06/24 was not compliant with the corresponding EASA specifications.. The absence of centreline