runway visual range conditions of 350 metres or more “and particularly on complex taxiway intersections and exit taxiways”. The same guidance was also noted to state that such lighting is not necessary “on exit taxiways where the traffic density is light and taxiway edge lights and centre line marking provide adequate guidance” but this exception was not valid for S5 since centreline marking to/from the runway was not provided. The Investigation also considered that the airport operator’s view that S5 was covered by the EASA “light traffic density” exception noted above was inappropriate and referenced the ICAO Annex 14 definition of aerodrome traffic density (not used by EASA) in support of its opinion that “the airport as a whole should be considered as a heavy traffic density zone”. The ANSPs procedures for intersection departures were examined and it was found that despite the absence of both a centreline marking continuing onto the runway and any centreline lighting, S5 was included in the list of “recommended intersections” available for use by aircraft departing from runway 24. It was also noted that the ANSP (LVNL) “believes it is not relevant for air traffic controllers to know exactly which entries and what lighting is available given that the Operations Manual indicates which entries may be used in what conditions”. In the context of the “known risks associated with intersection takeoffs” the Investigation noted that the LVNL ‘Procedural Handbook’ states that the runway controller must only allow jet aircraft to take off via an intersection if there is an operational reason to do so. Examples of such operational reasons are given as changing the departure sequence to increase takeoff capacity, avoiding jet blast affecting traffic on another runway and avoiding crossings of active runways. In the case of the investigated event, LVNL stated that the first of the above-quoted operational reasons had applied. However, it was noted that LVNL's Operations Manual content on reasons for offering an intersection takeoff was not applicable to propeller-driven aircraft and also observed that it “did not include any stipulations focusing on reducing known risks that exist when offering or permitting intersection takeoffs”. It was also noted that although the LNVL's internal investigation into the event stated that it had been “focused on what LVNL could possibly do to prevent any repetition of this kind of incident”, it limited itself to “bringing the results of the investigation to the attention of the local Runway Safety Team” (RST). It was noted that the RST meeting at which the report of LVNL's internal investigation was subsequently considered decided only to add a runway lead-on extension to the existing S5 taxiway centreline and provision of centreline lighting for S5 was not progressed. The report of the internal investigation into the event carried out by the Airport Operator was also examined and it was concluded that its objective “namely to determine the extent to which the infrastructure, the current procedures at Schiphol Airport and the actions of the airport party or parties involved