also found to be damaged with yellow paint marks visible with one also partially deflated and detached from its rim. Shortly after the aircraft had completed its flight, a bird controller carrying out a routine inspection of runway 06/24 found three right side edge lights near to taxiway S5 had been destroyed and four others further down the runway were broken. A more detailed inspection of these damaged/destroyed yellow-painted lights found that at least one of them had black marks likely to be attributable to aircraft tyre contact. CVR data recorded the edge lighting impacts and also that after the first of these, the crew had discussed “a sound” but attributed it to a falling pilot briefcase. Both pilots subsequently acknowledged during interview that “some bumps” had been felt during the takeoff roll but stated that they had been unsure whether the source was the nose wheel or the main wheels and noted that such bumps were not unusual as the nose gear ran directly over the runway centre line lights. CVR data also showed that an aural warning of a stall warning system fault had been activated when the aircraft was pitched up for takeoff and had been correctly assessed as false at the time of occurrence. The Investigation noted that this warning would occur in the event of any detected discrepancy between the two angle-of-attack vanes and that there had been no annunciation of a stall warning or any evidence from the FDR that conditions which would have given rise to one had existed. In the absence of any repetition or continued system malfunction, it was therefore concluded that the most likely explanation of the fault indication was that some of the pieces of the impact-damaged runway edge lights which had been directed into the propeller arc had then been catapulted in various directions causing not only fuselage impacts but potentially an impact with the right hand angle-of-attack vane which might have momentarily compromised its correct position. It was noted that 3500 metre-long runway 24/06 is 45 metres wide and has an additional 15 metre-wide shoulder on both sides. The exact layout of the S5 runway access, primarily designed to facilitate runway crossing to/from S8 on the opposite side and being one of 7 access points on the northwest side of the runway, was examined - see the illustrations below – and was nominally an “exit taxiway”. It was noted that alignment with runway 24 from S5 required a 120° right turn. It was also found that this turn was not provided with a corresponding extension of the taxiway centreline in contrast to the 30° turn onto the runway from S6 and the 90° turn onto the runway from S7E. All marked access runway routes in the vicinity of S5 were also provided with centreline lighting. The absence of taxiway lighting was noted to be contrary to the normally applicable EASA requirements which require that this should be provided on any taxiway intended for use at night in