no faults with the aircraft engines or systems which would have contributed to the event but a review of the prevailing meteorological conditions indicated that the aircraft had been flying in conditions conducive to ice crystal icing prior to the uncommanded loss of thrust. It did, however, find that the crew had not selected the engine anti icing system - which included anti icing of the engine inlet pressure probe and necessary to determine EPR - which was considered to have been contrary to the applicable FCOM procedures. These stated that this system "must be ON when icing conditions exist or are anticipated...” and that “(inflight) icing conditions exist when RAT is 6°C or below AND visible moisture in any form is present (such as clouds, fog with visibility one mile or less, rain, snow, sleet and ice crystals)”. The available meteorological evidence indicated that although the crew reported having been largely clear of cloud once in the cruise in an area with "just a few scattered cirrus clouds", a specialist aftercast carried out for the Investigation showed that there had been considerable convective weather in the area being transited (see the illustration below). About 7 minutes prior to the incident, ground-based weather radar returns indicated that the cloud tops were "30,000 feet at the incident location and 35,000 feet about 10 nautical miles west". Returns at 33,000 feet at the incident location about 8 minutes prior to the event were such as to indicate light rain or its equivalent, although ice crystals were not necessarily detectable. A weather radar image timed approximately 10 minutes prior to the event with its location at the centre of the superimposed polar grid - showing very strong returns in the vicinity. [Reproduced from the Meteorological Specialist's Report in the Accident Docket] The Investigation noted that ice accretion resulting from an encounter with high altitude ice crystals "does not appear in places that pilots would typically look for ice accretion (such as the windshield wipers, windshield wiper attachment bolt, wings, etc.)". So in the case of aircraft which use EPR to provide a primary indication of engine thrust and do not have an ice accretion sensor associated with the engine inlet pressure probe, it may sometimes be only the symptoms of probe ice accretion that alert crew to the problem. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that because the engine anti-ice system was not activated when flight 970 entered the icing conditions, the ice crystals were able to adhere to and partially block the engine inlet air pressure probes, causing the EPR indication to increase until reaching the autothrottle EPR limit. Meanwhile, engine power and airspeed were actually decreasing and the airplane was pitching up, resulting in a stall condition. The Probable Cause of the investigated event was determined as: "The flight crew's failure to verify the engine instrument indications and powerplant controls while on autopilot with the autothrottle engaged, and their failure to recognize the drop in airspeed which led to an aerodynamic