An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. DFDR data was successfully downloaded but the CVR CB had not been tripped so no useful data was available and it was not downloaded. The Captain had 7,700 total flying experience including 1,720 hours on type, 1,420 of the latter having been in command. He was found to have joined the airline just over 4 years earlier as a First Officer and subsequently gained a command and stated that he was an ALPA-trained 'safety investigator' and the 'local Air Safety Chairman' at the airline's Ft Lauderdale base. The First Officer had 8,900 hours total flying experience including 376 hours on type and was acting as PF for the sector. It was found that the flight had climbed initially to FL300 and then to FL330, reaching this cruise level about 14 minutes after take off. Both AP and A/T had been engaged shortly after take off and for over 15 minutes at the final cruise level and the flight was proceeding normally. Thereafter, over a period of about five minutes, a series of abnormal indications all went unnoticed by both pilots: the progressive loss of over 60 knots of indicated airspeed. a steadily increasing pitch attitude from normal 1ยบ to almost 5ยบ. an increase in the EPRs of both engines whilst all other indicated engine parameters - N1, N2, EGT and fuel flow - were decreasing.. Attitude and airspeed changes were noted as having been a direct consequence of the AP attempting to maintain level flight with decreasing engine thrust. At the end of this period, airspeed had reached 209 knots. Then, over the next 10 seconds: both engine EPRs dropped suddenly. both pilots reported simultaneously having noticed abnormally low N1 and EPR indications for both engines and a "very rapidly reducing airspeed". stall buffet occurred followed within a few seconds by activation of the stall warning system - horn and stick shaker.. stick pusher activation was recorded on the FDR.. The Captain had taken control, disconnected the A/T and AP and found that there was no response to an increased thrust lever position. DFDR data showed that during the 18 seconds after the engines lost power, airspeed fell to 193 knots and pitch attitude continued to increase to almost 9ยบ nose up before "the aircraft pitched down and began to descend". Recovery from the aerodynamic stall was achieved but without much thrust available, the descent continued for more than 16,000 feet before normal engine thrust was again available. During this time, the right engine was shut down due to a high EGT indication but successfully restarted on the second attempt - at about 17,000 feet - and the left one was reported to have "started on its own a short time later". The First Officer reported having been unsure at the time whether the vibration he had been aware of when the thrust problem was first recognised by the crew had been "a stall or a pre stall buffet". The Investigation found