This is an extract from the Report (SL 2009/02) to serious incident published by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN): A cold front had passed over the coast and was on its way east, and local moderate icing was forecast […]. There was a relatively strong westerly wind, and the crew anticipated some turbulence during the climb. The weather forecast was a moderate risk of local icing in western part of Norway up to flight level FL180 (approx. 18,000 ft), which is normal for the time of year. After take-off and during climb with an engaged autopilot: The crew […] observed a build-up of ice on the aircraft, which is not an abnormal occurrence over the terrain in question. In compliance with current procedures, systems for electrically heating the probes and front windshield […] were switched on prior to take-off, while systems for further de-icing (level 2) were switched on when ice was observed shortly after take-off. When the warning light for icing came on approximately when passing through FL100 while climbing eastward, in accordance with procedures, they switched on the system to “level 3” for de-icing. The crew is certain that the systems were functioning as intended. At this point, the weather radar was not switched on. There was no significant turbulence, and the fasten seatbelts sign was switched off. The Commander has stated that they gradually went into heavy rain, with large drops that splattered on the front windshield while the outside temperature (Static Air Temperature, SAT) was -10 °C. He saw significant ice formation on the evidence probe outside his Window […] The Commander has stated that the ice built up extremely rapidly. The side windows iced up, while the inflatable rubber de-icing boots appeared to keep the leading edges of the wings free of ice. From the cockpit it was not possible to see whether there was ice further back on the upper and lower sides of the wings. Neither the Commander nor the First Officer remembered afterwards whether they saw ice on the propeller spinners. The First Officer did not remember that it had been raining. He has explained that ice on the side window was not uncommon during “normal” icing conditions. The crew has stated that the aircraft climbed more or less normally until passing FL120-125. After this, the ability to climb deteriorated significantly. When they approached FL140, the climb was marginal. To maintain a certain climb, they allowed speed to drop from 160 KIAS Knots Indicated Airspeed] to 150 - 155 KIAS. The First Officer thought he remembered using the autopilot during this phase in the mode for maintaining indicated airspeed (IAS hold). Minimum speed in “standard” icing conditions for the relevant mass was 143 KIAS (stated in the speed booklet). […] The Report presents an extract of the period when the incident occurred (see Figure 1 - Based on Mode C radar data recording on 5 seconds intervals). Combined with the crew’s explanation it is possible to establish that the aircraft lost