approx. 1500 ft in height the first time the wing dropped. It is equivalent to an average descent speed of approx. 3200 ft/min for the 28 seconds that passed before the aircraft again commenced climbing. At its steepest, the descent was around 5000 ft/min. In Section 1.6.2, dedicated to De-Icing/anti-icing systems, the Report provides the following details: "[the ATR42…] has electrical and pneumatic systems for keeping critical areas free of ice. The following illustrations have been taken from the manufacturer’s brochure “Be prepared for icing”: In addition to the standard anti-icing system, a new monitoring and caution system for icing has been developed at ATR - the Aircraft Performance Monitoring function (APM). The incident aircraft did not have an APM installed. The system installation is not mandatory. The Report presents the following findings: The AIBN believes that this investigation has proven a clear connection between the icing incident and latent contributing factors, such as deficiencies in the airline’s quality system and flight safety programme. It is, in addition, the AIBN’s view that this case illustrates how important a well functioning regulatory oversight is to flight safety. The failure of the CAA-N follow-up contributed to deficiencies in the operator’s quality system and flight safety programme not being corrected in time. […] The manufacturer’s procedures for severe icing have been subject to revision, and the current issue has six items that the flight crews should know by heart to avoid getting into a critical situation.. In the event of abnormal rolling movements, the stick must be pushed forward and the flaps set to 15°. This is not included among the checklist items that should be known by heart. […]. For the complete list of the findings see Further Reading. The Safety Recommendations presented in the Report address the following issues: Operation of this aircraft type in icing conditions (to the aircraft operator involved);. Serious deficiencies in the company’s quality system and safety management (at the aircraft operator involved);. Insufficient follow-up and rule enforcement on the part of the CAA-N after it had disclosed serious deficiencies in the quality system and flight safety programme in its flight operations inspections of the company over several years prior to the incident. (at the State Regulator involved)..