his transmit selector on the crew interphone channel so ATC did not hear it. As the flight crew commenced their evacuation check list as a prelude to ordering an evacuation by PA from the flight deck, the cabin manager issued their own evacuation command over the PA but did not activate the evacuation alarm. Upon hearing the forward doors opening behind the flight deck, the Captain then immediately shut the engines down and as the engine-driven generators went off line, all lighting in the flight deck extinguished making it necessary to complete the evacuation check list from memory. ATC were eventually advised and the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services despatched. The partial passenger load was quickly evacuated using three of the four slides; the slide at 2R was not used because it was reported to have been too dark for the supervising cabin crew to confirm that it had deployed correctly and the handle cover of the rear right over-wing escape hatch had been removed but the exit had not been opened. No attempt had been made to open any of the other over-wing exits. The passengers and crew were eventually taken by bus to the Terminal. Early attention was focussed on runway and taxiway de-icing. The runway and taxiway used had been treated with de-icing chemicals on several occasions in the 24 hours prior to the incident. Late on the previous evening, ‘Isomex3’, a Potassium Acetate-based thickened liquid, had been applied at a rate of 22gm/m² and then the next day, in both the early morning and early afternoon, Urea in the form of ‘prills’ or small pellets had been applied at a rate of 100 gm/m². The Urea pellets had not been wetted immediately prior to application which has sometimes been recommended. Following the incident, the Airport Duty Manager reported identified partially dissolved prills on the final third of Runway 25. Findings following inspection of the aircraft for residual evidence of the contaminant were largely ambivalent but clear evidence was found of significantly more potassium acetate on seat headrest covers taken from the incident aircraft than from similar covers taken from other aircraft and was considered consistent with previously high levels of potassium acetate in the cabin environment. Since both potassium acetate and urea based de-icing products had previously been applied to the runway and taxiway and they considered the most likely source of the smoke/fumes. It was thought likely that “de icing chemicals were ingested into the engine, before passing through the air conditioning system and entering the cabin though the overhead vents” and it was noted that “although evidence of potassium acetate was found in the cabin, information from (other similar events) suggested that urea pellets may also have been the source of the smoke”. It was considered that: “Two factors probably influenced the production of smoke. First, the taxiway onto which the aircraft turned had been regularly treated during the period preceding the event but very lightly trafficked, so there was probably more de-icing product