on this taxiway than on other parts of the manoeuvring area. Secondly, it is likely that the prolonged use of reverse thrust increased the volume of these products delivered to the cabin and the thickness of the smoke (given that) the appearance of the smoke was coincident with the use of reverse thrust on the taxiway”. A reference to the risk of ingesting runway de-icing fluids was found in the Operations Manual: “Engine ingestion of freshly treated runway with potassium acetate/urea may occur causing a nontoxic mist in the cabin. This mist can be misidentified as smoke. Therefore, consider briefing the Cabin Crew prior to landing.” The Operator also reported two other similar reports of runway de icing fluid appearing to temporarily contaminate the air conditioning system in the same month as the investigated occurrence, another event at Belfast Aldergrove and one at Budapest. Following a query, the Operator advised the Investigation that a check of OFDM data had disclosed that the incident aircraft commander “routinely used idle reverse thrust beyond the landing roll and onto the taxiway down to approximately 15 knots to save brake wear”. It was noted that his use of reverse thrust had apparently not provoked comment during recurrent training or checking and had not been identified through the OFDM programme even though it was specifically contrary to SOP as stated in both the Operations Manual and the Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) because of a desire to minimise the intake of Foreign Object Debris. The issues raised by the confusion in communications between the cabin manager and the flight crew were reviewed. It was noted that the failure of the cabin manager to use the available ‘Emergency’ interphone channel rather than the standard one or to use the evacuation alarm prior to commencing an evacuation were both unhelpful. However, the importance of less ambiguous flight crew responses to reports from the cabin was also noted and observed to be already stressed in manuals used by both cabin crew and flight crew. The subject of when cabin crew should initiate an evacuation on their own rather than defer to the Captain was considered and it was concluded that documentation of pertinent cabin crew SOPs was adequate. The cabin manager’s response to the smoke was driven by a concern that fire or smoke in an aircraft may be very hazardous to the occupants; the cabin safety procedures manual listed ‘uncontrolled cabin fire/smoke’ as an example of a catastrophic situation which may require immediate independent evacuation action by the cabin crew. At the time the cabin manager began the evacuation, it was considered that the fact that the engines were running and they were already in communication with the flight crew meant that “it would have been appropriate for the cabin manager to wait for the commander to initiate the evacuation, according to the laid down procedure”. On the absence of flight deck lighting after the emergency engine shut down during the incident, it was noted that the