A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the aircraft commander was experienced in command on the aircraft type and had been PF for the incident flight. It had been noted from the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) en route that the air temperature and dew point at destination were both -3º, the wind was calm , the visibility was 2900 metres in mist with no significant cloud and runway 25 was reported as ‘wet’ throughout its length. The runway and taxiways at destination had been treated with potassium acetate and urea during the day so as to prevent ice formation overnight but this information was being not communicated to inbound aircraft. The landing was normal with pre-selected autobrake ‘LO’ and idle reverse used. After landing, ATC asked the aircraft to continue to the end of the runway to vacate because the usual intermediate exit was not available and followed this up with a request to keep the speed up prior to vacating. Idle reverse thrust remained selected and as the aircraft vacated, the First Officer selected air conditioning pack 2 to ‘OFF’ and started the APU. It was noted that the aircraft was the first one to use have used the exit taxiway for some time and deposits of de/anti-icing products had been present on the taxiway. Almost immediately “a smoke-like substance started filling the cabin from the overhead vents” It was subsequently described as “appearing along the entire length of the cabin and being either brown or black in colour”. It was impossible to establish with any accuracy what the volume or density of the smoke had been but it was clear that visibility within the cabin had been affected. The associated smell was described as “being reminiscent of a bonfire or electrical burning”. The two cabin crew in the rear galley reported preparing to don their smoke hoods and while the cabin manager in the forward galley advised the First Officer that there was “smoke in the cabin” using the crew interphone, their colleague at that location ran part of the way down the cabin, shouting to passengers “get your heads down”, before returning to the galley. The Captain had not heard the cabin manager’s report and at about the same time as he was told of it, he was selecting the thrust levers from idle reverse to idle, by which time the aircraft had travelled about 270 metres along the taxiway and its ground speed had reduced to about 12 knots. The cabin manager then saw that the smoke was becoming thicker and called the flight deck again to say that the smoke was becoming thicker and that they thought an evacuation was necessary. The First Officer partially repeated back the statement and the cabin manager got an ‘okay’ from both pilots. The aircraft was brought abruptly to a stop and the parking brake set. The First Officer made a MAYDAY call to advise the evacuation but had inadvertently left