Customer Service Functions include Ticketing. Although most passengers will arrive at the airport with tickets in hand, there are provisions at most terminals for on-the-spot purchase. Check-in. Electronic check-in kiosks have become prevalent in most major airports. However, there will still be customer service agents to assist passengers with the check-in process, to verify documentation, to tag and process their checked baggage and to ensure that cabin baggage conforms to regulated size, weight and content. Over-size Baggage. Provisions will be available, usually at a secondary location, for the acceptance of over-sized or very heavy baggage items. Baggage Sorting. Bags will be electronically or manually sorted by flight and either loaded into Unit Load Devices (ULD) or placed on baggage trolleys in preparation for aircraft loading. Lobby Management. Passenger service agents will ensure that the appropriate number of check-in desks are available, staffed and have the appropriate identification signage as well as directing and controlling the flow of passengers in an orderly and efficient manor. Irregular Operations. Customer Service Agents will be available to accommodate Irregular Operations requirements such as rebooking passengers who have missed connections or providing meal and accommodation vouchers, or alternate transportation arrangements, in the event of delay or cancellation of flights. Special Needs Handling. Customer service agents will make arrangements for wheelchairs or other transport to the departure gate for mobility impaired passengers and will process, safeguard and supervise any unaccompanied minors (UMs) from check-in to aircraft boarding and from aircraft deplaning to release to a parent or other authorised person. Gate Assignment. In coordination with the airport authority, aircraft gates will be assigned and the gate information relayed to the passengers. Lounge Management. Where available, business and first class lounges, available to qualified passengers, will be staffed and provisioned. Aircraft Boarding. Ground agents will make appropriate boarding announcements, conduct final passenger screening and document verification and provide a final passenger manifest and customs documentation to the aircraft crew. If passengers must be bussed to the aircraft or otherwise be compelled to walk on the ramp, ground agents will ensure passenger safety whilst on the ramp. Aircraft Disembarkation. Ground staff will receive any inbound customs paperwork and accept arriving passengers at the aircraft and facilitate their transfer to the terminal building, dealing as necessary with issues arising from inbound delay or cancellation of connecting flights. Baggage Services. Ground agents will assist with lost, misdirected or damaged baggage.