The inherent risks in the ground handling process, especially for ramp services are numerous. Tasks may be carried out in a high noise, high traffic area, both in daylight and in darkness, in all weather conditions and in all extremes of temperature. Various types of large machinery working in close proximity, the handling of flammable liquids and dangerous cargo, and working at heights during the loading, catering and refueling of large aircraft all pose their own perils. The following is a non-exhaustive list of some of the inherent risks that could be encountered whilst providing ground handling services to an aircraft: Personal Injury. There is almost no limit to the potential causes for injury to ground handling personnel. Falls, lifting related injuries, contact with moving vehicles or equipment can all result in injury. Appropriate vigilance, safety equipment, high visibility clothing, and training all play a role in injury prevention. Aircraft Damage. Damage is frequently caused by ground support equipment striking the aircraft. Installation of safety devices, such as proximity switches and auto-levelers on airbridges and appropriate use of a guide whilst manoeuvring vehicles in proximity of the aircraft will help avoid such damage.. Refuelling and Defuelling Risks. Equipment malfunction, incorrect procedures or distraction can all lead to a fuel spill or fuel fire.. Vehicle Collision. There are numerous vehicles, serving different purposes, moving in close proximity to the aircraft and to each other. Ramp conditions, distraction or inattention and failure to use a guide where appropriate, can all lead to collision.. Fire. Fire can result from a fuel spill, a vehicle collision, or the malfunction of either an aircraft system or a ground support vehicle.. To help mitigate these risks, improve safety and optimise efficiency, various organisations provide specialised training ( e.g. Ramp Resource Management courses) to supplement the job and safety training provided to ramp workers by their respective employers.