Ramp Services include: Marshalling. The marshalling process at some aerodromes starts as the aircraft approaches the apron with the provision of a Follow Me Vehicle to guide the aircraft to its assigned parking stand. As the aircraft approaches the stand, the vehicle relinquishes aircraft guidance to either electronic Stand Entry Guidance Systems or ground personnel to direct the aircraft to its final parked position. In many cases, wing walkers will work in conjunction with the marshaller or guidance system by controlling ramp traffic and to helping to mitigate any wing tip clearance hazard. On departure, a marshaller will assist in engine start, confirming that the area around the engine is clear of hazards and watching for indications of an engine fire. Should a fire occur, the marshaller will advise the crew by interphone or by using Emergency Hand Signals. Wing walkers will also be provided when the aircraft is to be pushed off stand. Chocking and Connection/Disconnection of Ground Services. Once the aircraft is on-stand, wheel chocks will be inserted and external services such as passenger bridge(s) or boarding stairs, ground electrical service and ground air conditioning units will be positioned or connected as required. As the departure time approaches, these items will be disconnected and removed as directed by the flight crew. Baggage and Freight Handling. Baggage and freight on the inbound aircraft will be off-loaded using whatever specialised equipment necessary (such as baggage belts, split loaders and forktrucks) and the outbound bags and freight will be loaded on the aircraft. Care must be taken to ensure that Loading of Aircraft with Cargo is accomplished in accordance with the load planner's loading instructions and that Dangerous Goods are correctly handled. Aircraft Towing. Movement of an aircraft to or from a maintenance facility, a remote parking stand or from one gate to another will be accomplished on an "as required" basis. Refuelling. Aircraft will be refueled to the requirements of the outbound flight as specified by the Pilot in Command or, in his absence, by the dispatcher. Specific protocols are in place in the event that refueling is to be accomplished with passengers remaining on board. Toilet and Water Servicing. Toilet waste holding tanks will be emptied and serviced as required. Potable water tanks will be refilled. Aircraft Cleaning. The cabin, lavatories and galley counter surfaces will be cleaned. Garbage containers will be emptied and the contents removed from the aircraft. Toilets will be restocked. Passenger comfort items such as pillows and blankets will be replaced as required and, where applicable, newspapers will be brought on board. Catering. The catering trolleys and oven inserts from the inbound flight will be removed and the catering for the outbound flight boarded. Galley and bar stock will be replenished. Provision of Documents. Prior to departure, the flight crew will be provided with the appropriate documentation inclusive of a fuel uplift receipt, the completed Aircraft Load and Trim form or, if the crew completes their own Load and Trim, the certified Loading Instruction Form