Essential traffic is controlled traffic[1] to which the provisions of separation by ATC are applicable, but which, in relation to a particular controlled flight, is not, or will not be, separated from other controlled traffic by the appropriate separation minimum (Doc 4444, par. 5.10.1.1). According to ICAO requirements, essential traffic information shall be given to controlled flights concerned whenever they constitute essential traffic to each other. Essential traffic information will inevitably relate to controlled flights cleared subject to maintaining own separation and remaining in visual meteorological conditions and also whenever the intended separation minimum has been infringed. Essential traffic information shall include: a) direction of flight of aircraft concerned; b) type and wake turbulence category (if relevant) of aircraft concerned; c) cruising level of aircraft concerned; and 1) estimated time over the reporting point nearest to where the level will be crossed; or 2) relative bearing of the aircraft concerned in terms of the 12-hour clock as well as distance from the conflicting traffic; or 3) actual or estimated position of the aircraft concerned. Wake turbulence category is considered to be essential traffic information if the aircraft concerned is of a heavier wake turbulence category than the aircraft to which the traffic information is directed. Information on essential local traffic shall be issued in a timely manner, either directly or through the unit providing approach control service when, in the judgement of the aerodrome controller, such information is necessary from a safety point of view, or when requested by aircraft. Essential local traffic is considered to consist of any aircraft, vehicle or personnel on or near the manoeuvring area, or traffic operating in the vicinity of the aerodrome, which may constitute a hazard to the aircraft concerned. Essential local traffic must be described so as to be easily identified. According to Doc 4444 provisions (par. 11.4.3.1.3) the essential local traffic information must include: a) identification of the aircraft to which the information is transmitted; b) the words TRAFFIC IS or ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC IS, if necessary; c) description of the essential local traffic in terms that will facilitate recognition of it by the pilot, e.g. type, speed category and/or colour of aircraft, type of vehicle, number of persons; d) position of the essential local traffic relative to the aircraft concerned, and direction of movement. ^ Local traffic - Aircraft operating in the traffic pattern or within sight of the tower, or aircraft known to be departing or arriving from flight in local practice areas, or aircraft executing practice instrument approaches at the airport..