the Zurich TMA in 2019 were most frequent to the west of the airport (see the illustration below). The pattern of infringements for the same area in 2018 had been broadly similar although less in total. The distribution of airspace infringements recorded in controlled airspace around Zurich Airport during 2019. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation looked back in some detail at a series of similar incursion events which had been investigated as Serious Incidents and noted that in 2016, the Swiss State Safety Regulator (FOCA) had been commissioned by the Swiss Federal Government to redesign Swiss airspace and the aviation infrastructure which FOCA was pursuing though a programme called ‘Airspace and Aviation Infrastructure Strategy Switzerland (AVISTRAT-CH)’. However, delivery of this as yet undeveloped strategy is not required until 2035 and the implementation of the first projects was not due to start until the end of 2022 with a risk that “implementation would probably extend far beyond 2035”. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was attributed to the climb of the light aircraft involved into the airspace of the Terminal Control Area of Zurich Airport without the approval of air traffic control. A Risk Factor was also identified as “the low vertical separation of 500 feet at the lower airspace boundary of the Terminal Control Area between Class G and Class C airspace". One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should, prior to the full implementation of the AVISTRAT-CH which is not expected before 2035, take appropriate measures including measures in the area of Safety Recommendations 466, 467, 468, 518, 519 and 520 as already issued, to ensure that the risk of a close encounter as a result of an airspace infringement is reduced.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 5 July 2022 and subsequently published online on 18 July 2022. The conflict was classified as a Category ‘B’ AIRPROX.