previous flights, "the pilot was unsure of the remaining charge in the battery". The glider was fitted with a radio but the pilot was not in radio contact with Reno TRACON nor was he required to be. It was noted that in the area where the collision occurred, soaring regularly occurs up to the limit of Class 'E' airspace above which Class 'C' airspace is designated and a functioning Mode C transponder is required unless a special glider operations box is implemented which it was reported usually occurs during mountain wave conditions. Impact damage to the Hawker was noted to have included: to the nose structure with a section of the glider wing spar remaining embedded in it. a breach of the forward pressure bulkhead. destruction of the Captain's instrument panel such that the primary instrumentation was no longer useable. loss of elevator control forward of a neutral position. leading edge damage to the right wing which had compromised its fuel tank.. leading edge damage to the horizontal stabiliser including a large hole that extended aft to the mounting flange. fan blade damage to the left engine and to its lower cowling drain mast. damage to the right engine fan blades and significant damage to the inlet area which left a large hole in the cowling.. fibreglass embedded in the right engine tail pipe with fuel dripping from the lower cowling and fuel control unit.. In addition, superficial damage to the underside of the fuselage and inboard wings had been caused by landing with the gear retracted. Interviews with the Hawker passengers found that when they had been instructed by the flight crew to tighten their belts for the wheels up landing which followed the collision, one passenger had found that their seat belt attachment had failed and that the same had occurred again after moving seats. Examination of the aircraft disclosed that the attachments concerned were faulty and a sequence of rectification actions ensued. Eleven days after the accident, NetsJets implemented a fleet inspection to validate the integrity of these attachments, and this was then followed by a similar Raytheon instruction to all operators and in February 2007, a MSB requiring modification of the lap belt attachment shackles and the introduction of a mandatory "check of seat belt attachment hook and safety clip for distortion and security" as part of the 300 hour inspection requirement. The Investigation focused on three main areas of interest in relation to the collision: The overall management of the glider/transport aircraft collision risk in the area south of Reno. There existed a previous (1997) Safety Recommendation on Reno Area Airspace and radar coverage made by the FAA Reno Flight Standards District Office to the FAA Office of Accident Investigation which "offered a number of solutions" to what was described as "an extreme aviation safety concern" in respect of the risk of collisions between gliders and transport aircraft approaching and departing from Reno. None of the four solutions offered had been implemented by the FAA.