The first defence is the process of aircraft type certification, leading to the issue of the Type Certificate. This work is documented so that it remains an accessible foundation for the continuing airworthiness of the aircraft type thereafter. Wherever practicable, the original design will embody redundancy features; i.e. an allowance for the failure of a system or component without any reduction in airworthiness. In some cases, the failure only becomes observable after an aircraft has landed, and requires rectification before further flight. In more extreme cases a major failure, such as an in-flight failure of an engine on a multi-engine aircraft, should not lead to an accident - the design combined with the training of the crew should allow safe continuation of the flight. The same criteria apply to flight in adverse weather and when affected by human factors in either operations or maintenance. High standards of flight crew training, proficiency and crew resource management (CRM) can also serve to minimise the incorrect management by flight-crew of the onset of any in-flight reduction in airworthiness. A full understanding of the human factors issues involved in engineering and maintenance is therefore valuable. The effective management of continuing airworthiness is an excellent defence. Defined as “all of the processes ensuring that, at any time in its operating life, the aircraft complies with the airworthiness requirements in force and is in a condition for safe operation” [EC, 2014]. As part of continuing airworthiness management, each aircraft must hold a Certificate of Airworthiness to prove that it conforms to the certificated type design and is in a condition for safe operation. In the European Union (EU), all aircraft must also be subject to a regular audit which leads to an airworthiness review certificate (ARC). The regulator will require that the operator has in place a system to ensure compliance with the activities below. Some airworthiness authorities cover the following items with the term Certificate of Maintenance Review (CMR) Compliance with the maintenance programme.. Embodiment of mandatory modifications and inspections.. Rectification of reported defects and investigation of adverse reliability matters..