The event was notified to the Portuguese Accident Investigation Agency (the GPIAA) which carried out an Investigation. It was found that the 48 year old Captain held a licence restricted to multi pilot aircraft and had accumulated 10,200 total flying hours which included 2,000 hours on type. The 23 year old First Officer had a total of 1,205 flying hours of which 1,003 hours were on type. The aircraft Captain described the arrival at stand 114 to the Investigation as follows: “Upon Arrival at the gate 114, I took control of the aircraft because the guidance system needs the left hand pilot to guide the aircraft. Everything was fine until I realised I might be too close to the bridge position. I braked at the same time that I saw the marshaller who was on standby lifting his arms. The aircraft stopped. We didn’t feel anything. We set the parking brake, and during all this, the guidance system was showing full distance (all yellows dots on) as if we were still far from the stop position. It was only when we had communication with the ground that we realised the left hand engine had come into contact with the boarding bridge”. He also stated at interview it was his first flight after “a long absence for medical reasons” and also that the briefing about the risk of the unusually liveried aircraft not being detected by APIS had been read in the briefing room. He noted that the First Officer had been PF for the flight and had not included anything in his arrival briefing about parking and it had not been mentioned when he took control as the aircraft reached the vicinity of Stand 114. The Captain stated that he had not seen the stop marks painted on the apron surface but made no reference to the fact that the APIS display of distance to go was not reducing, except that he was aware that the display indicator was still a considerable distance away. He stated that he had stopped the aircraft “when he felt uncomfortable” whilst “thinking that he was still far from the stop location”. Only at that moment, when communicating with ground personnel, did he realise that the aircraft had hit the airbridge and expressed surprise that none of those present had alerted him before it happened. The marshaller in attendance claimed that he “didn’t have time to press the button which could have prevented the crash […] or manually signal the aircraft to stop in accordance with the procedures he was required to follow”. The Investigation considered that his performance had “demonstrated a lack of reinforcement training in relation to parking operations” and concluded that the airport operator had not shown that it provided adequate training for such staff given that they represent the ultimate safety barrier during APIS parking operations. It was found that when the aircraft hit the airbridge, it had been 6 metres past the designated stopping position marked on the ground. The