Investigation found that the airport manoeuvring chart showed that all the heads-of-stand on Apron 11, which includes Stand 114 where the collision occurred, were the same, whereas Stand 114 differed from Stands 115, 116 and 117 in that the terminal building did not project as far out into the stand area. This meant that the APIS display unit was mounted further away from the intended aircraft parking position (see the illustration below) to the rear of a service road. It was noted that the APIS function is based on LIDAR which uses a Class 1 laser beam to measure the distance between an approaching aircraft and its designated stopping position and display the distance to go in the form of a thermometer scale. If the APIS display to the incoming aircraft or the operator panel displays information other than that which corresponds to the applicable parking procedure, the airport operator’s marshaller in attendance is required to activate the emergency switch on the operator display panel. This action will disable the display in such a way that the pilot will receive an immediate ‘STOP’ command thereby preventing any risk of personal injury or damage to aircraft or ground equipment. The Investigation was able to obtain the recording of the APIS function on stand 114 as the aircraft was taxied towards its intended stand 114 parking position. This showed that the aircraft was initially detected slightly later than usual - at a distance of 20.9 metres rather than within the range 22.2 and 22.9 metres - and the message “STOP” was immediately displayed in the upper part of the display alternating with “E-62” in the lower part of it. The “E-62” annunciation indicated that “Error 62” (the failure to detect an approaching aircraft during parking) had been oscillating between E-62 and blank at a rate of multiple cycles per second which had meant, according to the aircraft Captain in conversation with the attending Maintenance Supervisor that, as expected, the APIS display of distance to go remained “frozen”. This confirmed the Captain’s report but did not explain why he had continued taxiing when the display was evidently not functioning normally. The manufacturer of the stand 114 APIS installation advised the Investigation that it had been installed in 2005 and had not been upgraded since. It also found that the MU800 battery which was part of the system had been malfunctioning at the time of the investigated event and that this was the reason why the display was cycling rapidly between ‘STOP’ and blank rather than displaying ‘STOP’ continuously. Whilst this was not the intended failure indication, it was clearly indicative, along with failure of the distance to go indicator to show a reducing distance as the aircraft advanced, of a system malfunction. It was found that the possible consequence of the non-standard and much darker livery of the aircraft involved than other Company aircraft (see the first illustration below) and the potential implications of this when entering nose-in stands for parking had been