covered by an inclusion in the Company pre-flight crew briefing library for the aircraft involved 10 days prior to the investigated event. This briefing element had then been included in the tailored pre-flight briefing the crew had received before going to their aircraft to prepare for the flight to Lisbon (see the second illustration below). The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: The APIS system did not recognise the aircraft because of the dark colour of its painting.. The location of the APIS display at stand 114 was set back further from the designated aircraft parking position than the display at stand 115.. The marshaller in attendance did not follow his prescribed SOP.. The pilots were vulnerable to tunnel vision because of the greater set back of the APIS display at the head of stand 114.. The pilots unquestioningly accepted the electronic signal provided by the APIS.. The combination of Causes which led to the event was determined to have been as follows: The failure of the APIS system at stand 114 to recognise the aircraft.. An unsafe operation of the aircraft by its Captain.. The failure of the marshaller to assist the parking of the aircraft.. Six Contributory Factors were also identified: Operations at a critical stand without guidance from an airport technical operative.. The pilots did not recognise the failure of the APIS.. The loss of situational awareness of the pilots whilst taxiing the aircraft into its designated parking position.. A lack of CRM by the pilots, who did not include gate arrival in their briefing prior to descent as provided for in their Operations Manual, making the operation unsafe.. Brussels Airlines did not have a decision item (“go - no go”) regarding the procedure to follow in case of an APIS fault.. NAV Portugal published ground manoeuvring charts which contained errors in the position of the terminal buildings at stand 114.. Eleven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should require that until Safety Recommendation 18/2017 has been implemented, one marshaller is always present during aircraft parking operations at stand 114 in accordance with the recommendation included in the applicable procedure in the Lisbon Airport Manual. [17/2017]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should relocate the APIS display indicator at stand 114 on a gantry aligned with the existing APIS displays at stands 115,116 and117. [18/2017]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should review the procedures implemented in the airport manual of ANA, providing for greater assistance from the TOA in situations where there are specific emergency procedures in assisting aircraft parking. [19/2017]. that ANA AEROPORTOS DE PORTUGAL should issue a safety report explaining the problems that had occurred at stand 114, distribute it to Marshallers and alert them to the need to supervise the final part of an aircraft parking manoeuvre and be ready to assist in case of pilot error or equipment failure. [20/2017]. that APIS MANUFACTURER FMT should develop a parallel failure warning system