DH8A, en-route near Sørkjosen NorwayOn 21 February 2006, a Bombardier DHC8-100 being operated by Widereo Flyveselskap on a passenger flight from Tromsø to Sørkjosen experienced a temporary loss of control during descent in night IMC when the power levers were inadvertently selected to a position aft of the Flight Idle gate and propeller overspeed and engine malfunction followed. After recovery and shut down of the right engine, a return to Tromsø was made using the remaining engine without further event. CRJ2, en-route, south of Santander Spain, 2009On 24 February 2009, the Captain of a CRJ 200 being operated by Air Nostrum on a passenger flight from Madrid to Santander inadvertently shut down both engines simultaneously during the descent but a successful restart was rapidly achieved and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. The subsequent investigation concluded that the shutdown was the consequence of both violation of procedure and lack of knowledge of the Captain involved. DH8A, en-route SSE of Madang, Papua New Guinea, 2011On 13 October 2011, the Captain of a Bombardier DHC8-100 manually flying a low power, steep descent in an attempt to get below cloud to be able to see the destination aerodrome inadvertently allowed the speed to increase sufficiently to trigger an overspeed warning. In response, the power levers were rapidly retarded and both propellers entered the ground range and oversped. As a result, one engine was damaged beyond use and the other could not be unfeathered. A forced landing was made following which the aircraft caught fire. All three crew members but only one of the 29 passengers survived. F50, vicinity Luxembourg, 2002On 6 November 2002, a Fokker 50 operated by Luxair, crashed on approach to Luxembourg Airport following loss of control attributed to intentional operation of power levers in the ground range, contrary to SOPs. On 21 February 2006, a Bombardier DHC8-100 being operated by Widereo Flyveselskap on a passenger flight from Tromsø to Sørkjosen experienced a temporary loss of control during descent in night IMC when the power levers were inadvertently selected to a position aft of the Flight Idle gate and propeller overspeed and engine malfunction followed. After recovery and shut down of the right engine, a return to Tromsø was made using the remaining engine without further event. On 24 February 2009, the Captain of a CRJ 200 being operated by Air Nostrum on a passenger flight from Madrid to Santander inadvertently shut down both engines simultaneously during the descent but a successful restart was rapidly achieved and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. The subsequent investigation concluded that the shutdown was the consequence of both violation of procedure and lack of knowledge of the Captain involved. On 13 October 2011, the Captain of a Bombardier DHC8-100 manually flying a low power, steep descent in an attempt to get below cloud to be able to see the destination aerodrome inadvertently allowed the speed to increase sufficiently to trigger an overspeed warning. In response, the power levers were rapidly retarded and