Both PANS-OPS and US TERPS assume values of minimum visibility available to the pilot at the lowest obstacle clearance altitude (OCA). These values are calculated differently and therefore, may result in different AOM. Table 1 shows the lowest value of visibility assumed by each method: PANS-OPS US TERPS ICAO PANS-OPS uses a varying MOC which increases with aircraft category as shown in Table 2: The FAA has modified the criteria for circling approach areas via TERPS 8260.3C. The circling approach area has been expanded to provide improved obstacle protection. As a result, circling minima at certain airports may increase significantly. TERPS 8260.3C - Circling approach areas for approach procedures use the radius distances (in NM) as depicted in Table 3. These distances, dependent on aircraft category, are also based on the circling altitude which accounts for the true airspeed increase with altitude. From May 2, 2013, the FAA started publishing new instrument approach plates that include an enlarged segment of airspace to protect aircraft during circling approaches. The new airspace also offers pilots additional obstacle clearance while considering their MSL altitude above the MDA, which affects true airspeed. The boundaries of protected airspace for circling approaches are defined by arcs drawn from the threshold of each runway at an airport. The higher the speed of the aircraft, the larger the arc. Previous versions of the FAA’s terminal instrument procedures (Terps) used a radius of 1.7 nm from the end of the runway for a Category C aircraft such as a Hawker 800. Under the new criteria that radius will increase by 65 percent, to 2.7 nm. Chart providers U.S. Terminal Procedures and Jeppesen both plan to use new chart symbology to identify the updated approaches. The government plates will show an inverse “C” in a black box in the approach minimums area of the plate, while Jeppesen will use a “C” inside a black diamond. Charts without the new designation will continue to be guided by the old, smaller-radii criteria. Both systems use a radius of the circling domain, Obstacle Evaluation Area for US TERPS and Visual Manoeuvring Area for PANS-OPS, that increases with aircraft category and is based on TAS and bank angle. Both systems assume a 25 kt wind factor, always added as a constant, without an assumption for the direction of the wind. Aircraft Category is based on threshold IAS (1.3 x Stall IAS) and is shown on Table 4: For PANS OPS only* For PANS-OPS, the TAS is based on aircraft altitude and the visual manoeuvring IAS (Circling IAS). The latter is shown on Table 5: For US TERPS, TAS calculation is based on aircraft altitude and threshold IAS appropriate to category (shown on Table 4). PANS-OPS assumes a bank angle of 20° for aircraft of all categories. US TERPS assumes a bank angle which varies with aircraft category, but is never less than 20° - see Table 6: Because the IAS used for TAS calculation is greater and the assumed bank angle is lower, the