If symptoms of otic or sinus barotrauma, or discomfort, occur in-flight then action is required, depending on the stage of the flight profile (climb, cruise, or descent), the severity of the trauma, and also depending on whether the patient is a crew member or passenger. Solutions may include: an immediate return to the departure aerodrome; a reduced cruising altitude; pressurisation management; and, continuation to destination with the application of first aid. Most critical for severe cases will be the need to control the descent in stages, allowing the patient time to equalise their ears frequently. The most crucial stage (i.e. with the greatest pressure change) is the last few thousand feet of altitude. An badly affected crewmember should be removed from duties. There can be some leeway if one of only two pilots is affected, depending on the severity of pain; but discussions will need to cover the potential symptoms of degraded hearing, performance and possible dizziness and imbalance. All cabin and flight crew are regularly trained in first aid and the use of the first aid equipment on-board. This will include the use of nasal decongestants to assist in freeing up the Eustachian tubes and ostia, usually in connection with the Valsalva method of ear “popping”. They will also be familiar with the use of analgesics to relieve some of the associated pain. The simplest measure to take is to never fly with a cold, flu, or any other similar illness and infection. Similarly, do not fly if you cannot equalise the pressure in your middle ears using the Valsalva method; perhaps making it a habit to check this before every flight is a good habit to adopt? The common causes of blocked ostia and Eustachian tubes usually clear up within a period of a few weeks, and usually no long-term damage occurs. Symptoms, including sinusitis headaches, can be alleviated by an array of different prescribed and over the counter drugs and products. However, flight and cabin crew should not self-medicate and should consult their Company surgeon or private Doctor. For some persistent bacterial infections antibiotics may need to be prescribed, which may preclude any flying for the duration of the course (often 10-days). Blockages resulting from allergic reactions may be relieved through decongestants and antihistamine, but ultimately the source of the allergy will need to be addressed.