It is important to validate whether or not training in contingency has been absorbed by the staff concerned. Ideally the validation process should be conducted making as extensive as possible use of the simulation, training or development facilities available to exercise the concept and the relevant procedures in situations as close as possible to the real life environment. Alternatively technical testing, desk checks and desktop walk-throughs could be used. Given the inherent risks and safety considerations it is recognised that in most instances it is neither practical nor desirable to conduct 'live' testing, training and exercising of contingency measures where these could be detrimental to real-life operations. Nevertheless, a prime objective should be to evaluate the safety of the procedures in the most critical period and sectors including the key contingency aspects identified in the Contingency Plan. Training for Emergency/Unusual Circumstances - A distinction should be made between training for emergency/degraded and service continuity modes of operation. In emergency and degraded modes, it is essential that operational controllers and supervisors and their engineering/technical equivalents can react instantaneously to 'emergency' events and unusual situations. Existing guidance material available to help air navigation service providers (ANSPs) gauge the extent of this training includes: Training for Service Continuity - For service continuity, the frequency and level of training for service continuity modes is wholly dependent on the contingency strategies and measures adopted by the ANSP. No two situations can be the same. The extent to which air traffic controllers (ATCOs) air traffic service engineering personnel (ATSEPs), supervisors and managers (and perhaps external suppliers and sub-contractors) need to undertake preparation/familiarisation training for service continuity type operations, either as an ongoing commitment before an event or as a requirement after a contingency situation, can only be decided upon at a local level by an ANSP (supported by its national supervisory authority (NSA)). There is no European or regional set syllabus (although perhaps one could be considered in the context of a functional airspace block (FAB) arrangement). Principle of Minimal Difference - To ensure cost-effectiveness, the impact of specific contingency training on the overall ATM personnel training and transition should be kept to a minimum. Indeed, whatever strategies are chosen when planning contingency measures, it is recommended that to reduce the need for any additional validation training and to minimise the practical commitment, it is preferable for the contingency operation to apply the principle of minimal difference and use whenever possible: Moreover, it is recommended that training should cover, as appropriate to the contingency measures foreseen to put in place: Training provision - Training for contingency operations can be facilitated by a variety of means including briefings, simulations and joint exercises. It should take place, as necessary, during: Strategy Specific Training - Some strategies impose additional training requirements. For instance, the high volume of traffic, and the complexity and configuration of airspace across ECAC makes the provision of Procedural Control extremely problematic particularly in congested areas of en route airspace. In less congested areas and for