An Investigation was carried out by the Hungarian Transportation Safety Bureau. Relevant data was recovered from both the CVR and FDR. It was noted that the 28 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 3,083 hours flying experience which included 816 hours on type and 2,123 hours on the ATR42. The 48 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,482 hours flying experience which included 890 hours on type and 3,592 hours on the ATR 42. It was established that at about 650 feet agl after takeoff from runway 13L at Budapest and just as the landing gear was selected up, a fluctuation in the right engine torque indication occurred and an engine fire warning for that engine had activated. A ‘MAYDAY’ was declared to TWR and an engine problem advised as the circumstances. However, FDR data showed that upon the activation of the fire warning, the power lever of the failed engine was set to idle but that the rest of the (memory) items on the applicable QRH drill, which included feathering the propeller and stopping the fuel supply to the engine, did not take place for a further minute. Although no fire or smoke was reported by the crew, the TWR controller visually observed smoke coming from the affected engine and implemented an “anticipated air traffic occurrence” alarm. The crew indicated that they intended to return to land on runway 31R and initially requested a right turn to position for a final approach which was then changed to a request for a left turn. The aircraft continued to climb and passing 2,700 feet QNH as the left turn was commenced, the crew requested to level off at 3,000 feet which was approved. The initial left turn was then continued through the runway extended centreline and finally onto final approach. The remainder of the return was without further event and the aircraft landed on runway 31R after approximately 9 minutes airborne with the emergency services standing by. The track flown by the aircraft is shown on the first illustration below. Having confirmed that the aircraft was able to taxi in without assistance, it was transferred to GND and cleared to a stand where the remaining engine was shut down and the passengers disembarked normally. It was then possible to see that the number 2 engine power turbine and tail pipe were “badly damaged” with the fire also having caused “significant damage to the engine nacelle”. However, it could be seen that the engine failure had been fully contained within the engine nacelle. The failed engine was removed and disassembled and it appeared that the sequence of events which led to the failure may have been started by the fracture of a single blade in the first stage pressure turbine. This led to the rotor assembly becoming unbalanced and the consequential vibration was then likely to have broken the three oil pipes held in the № 6 & 7 bearing housing, which disintegrated