due to the high temperature which developed and the oil spilt from them then caught fire. As a consequence of this, both the low pressure and power turbine rotor assemblies were displaced and damaged and their shafts fractured. Damage to the compressors was consequential to the severe damage to the turbine section of the engine. The remaining part of the fractured blade which it was confirmed on further assessment had been the cause of the rest of the failure was subjected to detailed examination at the engine manufacturer’s facility. The origin of the fatigue crack was found to have been the trailing edge of the blade and from there, it had then spread towards the leading edge as far as half of the chord length after which the remainder had fractured because of overloading. It was found that the alloy from which the blade had been made met the corresponding specification and there was no sign of any anomaly at the trailing edge of the blade. There was also no evidence of any fatigue cracking in any of the other blades on the same rotor. It was found that the set of blades fitted to the rotor had been a mixture of new and used ones and that the one which fractured had been a new one installed between two old ones. However, the view taken by the engine manufacturer was that although such an explanation would be plausible, “it cannot be stated that the fatigue crack which led to fracture of the blade would have been due to the vibration generated by loose fastening”. The Investigation noted that there had been a number of previous engine fire events in ATR 42 and 72 aircraft which the subsequent investigations had attributed to the failure of a turbine blade. These had included to a TAROM-operated ATR 42 departing Budapest in 2011 where the fatigue failure of the blade involved had been attributed to a latent material defect causing microshrinkage porosity and another 2011 event and one in 2013 which had been investigated by other European SIAs. It was noted that the HungaroControl MATS reference to the appropriate general response to any instance of on-board fire or smoke did not include any reference to the movement of aircraft on the ground. However, it was also noted that Part 1 of ICAO Doc 9137 when discussing rescue and fire fighting activities says, when dealing with reported aircraft fire warning indications that “it is advisable to bring the aircraft to a stop and allow the rescue and fire fighting personnel to inspect the area involved, prior to parking at the apron where fire would endanger other aircraft or buildings” and that an aircraft should continue taxiing to the apron only after such an inspection has been conducted and its findings support such continued taxiing in. The failure of the crew to complete the engine fire checklist memory items in full and without delay resulted in the failed engine continuing to rotate at high temperatures