for security purposes. For NOSS, a similar body has been created but detailed information on that body was not available at the time the ICAO NOSS manual was produced. Factors that can help determine whether or not an ATS provider should store NOSS data in-house comprise - inter alia - the national legislation on freedom of information (i.e. to the press and the public) and the status of the air traffic. 8. Data verification process After the NOSS data collection period, a “data verification round table” is held. This is a data verification process, which typically involves four or five key persons from the NOSS project in an organisation and may last up to five days, depending on the amount of data that has to be processed. The purpose of the data verification process is to ensure that all data from the observations are coded correctly and consistently before they are analysed. To that end the participants in the data verification process review all observation reports to verify the threats, errors and undesired states that the observers have entered and coded. In the verification process extensive use is made of the applicable ATC procedures for the unit(s) observed in the NOSS. 9. Data-derived targets for safety enhancement The final report that is produced as the result of a NOSS presents an analysis and interpretation of the data collected during the organisation's normal operations. The report must contain clear indications for the SMS of the organisation of where the systemic strengths and weaknesses are vis-à-vis the management of threats, errors and undesired states in the operational environment. The report assists the SMS to determine the effectiveness of the organisation’s existing safety strategies and countermeasures and, at the same time, enables the SMS to identify specific areas where safety improvements can be made. 10. Feedback of results to the controllers After the NOSS report has been made available to the organisation, the results of the NOSS should be communicated to the controllers in the organisation, including the controllers of the unit(s) where the observations were performed as well as other units, when feasible. Items the controllers typically will be interested in include the findings of the report and the action that the organisation proposes to take as a result of it.