a fright/threat situation, time is perceived to pass more slowly. There is great variation as regards how much a person perceives time to slow down. One or more crew members may have experienced a distorted time perception due to the distressing event. Both the pilots and the cabin attendant conveyed an impression that the incident lasted significantly longer than the 10 seconds established by the flight recorder.. It is likely that the upset occurred when the aircraft flew in under a CB cell which was not apparent to the crew in the dark and was exposed to severe wind shear - a microburst. The aircraft was probably exposed to both downdraft and horizontal wind shear. The tendency for increased mechanical turbulence when strong south-westerly winds prevail in the area may have made the situation worse and possibly also extended the duration of the adverse external affect. It may be that the crew did not sufficiently consider the additional threat of localised windshear below heavy shower clouds during the approach and were surprised by the powerful wind shear it triggered.. The windshear experienced was localised and not directly related to either actual conditions over the runway or whether the surface wind at the aerodrome was inside or outside the Operator's limitations when the approach formally started. The full flight simulator used by Widerøe for pilot training could not realistically simulate wind shear during a circling approach in mountainous terrain as Svolvær.. Although an AoA of up to 30 degrees is indicated based on the recorded airspeed, vertical speed and the position of the aircraft nose above the horizon, it is impossible to perform meaningful aerodynamic calculations of lift and the wing angle of attack for the few critical seconds when the aircraft was exposed to strong variable external forces, increased slipstream and rapid pitch variations. Since at that time, the aircraft was affected by a strong downward vertical wind component, the AoA was probably lower. Likewise, the parts of the wing that were inside the propeller slipstreams would have had a significantly lower angle of attack.. Given that in an aerodynamic stall, a significant reduction in G-load would be expected and the FDR data does not show this, it is possible that external forces camouflaged the expected G-load pattern. Stick shaker activation certainly supports the aircraft having been on the verge of stalling and the possibility of there having been a momentarily stalled condition cannot be ruled out on the evidence available.. During the critical phase, it was not surprising that normal dialogue and coordination between the two pilots ceased completely. In such circumstances, a takeover of control may prevent the situation from becoming an accident. It was considered that when the aircraft's pitch was very low and it was just above the sea, the First Officer's impression that the Captain's intervention was insufficient indicates that it was correct to intervene. This action was in accordance with good CRM and also in line with the Widerøe approach to CRM training. The