data included a non-standard alerting call in respect of the directional deviation of "watch, watch" from the First Officer. Following a detailed examination of the failed landing gear assemblies, it was found that they had been airworthy prior to the accident and that the left main gear collapse had been caused by impact with the edge light which was found to have had a non-frangible metal portion. This metal portion had been "temporarily chamfered with cement" contrary to prevailing regulatory requirements and as the left main wheel hit the light at around 80 knots, the frangible portion collapsed as per the design but the exposed metal portion was strong enough to cause the main landing gear lock mechanism to unlock and the left landing gear to retract. The Investigation noted that the DGCA had issued a regulatory requirement in 1992 which was still applicable and required that any draft Instrument Approach and Landing (IAL) procedure such as that conducted prior to the investigated accident "be given at least three flight trials by examiners or instructors employed by the operator in day VMC only" whereas the corresponding Spice Jet procedure also permitted "line Captains with more than 1,000 hours in command on type" (such as the Captain in this case) to also carry out VOR trial procedures. It was found that this variation from the DGCA procedure had not been based on any risk assessment. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was that "loss of visual cues after touch down in inclement weather conditions resulted in the aircraft veering to the left of the centreline and then off the left side of the runway”. Three definite Contributory Factors were identified: The Captain's inappropriate use of the aircraft controls to maintain the directional control of the aircraft after landing.. Non-standards callouts by the First Officer when seeking to correct the situation after landing.. The collapse of the left main landing gear after it hit a non-frangible runway edge light.. A further 'Possible' Contributory Factor was also identified - the fact that a "trial instrument approach procedure" had been flown prior to the excursion which, although it was permitted for the crew concerned under Spice Jet procedures, was contrary to extant regulatory procedures in place since 1992 which limited the flying of such approaches to examiners and instructors who must confine this privilege to day VMC. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the DGCA should advise the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to carry out a one-time task to identify all non-frangible objects within the runway strip and rectify any that may be found to bring them into compliance with regulations.. that the Spice Jet Operations Department should issue necessary guidelines for the use of standard flight deck callouts during conduct of flight especially during marginal weather conditions.. that the DGCA should advise all operators to align their policies and guidelines in accordance with latest regulations & requirements.. The Final Report was completed on 2 May 2017