An Investigation was carried out by an Indian AAIB Committee of Inquiry. Data from the DFDR and CVR were successfully downloaded. The 46 year-old Captain, who was PF for the accident flight, had 7,050 hours total flying experience hours which included 1,850 hours on type of which 1,700 hours had been in command on type. The 24 year-old First Officer had 1,343 total flying hours which included 1,083 hours on type. It was established that after arriving at destination and holding to await an improvement in the weather from 3,000 metres in heavy rain and thunder - all weather reports since an hour prior to departure from Bangalore had included "thunderstorm with rain" - ATC reported on request that the visibility had improved to 4,000 metres in moderate rain and cleared the flight to make an NDB approach to runway 26. However the Captain advised the First Officer (but not ATC) that they would instead carry out the VOR/DME trial procedure for the same runway. It was noted that the crew did not ask for (and ATC did not volunteer) information on the runway condition in the light of recent and continuing rain. The procedural approach conducted was stable and, after the crew acquired visual reference with the runway about 6nm out, the aircraft subsequently touched down within the TDZ (Touchdown Zone) slightly to the left of the centreline. Evidence from ground track markings showed that after continuing for about 440 metres and drifting further to the left (in negligible surface winds) the left main landing gear hit a left side runway edge light and collapsed, which led to the left propeller coming into contact with the runway surface around 60 metres further on and all five propeller blades being sheared off at the root. Thereafter the Captain had manoeuvred the aircraft back on the runway but, with the aircraft speed 46 knots, "the nose wheel tyre failed under over load conditions, the nose landing gear collapsed and the aircraft belly came in contact with the runway surface". In the absence of directional control, the aircraft then departed the left side of the runway onto soft ground before eventually coming to a stop approximately 50 metre from the runway centre line. An emergency evacuation was announced by the flight crew and completed uneventfully with the assistance of the emergency services. Damage sustained by the aircraft was extensive and included, but was not limited to, extensive structural damage to the fuselage and left wing, both engines and the nose and left main landing gear - see the illustrations below in the case of fuselage and wing damage. Contrary to the Captain's statement which claimed that he had selected full reverse on both engines and had "tried to maintain the aircraft on the centreline", the DFDR data showed that rearward movement of the power levers after touchdown had been asymmetric with only the left lever just entering reverse for two seconds and that there had been no rudder pedal input. The CVR