The Air Accident Investigation Bureau, Malaysia (AAIB) was notified of the Accident by the aircraft operator and AAIB Inspectors were dispatched to Miri the following day to begin an Investigation. The CVR was removed and its data successfully downloaded and relevant QAR data was also available. The 30 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the landing involved, held an ATPL (airline transport pilot licence) and had a total of 4,351 hours flying experience including 98 hours on type. He had recently joined the operator and, after training and assessment, had been released for unsupervised line flying after passing a Line Check just over a month earlier. The 30 year-old First Officer held a CPL (commercial pilot licence) and 807 hours flying experience including 633 hours on type. It was established that the visual approach to the 2,745 metre-long 60 metre-wide runway at Miri had been conducted normally and had been stabilised. However, CVR data showed that Normal Checklists were not carried out in accordance with operator’s DHC-6 Series 400 SOP and it was not clear whether the electronic or paper Checklists were being used. It was also found from these data that the Captain had not called for checklists and that the PM had completed them by reading “in a mumbling tone which was barely audible” and that the Take-off and Departure brief were not recorded and the Approach brief was not carried out in accordance with SOP. It was also noted from the CVR data that in the absence of any SOP guidance to pilots in respect of the need for “sterile cockpit procedures” there had been “unnecessary chattering between the pilots when aircraft was on final”. Touchdown on the main landing gear was normal but after the nose gear had been lowered to the runway, the aircraft soon began to veer towards the left side of the runway. It continued on the runway for 175 metres whilst following a slight curve towards the left edge of the runway which it then exited before continuing on the grass for another 84 metres which brought the total distance travelled in a continuous curve to 259 metres. By the time it stopped, the aircraft was approximately 40 metres from the left hand edge (i.e. 70 metres from the runway centreline). The Captain reported having initially applied full rudder and brake to counteract the veering but this had no effect. Nearing the runway edge and “upon glancing down”, he stated that he had noticed that the nose wheel steering lever was fully deflected to the left. He then tried to re-centre the lever but by then the aircraft was already on the grass and soon stopped completely in the soft ground. He then shut down and secured the engines before coordinating with the TWR controller for the emergency services and evacuated the passengers who were then taken to the terminal. Testing of the steering actuator confirmed that it had been fully serviceable. Touchdown occurred with the nosewheel steering not centred.