height until touchdown.. by implementing takeoff and departure briefs when an aircraft is powered up either by battery or aircraft generator to ensure these briefs are recorded by the aircraft CVR.. MAS Wings should improve the conversion and recurrent training syllabus in the DHC6-400 Training Manual as follows: so as to enhance pilots’ subject knowledge on the landing gear and brake systems contained in the Computer Based Training syllabus.. by introducing an additional subject on nose wheel steering operations and the locking mechanism to the aircraft visit syllabus.. by including teaching of the correct and standardised technique on how to check and ensure the nose wheel steering lever is in the centred and locked position in both the initial type conversion and the initial operating experience syllabus.. MAS Wings should ensure that standard procedures and coordination between the pilots are emphasised and practiced correctly in the following phases of flight described in the DHC6-400 SOP Chapter 3 ‘Procedures and Policies during Conversion and Recurrent Training’: Take-off, departure and approach briefing.. Take-off and after take-off procedures and coordination.. Approach and landing procedures and coordination.. Practice of Checklist procedures.. MAS Wings should amend the POH/AFM content on Nosewheel Steering Lever instructions (Temporary Amendments Nos TA-31 & TA-32) in the After Take Off and Descent Approach Checks. MAS Wings should update and use the paper checklist as the primary reference for all normal checklist purposes in the Twin Otter aircraft fleet. MAS Wings should revamp publication update, maintenance and distribution processes to ensure all amendment of revised procedures related to aircraft operations reached the end-users promptly. MAS Wings should study the option of using a flight simulator as a training platform for the Twin Otter fleet. CAA Malaysia should conduct pilot assessments which ensure compliance with the DHC-6 Series 400 SOP contained in Chapter 3 ‘Procedures and Policies during Proficiency and Line Check’ on: Takeoff, departure and approach briefing.. Takeoff and after takeoff procedures and coordination.. Approach and landing procedures and coordination.. Use of Checklist procedures.. Viking Air should liaise with MAS Wings to study the implementation of a visual indicating or monitoring system to allow a pilot to confirm that the nosewheel is centred in flight. The Final Report was issued on 7 October 2020.