It was noted that the paper checklist used by the pilots in preference to the electronic alternative had not been updated to reflect temporary amendments TA-31 & TA-32 issued in October 2017 which made changes affecting the Nose Wheel Steering Lever (see the illustration below) in, respectively, the After Takeoff and Descent/Approach Checks required the pilot to “apply slight upward and downward pressure to the nose wheel steering lever to confirm that the nose wheel is centred and locked” which was slightly different from the previous confirmation procedure which was to “wiggle” the steering lever to the centre and align it with the index mark. The Nosewheel Steering Lever. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation found that during both type conversion and recurrent training, only a brief explanation was provided to pilots on the nose wheel steering system with “insufficient emphasis” placed on explaining its working principles and the operation, in particular in respect of the nose wheel centring mechanism which had clearly set up the scenario which had led to the runway excursion being investigated. More generally, it was considered that the context of poor routine operating practices detected from the CVR data had their origin in the fact that the POH/AFM states that the aircraft can be operated by a single pilot and that this has resulted in procedures which are predicated on such operations and have not been adapted for the two pilot operation used by MAS Wings. A number of previous actual or almost DHC6 veer-off events were found to have occurred at the operator including two left side veer offs, one in 2015 and another in 2016 and several other incidents where unanticipated veering also occurred but recovery was achieved before the aircraft departed the runway. In summary, the Conclusion of the Investigation was that poor Checklist use in confirming the centred status of the nosewheel steering lever, especially but not only after takeoff were the direct cause of the failure to centre the nosewheel steering after which the veer off after touchdown was all but inevitable. However, the context for this was considered to have been inadequate emphasis on nose wheel steering system knowledge during the Captain’s recent type conversion training including the lack of practical explanation on the function and operation of the steering system during training visit to the aircraft. This situation was compounded by the longstanding failure to update the poor wording in the steering lever centring procedure. Finally, the wider context was assessed as the inadequacy of checklists and procedures for two pilot operation of the aircraft type which the operator had not addressed. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: MAS Wings should amend its DHC-6 Series 400 Standard Operating Procedures as follows: by implementing a challenge and response system for checklist reading procedures.. by implementing the sterile cockpit principle to support the use of standard terminology during the critical stages of flight i.e. during takeoff and after stabilising