The UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS) was notified of the event by the operator and notified to the NTSB as the investigation agency for the State of Occurrence. Four days after the event, the NTSB then delegated the conduct of the Accident Investigation to the AAIS. Relevant data was downloaded from the FDR but as the flight had continued for more than two hours following the turbulence, relevant data from the CVR had been overwritten so was not accessed. After the flight departed Los Angeles just after midnight with the Captain as PF, the flight planned route for the first two hours, which was followed, eventually took it over the northern Rocky Mountains in the State of Wyoming. Since the operational flight plan provided to the crew indicated that no significant weather was expected to affect the flight on this route, the Captain had switched off the seat belt signs once the flight was above FL 100. As the flight transited the Salt Lake City FIR and passed near the 12,244 feet high Trout Peak, part of several ridges which make up the Absaroka range, a two minute long period of turbulence suddenly began at FL 330 during a climb to FL350 before ceasing as quickly as it had begun. During this period, the actual speed (with M0.85 selected) was recorded as varying between M0.812 and M0.876, vertical speed as varying between -580 fpm and +1,400 fpm, vertical acceleration as varying between +0.44g and 1.63g and the pitch attitude as ranging from +0.7° and +3.5°. Three seconds after the start of the turbulence, the flight crew switched on the seat belt signs and made a PA instructing the cabin crew to seat and secure themselves. The AP 1 and both FDs remained engaged and the A/THR (autothrottle/autothrust) was in ‘Thrust Climb’ mode. It was noted that four seconds after the start of the turbulence, the flight crew changed the FMS longitudinal mode from CLB mode to V/S mode. The sensed wind velocity recorded on the FDR during the turbulence indicated a mean wind from 080° at 65 knots and that with the aircraft on a heading of 020°, the actual tailwind component had varied between 11 and 43 knots and the actual crosswind component had varied between 20 and 82 knots from the right. The sensed vertical air movement during the same period varied between a downdraft of 14 knots and an updraft of 31 knots although it was noted that there had been “no excessive altitude loss”. The approximate location of the turbulence encounter. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Part of the forecast significant weather chart for the flight with the location of the turbulence. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In the complete absence of any evidence of wet turbulence on the correctly set up weather radar, and no evidence that there had been any cloud in the airspace where the event occurred, the Investigation was able to conclude that the encounter, as believed by the flight