crew, had been attributable to CAT. The flight crew reported that when they had earlier been approximately 55 nm south west of the turbulence encounter position, aircraft at a lower altitude - below FL 290 - on the same frequency had been heard reporting “light turbulence” to ATC when they were in the same area but noted that ATC “had not communicated to us any ‘ride reports’ or turbulence at our level or at FL350.” The First Officer also noted that after hearing these communications from other aircraft, he had been prompted to check shear rates shown on the Operational Flight Plan which for the final stage of the climb to the initial cruise level had been shown as either ‘0’or ‘1’. The crew also reported that there were no other aircraft ahead at the same level or in the opposite direction within ±1,000 feet. The passenger injury which had led to the Investigation had occurred in a toilet compartment and was reported to have been caused after the standing passenger had been “forced up in the air” before landing heavily. This resulted in the provision of toilet compartment handholds being examined. It was found that although such compartments as were designated for use by passengers with disabilities or other special needs were equipped with multiple handholds at different heights which were easily reachable in all circumstances, other toilets had only one or two handholds. It was found that the orientation of handholds in compartments with only one handhold was either horizontal or vertical and in those with two, one was oriented horizontally and one vertically. However, although these handholds were placed on the compartment wall within reachable distance and height for a person who was seated on the toilet, none had handholds adjacent to the basin and in some cases, if the occupant was using the basin, the installed handhold would be behind their back and thereby not within easy reach. It was also noted that there were no placards in the toilet compartments to alert the passengers to make use of the available handholds in the event of turbulence. It was nevertheless accepted that it was not possible to be certain that identified deficiencies in relation to toilet compartment handholds had contributed to this accident as it was not possible to interview the injured passenger. However, the fact that a similarly-caused passenger injury had occurred in another recently investigated A380 turbulence encounter also investigated by the GCAA AAIS was noted. The Cause of the accident was formally documented as “the acceleration forces imposed on the aircraft as it flew through an area of clear air turbulence, which resulted in an unsecured passenger forcefully impacting cabin furnishings in the lavatory”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as “the lack of placarded instructions and the inaccessibility of the handholds within the lavatory for use in case of turbulence”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Emirates standardize and improve the accessibility of the