During pre-flight preparation: Using the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) or the appropriate performance charts, determine the maximum takeoff weight (MTOW) for the runway in use, anticipated atmospheric conditions and intended aircraft configuration. Confirm that actual aircraft weight does not exceed the calculated maximum allowable weight. Complete performance calculations to determine speeds and thrust settings (inclusive of reduced thrust criteria where appropriate or applicable). Review and brief the Emergency Turn procedure inclusive of routing, turns and turn altitudes, acceleration altitude and safe altitudes. During the takeoff roll: Use appropriate lineup technique to ensure charted runway length is available. Apply thrust using manufacturer's recommended procedures. Confirm actual thrust meets or exceeds calculated thrust. In the event of an engine failure prior to V1, reject the takeoff ADVISE Air Traffic Control (ATC) that the takeoff has been rejected using appropriate emergency communication protocols. ADVISE Air Traffic Control (ATC) that the takeoff has been rejected using appropriate emergency communication protocols. In the event of an engine failure after V1: Establish and maintain directional control with appropriate rudder input. Rotate at Vr and establish a climb speed of V2 If the failure occurs after the aircraft is airborne, a climb speed of between V2 and V2 + 10 is acceptable. If the failure occurs after the aircraft is airborne, a climb speed of between V2 and V2 + 10 is acceptable. Utilise appropriate aileron input to maintain wings level. At, or near, VMinimum Control Air (Vmca), as much as a 5° bank away from the dead engine may be required. When safely airborne and established in a positive climb, retract the landing gear Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Initiate ECAM / EICAS / Emergency Checklist procedures as per manufacturer and Company policy Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Maintain V2 and takeoff thrust until reaching acceleration altitude. Acceleration altitude will be the highest of 400' AGL, Emergency Turn procedure published acceleration altitude or Company standard acceleration altitude Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. At acceleration altitude, maintain takeoff thrust, level the aircraft (see note below) and accelerate to VFS retracting flaps on schedule. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Once in clean configuration, maintain VFS, resume climb and reduce thrust to maximum continuous Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. Establish or maintain the Emergency Turn routing. ADVISE ATC using appropriate emergency communication protocols note that if the Emergency Turn profile has or will result in a departure from the cleared routing, ATC should be notified as soon as it is practical to do so. note that if the Emergency Turn profile has or will result in a departure from the cleared routing, ATC should be notified as soon as it is practical to do so. Reaching a safe altitude, comply with any enroute climb requirements, complete any appropriate emergency or QRH