for which clearance had not been given) and set the HDG bug to 300° and the target speed to 170 KIAS. A couple of minutes later, ATC cleared the departing aircraft for takeoff and at that point, with the inbound aircraft downwind for runway 12 and clear of the departing aircraft climb out (position 4 in the illustration below), “the controllers’ attention then turned to the takeoff in progress (and) they no longer watched the manoeuvres of the Onur Air flight”. They had, however, advised that they would call the crew back to clear them to turn onto final approach. The ATC call came 20 seconds later when the inbound aircraft was at position 5 in the illustration and almost 1nm beyond the runway 12 displaced threshold and was to ask the aircraft to extend the downwind leg over the sea because of the departing aircraft. The AP was still engaged and the aircraft was approaching the selected altitude. After a further 30 seconds, with the aircraft now 2.3 nm from the runway threshold, ATC gave clearance for the inbound turn (position 6 in the illustration). The crew were visual with the sea surface and the coastline but no longer had the runway in sight. Selection of a descent rate of 650 fpm caused the AP to switch to VS mode as the aircraft began the left turn towards final approach. With the aircraft just below 1000 feet and just over 4 nm from the runway (position 7 in the illustration), the AP and both FDs were disconnected by the crew and full flap was selected. However, descent continued and as the turn onto final approach was completed, the aircraft was flying towards the coastline still descending and at an altitude not far above the cliffs ahead which were almost 500 feet amsl and at a similar height to the airport ARP of 472 feet amsl. As a result of this, an EGPWS “TERRAIN AHEAD” alert was activated for approximately 8 seconds with the aircraft at position 8 in the illustration. The Captain responded by making a nose-up input on his side stick which corresponded to about one third of the available maximum travel which changed the aircraft pitch attitude from 0.5° nose down to 12° nose-up. However, this did not stop the aircraft descending and an EGPWS Hard Warning “TERRAIN AHEAD PULL UP” of similar duration followed almost immediately at position 8 in the illustration). This time, as the aircraft reached its minimum height of 528 feet amsl (which corresponded to just 49 feet above the airport ARP when 3 nm from the runway threshold), the Captain reacted by a further increase of around one third of available maximum side stick travel nose-up input and this caused the aircraft pitch attitude to increase sufficiently for the aircraft to begin climbing. The crew reported that only then had they regained visual contact with the runway and having seen that they were left of the centreline, a corrective right turn was