initiated. Having safely crossed the coastline, the climb then continued above the 3.5° PAPI guidance before descent towards the runway commenced approximately 1½ nm from the runway threshold from an altitude of just over 1,100 feet. A further corrective alignment was made to finally establish on the runway extended centre using a 33° bank to the left. This manoeuvre triggered an EGPWS Mode 1 ‘SINK RATE’ Alert which prompted the Captain to discontinue the approach and the First Officer advised ATC that this was because they had lost sight of the runway due to the sun. They requested and obtained clearance for a visual approach on runway 30 following which the aircraft flew over the runway at a height of 300 ft and made a right turn onto a south easterly heading and upon reaching 1,100 feet then began a left turn onto a final approach to runway 30 and landed. The two controllers on duty at the time stated that they had observed the Onur Air flight as it entered the downwind leg and kept it in sight until “the end of its downwind leg” after which “their attention then shifted to the aircraft taking off”. Later, the supporting controller reported having seen the aircraft “approaching, at a very low altitude, off-centre in relation to the runway and with a pitch-up attitude” and had informed his colleague who agreed to the crew’s subsequent request to re-position for a landing on runway 30. He reported having considered that "he should not interfere with the control of the flight and that the pilot was in the best position to choose an option”. Both controllers stated that they had not been “aware of the seriousness of the event and did not consider it necessary to notify it”. The crew stated that “at no time did they feel that they were in danger of a collision with the terrain, all the more so because they thought they were being visually or radar monitored and that their flight path was protected”. They also added that “only the appearance of the TAWS alerts had made them aware of the aircraft's situation in the vertical plane and of the need to correct its flight path”. It was noted that aircraft handling SOPs relevant to the approach contained in the Operations Manual were consistent with the corresponding Airbus procedures. These included a requirement that a visual approach must be conducted at a downwind leg altitude of 1500 feet aal without the AP and without the FD and with systematic use of external visual references. On turning base at the equivalent of 45 seconds in still air past the landing threshold, descent should be commenced and the landing gear extended with a mandatory go around if final approach is not stabilised at 500 feet aal. It was also noted that, in the case of a Class ‘D’ CTZ such as the one at Deauville, “unlike ICAO documentation, French Air Traffic Regulations do not explicitly state that the aerodrome