The event was not reported to the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency but the next morning, the French Aviation Police (GTA) informed the BEA that a witness had seen an aircraft flying low over the sea the previous day. Examination of recorded radar data appeared to confirm such an occurrence and that it had involved the Onur A321. An Investigation was commenced the following day and after sight of the aircraft’s QAR data received after a request to the Turkish authorities eleven days after the event, the “seriousness of the incident was confirmed”. Non-reporting immediately after the occurrence resulted in relevant CVR data being overwritten. Data within the Mark 5 EGPWS memory was also available. Both pilots made statements to their airline and the Captain also submitted a Statement to the Investigation. The First Officer “claimed his retirement rights in the days following the incident (and) he refused to participate in the interviews proposed by the BEA”. It was noted that the 35 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had 7,025 hours total flying experience which included 6,124 hours on type of which 1,347 hours had been in command, all of it after joining Onur Air two years previously. The 61 year-old First Officer had 8,043 hours total flying experience of which 2,008 hours were on type, all with Onur Air where he had been employed for 7½ years. Two controllers with similar qualifications were providing ATS at Deauville at the time of the event under investigation, both held English Language proficiency qualifications. It was noted that the Deauville TWR and APP positions are “grouped together” with one controller occupying a combined position as control tower manager and another similarly qualified controller responsible for “telephone co-ordination functions”. With the flight cleared on a direct track to the runway 30 ILS approach IAF given by area ATC, the crew, who had briefed for an ILS approach to this runway based on the ATIS they had copied, were transferred to Deauville ATC and on first contact were advised that the runway in use had changed to runway 12. Since the only available instrument approach procedure for this runway was a GNSS procedure for which the crew were not qualified, they advised that they would make a visual approach which was approved. ATC then re-cleared the flight to the ‘DVR’ VOR which is situated 6nm southeast of the airport. The flight was subsequently cleared to turn right onto a left hand downwind leg. As the inbound aircraft neared the vicinity of the airport, ATC advised that a departing aircraft was backtracking the runway for departure and soon after this, the inbound aircraft crew, who had already selected the landing gear down and flaps 2, reported the field in sight and were cleared to continue descent below 3000 feet, their initial clearance limit, “at their convenience”. The crew then selected 1100 feet as a target altitude (this corresponded to the 1070 feet MDA for circling approach procedure to runway 12