problems, the European Union put in place a mechanism permitting the introduction into Community Law of standards drawn up by the JAA or other European bodies, making such standards part of the Community legal order, and therefore mandatory. Regulations of the European Council and of the European Commission are the most common legal instruments used for enhancing aviation safety in Europe. To help achieve the harmonisation goal and promote the highest common standards of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) was set up in 2003 as an agency of the European Union. Currently EASA competence covers the following civil aviation domains: Aerodromes,. Air Operations,. Aircrew and Medical,. Aircraft and Products, including Unmanned Aircraft (Drones),. Air Traffic Management / Air Navigation Services;. General Aviation,. Environment;. Cybersecurity,. The functions and responsibilities of EASA are defined in Regulation 2018/1139. At the European Union Member State level, national supervisory authorities (NSAs) (referred to as "competent authorities" in EU legislation) are established. They perform various tasks, including certification, oversight and enforcement. While these bodies have existed for decades, some of their functions are now performed by EASA in the interests of standardisation at EU level. At the European level there are also numerous organisations which help develop and implement civil aviation safety standards and requirements, e.g. the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment (EUROCAE). National Regulatory Arrangements -- EASA A national safety regulatory function is established in each EU Member State. There is a considerable variation in the implementation of the international safety regulations and arrangements at the national level. This variation allows for regional flexibility but also leads to some inconsistency. Many safety regulatory requirements are proving difficult to implement, both in EU states with limited pre-existing safety regulation and those with well established regulatory regimes. Aligning all the national regulatory frameworks proves to be more difficult than anticipated. European ATM Safety Regulation The European ATM safety regulation aims to harmonize the arrangements across Europe. It was initially developed by means of EUROCONTROL Safety Regulatory Requirements (ESARRs), which laid down a framework for ATM safety. They were subsequently replaced by adoption of the EU Single European Sky (SES) legislation. It comprises regulations that are binding legislative acts and are mandatory for all EU member states. Thus, a high level of uniformity is achieved. The requirements for ATM/ANS providers are defined in Regulation 2017/373. The European ATM safety regulatory arrangements are continuously evolving with new legislation being drafted by EASA and new institutional arrangements being implemented. Safety Regulation Approaches -- EU Member States EU Member States use a range of different approaches to safety regulation. In general, technical systems and their interactions (e.g. data link) are addressed by prescriptive, detailed safety requirements. In other areas the requirements are rather objective based (e.g., ICAO and EASA requirements on safety management). The advantage of prescriptive regulation is that it specifies what needs to be done, but this approach also makes the implementation of innovative solutions difficult. In addition, the