independent National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Congress also is responsible for funding sufficient and qualified personnel not only at the FAA and NTSB, but at other relevant federal aviation authorities or agencies. The United States' primary aviation legislation is in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 14, Aeronautics and Space, Chapter 1: Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation. Its subchapters and parts essentially cover definitions and general requirements; safety management systems (SMS); procedural rules; aircraft; airmen; airspace; air traffic and general operating rules; air carriers and operators for hire — certification and operations; schools and other certificated agencies; airports; navigational facilities; and administrative regulations. The Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs) are in CFR Title 14, Chapter I, Subchapter F, Air Traffic and General Operating Rules, Part 91, General Operating and Flight Rules. This CFR is consistent with the eight critical elements of ICAO’s USOAP CMA, described above under “International Regulatory Arrangements.” As an example, the common thread for one critical element is that FAA personnel performing safety-oversight functions possess legal authority to gain access to the aircraft, operations, facilities, personnel and associated records, as applicable, of aviation service providers. The FAA establishes and enforces operating regulations to address, at a minimum, requirements of the aviation law for standard operating procedures, products, services, equipment and infrastructures. The FAA also provides technical guidance to the aviation industry on how to successfully implement FARs by following FAA Advisory Circulars (ACs) and consulting FAA. The FAA publicly reports how its safety functions and objectives fulfill its safety management responsibilities. Its method for determining staffing requirements according to the size and complexity of aviation activity also is disclosed publicly. Among FAA's roles are the following: Safety Regulation Approaches -- United States The United States State Safety Program (SSP) 2021 (Revision 1) report explains the entire current context of safety regulation in the U.S. The following excerpts are a few examples: