In order to meet the requirements for safe air transport services, a number of organisations and institutions have been set up at global, regional and local level to develop common rules, regulations, standards and procedures on safety and oversee their implementation across all aviation sectors. The regulatory framework and safety requirements have been built up over decades and are continually being amended and enhanced to achieve an ever increasing safety performance and to meet future challenges posed by the implementation of new air navigation concepts and the need to ensure sustainable development of civil aviation. Three basic layers of safety regulation can be distinguished, namely: International Regulatory Arrangements The principle international organisation is ICAO, an agency of the United Nations that was established in 1944 through the Convention on International Civil Aviation, known as the Chicago Convention. ICAO is funded and directed by its 193 Member States. Through the participation of contracting states, ICAO develops SARPS that cover all aspects of aviation, including safety. SARPs provide the foundation of all safety regulatory regimes at a global scale. By signing the Chicago Convention, a state agrees that adopted standards will be implemented in its own territories, or any difference will be notified to ICAO. In recent years the ICAO requirements have been extended to require implementation of a formal safety management system (SMS) by aviation service provider organisations and aircraft operators. ICAO oversees the development of safety regulatory frameworks by Member States through the Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP) which was established in 1999 to ensure the uniform application of ICAO standards. ICAO is not a global aviation regulator. According to the ICAO website, "The stipulations ICAO standards contain never supersede the primacy of national regulatory requirements." European Regulatory Arrangements In spite of the harmonisation work led by the national administrations through the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA), considerable differences continued to exist between national practices and it was not unusual for a manufacturer to have to produce different versions of the same type of aircraft or of its equipment according to the country where it was to be used. Furthermore, the requirements imposed on operators varied from one country to another and sometimes created disparities between airlines that are in competition with one another in the same markets. To overcome these problems, the European Union put in place a mechanism permitting the introduction into Community Law of standards drawn up by the JAA or other European bodies, making such standards part of the Community legal order, and therefore mandatory. Regulations of the European Council and of the European Commission are the most common legal instruments used for enhancing aviation safety in Europe. To help achieve the harmonisation goal and promote the highest common standards of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) was set up in 2003 as an agency of the European Union. Currently EASA competence covers the following civil aviation domains: The functions and responsibilities of EASA are defined in Regulation