a right bank, the pitch attitude decreased further to a recorded -8.1°. The angle of attack had increased to 14.5° and the stick shaker and stick pusher then activated for two seconds which recorded data showed had corresponded to the Captain opposing the First Officer’s continued forward control column pressure. The right bank reached 66.2° before reversing to the left, this time reaching only 36°. The First Officer continuously responded to the uncontrolled banking with opposite rudder and aileron inputs. After ceasing for 3 seconds after their first activation, the stick shaker and stick pusher activated again with the local angle of attack at 15.9° and again were found to correlate with opposing pitch input by the Captain. Pitch attitude decreased further to -11.9° and the aircraft quickly lost altitude whilst the forward speed increased to 190 KCAS and the rate of descent to a maximum of 6,448 fpm before the pitch attitude began to return towards the horizontal after losing in excess of 1,500 feet of height. However, since the applicable MSA was 5,800 feet, there had been no risk of collision with terrain. During recovery from the apparent stall, pitch attitude reached a recorded +12.1° but speed reduced and when increasing power to maximum continuous again was followed 13 seconds into the climb by another APM ‘INCREASE SPEED’ message appearing and the speed had dropped to 150 KCAS, the crew eventually decided to descend. Clearance to descend to FL100 was obtained with approval to operate within the range FL100 - FL140. The track of 330° was continued and on descent through FL127 at a recorded 212 KCAS, “the ice that had formed on the airframe started to disappear” and the AP was re-engaged 3 minutes and 23 seconds after it had disconnected. By FL110, all the airframe ice visible had disappeared and the APM ‘DEGRADED PERF’ alert, which had been continuously active for around 15 minutes ceased. The Captain made a short PA and the flight subsequently reached Ålesund after a total of 48 minutes airborne without further event. During the 20 minute transit stop there before continuing to Trondheim, the First Officer went into the cabin and informed the cabin crew that the aircraft “had been exposed to icing” but did not provide any further details about what had happened and other than the Captain’s earlier brief PA, the passengers were given no further information. Also, since neither pilot reported having “felt uncomfortable” about continuing with the remainder of their four sector duty that day, “neither considered declaring themselves unfit for further service” and completed it. The Investigation interviewed two passengers who had been on the flight and were very familiar with such flights as passengers, one of whom was also a PPL (Private Pilot Licence) holder. He had been seated in row 2 on the right and the adjacent seat was unoccupied. From this position, he had been able to see the right engine and propeller as well as most of the wing leading edge outboard