the Captain’s inappropriate initial response may have been a result of startle effect.. It was noted that there seemed to have been no callouts when the loss of control occurred. Relevant calls would have been ‘STALL’ when the stick shaker activated and if the Captain had wanted to take over control he should have called ‘MY CONTROLS’ and received the acknowledgement ‘YOUR CONTROLS’. Timely callouts may also have prevented ‘startle effect’. It was found that Jet Time had standards for callouts in the OM but none referred to these two circumstances.. It was, however, recognised that the crew had “managed to recollect themselves and gain control of the situation, thus averting an accident”.. The Investigation considered that it was “hardly a coincidence that the First Officer, who had recently completed simulator training as part of her UPRT requirement, was the one to respond correctly when she tried to push the control wheel forward when the stick shaker activated”'. It was concluded that “considering the occasionally challenging flying conditions along the Norwegian coast during the icing season, it would probably have been better had the Captain not been assigned these routes until he had completed this annual training requirement”. Finally, the Investigation noted that it had previously been concerned at the effectiveness of regulatory oversight of ACMI (Aircraft, Crews, Maintenance, Insurance) operations like the one in this case where an operator from another jurisdiction undertakes flights for an operator’s flights, in this case with aircraft bearing an external appearance to the lessor’s own aircraft. Reference was made to this issue in the investigation of both a 2008 Sikorsky S61 event near Bodø in 2008 and a BAe 146-200 event at Stord in 2006. The concern in both the current investigation and these two earlier ones was the risk of inadequate operational safety oversight when fully crewed aircraft are operated on behalf of a Norwegian AOC holder by aircraft approved for operations under the AOC of a foreign operator. The operational risks foreseen previously and reviewed again here were: The unfamiliarity of foreign operators with Norwegian winter conditions.. A lack of information transfer between the two aviation authorities with an interest in such an operation.. The possibility of the object of inspection, in this case Danish operator Jet Time operating aircraft based long term in Norway “falling between two stools”.. In respect of the current Investigation, an explicit concern was that “icing sensitivity did not appear to have been given special attention", either by Jet Time, SAS or by the Scandinavian regulatory authorities and it was not a subject included in the Danish regulatory oversight regime for Jet Time prior to the investigated event. It was therefore stated that the AIBN would like to call attention to the following relating to operations during the icing season: The Norwegian icing season must be characterised as challenging, particularly along the coast.. The icing certification of the majority of existing aircraft types give little or no guarantee of the aircraft's resistance and performance should it