checklists was a requirement to ensure that the indicated airspeed remained at least 10 knots above the preset ‘Icing Bug’ speed which on this flight was 156 knots, but this was not done.. Having descended back to FL150, using the ‘Cruise’ power setting, power was not returned to ‘Maximum Continuous’ despite still being in severe icing conditions which required this.. On levelling at FL150, the altitude hold mode of the AP was selected despite still experiencing icing. It was noted that as the AP gradually and imperceptibly increased the angle of attack in order to compensate for the loss of lift and increased drag as ice built up, this, in turn, would have exposed the aircraft to the further icing that eventually led to loss of control.. Once at FL150 and having decided to change course seawards, there was a delay talking to ATC to arrange this which “resulted in unnecessary loss of time in an already tight time frame”. Since this delay and the ice accretion which occurred was enough to create the conditions for a stall, it was concluded that following the old, but still current, pilot task prioritisation mantra of "Aviate-Navigate-Communicate" had been applicable.. When the right turn was commenced, it was made using the HDG function of the AP which, as the angle of attack continued to increase resulted in an abnormally high bank angle of around 30°.. As the airspeed dropped in the turn, the angle of attack eventually reached the stick shaker threshold which automatically disconnected the AP and immediately released the aileron deflection required for the turn. It was not clear whether this or the wings being stalled (or close to stalling) had caused the sudden left wing drop, although the latter was considered as an explanation for the subsequent sharp roll to the right.. It was not possible to determine whether the First Officer’s prompt response to the wing drop had improved the situation. FDR data showed no indications of aileron hinge moment reversal having occurred and it was concluded that it was not a factor.. The angle of attack may have been increased during both stick shaker activations by the Captain opposing the First Officer’s pitch down attempt and may have contributed to the first sharp roll to the left when it was not reduced quickly enough. The Investigation was “not able to determine whether the aircraft actually did experience an aerodynamic stall, or if the nose pitched down due to elevator inputs”.. Neither pilot seemed to have noticed that they were applying opposite forces on the control column nor the two stick pusher activations. Two important memory items from the ‘Stall or Abnormal Roll Recovery’ Checklist, Flaps 15° and Power to Maximum Continuous were omitted. It was noted that it is unusual for extending flaps to be part of a stall/abnormal roll recovery procedure but considered that this may have a stabilising effect on aircraft that lack sufficient lateral stability near the critical angle of attack.. It was concluded that