The event was not notified to the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN) until two days after it had occurred, when the aircraft operator contacted the Board. The Captain had originally submitted a ‘Flight Safety Report’ to Jet Time and the Danish Transport Construction and Housing Authority. The operator later upgraded the report to a Serious Incident. The AIBN was renamed the Norwegian Safety Investigation Authority on 1 July 2020 by which time this Investigation was almost complete so no corresponding name change was made to the text of the subsequently published Investigation Report. Relevant data was obtained from the SSFDR, the QAR, the FDAU (Flight Data Acquisition Unit) as well as from crew interviews, passenger interviews and ATC voice and radar recordings. The Investigation “did not have access to recordings from the CVR” for which relevant data would likely have been overwritten given that the aircraft continued in service. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain had a total of 9,423 hours flying experience of which 3,525 hours were on type. He had been employed by Jet Time since 2014, held a Swedish-issued ATPL (Air Transport Pilot Licence) but had not yet completed the operator’s annually-required UPRT (Upset Prevention and Recovery Training). Prior to joining the operator he had previously flown ATR 42/72 aircraft as well as other turboprop types including the ATP and the Jetstream whilst working for “a number of different airlines in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark”. The 51 year-old First Officer had a total of 7,000 hours flying experience of which 5,850 hours were on type, although only 270 of these on-type hours had been on the -600 version of the ATR 72. She had been employed by Jet Time for six months after working for another Danish operator, held a Danish-issued CPL (Commercial Pilot Licence) and had completed the operator’s annually required UPRT about two weeks before the event under investigation occurred. Jet Time had previously acquired a small fleet of new ATR 72-600 aircraft in SAS livery specifically for the SAS contract but this contract was terminated later in the same month the event under investigation had occurred. Both flight crew had arrived in Bergen the day before and stayed in a hotel overnight. During flight preparation the next day, they noted that moderate icing was forecast for the first flight leg. Whilst taxiing out in rain with a 7°C surface temperature, the electric anti-icing systems for the propellers, windscreens, all flight control horns and key external sensors were switched on and the pneumatic airframe de icing system, which removed ice from the wing, horizontal stabiliser and vertical stabiliser leading edges, was cycled. After takeoff from runway 17 with the First Officer acting as PF, the aircraft was cleared to climb to FL190 and established on the required northerly track with the AP engaged and a climb speed of 170 KIAS selected. Passing FL100, the aircraft ice detector was activated and the crew responded by switching on airframe de-icing. The crew observed that