of the QRH drill for recovery from a wing drop and/or stall in that it was found to make no mention of aileron or rudder use whereas the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) contained a cautionary note about the use of rudder which stated unequivocally that, unless an aileron jam has occurred, rudder should not be used to induce or counter roll, adding that “aggressive, full or nearly full opposite rudder must not be applied” because such inputs can lead to control loading beyond the limit or possibly the ultimate limit and cause structural damage or failure. Given the First Officer’s use of both aileron and rudder to oppose the rolls experienced when stalled, the Investigation raised the issue and ATR then made it clear that only the ailerons must be used to level the wings and that, in such a situation, the use of rudder should be avoided. The flight crew’s decision making prior to and during the flight and aircraft handling during it were both considered and some observations, including but not limited to the following, were made (in summary) as follows: Both pilots told the Investigation that “they hoped to climb above the cloud and thus above the icing conditions” and seemed to have been surprised that this did not happen when they expected it to. This was considered to be an indication that they had not made a sufficiently thorough pre-flight assessment of the relative severity of icing on the track to be used or how high up icing would occur or that it may (as it appears to have done) increase in intensity above FL100, something to be expected when relatively warm maritime air rises over mountainous terrain.. Although it was not clear whether there had been any visual signs of ice accretion before the ice detector warning light illuminated, the FCOM procedure requires activation of the airframe de-icing at the first indication of ice accretion without waiting for the ice detection to be activated.. Over the next few minutes, there were multiple indications that icing was developing into a problem and soon there were two clear indications that severe icing had been encountered and that the icing intensity had surpassed the capacity of the aircraft ice protection systems. These indications were the decreased rate of climb and the decreasing airspeed which had activated the ‘DEGRADED PERF’ APM alert and the appearance of streaks of water/ice along the window, both mentioned under ‘Detection’ in the Severe Icing Checklist. The required procedure was to disconnect the AP and immediately exit icing neither of which was done.. Having continued to attempt to climb for a further one thousand feet in circumstances where it was completely contrary to procedures to do so, on levelling off and having to accept that further climb was impossible, the ‘INCREASE SPEED’ APM alert was activated. It became necessary to use the ‘SEVERE ICING’, ‘DEGRADED PERF’, AND ‘INCREASE SPEED’ Checklists one after another. It was noted that one item in all of these