‘SEV ICE’ SIGMET was issued”. It was noted that five minutes before the ATR 76 took off from Bergen, a rather smaller passenger aircraft, a DHC8-100 operating a Widerøe flight to Kristiansund, had taken off and followed a parallel, but slightly more easterly, route north. The Captain of the Wideroe flight informed the Investigation that after climbing for about 25 minutes, the planned cruise altitude of FL230 had been reached without airframe icing “being of a particularly noticeable nature". The climb profiles of the two aircraft are shown on the illustration below which clearly shows the reduced climb performance of the ATR 72 above FL110 compared to a normal climb, which could have been expected to continue similarly to that of the DHC8 had the icing conditions not affected its climb rate. It was notable that the DHC-8 had passed close to the location of the ATR 72 loss of control three minutes before it occurred but by then it was at FL230. The vertical profiles of the ATR72 (SK4144) and the DNC8 (WIF564). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that following the introduction of the ATR 72 in 1989, airframe icing risk soon became a focus for action after the fatal accident to an ATR 72-300 at Roselawn in the USA in 1994 when the NTSB Investigation found that the roll upset which caused the accident had been due to an aileron hinge moment reversal after ice accretion on the upper wings aft of the leading edge pneumatic de-icing boots during earlier holding in icing conditions which had been - unknown to the crew - outside the icing certification envelope. Having modified the aircraft design to address this problem, ATR subsequently began a wider review of both the design and the operating procedures relevant to flight in icing conditions. Design modifications were made to improve banking stability in both icing conditions and in the event of stalling and the introduction of the Aircraft Performance Monitoring (APM) function, which was specifically configured to address avoidance of severe icing conditions. This does not use any dedicated sensors or any calculation of atmospheric ice content, it simply compares actual aircraft performance with the expected performance and computes the actual minimum icing and severe icing speeds for the given flight conditions. These data were the source of the ‘DEGRADED PERF’ and ‘INCREASED SPEED’ messages annunciated during the investigated event. Icing-related SOPs were also modified. A new memory item was added to both the stall recovery procedure and the abnormal roll control procedure to require the selection of flaps 15 if not already set and, since it was considered that use of the AP may mask the signs that control is about to be lost, the severe icing procedure was modified to require that it must be disengaged if such conditions were encountered. All changes as a result of this effort were incorporated in the ATR 72-600 which remains in production. The Investigation did note a potential lack of clarity in respect