encounter icing conditions involving SLD.. This and two other serious icing incidents involving the ATR 72 500/600 (see below) illustrate the importance of monitoring airspeed and climb in order to operate this aircraft within its defined performance limitations.. It was noted that similar airframe icing loss of control events have occurred to two other ATR72 aircraft, an ATR72-500 in the UK in 2016 and an ATR 72-500 in Spain in 2017. In addition to the fact that the commander of the aircraft in the Spanish event also initially reacted by pulling the control wheel back when the stick pusher activated, a number of significant similarities were observed between both these events and the one under investigation: Prior to losing control of the aircraft, the crew had tried to climb out of the icing conditions.. The aircraft autopilot was engaged in severe icing conditions.. The airspeed dropped to below Vmin-ops + 10 knots.. The aircraft went into a combination of large uncontrolled banking excursions and pitching oscillations.. It was also noted that both of these aircraft were equipped with the same upgraded icing protection system as the aircraft which was the subject of this investigation. The main Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The loss of control was the result of a combination of insufficient planning and inappropriate decisions en route, particularly the crew's attempt to climb above the icing conditions despite degraded aircraft performance and the continued use of the autopilot when it should be been disconnected.. Recovery of control may have been impeded by the Captain’s initial response of pulling back on the control column as the stick shaker activated. It is likely that he became startled when the stick shaker activated and the autopilot automatically disconnected whilst at the same time, the aircraft suddenly banked sharply and simultaneously pitched nose down. He may consequently have pulled the control wheel back due to the so-called startle effect.. The non-optimal recovery of control was affected by the omission of two memory items on the checklist for stalling/abnormal roll control, the deployment of flaps and the increase in engine power.. In-flight icing should be a priority item in risk analyses for airlines when planning to operate in Norway during the icing season, and that it is important to take the characteristics of the aircraft type into account. Such analysis should conjointly consider the routes and flight levels flown, expected icing conditions and mitigation of the consequences of adverse en route weather conditions including icing, taking account of the aircraft type involved and its specific performance capability.. Safety Action taken by ATR following this event was noted as having included the following: The issue of the revision 3 of the ‘Aeroplane Upset Prevention and Recovery Training Aid - AUPRTA’ in cooperation with ICAO, Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier and Embraer in February 2017 and the adoption of the AUPRTA Manual procedures with a view to identifying objective criteria for providing better decision support for crews.. The speed margin for high bank angle protection