as the climb continued, ice started to form on the aircraft as it passed FL120 and the rate of climb began to reduce. Passing FL127, FDR data recorded a 765 fpm rate of climb and the Investigation noted that “the data show that during this period the vertical speed dropped by half in 30 seconds”. Passing FL137, the Aircraft Performance Monitoring (AMP) system displayed the alert ‘DEGRADED PER’. Almost immediately, the First Officer reported having seen “two streaks of water or ice running on her window” and having interpreted this as an indication of freezing rain, she had then informed the Captain. At the same time, both pilots reported having noticed that ice was forming on the (electrically heated) flight deck side windows. Selected airspeed was reduced to 165 KIAS and the power was set to ‘Maximum Continuous’ (MCT) which increased the propeller rpm and would have assisted ice shedding from the propeller blades. Passing FL160 at 164 KCAS, an ‘INCREASE SPEED’ APM alert appeared and the aircraft was levelled off at that altitude, the selected speed was increased back to the original 170 knots and “after a short discussion, the crew agreed to terminate the climb”. They also decided to reduce altitude slightly in order not to lose any more speed and on obtaining ATC clearance, a 500 fpm descent towards FL150 was started with the AP remaining engaged and the engine power was reduced from ‘Maximum Continuous’ to ‘Cruise’. Once at FL150, the 170 knot airspeed began to decrease as the angle of attack increased. The failure to accelerate or even hold the selected speed was accompanied by “more and more ice forming on the airframe”. ATC were advised of the problem and a change of track to the west towards the sea was requested in the expectation that this would be likely to reduce the severity of the icing. This was approved and a left turn onto a heading of 330° was selected but the AP then initiated the turn at an abnormally high bank angle for the airspeed and 12 seconds into the turn, it automatically disconnected. The left bank “increased abruptly” and simultaneously the stick shaker activated. The local angle of attack had reached 11.8°. As PF, the First Officer responded with an attempt to move the control column forwards and to the right whilst also making a right rudder pedal input. However, the PM Captain simultaneously pulled back on his control column and the bank angle increased uncontrollably to a recorded 68.2° left. The First Officer reported finding that “it was unusually difficult to push the control column forward and wondered if ice had formed on the horizontal tail”. It appeared from their statements that neither pilot was aware of the fact that they had made opposing pitch inputs, both stating that they thought “cooperation and communication between them were good”. During the sharp increase in left bank, the aircraft pitched down to a recorded -3.3° and when the left bank then changed to