of the engine nacelle. He stated that on departure from Bergen, cloud was soon entered and that he had then seen “an increasing amount of white ice forming on the leading edge of the wing as well as on the propeller spinner and the engine nacelle”. He also observed the operation of wing leading edge de-icing boots and heard the sound of what he had presumed was ice shed from the propeller blades hitting the side of the fuselage. At one point, he thought he had detected an increase in propeller rpm and a simultaneous reduction in ice shedding impacts. He also “observed that the de-icing boots did not manage to remove all the ice (and) saw that the ice along the wing leading edge changed character and colour (and) seemed clearer and more translucent”. As the aircraft stopped climbing and appeared to level out, he noticed that it “started buffeting (and) identified this as the initial stage before a stall” finding it “strange that the crew did not lower the nose of the aircraft to prevent this”. When he saw the wing drop and the nose of the aircraft pitched sharply down, he was “convinced that the aircraft had stalled” and had “feared the worst and that he would not survive”. He also stated that “other passengers on the aircraft were screaming”'. After the recovery, he heard the Captain make a PA announcement '“informing the passengers that the crew had regained control of the aircraft” and having “interpreted this as confirmation of the severity of the situation that had occurred” he had expected to be given more information about what had happened on arrival at Ålesund and “expressed disappointment that this did not take place”. The second passenger interviewed had similar but “less technical” recollections and had similarly formed the opinion from the “severe” wing drops, sharp nose pitch down and the Captain’s subsequent very brief PA after it was over as “confirmation that the incident had been serious”. He added that he had “never experienced anything like it before”. An animation of the loss of control trajectory (download, 200mb) was created during the Investigation. The forecast weather for the route valid for the time of departure included a locally produced forecast significant weather chart and an AIRMET which both indicated that moderate icing should be expected en route. The route was expected to be just behind and parallel to an active eastward-moving warm front. Following ATC awareness of the investigated event, an AIREP SPECIAL was issued for severe icing at the event location encountered by the AT76 at FL150. The Norwegian Meteorological Institute, which was responsible for aviation weather service, subsequently informed the Investigation that whilst they had concluded that moderate icing was the appropriate forecast, especially in areas where the orographic lift was strongest, this icing was expected to be “close to severe”. They added that after the report of the investigated severe ice encounter was received, “new assessments were made according to the procedure, and a