A typical take off case involves a departing aircraft lining up on a parallel taxiway after being cleared to do so on the adjacent runway. There are also cases of aircraft lining up on the runway edge lights in the mistaken belief that they were runway centreline lights and, since this error can be difficult for ATC to detect, then making a take off on this false alignment. Such errors usually occur either in restricted visibility or at night. See, for example, A332, Abu Dhabi UAE, 2012, A319, Las Vegas NV USA, 2006, AT72, Dresden Germany, 2002 and B738, Oslo Gardermoen Norway, 2005 which all occurred at night. However, the serious incident A320, Oslo Norway, 2010 occurred when a take off from the same parallel taxiway as the one involved in the 2005 incident was made in daylight in the presence of frozen deposits on the manoeuvring surfaces. Norway was somewhat unusual at that time in mandating the use of surface markings which were contrary to the ICAO Standard usually encountered. This was apparently a state-wide response to the perceived difficulties with standard white markings in the winter period when a 'back to blacktop' policy for removal of frozen deposits is frequently considered to be an impracticable objective. Modification of this policy so that the main international airports (only) in Norway are ICAO-compliant has since been re-considered. Less often, and usually in the presence of complex airport layouts, a runway parallel or nearly parallel to that authorised is inadvertently used for take off - see for example B732, Seattle WA USA, 2006. If a wrong runway is involved and it is closed or partially closed for Runway Maintenance, then the eventual outcome, if the line up error is undetected, can be a collision with obstructions - see for example B744, Taipei Taiwan, 2000. More often, a take off from a parallel taxiway is (just) successful, albeit with considerably reduced margins of safety which leave no margin for unexpected occurrences during the take off roll - see for example A343, Hong Kong China, 2010 and A343, Anchorage AK USA, 2002.