North Sea in 1998, it was already concluded that there is a need for flight crews to improve theoretical understanding of the engine control system.” It was concluded that: Neither Eurocopter in its Flight Manual nor Bristow in its Operating Manual provide flight crews with clear and unambiguous information about what they can expect from the cooperation of both engine governor systems under normal and non-normal operating conditions.. The AS332 L2 Emergency Operating Procedures for DIFF NG warnings are complicated.. Both engines were running and sufficient engine power was available to continue the flight.. The Investigation did not reveal a technical cause for the engine anomaly.. In respect of the perceived flight control problem, the Investigation concluded that there was insufficient evidence to conclude that autopilot hydraulic switching took place in the minutes before the ditching and that it was unlikely that an intermitted switching of the autopilot hydraulic system could have resulted in the reported control restriction. It was therefore concluded that, although a technical cause could not be found for the reported control problem, the existence of a cause could not be excluded. It was also observed that: Decoupling the upper modes of the Automatic Flight Control System affected the flight crew’s ability to effectively control the flight path and implement failure management.. The Bristow Operation Manuals do not contain a policy or procedures for optimal use of the autopilot upper modes during operations other than hoist operations.. Within Bristow there are different opinions about the optimal use of the AS332L2 autopilot functions.. In respect of the flight crew and their decision making, it was concluded that: The flight crew got the feeling that they were losing control and that ditching was inevitable.. The decision to ditch was made without a proper assessment of the control problem.. The helicopter remained controllable, although with great effort.. The flight crew had an incomplete mental picture of the actual situation.. The flight crew became convinced, on the basis of their observations, that a landing on water was the only option remaining.. The Investigation devoted considerable attention to an analysis of the situation once the ditching had occurred and found various safety-related issues and deficiencies. Other findings included that certain aspects of crew training at Bristow were inadequate and that the Company’s “supervision and management review of the Den Helder SAR base unit operations had shortfalls associated with documentation, procedures, training, feedback and analysis”. It was also considered that “the UK Civil Aviation Authority oversight repeatedly reported shortfalls regarding Bristow’s Quality and Safety System in 2006-2007, but did not (lead to) the necessary structural improvements”. Eleven Safety Recommendations were made by the Transport Safety Board as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Minister of Defence ensures that the Coast Guard Centre complies with the evaluation procedures for the use of Search and Rescue. that the Minister of Defence ensures that the Director of the Coast Guard accepts responsibility for the realisation tasks of the Coast Guard by providing a