engine control was still available but a minute later, the PF stated that he “had some restrictions on the (flight) controls” and thereafter stated that this appeared to be getting worse. Soon afterwards the commander transmitted a MAYDAY advising of “steering and engine problems” and stating that a diversion to the nearest land, the Island of Texel, was intended. Shortly after this message had been passed, the First Officer “announced that he was going to ditch the aircraft because he was losing control” and the commander immediately responded by advising ATC of this. The rear crew transmitted a MAYDAY direct to the Coastguard on a different frequency but did not give a position and shortly afterwards, at the second attempt, a successful ditching was accomplished 15 minutes after lift off from the platform. FDR data indicated a 6° nose up attitude and a groundspeed of 19 knots shortly before water contact. The Automatically Deployable Emergency Locator Transmitter (ADELT) deployed as designed after ditching and began transmitting. The evacuation in a sea state estimated to have been 4/5 was problematic and a key subject of interest for the Investigation. All occupants managed to leave the helicopter but neither of the life rafts could be released and by the time one of the rear crew had re-entered the cabin and retrieved bag containing the air-droppable life raft. The extraction and inflation of this raft was eventually achieved but not before it and the two crew had drifted away from the helicopter and the other occupants who had meanwhile formed several small groups. Eventually, one group of 10 and another of 5 formed, with the latter remaining at the helicopter using one of the float grab ropes. Recovery of all occupants from the water was achieved by a combination of surface vessel and helicopter resources, by which time the group of ten were some 500-800 metres distant from the still-afloat helicopter. The final recovery was the two rear crew on the life raft who were picked up by a surface vessel just over an hour after the ditching. Difficulties in deploying both life rafts led to the Investigation issuing three interim recommendations (only referred to in Appendix ‘C’) relating to the problems encountered. Two were resolved by the issue of Eurocopter SBs and the actions proposed by the third were deemed inappropriate by European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The Investigation noted in respect of the apparent technical malfunctions affecting the helicopter: “Both Eurocopter and Bristow confirmed that given the initially observed engine readings, the flight crew could have abandoned troubleshooting and continue the flight normally. However, neither Eurocopter in its AS332L2 Flight Manual nor Bristow in its Operating Manual provide clear and unambiguous information on what is expected from flight crews when non-standard operating conditions emerge. The Safety Board emphasises the need to provide flight crews with clear information and handling instructions if system behaviour noticeably differs from the standard. In the investigation of a serious incident with a Super Puma in the