system for the evaluation of the quality thereof.. that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Transport, Public Works and Water Management give shape to the supervision of the Dutch Search and Rescue activities and the realisation of these activities by the Coast Guard Centre in line with the relevant finding from the audit conducted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.. that the Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij (NAM) (the Operators of the offshore platform from which the helicopter departed prior to the ditching) should, in addition to the evaluation of the risks of short-term power outages on offshore installations, map out and manage the risks of long-term power outages.. that Bristow Helicopters Limited (Bristow) should expand and optimise the training programme of (Search and Rescue) pilots with regard to the simulator training, the use of the “autoflight” system, evacuation and the use of rescue equipment.. that Bristow Helicopters Limited (Bristow) should describe in the Operations Manual how the cockpit crew should handle discrepancies of the engine revolution counts that do not result in a warning signal, as well as include a procedure for the use of the automatic pilot in non-standard situation.. that Bristow Helicopters Limited (Bristow) should adapt its safety management system in view of the shortcomings described in this report.. that the UK Civil Aviation Authority (UK CAA) should consider including information regarding the application of the aforementioned operational parameters in its guideline “Review of Helicopter Offshore Safety and Survival”, so that crews are better able to evaluate the chances of capsizing after a successful emergency landing. In addition it is advisable that this guideline provides solutions with regard to the smoothness of survival suits in combination with inflated lifejackets, so that survivors can be retrieved from the water more quickly.. that Eurocopter should ensure that all incidents involving its own products are reported to Eurocopter, that these reports are documented in a (structured) manner and analysed for the purpose of continued airworthiness and that the company’s own investigation capacity is focused on these tasks.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) considers expanding the parameters for the flight data recorders of helicopters to include the forces of the steering (“control forces”), as is the case in some categories of fixed wing aircraft.. that the French Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile (DGAC) reconsider its approval for the use of the Helisim AS332 L2 simulator for training helicopter crews to the highest level, ‘level D’, as the simulator differs from the type AS332 L2 helicopter, which means it does not comply with the European requirements on this point.. The Final Report of the Investigation (which includes the Factual Information in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 reporting format as Appendix ‘C’ of the complete Report and which contained three Safety Recommendations not also replicated in those included in the Recommendations in Chapter 9 of the Report) was published on 23 February 2010.