An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board. Their investigation - and the resulting Final Report - was concerned not only with the immediate malfunctions which led the aircraft commander to decide to ditch the aircraft and the consequences which followed but also with the circumstances which led to the flight being conducted. The latter aspects are not covered by this summary. Whilst the Investigation was in progress, a ‘Preliminary Report’ was published on 21 December 2006 followed by an ‘Intermediate Report’ on 29 March 2007. The aircraft was fitted with a combined CVFDR which was recovered and successfully downloaded. It was established that the flight was being operated at the request of the Dutch Coastguard as a SAR operation because of a power failure on the offshore platform which it was considered required the evacuation of personnel there. The helicopter had positioned to the platform concerned from its base at Den Helder with the pilots and two rear crew members, the winch operator and the winchman, on board. The 13 passengers were boarded at the platform with engines and rotors running and the flight then departed for the 25 minute flight to Den Helder. Four of the passengers took the only available passenger seats and the remainder sat on the floor. The two rear crew members, who were wearing headsets and were able to communicate with the pilots had knelt on the floor in the middle of the cabin. It was established that the PF throughout the accident flight, including the ditching that eventually occurred had been the 39 year old First Officer who had a total flying experience including licence training of 1200 hours of which all had been on helicopters and 200 had been obtained in the accident type in the year since joining the fleet. The 33 year old aircraft commander had been a professional helicopter pilot for nine years. She had been given a command on the Bristow SAR operation at the beginning of 2006 without previous experience of the aircraft type to be flown since when she had acquired 165 hours experience in that role. Seven minutes after take off, in the cruise at an altitude of approximately 3000 feet, abnormalities in the instrument indications, particularly the rotor rpm, for the no 1 engine began to be observed by the crew although there were no corresponding warnings and normal response to power lever movement continued. When, a minute later, the PF stated that he was going to slow down because of this, the commander responded by declaring a PAN and requesting descent to 1000 feet. The PF disconnected the AP ‘upper modes’ and asked the commander to get out the Emergency Operating Procedures (EOPs). The commander responded by saying that she did not know where to look for them and the First Officer said he didn’t either. Two minutes after the PAN declaration, a warning triggered by a difference in rotor rpm between the engines of more than 7.5% was annunciated. Normal