since the over speed had occurred with an unintended descent of 1132 feet to an altitude of 7,728 feet in an area where the SSA was 7000 feet. The Commander reported already having determined that continuing to destination was no longer a safe option and had turned left and set course back to Tromsø. An emergency was declared and the intention to return to Tromsø advised following a position request from Sørkjosen AFIS. The remainder of the flight passed without further event. Even after the arrival back in Tromsø, the flight crew remained unaware what had caused the over speed. Extensive examination of all the relevant evidence failed to find any airworthiness factor which had or might have contributed to the event. The Investigation was unable to establish how far below Flight Idle the power levers came before they were instinctively pushed forward again when it was realised that something was seriously wrong. The Investigation considered that “the fact that damage was limited to the right engine can indicate that the right Power Lever was pulled somewhat further back than the left. This may be due to pure chance or that the hand, due to the geometry of the arm, was twisted a little when the handles were pulled back. A factor can also be how long the Power Levers stayed behind Flight Idle. The existence of rigging differences between the two engines is also possible”. The Investigation did not identify any significant differences between the two engines or their ability to withstand propeller overspeeding. Although apart from damage to the air inlet the right engine was externally intact, internal damage to it was extensive and included: Separation of the engine-to-gearbox shaft. Significant damage to the compressor caused by the passage through it of metal fragments. Separation and partial melting of the LP turbine shaft. Separation and partial melting of the HP turbine shaft. Major damage to the vane rings for the power turbine second stage. Complete destruction of most of the turbine blades on the power turbine second stage. Significant damage due to contact between rotating and stationary parts in a number of locations. The Investigation noted the following AFM Engine Limitation: “In-flight operation of the POWER levers aft of the FLT IDLE gate is prohibited. Failure to observe this limitation will cause propeller overspeed, possible engine failure and may result in loss of aircraft control.” It was considered that “any movement of the Power Levers behind Flight Idle while the aircraft is airborne has an element of risk. The propeller rotational speed can exceed permitted values and at worst cause mechanical damage. Furthermore, the aerodynamic drag increases severely, which might cause loss of control of the aircraft”. It was noted that as for most turbopropeller aircraft types, a small release trigger must be lifted to disengage a mechanical stop before continued rearward movement of the power levers becomes possible. In the case of the incident aircraft type, the release trigger can be lifted with the power levers anywhere