An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). FDR data was available for the Investigation. It was established that the aircraft commander, who had been acting as PF had spent his whole 24 year airline pilot career at the Operator and had been a Captain on type since 1995. The First Officer had just joined the Operator and had two months experience on his first airline type. It was established that in an attempt to reduce the speed of the aircraft to the rough air penetration speed after the sudden onset of significant turbulence, the aircraft commander had inadvertently pulled both Power Levers past Flight Idle and into the ‘beta’ or ground only range as a result of which both propellers had reached uncontrollably high rotation speeds well in excess of the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) limit of 1210 rpm. Control of the aircraft was lost as it banked severely and pitched steeply nose down. It was reported that “dust in the cockpit was thrown up in the air and looked like smoke in the glare from one of the lights that suddenly came on, and there was a smell of oil. A completely deafening noise arose from the propellers, preventing all communication in the cockpit. A large number of warning lights came on”. Before the commander was able to level out the aircraft, a loss of “about 1,000 feet of” altitude was observed and the aircraft had changed heading by about 30° from the previous 060°. FDR data showed that over the course of four seconds, vertical acceleration mainly varied between + 0.2g and 2g but also briefly reached -1.07g. Maximum bank was 58° to the right and maximum pitch down was 20°. The right engine PRPM rose from 911 to the highest recordable value of 1500 in 7 seconds and over the same period, the left engine PRPM rose from 916 to 1483. FDR data also showed that the problems began at an altitude of 8870 feet and that the loss of altitude was 760 feet and that the speed had been 225 KCAS prior to the upset but had increased significantly to 243 KCAS during the 10 seconds prior to the rapid increase in PRPM. Despite the selection of full power, the speed then dropped towards 140 KCAS. As the speed reduced, the Commander had realised that the right engine PRPM was excessive and called ”propeller overspeed” after which the First Officer believed he had completed the memory actions of the applicable QRH drill. However, when the propeller continued at an excessive rpm, the QRH drill was consulted and completed during which it was found that the memory item “Alternate Feather” had been omitted from the memory actions. With the Alternate Feather set to ‘Feather’ the propeller blades feathered and propeller rotation ceased. The mandated action to complete the QRH drill for shutdown of the affected engine then followed. By this time, FDR data showed that 3 minutes and 34 seconds had elapsed