An Investigation was carried out by the Macau Civil Aviation Authority (AACM). Relevant ATC recorded radar and communications data and weather data were available. It was noted that the TWR controller involved had held an aerodrome rating issued by the AACM for almost 12 years, the ATC supervisor on duty had held an aerodrome rating issued by the AACM for almost 20 years and had been a supervisor since 2007. The ATC Assistant had completed their training in 2009 and been employed in that role at Macau since then. It was established that a follow-me vehicle had been cleared from the apron to the holding point for runway 34 on taxiway C3 via taxiways C1 and C2 and then subsequently cleared by the ATC Assistant after approval from the TWR Controller to enter the runway and commence an inspection of the 3,300 metre-long runway in use from that position. Ten minutes after issuing the clearance for the vehicle to leave the apron, the departing A320, having been similarly cleared from the apron to the same holding point in turn, was then cleared to take off by the TWR controller. At this time, the inspection vehicle was passing abeam the Fire Station (see its location on the illustration below). At this point, the positions of the follow-me vehicle and the aircraft were as shown in the first of the recorded radar pictures below with the aircraft still on taxiway C2 and passing taxiway E. Three minutes later, the aircraft became airborne six minutes ahead of the end of its departure slot a little beyond the mid-point of the runway, as shown in the second of the recorded radar pictures below. By this time, the runway inspection, being carried out in the direction of runway operational use, was almost complete and the closest the aircraft came to the vehicle ahead of it whilst on the ground was determined to have been 1,480 metres. The audible conflict alarm triggered by SMR data activated only shortly before this minimum, with the vehicle just past the runway 16 displaced threshold. Immediately on hearing the alarm, the TWR ATC Assistant took the microphone and instructed the vehicle to vacate the runway immediately and its driver subsequently reported clear of the runway some 20 seconds later. The ATC Supervisor heard the audible alarm and having approached the TWR Controller’s working position, reported having seen the aircraft getting airborne “at about mid runway”. He noticed that the FPS sequence showed that the runway was occupied by a vehicle but had not been sure where it was at that time. The TWR Controller then told the Supervisor that she had forgotten that the vehicle was still on the runway until alerted by the audible alarm and also that she did not check either the flight progress board or the SMR display before issuing the takeoff clearance. She continued in position for a further 27 minutes until relieved. It was noted that when the inspection vehicle had been cleared to