enter the runway by the ATC Assistant, the corresponding flight progress strip had been passed to the TWR Controller who had placed it on the flight progress board as required to indicate that the runway was occupied. The amber alert tag attached to the vehicle once it had entered the runway was shown on the SMR. The Investigation noted the TWR Controller considered the prevailing traffic volume and complexity at the time of the event had been light and the ATC supervisor considered that the traffic volume had been light to moderate and complexity very light. All three personnel present in the TWR “claimed that there was no distraction during incident”. No evidence that rostering or fatigue issues or any lack of medical or emotional fitness to work had played any part in the TWR Controller’s error was found and she personally stated during interview that “she was not distracted during the occurrence”. However, she did state that at the time “she was planning a training helicopter flight request […] back to Macao and was also thinking about the training she would deliver to [a] vehicle driver the following day”. She also confirmed that visibility from the TWR cabin was good and unobstructed and it was noted that the distance from the TWR cabin to the position of the Fire Station was approximately 2000 metres. It was found that although the SMR was in service, it had been out of service for seven months prior to return to service 12 days prior to the investigated event and was being “monitored” by maintenance personnel. It was noted that although the system had generated the first visual amber alert on the display when the vehicle passed the holding point on taxiway C2, instead of this alert moving with the vehicle, it stayed in the initial position and another visual amber Alert was attached to the moving vehicle. However, it was considered that this had not constituted any impediment to the TWR Controller’s situational awareness in relation to the vehicle. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to the following: The tower controller momentarily forgot that the Follow-Me vehicle was on the runway when issuing clearance to the departing A320 flight.. The tower controller did not check the flight progress strip before giving clearance to the departing A320 flight.. During the occurrence, the ATC supervisor was not present at the working position in the visual control room.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Macau International Airport implement measures or procedures to minimise distractions / memory lapse for air traffic controllers on duty, particularly covering the following aspects: require the Supervisor or their delegate to be present in the visual control room all the time during operations. controllers shall not engage in non-operational activities when manning controller working positions; restrictions on non-operational activities, such as those defined in Paragraph 1 of Attachment 3 “Code of Conduct” in Operational Procedure Document OP-ATC-08,