The USOAP CSA ended in 2010 following a six-year cycle. Assembly Resolution A36-4 established a new approach to be applied in the USOAP beyond 2010 based on the Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) concept. Beyond 2010, the objective of USOAP would be to promote global aviation safety by enhancing Contracting States’ safety oversight capabilities, through the continuous monitoring of their safety performances in order to identify safety deficiencies, assess associated safety risks, implement strategies for their mitigation, and validate States’ achieved safety oversight capabilities. In 2010, the 37th Session of the Assembly adopted Resolution A37-5, affirming that the evolution of USOAP to the Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) should continue to be a top priority for ICAO to ensure that information on the safety performance of Member States is provided to other Member States and to the travelling public on an ongoing basis. A two-year transition period (2011 - 2012) was declared while the tools and guidance required for USOAP CMA were developed. In January 2013, the USOAP CMA was fully launched. Its top objectives at that stage were monitoring States’ safety oversight systems for the first time on a web-based platform called the ICAO USOAP Online Framework (OLF), validating States’ progress through various on-site and off-site validation activities, and continuing to use auditors to assess the effectiveness and sustainability of States’ safety oversight systems. The OLF is a suite of web-integrated applications and centralised database systems, which enables collection of safety-related information and documentation, and monitoring and reporting of safety oversight activities by ICAO and Member States. The OLF provides restricted password-protected use by authorised representatives of Contracting States for completion and update of its State Aviation Activity Questionnaire (SAAQ); completion and update of its Compliance Checklists through its Electronic Filing of Differences System (CC/EFOD), representing the States’ differences compared with ICAO [SARPs] for national aviation oversight); completion and update of its Protocol Question (PQ) self-assessment; completion and update of the States’ Corrective Action Plans; and access to all safety-related information generated by USOAP CMA activities. In addition, the system provides access to a common library of key documents, such as internal ICAO working papers, state letters, electronic bulletins, schedules, ICAO Doc 9734, Safety Oversight Manual, and ICAO Doc 9735, USOAP CMA Manual. Note: Access to most of the data from the USOAP programme is only available on the OLF at www.icao.int/usoap. The USOAP CMA continues to evolve to support each State’s efforts in implementing a State Safety Programme (SSP). In 2014, ICAO published its Protocol Questions (PQs) on safety management to be used for audits and other USOAP CMA activities. The first edition of the PQs was introduced informally in 2015–2016 to conduct voluntary and confidential assessments of SSP implementation at the request of several ICAO Member States. In July 2017, ICAO introduced a second edition of PQs — called SSP-related PQs — designed to reflect Amendment 1 of Annex 19, the 4th edition of the SMM, and lessons learned to date. Since June 1, 2018, all USOAP CMA activities