The scope of the Programme was initially limited to Annex 1 — Personnel Licensing, Annex 6 — Operation of Aircraft and Annex 8 — Airworthiness of Aircraft. The initial mandate of the Programme was to audit all Contracting States and report to the next regular session of the Assembly in 2001. The initial cycle of audits and audit follow up missions were completed by 2004. The audit follow-up missions conducted during this period allowed ICAO to validate the implementation of the corrective action plans submitted by audited States, to identify any problems encountered by States in such implementation, and to determine the need for external assistance in regard to specific safety issues. Assembly Resolution A33-8 expanded the programme to include Annex 11 — Air Traffic Services, Annex 13 — Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation and Annex 14 — Aerodromes. Furthermore, during its 171st Session (March 2004), the Council considered how to facilitate the evolution of USOAP from an Annex-by-Annex approach to a comprehensive systems approach, which would cover all safety-related Annexes and focus on the overall capability of States for safety oversight. In recognition of the programme's succeess, the 35th ICAO Assembly proposed the continuation and expansion of the USOAP starting in 2005. It was agreed upon in Resolution A35-6, that the programme would be expanded to all safety-related Annexes. Consequently, Annex 9 — Facilitation and Annex 17 — Security were excluded from the scope. The overall USOAP would then transition to a comprehensive systems approach (CSA) to: In addition, the resolution required ICAO to restructure the safety oversight audit reports to reflect the critical elements (CEs) of the safety oversight systems as reflected in the Safety Oversight Manual (Doc 9734), Part A – The Establishment and Management of a State’s Safety Oversight System. Under the CSA, all States would be audited at least once during a six-year period. * Note: Safety oversight audit and other safety-related information are made available at ICAO’s Safety Audit Results: USOAP Interactive Viewer.