A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). The 30 year-old Captain was a Spanish national and had 7,400 hours total flying experience of which 6,200 hours were on type. The 24 year old First Officer was a Portuguese national and had 350 hours total flying experience of which 50 hours were on type. It was noted that the event had occurred at gate 101 at Terminal 2, the older of the two terminals at Barcelona which is situated to the north of runway 25R. It was found that the air bridge at gate 101 had been installed in 1991 and its hydraulic system subsequently refurbished in 2001. Its screen and control panel were then renovated in 2005 and most recently, in June 2015, its translation and control system had been renovated as part of a larger programme of air bridge renovation being undertaken by a contractor to the Airport Operator AENA, the Spanish Airports and Air Navigation Authority. It was established that after passenger disembarkation had started and over half of the 159 passengers on board on arrival had already left the aircraft, the air bridge attached to door 1L had begun to lift the front of the aircraft off the ground. An alarm sounded at the air bridge control console and when the cabin crew realised what was happening, "they stopped the disembarkation of the passengers and asked the people still on board to move towards the front of the aircraft to sit down anywhere, as the door was expected to collapse and the aircraft nose to fall". This then happened and the remaining passengers were subsequently disembarked through door 2L at the rear of the aircraft and taken to the terminal by bus. Two of the passengers reported sustaining minor injuries. It was noted that since the elevation of the aircraft by the air bridge was gradual, and the aircraft had remained at the same height as the air bridge as this was happening, there had been no actual risk to the passengers who were disembarking when the elevation began. However, likelihood of the subsequent collapse of the aircraft door due to it carrying part of the weight of the aircraft had represented a risk to any unseated passengers which had been successfully mitigated by the prompt intervention of the cabin crew. Functional testing of the air bridge found that it was not possible to reproduce or replicate the failure which had occurred but subsequent testing did show that the air bridge involved had a pre-existing intermittent fault in its hydraulic lifting circuit electrovalve which had randomly been blocking or freezing in an open position. Similar testing of other Terminal 2 air bridges, and in particular one which was of the exactly the same design as the one under investigation but which had not yet been renovated, found that there was a 1 second time limit on the activation of the elevation system hydraulic pressure which