meant that any blockage of the controlling electrovalve would not be followed by continued uncontrolled lifting (or lowering). This finding led to the further finding that the renovation schedule had included the installation of a new control panel which included modified software for the control of air bridge elevation. This new control software was found to have increased the time limit for the activation of the elevation system hydraulic pressure from 1 second to 10 minutes but had not addressed the potential consequences of this change in the event of a malfunctioning system electrovalve. More generally, it was found that this oversight was a result of a failure to include in the renovation work programme any inspection of the condition of the control elements that were not being modiﬁed. Given this dual origin of the malfunction, it could be deduced that the lifting of the air bridge had occurred when its self-levelling system had been activated by the slight change in aircraft height as passenger disembarkation proceeded which was detected by the "safety shoe" mounted between the L1 door and the height of the air bridge floor. The consequent input of hydraulic pressure was not then immediately stopped when the electrovalve (again) malfunctioned because of the increased time limit for availability of pressure in the circuit. It was concluded that the specification of the programme to partially renovate the air bridges at Terminal 2 had been inadequate in that it had failed to consider the effect of the intended changes in the system on the parts of it that were not being renovated. It was noted that the renovation work was being undertaken by a Temporary Joint Venture - a "UTE" - consisting of Adelte Ports & Maritime and Luis Pares. The Cause of the uncontrolled lifting of the air bridge was formally documented as "the combination of the failure of the electro-valve in the hydraulic elevation circuit and the modiﬁcation of the interval for the activation of the pump in this circuit of the self-levelling system that had been introduced during the (partial) renovation of the air bridge a few months earlier”. Safety Action taken by Barcelona Airport as a result of the investigated occurrence was noted to have included "making sure that all air bridge hydraulic elevation pumps have a maximum activation interval of 1 second". Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Barcelona Airport which is responsible for preventive maintenance before and after the process of renovating the air bridges should verify the good condition of the components that will remain in them after the modiﬁcation process. [80/16]. that the Adelte-Luis Pares Joint Venture (the contractor undertaking the Terminal 2 air bridge renovation programme for Barcelona Airport) should assess all possible failure modes (which may arise in the modified air bridges as a result of the renovation work). [81/16]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 2 November 2016 and subsequently made available in English language translation.