The accident report showed that there was not one single cause, but that several contributing factors led to the outcome. Those factors are summarized below for the sake of completeness, and we will focus on human factors issues such as: nonstandard callouts by the captain; misunderstanding between the captain and flight engineer on the landing gear status due to the latter’s insufficient knowledge; and inadequate Crew Resource Management that led the crew to perform in an “egocentric” manner, rather than as a team and without cross-checking each other. Organizational factors — including rushing the airplane into service, verification of crew training and knowledge — were among the latent failures that led to the accident. The captain did not use correct terminology or standard calls when he asked the flight engineer to check the landing gear lights. Rather than asking how many lights the engineer had “back there,” the correct question should have included mention of the required five lights. This would have attracted the captain’s attention when the reply was that (only) four lights were green.. The flight engineer did not notice the warning on his panel that indicated the nose landing gear was not extended.. The first officer did not object to or draw the captain’s attention to the nonstandard callouts because he was concentrating on the non-stabilized approach.. Neither the captain nor the first officer perceived the true meaning of the “four greens” reply from the flight engineer.. The high level of noise on the flight deck, the failure to use the intercom while wearing headsets and the flight engineer’s low monotonous tone of voice contributed to the captain’s misunderstanding the true meaning of the reply.. After the initial exchange between the captain and the flight engineer, no further cross-checking action by the crew clarified the ambiguity between the real status of the nose landing gear and the pilots’ mental representation that the gear was extended.. The captain used CRM inadequately by referring to an SOP without informing the rest of the crew of his intentions.. The pilots did not go around despite the non-stabilized approach, the continuous landing gear alarm, the interrupted landing checklist, the still-extending flaps and the excessive speed.. It appears that the crew did not perform as a team due to inadequate airline training in CRM and SOPs.. The airline rushed the airplane into service for economic reasons. The airplane’s operating manual and its distribution were inadequate.. Company SOPs had not been introduced when the flight engineer was trained and were constantly updated during training, leading to some confusion among the trainees.. The flight engineer’s knowledge and proficiency were not adequately checked. He had difficulty adapting to the airplane during training and failed his first flight test.. CRM training in the airline’s curriculum was shorter than the current internationally recommended level and could therefore be considered substandard..