to stipulate the use of phraseology that differed from that currently recommended by Transport Canada and the ICAO in that it required the direction of a (corrective) vertical deviation during an RA to be given.. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The North Bay Controllers’ practice of clearing instrument flight rules (IFR) aircraft for an approach without regard to the active runway at Sudbury Airport, Ontario, created a situation whereby arriving IFR traffic was counter to the flow of, and therefore more likely to come into conflict with, visual flight rules traffic operating at the airport.. The Sudbury Flight Service Specialist’s initial taxi departure advisory to Jazz Aviation flight JZA604 did not include information regarding inbound opposite-direction IFR traffic. As a result, the JZA604 flight crew was not fully aware of the traffic situation when it taxied to position on Runway 22.. The North Bay Controller approved the visual flight rules departure of JZA604 without a coordinated plan to prevent a conflict between the aircraft and opposite-direction traffic.. The visual-approach clearance issued by the North Bay Controller and accepted by the Porter Airlines flight POE 533 flight crew while the aircraft was in instrument meteorological conditions likely led to an expectation by the Controller that JZA604 and POE533 would be able to see and avoid each other.. JZA604’s left turn was not apparent on the North Bay Controller’s Canadian Automated Air Traffic System situation display because the display was operating on a scale of 250 nautical miles.. The North Bay Controller was unaware that JZA604 was east of the Runway 04 extended centreline, and suggested that the aircraft turn 30° right, essentially bringing it back toward the approach path for Runway 04.. Jazz Aviation LP did not have standard operating procedures for the selection of the traffic alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS) continuous and automatic modes. During the occurrence, the Captain’s traffic display was still in default automatic mode and, as a result, the Captain did not have a complete understanding of POE533’s position and altitude.. Following the TCAS resolution advisory (RA), the JZA604 Captain manoeuvred the aircraft contrary to the RA instructions. Although permitted by company Standard Operating Procedures, this alternate manoeuvre reduced the vertical separation between the two aircraft.. The Porter Airlines TCAS simulator training syllabus and scripts do not address RA commands other than climb and descend and their associated reversals. As a result, the Captain of POE533 was likely inexperienced in the initial RA instruction to maintain vertical speed, and manoeuvred contrary to the command, which reduced the vertical separation between the two aircraft.. Three formally-stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If flight crews do not report to air traffic control that manoeuvres are being executed as a result of a TCAS RA, controllers may be uncertain about an aircraft’s intentions and issue contradictory instructions, increasing the risk of collision.. If guidance provided to flight crews by operators includes phraseology that is not consistent with international best