controller had cleared the inbound Porter Airlines aircraft, still IMC, to descend to 5,000 feet QNH and route via the PEKVU waypoint located 10.1nm south west of Sudbury on the runway 04/22 extended centreline and on the RNAV approach to runway 04. The Porter Airlines crew, aware of the high overcast base, were expecting to conduct a visual approach once clear of cloud. They had called the Sudbury FSS and given an ETA of 1005. At 0959:30, the Jazz DHC8-400 got airborne from runway 22 with the Porter Airlines aircraft “approximately” 17.3 nm south of the airport on track to PEKVU and passing 6700 feet QNH. A few seconds later, the Porter Airlines crew, still IMC, “requested further clearance from the North Bay controller” and were cleared for and accepted a visual approach to runway 04 and advised that the Jazz Aviation aircraft “was conducting a VFR departure from Runway 22 and would be instructed to turn to the west” and that the other IFR inbound was 10 nm south of the airport. The North Bay controller then called the Jazz Aviation aircraft and its crew advised that “they were levelling off at 4,000 feet QNH and were approximately 5 nm south of the airport”. The Jazz Aviation aircraft then turned left (east), 20° from the runway extended centreline without informing the controller - nor was this required since the aircraft had cancelled IFR in order to avoid a delayed departure. This turn was not seen on the radar display and the controller then informed the Jazz Aviation aircraft of the position or the Porter Airlines aircraft and they responded to the controller’s suggestion that they turn right (west) by stating that they would complete the turn shortly, but were delaying briefly due to some rain showers to the west. About 10 seconds later, the Jazz Aviation aircraft, “which was approximately 6.1 nm south of the airport and in level flight at 4,000 feet, began a turn to the west”. The Porter Airlines aircraft was “approximately 12.6 nm south of the airport […] descending through 5,200 feet” and 20 seconds after this, the controller informed the Porter Airlines aircraft that the Jazz Aviation aircraft was now in their 1 o’clock relative position flying straight out from Runway 22 at 4,000 feet under VFR and turning to the west. After a further 30 seconds, the controller again informed the Porter Airlines aircraft that the opposing traffic was still in the same relative position 5 miles away opposite direction and at 4,000 feet. The Porter Airlines aircraft was at this time descending though 4,800 feet and the controller followed this call by “strongly suggesting” to the Jazz Aviation crew that they turn further to the west and that the opposite direction traffic was in their 12 o’clock relative position at 3 nm descending through 4,700 feet. They responded by beginning 23° bank turn to the right and informing the controller that they were turning west. By this point, with the two aircraft