An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). FDR data was used to support the Investigation. Since ATC were unaware of the severity of the conflict, the TSB was not immediately informed of it and both CVRs were overwritten. It was noted that the Jazz Aviation Captain had accumulated 21,000 hours total flying time and the First Officer, who was PF for the event sector, had accumulated 2,800 hours total flying time. Both pilots had 600 hours on type. Both the Captain and the First Officer of the Porter Airlines’ aircraft had accumulated 6,000 hours total flying time and the Captain, who was PF for the event sector, had 3,000 hours on type and the First Officer 1,200 hours on type. The ACC controller in position for the sector where the conflict occurred was found to have routinely handed over the position to another controller “just prior to” the occurrence of the conflict. Both controllers had significant experience as ATS personnel. It was found that both aircraft had filed IFR flight plans and noted that Sudbury was an uncontrolled aerodrome with a Class ‘E’ CTZ with ATS provided by a ‘Flight Service Specialist’ (FSS). ATC to separate IFR traffic from other IFR traffic in the area was provided by the North Bay Sector of Toronto ACC. The controller there was using a radar display set to 250 nm so as to show the whole sector, which meant that 1cm of screen resolution represented approximately 5nm. In accordance with Unit Procedures, a single controller was responsible for this sector. It was also established that runway 22 at Sudbury was the active runway with the ATIS broadcasting this information. The weather in the area was a slowly lowering overcast which the Sudbury METAR at the time of departure recorded as including good visibility below a cloud ceiling at 4500 feet agl. Observers stated that although there were no rain showers at Sudbury, such showers and/or virga were visible in the vicinity. As the Jazz Aviation flight crew, in contact with the Sudbury FSS, taxied for runway 22, they were advised that there may be a delay in obtaining approval for an IFR departure because of inbound IFR traffic which intended to land on runway 04. Asked if they would accept a VFR departure from runway 22, they did so and the FSS requested and obtained approval for this from the North Bay controller, who asked the FSS to advise the crew that they could expect an IFR clearance when they were 20 nm south of Sudbury and that two inbound IFR aircraft, one of which was the Porter Airlines DHC8-400, were respectively 21 and 26 nm south of the airport at that time and both intending to land on runway 04. Based on previous experience of southbound VFR departures from Sudbury, the North Bay controller reported that they had “assumed that the departing aircraft would turn shortly after takeoff to clear the arrival path”. Meanwhile, the North Bay