for the inbound aircraft to make a visual approach, it was found that the controller had not followed MATS guidelines specifying that in “single-approaching-aircraft situations, the pilot [must report] sighting the airport” before a controller can authorise it to make a visual approach.. The Porter Airlines crew accepted the visual approach authorisation given even though they were still in cloud - and would remain so until just before the near miss.. The aircraft type involved allows the TCAS traffic display to be continuously displayed on the MFD - ‘continuous mode’ - or to only show TA and RA indications - ‘automatic mode’. When the transponder is initially selected on prior to departure, the TCAS display defaults to the automatic mode and to change to continuous mode, the TCAS must be pressed and the range selected to 40 nm or less on the EFIS control Panel. Porter Airlines’ Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) required that the TCAS traffic display should be on screen continuously and set to a range of 40 nm or less in the cruise and their crews were “trained to keep the range at 40 nm or less during an approach in order to have a complete picture of the approach display and traffic information”. Both Porter Airlines’ pilots had their respective TCAS settings configured to a continuous TCAS traffic display. There were no Jazz Aviation SOPs requiring full time use of the continuous mode and this matter was left to crew discretion. When the Jazz Aviation aircraft departed Sudbury, the Captain’s panel remained in the default automatic mode and the First Officer’s panel was set to continuous mode. The First Officer’s panel was subsequently switched to automatic mode at around 2200 feet QNH and then back to continuous mode 50 seconds prior to the RA.. In respect of following a TCAS RA, Porter Airlines’ SOPs state that compliance with a TCAS RA is mandatory and note that “it is possible to confuse other traffic in close proximity with an unseen aircraft which is the real threat”. They call for the PF to “disconnect the autopilot and initiate a climb or descent as required to follow the TCAS avoidance manoeuvre”. Whilst Jazz Aviation SOPs also specified that compliance with a TCAS RA was mandatory, they “allow for some discretion if the Captain is of the opinion that to do this would compromise the safe operation of the flight or unless the flight crew has more accurate information (e.g. confirmed visual contact) about the intruder causing the RA”. Various cautions accompanied this discretion including that “it may be difficult to judge the vertical and/or horizontal displacement of (a conflicting aircraft) […] especially when at cruise altitude or when the horizon is obscured or distorted by cloud layers” as in the investigated case.. Notwithstanding the fact that neither aircraft reported their RAs on the air traffic frequency being worked, the SOPs of both the operators involved were found to require not only that the PM make such a report but also