closing at 330 knots and 2.7 nm apart, both aircraft received a TCAS TA and 10 seconds later, this was followed by a co-ordinated RA. These RAs were a corrective ‘CLIMB’ for the Jazz aircraft and a preventive ‘MAINTAIN VERTICAL SPEED, CROSSING, MAINTAIN’ for the Porter Airlines aircraft which was descending through 4,250 feet and still in cloud. The Porter Airlines crew reported that almost immediately they had emerged from the overcast and immediately seen the other aircraft. However, instead of maintaining the 1,900 fpm rate of descent they had when the RA occurred, once visual, they briefly reduced it to 700 fpm which as they passed 4,150 feet, received a further RA this time to ‘INCREASE DESCENT’ which they did whilst also initiating a 40° banked turn to the right. Meanwhile, the Jazz Aviation aircraft had not commenced a climb. Although the First Officer had disconnected the AP in order to do so, the Captain, having visually acquired the other aircraft on the left, had taken control and reported having “decided against climbing due to the overcast cloud layer above” believing that with the other aircraft in sight, a turn to the right away from it “would be an appropriate evasive manoeuvre”. The Captain then manoeuvred the aircraft further to the right and increased the bank angle to 40° whilst also briefly descending at 1,000 fpm from 4,000 feet to 3,880 feet before returning to 4,000 feet. The combined consequence of these responses was that the two aircraft were now 1.1 nm horizontally and 178 feet vertically apart and still closing at over 300 knots. The Porter Airlines crew reported to the controller that they were “turning” and, three seconds later, the Jazz Aviation crew reported that they were “climbing”. Neither of these calls included mention of any TCAS RA. A few seconds after these transmissions when about 9.5 nm southwest of Sudbury Airport, the two aircraft reached their minimum separation, 0.4 nm horizontally when both at the same altitude - approximately 4,000 feet. Five seconds later, the Jazz crew reported that they were “clear of the conflict” and in acknowledging this, the controller instructed them to maintain flight under VFR and then instructed the Porter Airlines aircraft to “continue with the visual approach to runway 04” and contact Sudbury. The Jazz Aviation aircraft was subsequently provided with its en route IFR clearance to destination. Although the inter-unit arrangement between the Toronto ACC and the Sudbury FSS included the requirement that the ACC shall, “during VMC, confirm the runway in use with the FSS prior to clearing an aircraft for an approach to a specific runway”, there had been no communication about which runway was active prior to the issue of a clearance to the PEKVU initial approach waypoint for runway 04.. The handover of position at the North Bay ACC sector did not identify the active runway at Sudbury, although the inbound aircraft’s clearance to PEKVY for a 04 approach was briefed.. In respect of the ACC re-clearance