about 2360 feet directly above the runway threshold, pitch decreased from 2° to -5° and the aircraft began to descend. At this point, by now at about 1600 feet above the runway, “the PF stated that he realised that the modes displayed on the FMA were not appropriate”. He had then disconnected AP1 some 8 seconds after having engaged it, pitched up to about 6° and placed the thrust levers in the TOGA setting. Whilst this pitch attitude was significantly less than the 12.5° specified for a go around, the climb out and a subsequent further approach and landing were found to have proceeded without further difficulties. The crew testimony was summarised as follows: “The crew knew that they were above the ILS glide path. They explained that they tried to correct the path when the controller cleared them to intercept the ILS. The controller’s clearance strengthened their conviction that they were in a situation enabling them to meet this request. The crew stated that they were tired on approach and not really aware of their distance in relation to the runway threshold. They had planned to continue the approach as far as the stabilisation altitude (1,000 ft).” It was noted Air France pilot training included use of an SOPs for intercepting the ILS GS from above in an A340 with the AP engaged but it was observed that it had not been followed in this event and in any case did not include any operational limits for its use. It was noted that the FAP for a vertical clearance to 3000 feet QNH as given in this case was at 8.2nm. It was also noted the slight delay in giving descent clearance from FL090 had been the consequence of traffic simultaneously positioning for an approach onto parallel runway 09L. It was noted that the APP controller’s confidence that the approach for which clearance had been given was achievable had been strengthened by the absence of any mention of difficulties by the pilots. It was also noted that the visual reference points on the controllers radar screen were only applicable for the ‘standard’ descent on the GS from 5000 feet with no equivalent guidance in the case of clearance being to the GS at lower altitudes as in this event. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that the serious incident was due to: Inadequate monitoring of the aeroplane’s flight path by the controller and by the crew during the CAT III precision approach under radar vectoring. The crew’s decision to continue the approach after the FAP when the aeroplane was above the glide path. And that the following factors contributed to it: The absence of visual reference points on the controllers’ radar screen for glide path interception at altitudes lower than 5,000 ft.. The crew’s use of an unsuitable method to intercept the glide path from above.. The autopilot’s capture of an ILS signal from a sidelobe, which generated an excessive increase in pitch attitude.. It was additionally considered