was not in line with the ICAO standards” but that radio communications between the aircraft and ATC were otherwise normal. The issue of an early unrestricted take off clearance when quiet was confirmed as normal and permitted practice. It was found that the aircraft commander had held an unfounded expectation that the take-off clearance had been given when the aircraft on the taxiway nearest to the runway and did not check this unfounded assumption. It was also noted that ATC procedures did not require issuing take-off clearance only when the controller had established that the aircraft had passed a point where the only remaining possibility for take off was on the relevant runway. A plan by the Airport Authority to add a hot spot to the aerodrome chart in the area of taxiways N and M in the vicinity of intersection access A3 where previous taxiing errors had occurred was noted but it had not been actioned by the time of the investigated event. It was also found that there had been no corresponding improvement of signs in the proposed ‘hot spot’ area and that it was not clear from the signs on taxiway N for intersection A3 that taxiway M was between taxiway N and holding position in A3. The missing direction signs to taxiway ‘M’ were considered to have contributed to the aircraft commander's taxiing mistake as was the absence of a position sign on taxiway ‘M’ identifying it as such which might have alerted the flight crew to the fact that they were not on the runway. It was noted that the controller had not monitored the movement of the aircraft in response to clearance even though workload would have permitted this and that this contributed to the taxiway take-off not being discovered in time. In addition, Aeroflot was found to have no documented SOPs which required the flight crew to positively confirm their location before line up and take off. The Investigation concluded that “deficient procedures and insufficient alertness in the cockpit, in combination with insufficient monitoring from the control tower and insufficient signposting in the manoeuvring area” led to the occurrence which was also possible because “Aeroflot Russian Airlines had no procedures documented in current SOP to confirm their location before takeoff”. As a result of the Investigation, the AIBN made one Safety Recommendation: That Aeroflot Russian Airlines changes its SOP (Standard Operation Procedures) with corresponding check-list, so that the commander and first officer together verify that they are on the correct intersection, on the runway they have been cleared for, and on the correct compass heading, before implementing the take-off procedure. SL 2010/12T. It also noted that two others would have been made had not action already been taken to address issues identified In the Investigation which had been the subject of previous AIBN Safety Recommendations. These two issues were: ATC procedures for the issue of take off clearances where the Norwegian CAA had already reopened AIBN's previous Safety Recommendation SL 31/2006 to the