3 °/second up to a pitch attitude of 15°. This will result in lift off 4 to 5 seconds after VR reaches a pitch angle of approximately 10°. The rotation made, although non-standard, was considered to have complied “in principle” with the operator’s procedural requirements.. The rotation made, although non-standard, was considered to have complied “in principle” with the operator’s procedural requirements.. When using the EFB to calculate takeoff performance, it was considered “customary in practice” to enter values with a safety margin ("conservative values") for temperature, pressure and wind velocity, which was also advantageous in avoiding the need for a new calculation immediately prior to takeoff if there are fluctuations in the ambient conditions. However, in respect of wind velocity, the FCOM was found to state that only the current mean wind should be used with gust values used only to compare with crosswind limits. The crew’s use of a 6 knot tailwind component for “safety” was not in accordance with the FCOM SOP.. The crew’s use of a 6 knot tailwind component for “safety” was not in accordance with the FCOM SOP.. In the light of the last point above, the Investigation looked in more detail at the influence of wind velocity inputs on the V speed calculation on the ratio of V2 to VS which must be at least 1.13 and was displayed during use of the EFB for takeoff performance purposes. The following illustration compares the 6 knot tailwind used by the crew with the 16 knot headwind component implied by the actual mean wind during the takeoff of 280°/19 (which was not materially different from the latest METAR/ATIS wind of 260°/17 knots). As would be expected, the V speeds increase with increasing headwind. The effect of head/tailwind component on V speeds for the takeoff weight involved, [Reproduced from the Official Report] However, although the V speeds themselves are not much affected by the chosen flap/slat configuration (CONF), since the VS increases with a lower flap setting, a significantly lower V2/VS ratio applied and this means a lower safety margin in relation to a stall (see the illustration below) as well as, importantly, rotation at a speed much closer to VS. The effect of head/tailwind component on the V2/Vs ratio and in relation to flap/slat setting. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Overall, it was concluded that the desire of the crew to increase safety reserves by entering “conservative values” into their EFB takeoff performance calculation had “ultimately produced undesirable effects, namely an increase in the risk of a tailstrike and a reduction of the stall margin”. In fact, the obvious way to create an effective safety reserve when this is considered appropriate is not to make a reduced thrust takeoff but use the maximum permitted rated thrust. It was observed that this decision, not taken appropriately in the investigated event, was “ultimately nothing more than a balancing of safety against economy (safety versus economy)”. The Investigation noted a previously investigated similar tailstrike to a Lufthansa Airbus