operated by another Deutsche Lufthansa Group Airline, Lufthansa, had been involved in a very similar tailstrike unrecognised by the crew when departing from Chicago and had also then completed its intended (transatlantic) flight, in this case in a “severely damaged” condition. The FCTM was found to include comprehensive content on tailstrike avoidance which clearly identified the fact that “tailstrikes can cause severe structural damage (and that) weather conditions with crosswinds, turbulence and windshear favour the occurrence of a tailstrike”. It also included the following information and guidance: The minimum ground clearance of the aircraft's rear in relation to the runway occurs before liftoff, before the rotating bogies of the main landing gear attained complete extension; Premature aircraft rotation before reaching VR results in an increased pitch attitude on takeoff and therefore favours the occurrence of a tailstrike; An abrupt increase in rotation rate just before liftoff increases tailstrike risk; In order to reduce the risk of a tailstrike, the operating company FCTM explicitly recommends a takeoff using the flap/slat setting CONF 2.. The minimum ground clearance of the aircraft's rear in relation to the runway occurs before liftoff, before the rotating bogies of the main landing gear attained complete extension;. Premature aircraft rotation before reaching VR results in an increased pitch attitude on takeoff and therefore favours the occurrence of a tailstrike;. An abrupt increase in rotation rate just before liftoff increases tailstrike risk;. In order to reduce the risk of a tailstrike, the operating company FCTM explicitly recommends a takeoff using the flap/slat setting CONF 2.. It was apparent that the Swiss International Airlines’ recommendation to use CONF 2 as the effective default had been ignored. According to the FCOM, the use of a flex temperature thrust is only permitted when taking off on a dry or wet, well paved runway. In the case of a contaminated runway, this is prohibited and the takeoff must be performed at the maximum permitted engine power (TOGA). A runway is considered to be contaminated only if more than 25% of its surface is covered with precipitation residues (slush, snow, ice, etc.). The takeoff runway was notified as only 10% contaminated with slush.. The takeoff runway was notified as only 10% contaminated with slush.. The company FCTM recommends that in the case of expected windshear during takeoff, maximum permitted engine power (TOGA) must be set but also notes that in the case of a takeoff with reduced engine power, it is possible to push the thrust levers forward to TOGA at any time. It was considered that given the pre-takeoff reference to “windshear” after takeoff, the decision to use reduced thrust was “incomprehensible” on that count alone.. It was considered that given the pre-takeoff reference to “windshear” after takeoff, the decision to use reduced thrust was “incomprehensible” on that count alone.. According to both the FCOM and the FCTM, rotation during takeoff should be initiated with a positive rearward deflection of the stick when VR is reached using a continuous rotation rate of