The Official Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Technical Commission of the Interstate Aviation Committee (CIS) (IAC) (the ‘MAK’), which is the designated civil air accident investigation agency for the Russian Federation as State of Occurrence. The Investigation was carried out in accordance with the provision of ICAO Annex 13, with participation by accredited representatives and their advisers. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Quick Access Recorder (QAR) were recovered and successfully replayed; the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) was badly damaged and of little use, but the QAR provided an identical record. The solid state memory from the GPWS/TAWS equipment fitted was also recovered. In the final moments of the flight, at a position 1100 metres from the runway and 35 metres to the left of the extended centreline, it was found that part of the left wing of the aircraft had been detached by impact with an 11 metre high birch tree on ground which was 26 metres below the level of the runway threshold. As a result of this, it was concluded that the aircraft had rolled inverted to impact. It was established that the aircraft and ground navigation aids had been serviceable prior to the accident. It was also confirmed that normal ATC procedures had been followed and that the aircraft had been conducting a non precision radar-monitored approach procedure to Runway 26 based upon Locator Beacons (NDBs) co-located with the Middle and Outer Markers on the prescribed track to the runway. The State minima for this approach were a visibility of 1000 metres and a MDH of 100 metres and ATC had confirmed this MDH with the aircraft commander. It was noted from the CVR record that senior members of the Presidential delegation had been present in the flight deck during the approach, including the Air Force Commander-in-Chief. It was also noted that the aircraft commander on the accident flight had been the co pilot on a Presidential flight two years earlier when the aircraft commander had declined, on flight safety grounds to land at an airport other than the one which had been flight planned. Overall, it was concluded, after examination of all available evidence, that the aircraft commander would have perceived considerable pressure to make a successful landing at Smolensk. It was also considered that, based on an analysis of psychological test data made available by the Polish Air Force, the aircraft commander had “a dominating (tendency to) conformity“ in his character traits which would have affected rational response to stressful situations such as that encountered. It was found that the aircraft commander was the only one of the four flight crew who was a Russian speaker and it was observed that, although he could be presumed to have been acting as PF, he had also conducted all R/T communications with Smolensk ATC. It was concluded that all the crew were relatively inexperienced on the aircraft type in their designated roles, especially so in respect of approaches to minima in limiting