the result of ground sighting - the low height being consistent with estimates of the prevailing vertical visibility by ground witnesses. It was estimated that a Tu-154 at the weight, configuration and energy state of the accident aircraft as it approached terrain would have lost 30 metres altitude during the transition to a go around. It was also calculated that the final visually - triggered attempt to climb was made using such an abrupt manoeuvre that if the aircraft had not hit a tree, it would have stalled 1.5 - 2 seconds later due to the extreme angle of attack. The Investigation concluded that: “The immediate cause of the accident was the failure of the crew to take a timely decision to proceed to an alternate airdrome although they were not once timely informed on the actual weather conditions at Smolensk “Severny” Airdrome that were significantly lower than the established airdrome minima; descent without visual contact with ground references to an altitude much lower than minimum descent altitude for go around (100m) in order to establish visual flight as well as no reaction to the numerous TAWS warnings which led to controlled flight into terrain, aircraft destruction and death of the crew and passengers. According to the conclusion made by the pilot-experts and aviation psychologists, the presence of the Commander-in-Chief of the Polish Air Forces in the cockpit until the collision exposed psychological pressure on the PIC’s decision to continue descent in the conditions of unjustified risk with a dominating aim of landing at any means.” It was also concluded that: “Contributing Factors to the accident were: long discussion of the Tu-154 crew with the Protocol Director and crew of the Polish Yak-40 concerning the information on the actual weather that was lower than the established minima and impossibility (according to the Tu-154M crew opinion) to land at the destination airdrome which increased the psychological stress of the crew and made the PIC experience psychological clash of motives: on the one hand he realized that landing in such conditions was unsafe, on the other hand he faced strong motivation to land exactly at the destination airdrome. In case of proceeding to an alternate airdrome, the PIC expected negative reaction from the Main Passenger;. lack of compliance to the SOPs and lack of CRM in the crew;. a significant break in flights in complicated weather conditions (corresponding to his weather minima 60 x 800) that the PIC had had as well as his low experience in conducting non-precision approach;. early transition by the navigator to the altitude callouts on the basis of the radio altimeter indications without considering the uneven terrain;. conducting flight with engaged autopilot and autothrottle down to altitudes much lower than the minimum descent altitude which does not comply with the FCOM provisions;. late start of final descent which resulted in increased vertical speed of descent the crew had to maintain.”. And that “the systemic causes of the accident involving the Tu-154M tail number 101 aircraft of the