visibility conditions and noted that none had received any of their aircraft type training in a full fight simulator. Many actions by all the crew members during the approach were found to be not in compliance with those prescribed in the Flight Crew Operation Manual (FCOM) and there was little evidence of effective Crew Resource Management. It was noted that, although the approach had been flown with the AP (and autothrottle) engaged and the aircraft controlled by use of the basic pitch wheel and roll control switch, the FCOM does not prescribe the use of the autopilot for a non precision approach because of the difficulty of achieving a constant rate of descent unless a vertical speed (VS) mode is available and used. In fact, the procedure descent was commenced late and the VS was increased to approximately twice the normal rate in order to regain the required vertical profile. However, it was not reduced when the desired profile was intercepted and remained at the same high rate so that the aircraft began to descend below it. The flight crew were aware before starting their approach that the weather was below minima due to thick fog having drifted into the area below a temperature inversion at 400-500 metres aal. ATC advice of a visibility of 400 metres and that ‘no conditions for landing’ existed was effectively confirmed by conversations in Polish between the accident aircraft crew and the crew of another Polish military aircraft, a Yak-40, which had preceded the Tu-154 to Smolensk. This crew advised that the weather had significantly deteriorated since their landing and initially estimated the same visibility as ATC had advised with a vertical visibility of 50 metres, subsequently downgrading their estimated visibility to 200 metres. It was concluded that the aircraft commander had been aware that a successful approach was unlikely and noted that he had briefed the crew to expect a go around from the 100 metres MDH in the absence of visual reference as well as describing his approach to ATC as a ‘trial approach’. The Investigation noted that the destination airport was not available in the TAWS database. It was found that the TAWS Caution ‘TERRAIN AHEAD’ had been activated twice - at about 340 m aal and then at about 180 m aal and had been followed at 105 m aal by the TAWS Warning ‘TERRAIN AHEAD PULL UP’. There had been no crew response to any of the TAWS activations, or to descent below the MDH at 100 metres aal or the automatic ‘decision height alert’ call at 60 metres aal. In addition, the navigator had been making radio altimeter-sourced height call outs every 10 metres until 20 metres agl. Once activated, the TAWS ‘PULL UP’ Warning sounded continuously for 12 seconds of continued descent until, with about 10 metres to go to impact, the QAR record showed that a sudden attempt to overpower the autopilot and pull up had been initiated. It was concluded that action had probably been