elapsed since the flaps 1 selection, the thrust levers were selected to TO/GA. Thereafter “the crew carried out a left-hand aerodrome circuit at an altitude of 2000 feet then a visual approach for runway 19 with ILS support” and landed “without further problems”. The various recorded parameters during the descent and approach are shown on the diagram below: The Investigation established from crew interviews that neither pilot had at any time considered a go around in accordance with the published missed approach procedure and that the primary focus of the PM had been on the 500 feet agl stabilised approach gate. In respect of the lack of the expected response to the EGPWS warning and alerts, the Captain stated that he had only heard the ‘Sink Rate’ alert and the Co-pilot stated that he had not heard any of the calls. It was found that the whole of the cruise had been taken up with non-operational conversation which had been followed by the late commencement of the descent which also occurred prior to the approach briefing. Both pilots admitted that, with hindsight, effective CRM had been absent during the descent. It was concluded that the PF had focused on his “objective of stabilisation at 500 feet agl” and had completely failed to share his approach strategy with the PM. And whilst the latter had “quickly noticed the deviations in relation to the glide path (and) informed the PF several times”, he had then given up trying to propose any alternative to him because “his respect of the Captain’s position took priority over his monitoring and support role”. In respect of the SOPs requiring a sterile flight deck below 10,000 feet, the Investigation considered that “this incident shows that personal preoccupations (can be) considered as a disruption which may…affect crew alertness and therefore the conduct of flight in complete safety” and that “in the same way, a non-sterile (flight deck) above FL100 may lead to errors in managing the start of descent and disrupt the continuation of the descent as well as the approach”. It was found that “the Air France operations documentation describes the normal operating procedures for managing descent and approach, but does not give any criteria for missed ILS approaches before the stabilisation floor”. In this respect, the Investigation noted the comprehensive guidance contained in the Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Note “Descent and Approach Profile Management” The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that the unstabilised approach had been due to: The crew’s decision to undertake and continue an approach that required a glide path interception from above in conditions that did not offer a high chance of success;. Sloppy Crew Resource Management in terms of planning and cooperation, after a change of runway that made it impossible for the crew to: define and apply a strategy that would make it possible to adapt the flight path in an appropriate manner share sufficiently early the decision criteria for a missed approach.. define and apply a strategy that would