In the event of an RA the crew is expected to act in accordance with PANS-OPS (Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Aircraft Operations - Volume 1 Flight Procedures - ICAO Doc. 8168 OPS/611): Respond immediately by following the RA as indicated, unless doing so would jeopardise the safety of the airplane;. Follow the RA even if there is a conflict between the RA and ATC instruction to manoeuvre;. Do not manoeuvre in the opposite sense to an RA (In the case of an ACAS-ACAS coordinated encounter, the RAs complement each other in order to reduce the potential for collision. Manoeuvres, or lack of manoeuvres, that result in vertical rates opposite to the sense of an RA could result in a collision with the threat aircraft.);. As soon as possible, as permitted by flight crew workload, notify the appropriate ATC unit of any RA which requires a deviation from the current ATC instruction or clearance. (Unless informed by the pilot, ATC does not know when ACAS issues RAs. It is possible for ATC to issue instructions that are unknowingly contrary to ACAS RA indications. Therefore, it is important that ATC be notified when an ATC instruction or clearance is not being followed because it conflicts with an RA.);. Promptly comply with any modified RAs;. Limit the alterations of the flight path to the minimum extent necessary to comply with the RAs;. Promptly return to the terms of the ATC instruction or clearance when the conflict is resolved;. Notify ATC when returning to the current clearance.. The following additional notes are important and should be taken into consideration when anticipating the crew’s actions in response to ACAS RA: Stall warning, wind shear, and ground proximity warning system alerts have precedence over ACAS RA.. High vertical rate (HVR) encounters - Pilots are advised to use appropriate procedures when climbing or descending to an assigned altitude or flight level, especially with an autopilot engaged. HVR could occur at a rate around 1 500 ft/min throughout the last 300 m (or 1 000 ft) of climb or descent to the assigned altitude or flight level. Caution should be exercised both by pilots and controllers to avoid unnecessary ACAS RA involving aircraft at, or approaching, adjacent altitudes or flight levels..