Many modern aircraft have an automatic facility whereby the aircraft automatic systems accomplish the transition from approach to Go-Around by power and attitude adjustment. However, not all aircraft have this facility; moreover, there is a need for pilots of aircraft which do have automatic Go-Around capability to maintain proficiency in this procedure in case manually reversion should be necessary. An All Engines Go Around will typically be executed when the aircraft is relatively light, at least below Maximum Landing Weight, and so when Go Around thrust is applied performance may well be brisk - if you are not careful, not only will you climb with a very high v/s, you will accelerate rapidly through all the flap limiting speeds. One major manufacturer limits the rate of climb to 2,000 feet per minute because of this (Even so, this assumes that pitch & speed are correct; if pitch is low, thrust will increase up to full GA thrust and the a/c will rapidly accelerate, but a ROC of 2000fpm will not be achieved.). Aircraft SOPs must take precedence but it is worth remembering that the aircraft will be much more manageable when reducing to Climb Thrust (but will still accelerate faster than on a normal take-off due to reduced weight). Furthermore, careful consideration needs to be given to how this can be handled as, if Go Around Thrust (TOGA) is never selected, the FMS Flight Plan and electronic checklist (ECL) may not sequence as expected or correctly. PF must be ready for any pitch up effect that is much more marked with all engines operating than on the Engine Out Go-Arounds practised in the simulator. FBW a/c may automatically trim out any pitch/power couple, so it is necessary for the PF to make a positive rotation manoeuvre (pull-up) to place the a/c in the correct G/A attitude. In all cases, pilots should recognise (and resist) the pitch-up illusion created by rapid acceleration. The most important element of handling a Manual Go-Around is selecting the correct power and pitch attitude to enable the Go-Around to be flown at the correct speed. Knowing the appropriate figures will help in flying an accurate profile. Because of the high power settings involved in a Go-Around it is interesting to see how often when the speed starts to run away how many pilots, at this time of very high workload, intuitively try to control the speed by reducing power rather than with pitch attitude. This often reduces power to a level that can seriously degrade climb performance causing potential Obstacle Clearance problems.