Regarding task-sharing during a a manual go-around, the FSF ALAR Briefing Note 6.2 — "Manual Go-Around" recommends that: "The pilot flying (PF) is responsible for controlling vertical navigation and lateral navigation, and for energy management, by ... Flying manually, with flight director (FD) guidance and an adapted (e.g., horizontal situation indicator (HSI) - type) navigation display (ND) mode. "If manual thrust is selected, the pilot monitoring (PM) should monitor closely the airspeed, airspeed trend and thrust, and call any excessive deviation (e.g., airspeed decreasing below VREF). "The PNF is responsible for monitoring tasks and for conducting actions requested by the PF, including: The briefing note then provides a thorough explanation of the flight dynamics of a go-around, which is important for understanding the interaction between changes to engine power and flight control settings. If a Go-Around is flown using F/D crews should be aware of exactly what is being commanded in roll and pitch. For example some F/D will command a heading that maintains aircraft track as at the moment Go Around was initiated (which, particularly if correcting localiser deviation at the time, may be very different from the required track during the Go Around manoeuvre). Adherence to SOPs will help ensure that appropriate modes are selected to command appropriate track and vertical profiles. Particularly after a Non Precision Approach in poor weather, the landing pilot can experience very high workload in trying to manoeuvre the aircraft for landing. The PM plays a vital role in monitoring this phase of the approach and calling for a Go-Around if stabilised approach criteria are not met or if unhappy with the manoeuvre. A good briefing can be very helpful in setting expectations/ bottom lines to inform these decisions. There is often strong emphasis on flying a go-round manually. Nonetheless, the maximum use of the autopilot will reduce pilot workload, aid monitoring capacity and go a long way to ensuring a successful outcome to any Go-Around.