An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation and Inquiry Board (AAIIB) of the Philippines’ Civil Aviation Authority. The aircraft FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data was successfully downloaded. It was established that the Captain had been PF for both approaches and that the first approach had ended up as a go around from 30 feet agl because there was “insufficient visual reference”. A second ILS approach was briefed including a diversion to the planned alternate if another go around had to be flown due to similar conditions being encountered again. A stable approach was then flown with a flap 30 landing planned. The AP was disconnected at 1000 feet agl followed by the A/T and flap 30 was set for landing with the applicable Vref 145 knots. There was no low cloud and despite the presence of a thunderstorm and intermittently heavy rain, the METAR-reported surface visibility was 2000 metres and the required visual reference was reported to have been available at the ILS Cat 1 DA of 375 feet QNH (which was equivalent to a DH of 300 feet). As the aircraft passed over the runway threshold at about 50 feet agl, the recorded ILS LOC deviation was “around zero” but the aircraft immediately began to drift to the left of the centreline and at a recorded 46 feet agl, the First Officer called “GO-AROUND” but the Captain responded “NO” and began to retard both thrust levers towards idle at 30 feet agl and they reached full idle passing 5 feet agl with the aircraft in the “de-crab” position prior to touchdown. At 13 feet agl, the aircraft was rolling left and continuing to drift and at 10 feet agl, the First Officer again called “GO-AROUND” but again received the response “NO” from the Captain followed this time by “IT’S OKAY”. Touchdown followed at Vref+6 knots with the surface wind at that point recorded as from 275° at 9 knots. Touchdown was on both main gears and occurred 740 metres past the runway 24 threshold and to the left of the centreline. The recorded aircraft heading was 241° and speed brake deployment and pre-set auto braking commenced (although the auto brake was subsequently disengaged for undetermined reasons) but reverse thrust was not selected. The aircraft continued to track away from the runway centreline and quickly departed the left side of the paved surface at a recorded groundspeed of 147 knots. Initially, it continued parallel to the runway and almost immediately all landing gear legs and the left engine then hit some concrete electric junction boxes that were just beyond the paved surface. These impacts resulted in the left main gear and left engine being sheared off and the right main gear and nose gear being folded rearwards. The aircraft then turned to the left as it continued to decelerate and came to a stop on a heading of 120° approximately 1,500 meters from the threshold of Runway 24. During the