sequence of events from touchdown until the aircraft came to a full stop, it was noted that the First Officer had made two further calls of “GO-AROUND”. Once the aircraft had come to a complete stop, the pilots carried out all memory items from the evacuation non-normal checklist and then continued to complete the remaining items including extension of the flaps to the 40° position to facilitate safe evacuation via the over wing exits. It was not possible to order a cabin evacuation by means of a PA from the flight deck or use the interphone to speak with the cabin crew as the whole aircraft communications system had failed. It was considered that this may have arisen due to damage to the under floor avionics bay caused by the rearward collapse of the nose landing gear. The Captain therefore instructed the First Officer to go into the cabin and announce the emergency evacuation from there. The cabin crew then began the evacuation using (only) the left and right forward doors and their slides and no injuries were sustained as a result of it. No evidence was found that any airworthiness issue had been a factor in the accident and there was no evidence that the crew had not followed all relevant SOPs in the FCOM prior to 50 feet agl - the accident had resulted from the way the aircraft was controlled thereafter. However, the damage to / detachment of the aircraft landing gear and the detachment of the left engine was a direct consequence of the electrical junction box impacts and it was noted that the location of these was “inconsistent with the CAA Philippines Aerodrome Manual of Standards (MOS)”, neither was it aligned with the corresponding ICAO SARPs and supporting guidance material. The Investigation also found that the post-accident recovery of the disabled aircraft had been hindered by the absence of lifting capacity which as per the corresponding airport operator manual was only required to be capable of a 50 tonne lift. The Primary Cause of the Accident was determined as the decision of the Captain to continue with the landing after the approach became unstabilised moments before touchdown in heavy rain and then failing to correctly identify the position of the aircraft in relation to the runway due to insufficient visual reference because of precipitation so that the aircraft rolled left and continuously drifted to the left of the runway centreline. It was also found that the Captain had failed to apply sound CRM practices and in particular had not heeded the First Officer’s calls for a go around. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The failure of the Flight Crew to discuss and apply appropriate Threat and Error Management (TEM) strategies for: Inclement weather. Cross wind conditions during the approach to land. The possibility of low-level wind shear. NOTAM information about unserviceable runway lights.. Inclement weather.. Cross wind conditions during the approach to land.. The possibility of low-level wind shear.. NOTAM information about