unserviceable runway lights.. The Airline’s Standard Operating Procedures were less than adequate in terms of providing guidance to the flight crew for a call out of ‘go-around’ during the landing phase of flight.. The Runway Strip was not consistent with the CAA Philippines’ Manual of Standards (MOS) for Aerodromes or with ICAO Annex 14 and the uneven surface and concrete obstacles contributed to the damage sustained by the aircraft.. Safety Action taken as a result of this Accident were noted as having included but not been limited to the following: Xiamen Airlines: Added training for final approach and landing at night during rain including touchdown on wet / contaminated runways to the initial and recurrent simulator training of Boeing 737 pilots.. Specified in Standard Operations Procedures that take-off and landing are prohibited in heavy rain and that landing in moderate rain is prohibited at night where runway centreline lighting is not available.. Strengthened the policy and training regulations on safety culture for non-Chinese pilots.. Ensured that all safety regulations and standards and the cultural concepts of both CAAC and Xiamen Airlines are effectively published, accepted and implemented by non-Chinese pilots.. Analysed the CRM habits and characteristics of non-Chinese pilots and increased the daily communication and proficiency cooperation between Chinese and non-Chinese pilots.. Optimised safety meetings to improve the ability of multinational pilots to co-operate.. The Manila Airport Authority reinstated the runway 06/24 strip and its concrete electric junction boxes so that it is now in compliance with the required transition slope as well as with the standards contained in the CAAP Manual of Standards for Aerodromes and in ICAO documentation which may compromise the safety of aircraft if not met. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Xiamen Airlines review and strengthen their policies of actions to be taken by the pilot flying once a call out of “Go-Around” is made by the pilot monitoring during landing.. that Xiamen Airlines to establish policies on no fault “Go-Around” and to ensure that they are being implemented and understood by flight crew through inclusion in their initial and recurrent training.. that Xiamen Airlines review recurrent ground training syllabus to improve/adapt CRM and TEM with consideration to company in-service scenarios like this accident and other findings as a result of flight crew interview in the conduct of their flight data monitoring (FDM) program.. that the Manila International Airport Authority review the Disabled Aircraft Removal Plan (DARP) and ensure that suitable equipment is available in relation to current operations at the airport.. that the Civil Aviation Authority disseminate the above Safety Recommendations to Philippine Operators.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 7 August 2019. Note that the illustration of the accident site referenced in the Official Report of the Investigation as ‘Figure 1’ is not included in the version of the Report published online.