If used properly, flight simulators can help investigators gain a better understanding of what happened during the occurrence through the eyes of the participants. It should be noted, however, that the use of simulators is subject to certain limitations. Some situations can be simulated better than others. The investigator needs to be fully aware of the limitations and use other appropriate methods to supplement the simulator results. Simulators are very useful for: recreating aircraft behaviour in most situations (i.e. within the flight envelope).. recreating certain equipment malfunctions (e.g. engine failure, hydraulic failure).. recreating events that are related to visibility (e.g. runway incursions, fog, etc.).. Examples of situations where simulators are of limited value are: situations where high g forces are experienced.. assessment of the impact of the event on a person (except for the visuals, as stated above).. some equipment malfucnctions that are not well documented (and therefore not fully simulated).. events that happen outside the boundaries of the flight envelope (e.g. prolonged high angle of attack stall).. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), popularly refered to as drones, provide investigators with a number of options and advantages, e.g.: quick deployment. Unlike e.g. police or SAR helicopters, drones are deployable in a matter of minutes after reaching the accident site. Also, the pictures are immediately available.. full control. The operator (investigator) has a control over the flight path and the viewing angle therefore can position the camera at the optimal position.. high quality. Modern drones offer high quality cameras with image stabilization.. easy relaunch, if necessary to take additional footage.. can be ﬂown closely to trees and wreckage to obtain close-up images without disturbing them with rotor downwash.. can be easily programed to take a series of geo-tagged and overlapping overhead shots for photogrammetry purposes.. can operate in low-visibility and low-cloud conditions that would prevent an airplane or helicopter being operated.. low cost, when compared to other options (e.g. helicopters). One of the most useful features of drone pictures is the ability to combine them into an orthomosaic image (corrected for both perspective and scale, which has the same lack of distortion as a map) or a 3-d model of the site.