forward to counteract the false impression of pitch up. The aircraft was at 4380 feet QNH with a 30° bank to the left and a descent rate of 2200 fpm. As the aircraft passed 4 000 ft a few seconds later, the bank had increased to approximately 35° and the descent rate to 4600 fpm. At the same time, the aircraft was flying through the centre of the localiser beam with a heading of approximately 240° still in a left turn to regain it from the west. The rate of descent continued to increase, reaching a maximum of 5800 fpm and triggering an EGPWS warning of “TERRAIN AHEAD, TERRAIN AHEAD” before the commander began corrective action to an eventual wings level recovery back to the cleared altitude of 4000 feet. During the descent, the First Officer made calls of ‘SPEED SPEED’ to signify that the Flap 1 limit of 230 KIAS was going to be exceeded but subsequently stated that he “did not recognise the absence of the commanders’ response as a sign of incapacitation and therefore did not intervene by taking controls”. However, FDR data shows that on two occasions the First Officer briefly made contrary side stick inputs during the recovery without taking over. Information collected by the Investigation showed that the overall flying experience of the First Officer was very low relative to both his age and to the overall experience of the aircraft commander. FDR data showed that the aircraft had descended to a minimum of 2540 feet and that the lowest altitude directly above the terrain during the incident was 2030 feet - although nearby terrain reached to within 565 feet of this. FDR data also showed that the descent from 4000 feet to 2540 feet had taken about 17 seconds during which the airspeed increased to 260 knots, 30 knots above the flaps 1 limit. ATC DIR noticed the altitude deviation as the aircraft approached its minimum descent altitude and instructed the crew to start climbing to a “safe altitude” of 4 000 feet before briefly losing radar contact. The aircraft commander described to the Investigation having been disoriented when looking up as the aircraft began the sharp left bank towards the localiser and stated that he had disconnected both the AP and A/T in an attempt to regain control and situational awareness. He explained that he had subsequently concluded that “he most likely was exposed to spatial disorientation” which the Investigation noted had been reviewed in a Safety Study carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) and published as “An overview of spatial disorientation as a factor in aviation accidents and incidents”. In respect of ATC actions in repeatedly changing runway in use, the Investigation noted the remarks on this subject on page 55 of the European Action Plan for the Prevention of Runway Excursions (EAPPRE). The Investigation concluded that the aircraft crew had ‘fallen behind the aircraft’ as they attempted to get it established on the ILS approach and “became