An Investigation was carried out by the AIBN. DFDR and ATC radar data was available to support the Investigation. These sources were used to construct the annotated diagram of the approach track shown below. It was found that although there was no significant cloud at the destination airport, surface visibility was poor with freezing fog drifting in the vicinity so that whilst it was proving necessary to alternately close each of the two runways periodically for runway surface treatment, it was also necessary for ATC to bear in mind that Cat 2/3 approaches were only possible to runway 19R. The initial Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) copied by the inbound A320 gave light surface winds with runway 19R as the runway in use and visibility expected to reduce to 800 metres in fog. This was input to the FMGS as the primary approach but then on initial contact with Oslo APP, the runway to expect was changed to 19L and the AFGS primary was changed accordingly. However, whilst not directly informed of it, the crew then began noticing that other aircraft were being informed that LVP were in force and were aware that this implied an approach to 19R (or 01L). Eight minutes after initial contact with APP, and with speed control at 210 KIAS, the aircraft had been transferred to Oslo DIR which gave a radar heading of 280° and advised “prepare now for 19R localiser frequency 111.3 due weather conditions”. The crew did not notice the further runway change and therefore incorrectly read back “…heading 280° cleared ILS 19L” without challenge. After an exchange with another aircraft, DIR re-advised the runway and this time the read back was correct. By this point, the aircraft was configured with flaps 1 and less than a minute from the 19R localiser without a closing radar heading or explicit clearance to establish. The aircraft commander, who was PF explained to the Investigation that “he did not feel comfortable with the situation and that he considered requesting vectors for a new approach”. However due to a lot of traffic on the radio and proximity of the aircraft to the localiser, he decided to re-programme the FMGS for 19R and passed control to the First Officer whilst he did so. He reported needing two attempts to key in the correct runway for landing, but had not recognised that this was caused by mental overload and high stress level. Having set up the AFGS, he took over again as PF and activated APP mode, by which time the aircraft was so close to the localiser that “capture” happened almost immediately whilst flying though it at an angle of about 90 degrees so that the AP aggressively introduced a bank left with some sideslip to capture the localiser beam. Upon raising his head after briefly making some selections on the FMGS control panel, the PF perceived an aggressive aircraft pitch up instead of the actual bank and responded by disconnecting the AP and pushing the sidestick