controlled airspace may be granted provided the aircraft of the formation can maintain separation from each other visually and all aircraft are able to communicate with the formation leader. MATS Part 1 goes on to state that all ATC instructions and clearances will be addressed to the leader. JSP 318A states that the formation leader is responsible for separation between the individual units comprising the formation. For separation from other aircraft, formations may be considered as a single unit provided that the formation elements are within one nautical mile both horizontally and longitudinally and are at the same level or altitude. At the controller's discretion, these distances may be increased to 3nm and/or 1,000 feet vertically. [Not in conformance with ICAO SARPs]. While MATS Part 1 covers only formations that can maintain separation from each other visually, JSP 318A outlines procedures to be followed for 'stream' formations in which formation elements may maintain separation from each other either visually or by radar or by the use of station keeping equipment. For stream formations of more than one mile but less than three miles in length only the lead aircraft is required to squawk Mode 3/A and Mode C. Controllers are to identify the full extent of the stream formation during radar handovers, when effecting co-ordination and when passing traffic information. There is no requirement for formation elements not in visual contact with the leader to confirm that they have received or acted upon ATC instructions or clearances. The Report of the Investigation included the following conclusions: […]In particular the MOD [Ministry of Defence] has reduced the maximum permitted separation between aircraft within formations receiving an ATS service and introduced further restrictions for formations flying in category A to E airspace. In addition revised RT [radio telephony] procedures aimed at preventing confusion over the number of aircraft in formation and ensuring that all aircraft are at the formation's assigned level or altitude have been introduced. NATS and MOD have independently but co-operatively commissioned research into SSR garbling and the problems associated with formations and Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) with the aim of allowing all elements of a formation to be allocated individual SSR codes.. It was evident during the investigation that there are differences between the ATC formation procedures laid down in MATS Part 1 and those in JSP 318A. It was also noted that some civil controllers were unaware that some formation elements operating in accordance with JSP 318A would not be in visual contact with the leader. Whilst there is no evidence to suggest that these differences in procedure were causal in this incident, they are not conducive to a good understanding between civil and military controllers and they make it difficult for civil controllers to achieve full situational awareness. The CAA has recognised this issue and has requested more information on formation procedures from the MOD with a view to their publication for the benefit of civil air traffic controllers.. The system of formation call sign allocation