The following are extracts from the UK AAIB Report of the Investigation: About one minute after initial contact with MTC [Midland Terminal Control] the B757 was recleared to FL100. The controller acknowledged the B757 crew report on reaching FL100 and advised "MILITARY TRAFFIC IN YOUR ELEVEN O'CLOCK POSITION CROSSING LEFT TO RIGHT, ONE THOUSAND FEET ABOVE". The B757 crew acknowledged the advice and although the aircraft remained in cloud, they immediately began a visual search for the traffic, which their Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) was indicating one thousand feet above. The cloud proved to be too thick for visual contact with the military traffic, but the crew remained looking out as the TCAS contact passed clear down their right side. Shortly after the traffic passed clear and, whilst still in cloud, the commander and the first officer suddenly became aware of an aircraft in their left 'half-past ten' position at very close range and at about the same level. The aircraft, which they were immediately able to identify as a twin-tailed fighter and later as an F15, passed rapidly across the B757's nose and disappeared down their right side. The B757 crew heard the noise of the F15's engines and their aircraft encountered its wake turbulence. There was no time for the B757 crew to take avoiding action. Subsequent analysis of radar data indicated that at the closest point of approach the two aircraft were separated by less than the minimum range detectable by the radar which is 0.0625 of a nautical mile. As far as is known, none of the cabin crew or passengers saw the F15, but the cabin crew felt the disturbance as the B757 flew through the F15's wake. […] The two F15 were two seat modification ”E” flying on a training mission with a pilot under training on the front seat of the second fighter in formation. According to the report the trainee was in current flying practice on the single seat F15C, but there are several significant differences between the F15C and the F15E, and an F15E instructor pilot was in the rear seat. The two aircraft took off […] approximately 20 seconds apart and took up a 'trail' formation with the No 2 aircraft about two miles behind the leader. In accordance with standard procedures for this type of formation only the lead aircraft was transmitting a Secondary Surveillance Radar (SSR) code (Squawk). The aircraft climbed through cloud, with the No 2 aircraft maintaining position by use of radar, and levelled at FL100 in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) [Visual Meteorological Conditions]. Part of the briefed flight profile included an aircraft systems check for both aircraft to be carried out in VMC. The procedure for the checks involved a change of lead aircraft. The formation No 2 completed his checks and began to close on the lead aircraft to take the lead position, but the formation entered IMC, and the No 2 aircraft aborted the change of lead and dropped back