to about a 1.5 mile trail. In an attempt to regain VMC the lead aircraft requested from ATC a climb to FL110. Not long after the F15s became airborne, ATC [London Joint Area Organisation Central - LJAO - a Military radar service] cleared the F15s to cross the Daventry Radar Corridor at FL100, and the F15's request to climb to FL110 was made to LJAO shortly after the aircraft entered the Daventry Radar Corridor. The controller's initial response was for the flight to maintain FL100, but she contacted the MTC controller by landline to co-ordinate a climb. The MTC controller agreed the higher level and LJAO later cleared the F15 flight to climb to FL110. The leader immediately began a climb to FL110, but the No 2 aircraft did not hear the ATC clearance and maintained FL100. The two pilots of the No 2 aircraft later noticed that their radar showed the leader to be above their level, and they began a discussion of the indication. At about this time the front seat occupant was vaguely aware of a 'shadow' flashing rapidly down his right side. Shortly thereafter the LJAO controller asked the flight to confirm that both aircraft were level at FL110, and at this point the No 2 climbed rapidly to FL110. […] There was some confusion with the pre-notification of the incident F15 flight. A flight plan had been filed for a pair of F15s, call sign EAGLE 31, and a printed flight progress strip showing a flight of two aircraft planning to use the Daventry Radar corridor had been prepared and was at the LJAO controller's position. At 1003 hrs Lakenheath Departures called LJAO to pre-notify F15 traffic for the Daventry Corridor, call sign BOLAR 31. The LJAO controller confirmed that this traffic was in fact the same flight pre-notified as EAGLE 31, and prepared a hand written flight progress strip reflecting the new call sign, but he assumed that the flight was now a single aircraft and he annotated the hand written strip accordingly. The printed strip for EAGLE 31 showing a flight of two aircraft was discarded. The MTC controller advised the B757 of the crossing military traffic 1,000 feet above, and this was acknowledged by the crew who stated that the traffic was indicating on their TCAS. At this stage MTC had not been advised of the second F15 and neither the controller nor the co-ordinator had noticed the primary radar return of the rear F15 which was partly obscured on the radar display by the lead aircraft SSR label. The Report makes the following important clarifications of military formation flying procedures used in the UK and valid at the time of the incident: ATC procedures to be followed by aircraft flying in formation are outlined in CAA Manual of Air Traffic Services Part 1 (MATS Part 1) and MOD Joint Service Publication 318, Part 2 Air Traffic Control General (JSP 318A). MATS Part 1 states that clearance for formation flights to enter