An investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Accident Investigation Sector. Information on the taxi in was recovered from the aircraft QAR. The 46 year-old Captain had 5540 hours total flying experience including 2776 hours on type and had been acting as PF for the arrival at Dubai. The 33 year-old First Officer had 1372 total flying hours, all but 2.5 hours of which were on type. It was established that after vacating the runway, the aircraft routed as shown in the diagram below using both engines until it was about to make the final right turn onto the assigned parking gate. The No.2 engine was then shut down in accordance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and taxiing using the No. 1 engine. It was found that once the aircraft was on taxiway K, one of the 12 cabin crew had left her designated crew seat adjacent to the R4 door at the rear of the aircraft and walked forwards towards the L2 door position where she was to perform her nominated duty as the L2 door checker. However, in order to first retrieve her uniform hat from stowage at the very front of the aircraft, she had walked past the L2 door towards the front of the aircraft. By the time she reached this area, the aircraft was on taxiway Z and about to turn right onto the assigned parking gate. With the MLG already abeam the gate centreline, “the Captain applied firm braking in order not to overshoot the final turn” causing a sharp reduction in forward speed. The cabin crew member involved subsequently stated that although she had reached the stowage location at the time of the brake application, she was unsure whether she had been standing still or still walking. She did conclude since she had not yet retrieved her hat and had nothing to hold on to, when the brakes were applied she had not opened the cupboard. At that point, she “lost her balance and was thrown towards the forward section of the aircraft into the business class galley, making contact with the galley worktop surface before falling onto the floor, sustaining serious injuries to her neck and back”. It was estimated that she had walked almost 40 metres between leaving her crew seat and falling - and that she had done so in medium heeled shoes rather than low heeled cabin shoes. The Investigation examined the applicable Operations Manual content in respect of “Cabin Crew Safety-related Duties after Landing” and found that the Landing Checklist included the following: Remain seated until the seat belt sign is switched off unless it is necessary to perform a safety related duty.. After the final turn on to the parking stand, the flight deck crew will announce “Cabin Crew, prepare all doors and cross check.”. The fact that the Cabin Crew procedures at the time of the event allocated some door duties to cabin crew with allocated crew seats not near those doors was considered. It