was noted that most of the distance walked by the injured cabin crew had been necessary to reach her allocated door duty position rather than to retrieve her hat. It was further noted that changing position prior to the flight crew announcement to prepare doors for arrival was “an established cabin crew action which was not in accordance with the Operator’s SOPs or cabin manuals” when necessary to reach a door “prior to passengers leaving their seats and blocking the aisle, preventing access to the door”. It was considered that “had the (cabin crew involved) not left her seat (during taxi in) it is likely that she would not have been able to assume her safety function at the L2 door”. It was noted that “although the Investigation could not determine whether (the) style of shoe (worn had) affected the crewmember's balance when the aircraft brakes were applied firmly”, the accepted practice of shoe changing for in flight cabin service had not been risk assessed and there were no “mitigating advisory actions” in respect to cabin crew walking through the aircraft cabin during taxi whilst wearing high heeled/medium heeled shoes. It was also found that an amended procedure in relation to door checking which “eliminated the risk of walking long distances in the cabin while the aircraft is moving” was due to be implemented on 1 November 2014 and had already been published prior to the investigated event (on 16 October 2014). Using QAR data, a detailed analysis of the approach to the final turn was made. It was calculated that the maximum applied brake pressure had been reached 5 seconds before the right turn had commenced and that the effect of this brake application had been “a deceleration from 14 knots to 4 knots within 4 seconds” and occurred concurrently with the No 2 engine shutdown. It was found that the FCOM included the remark that "during engine shutdown, a slight jerk forward may occur if the flight crew apply the brakes during aircraft movement”. It was also noted that although the time after initiating the shutdown “was sufficient to complete the engine shutdown procedure […] the transition from completing the (shutdown) checklist and commencing to turn the aircraft turn was short and this required the Captain to apply firm braking to make the final turn”. It was concluded that “the flight crew’s situational awareness of the (right turn into the gate) may have been compromised by the time constraint imposed by the short taxi distance, the speed of the aircraft and carrying out the engine shutdown procedure”. However, it was considered that “although, the application of the braking caused the SCCM to lose her balance and fall”, it amounted to “a contributing factor and not the direct cause of this event” given that “the Accident most likely would not have happened had (she) stayed seated until the aircraft completed the final turned onto the parking bay”. The formal statement of Cause of the accident was that “the cabin