An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. It was noted that the 50 year-old pilot had a total of 8,577 hours flying experience of which included 1,250 hours on type and a total of just under 7 hours instrument flight time. He had recorded one regulatory violation from five years earlier which had involved operation in Class ‘B’ airspace without clearance and adequate awareness of SVFR (and VFR) minima. He had been employed by Island Express since 2011, initially flying the Airbus AS 350 before converting to the S76 in 2014. In 2016, he had been appointed Chief Pilot and become an instructor and examiner on the S76. It was established that after a VFR departure from Santa Ana where the weather was reported as a visibility of 4 miles in mist below a 1000 feet agl cloudbase, the helicopter flew not above an altitude of about 1,700 feet and generally between 400 and 600 feet agl. After thirteen minutes, the flight reached the edge of Burbank (BUR) CTZ having followed a north easterly track along the Interstate 5 highway towards its junction with the US 101 highway. The pilot requested a SVFR clearance through Burbank Class ‘C’ airspace turning west to track along the line of US highway 101 (see the illustration below). The ground track of the accident flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] At that time, Burbank, which is at an elevation of 778 feet amsl, was reporting a visibility of 2½ miles and a ceiling of 1,100 ft agl against the minimum requirement for a visibility of at least 3 miles. The controller advised the pilot to remain clear of Burbank airspace due to traffic and on request from the pilot advised that the last report of the cloud tops was an altitude 2,400 feet. For the next 11 minutes, the helicopter orbited as required to the southeast of the airport near to US Highway 101 at altitudes varying between about 400 and 600 feet agl maintaining a groundspeed of between about 40 and 70 knots. During this time, the Burbank TWR controller advised the pilot that because of multiple departures from Van Nuys (VNY), a clearance to cross by continuing to follow the Interstate-5 highway before crossing Van Nuys airspace to begin heading west towards destination could be given and the pilot responded with “no problem”. A SVFR clearance was subsequently provided as per expectation for the flight to follow the Interstate-5 northwest through Burbank airspace with the Van Nuys weather reported to be similar to that at Burbank. Just over two minutes later when the helicopter was about a mile from Burbank airport, the Pilot transmitted that he would like to follow SR 118 highway around Van Nuys (see the illustration above) and then pick up the US 101, which was acknowledged and the flight transferred to Van Nuys TWR. The pilot reported being at an altitude of 1,400 feet and requested an SVFR transition (actually the flight was at about 1,320 feet