Helicopters install flight data recording devices capable of supporting an OFDM program on each helicopter in its fleet and establish an OFDM program that reviews all available data sources to identify deviations from established norms and procedures as well as other potential safety issues. [A21-8]. In addition to those new safety recommendations, five others previously made in connection with earlier NTSB Investigations were also formally reiterated. Those recommendations were as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require all existing turbine-powered, non-experimental, non-restricted category aircraft that are not equipped with a flight data recorder or cockpit voice recorder and are operating Part 91, 121, or 135 to be retrofitted with a crash-resistant flight recorder system. The crash-resistant flight recorder system should record cockpit audio and images with a view of the cockpit environment to include as much of the outside view as possible and parametric data per aircraft and system installation, all as specified in Technical Standard Order (TSO) C197, ‘Information Collection and Monitoring Systems’. [A-13-13] Now Classified as ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’.. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all Part 135 operators to install flight data recording devices capable of supporting a flight data monitoring program. [A-16-34] Now Classified as ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’. that the Federal Aviation Administration, after the action in Safety Recommendation A-16-34 is completed, require all Part 135 operators to establish a structured flight data monitoring program that reviews all available data sources to identify deviations from established norms and procedures and other potential safety issues. [A-16-35]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require all Part 135 operators to establish safety management system programs. [A-16-36]. that Airbus Helicopters, Bell, Leonardo Helicopter Division, MD Helicopters, Robinson Helicopter Company, and Sikorsky, a Lockheed Martin Company provide, on their existing turbine-powered helicopters that are not equipped with a flight data recorder or a cockpit voice recorder, a means to install a crash-resistant flight recorder system that records cockpit audio and images with a view of the cockpit environment to include as much of the outside view as possible and parametric data per aircraft and system installation, all as specified in TSO C197, ‘Information Collection and Monitoring Systems’. The recorder system installation should be considered essential equipment that remains installed for the life of the helicopter and have provisions to ensure it remains operational during each flight. [A-20-29]. The Final Report of the Board was adopted on 9 February 2021 and subsequently published.