(520 feet agl)). The TWR controller cleared the flight to transition to Van Nuys Class ‘D’ airspace at or below an altitude of 2,500 feet following the SR 118 highway. Once past the northern limit of the Van Nuys CTZ, the helicopter left the SR 118 and began to track around the western edge of the zone towards US Highway 101. The Van Nuys TWR controller then instructed the pilot to change to the Southern California TRACON (SCT) frequency and on checking in there, the pilot advised the radar controller that the flight was heading for Camarillo in “VFR conditions” at an altitude of 1,500 feet (equivalent to 550 feet agl). The controller asked if the pilot was planning to “stay down low....all the way to Camarillo” and on receiving an affirmative response advised that radar and radio contact with the flight would probably soon be lost and instructed the pilot to “squawk VFR” (code 1200) and contact Camarillo TWR once closer to the airport. Shortly after this, the flight reached the US 101 and turned right to follow it west toward Camarillo at an altitude of about 1,420 feet (550 ft agl) making about 140 knots groundspeed. A witness who saw the helicopter flying west at this time reported “variable fog and overcast cloud conditions that varied with ‘heavy low clouds’ in some places and other areas where the cloud base was higher”. She also reported having seen the helicopter flying “below or at the cloud line” before it “disappeared into heavy clouds” which she described as a “thick wall”. Based on ADS-B data, the helicopter was at this time at the point marked on the illustration above as ‘Witness Location’ and was at an altitude of about 1,370 feet, equivalent to 450 feet agl. Soon after this witness sighting (and at the position timed at 0944:34 UTC on the illustration below), the pilot called on the SCT frequency to say that the flight was “gonna go ahead and start our climb to go above the, uh, layers, and, uh, we can stay with you here” and the helicopter immediately began to climb at around 1,500 fpm, entering a gradual left turn whilst still remaining generally over the US 101. Another SCT controller (who had taken over the position from the previous one) responded by asking the pilot his position and his response that he was just west of Van Nuys prompted a request to “ident”. After noting that the flights transponder code was showing VFR (1200), the controller asked the pilot if he was requesting flight following (a type of ATC radar advisory service), to which the pilot replied “yes sir”. As the helicopter continued its climb reaching a maximum of 2370 feet amsl - around 1600 feet agl - the left turn steepened and it began to turn away from US 101 and descend at an increasingly rapid rate. As this descent began, the SCT controller asked the pilot for his intentions and received the response that