the flight was “climbing to 4,000 feet amsl”. The controller asked the pilot his plans once reaching that altitude but received no response. The accident impact occurred just one minute after the climb had commenced with the final ADS-B data point showing 180 feet agl about 500 feet southwest of the impact point which was at an elevation of approximately 1,100 feet amsl in hilly terrain. A witness close to the impact site reported first hearing the helicopter and then seeing it emerge from the cloudbase “in a left-banked descent about 1 or 2 seconds before impact”. The flight path including the final minute with the climb then transitioning to a steep descent. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation gathered comprehensive information on the nature of Island Express’ VFR-only flight operations. This led to an evaluation of the following ‘Safety Issues’: The pilot’s preflight weather and flight risk planning:. The pilot completed a company flight standard flight risk analysis form about two hours before the accident flight’s departure. Based on the form’s risk scoring criteria, the pilot’s score for the accident flight was within the company’s low-risk category. However, updated weather information available at the time the accident flight departed included conditions that meant that the form’s risk items would have scored differently and would have required the pilot to seek input from the Director of Operations and gain approval for an alternative plan. However, company guidance as to whether the accident pilot was expected to complete an updated form (which he did not do) was unclear. The flight’s entry into instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) and the pilot’s inadequate adverse weather avoidance:. At the time the pilot took action to initiate a climb, the helicopter had already begun penetrating cloud. Although the pilot’s adverse weather avoidance training had emphasised avoiding entry into IMC by slowing the helicopter and manoeuvring or landing, there was no evidence that he attempted to do either. The pilot’s spatial disorientation:. As the helicopter climbed rapidly into cloud and IMC while in a gradual left turn, the pilot’s associated loss of outside visual references made him susceptible to vestibular illusions that can lead to spatial disorientation. Influences on the pilot’s decision to continue the flight into adverse weather:. The pilot’s continuation of the accident flight into IMC was inconsistent with his typical judgment and decision-making behaviour and was likely influenced by his self-induced pressure, lack of an alternate plan and plan continuation bias. Island Express’ incomplete implementation of its SMS:. The company had an SMS that was neither required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) nor part of the company’s FAA approved or accepted programmes. Although the company used some SMS tools, it did not implement the entire SMS program it had obtained and did not perform any safety assurance evaluations, such as those that could have ensured the effectiveness of the flight risk analysis forms. The benefits of a mandatory SMS:. Had Island Express’ SMS been required by the FAA, it would have been