subject to FAA oversight to inspect the SMS for alignment with FAA objectives and to provide feedback to help the company implement the entire program. The benefits of flight simulation devices for pilot training in adverse weather avoidance:. Flight simulation devices can present pilots with representations of deteriorating weather conditions that cannot be realistically duplicated during flight training conducted in helicopters in visual meteorological conditions. The use of simulation devices during scenario-based helicopter pilot training has the potential to improve pilots’ abilities to accurately assess weather and make appropriate weather-related decisions. The benefits of an Operational Flight Data Monitoring (OFDM program:. OFDM involves the recording and analysis of flight-related information to help pilots, instructors, or operators improve performance and safety. An OFDM program, which can be integrated into an SMS, has the potential to provide important information regarding pilot performance during flights, which may be particularly beneficial for operators like Island Express that conduct single-pilot operations and, thus, have little opportunity to directly observe their pilots in the operational environment. The value of crash-resistant flight recorder systems in preventing future accidents:. Certain circumstances of this accident could not be conclusively determined, including the visual cues associated with the adverse weather and the pilot’s focus of attention in the cockpit following the flight’s penetration of clouds and entry into IMC. A crash-resistant flight recorder system capable of capturing audio and images could have provided this valuable information, possibly enabling the identification of additional safety issues and the development of safety recommendations to prevent similar accidents. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined by the Board as “the pilot’s decision to continue flight under visual flight rules into instrument meteorological conditions, which resulted in the pilot’s spatial disorientation and loss of control”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the pilot’s likely self-induced pressure and the pilot’s plan continuation bias, which adversely affected his decision-making.. Island Express Helicopters’ inadequate review and oversight of its safety management processes.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require the use of appropriate simulation devices during initial and recurrent pilot training for Part 135 helicopter operations to provide scenario-based training that addresses the decision making, skills and procedures needed to recognise and respond to changing weather conditions in flight, identify and apply mitigation strategies for avoiding adverse weather, practice the transition to the use of flight instruments to reduce the risk of spatial disorientation and maintain awareness of a variety of influences that can adversely affect pilot decision-making. [A-21-5]. that the Federal Aviation Administration convene a multidisciplinary panel of aircraft performance, human factors, and aircraft operations specialists to evaluate spatial disorientation simulation technologies to determine which applications are most effective for training pilots to recognize the onset of spatial disorientation and successfully mitigate it, and make public a report on the committee’s findings. [A21-6]. that Island Express Helicopters participate in the Federal Aviation Administration’s Safety Management System Voluntary Program. [A21-7]. that Island Express