The causes of in flight Loss of Control, whether transitory or terminal, are many and include: loss of Situational Awareness (especially through Distraction but also through Complacency),. Low level wind shear or higher level Clear Air Turbulence (CAT),. Structural or multiple power plant damage caused by, for example, by a Bird Strike, exposure to severe Turbulence, or collision with another aircraft.. Intended or unintended mishandling of the aircraft,. Attempted flight with total load or load distribution outside of safe limits. Unintentional mismanagement of Aircraft Pressurisation Systems,. An attempt to take off without ensuring that critical parts of the the airframe are (or will be at rotation) free of both frozen deposits and previously applied ground de/anti-icing fluids. The effects of high levels of airframe ice accumulation or a significant loss of power on all engines attributable to engine icing,. Attempting to manoeuvre an aircraft outside its capabilities to resolve a prior problem (including mis-navigation).. Fire in the Air. Fuel exhaustion or starvation. False instrument readings displayed to the flight crew. Wake turbulence, especially if recommended spacing is not maintained. Pilot Induced Oscillation. Malicious interference. In-flight Loss of Control is (2007) the biggest single cause of transport aircraft fatal accidents and hull losses. More attention to recovery from unusual attitudes for larger aircraft operating without a visual horizon reference is also needed, since a significant proportion of airborne loss of control accidents still occur when, if recognition of an abnormal aircraft attitude had been followed promptly by the optimum recovery action, a fatal outcome could still have been avoided. The ‘Loss of Control’ issue for light aircraft is much more focused on marginal VFR weather and associated ‘press-on-itis’ and 'get-home-itis’ and on the consequences of operating aircraft which are not certificated for flight in icing conditions in such conditions, both intentionally and unintentionally. Light aircraft pilots not adequately trained in instrument flight who end up in conditions which require it may also end up unable to retain aircraft control until a visual horizon can be re-acquired.