The Preconditions for Unsafe Acts level is divided into three categories: environmental factors,. condition of operators, and. personnel factors.. These three categories are further divided into subcategories. Environmental factors refer to the physical and technological factors that affect practices, conditions and actions of individual and which result in human error or an unsafe situation. Condition of operators refers to the adverse mental state, adverse physiological state, and physical/mental limitations factors that affect practices, conditions or actions of individuals and result in human error or an unsafe situation. Personnel factors refer to the crew resource management and personal readiness factors that affect practices, conditions or actions of individuals, and result in human error or an unsafe situation. Environmental Factors Physical Environment: Refers to factors that include both the operational setting (e.g., weather, altitude, terrain) and the ambient environment (e.g., heat, vibration, lighting, toxins).. Technological Environment: Refers to factors that include a variety of design and automation issues including the design of equipment and controls, display/interface characteristics, checklist layouts, task factors and automation.. Condition of Operators Adverse Mental State: Refers to factors that include those mental conditions that affect performance (e.g., stress, mental fatigue, motivation).. Adverse Physiological State: Refers to factors that include those medical or physiological conditions that affect performance (e.g, medical illness, physical fatigue, hypoxia).. Physical/Mental Limitations: Refers to the circumstance when an operator lacks the physical or mental capabilities to cope with a situation, and this affects performance (e.g., visual limitations, insufficient reaction time).. Personnel Factors Crew Resource Management: Refers to factors that include communication, coordination, planning, and teamwork issues.. Personal Readiness: Refers to off-duty activities required to perform optimally on the job such as adhering to crew rest requirements, alcohol restrictions, and other off-duty mandates..