An emergency evacuation means the urgent abandonment of an aircraft utilising all useable exits. Typical reasons why exits are blocked by flight attendants for being “unuseable” are fire, water or other danger — but also predominant can be the unexpected functional issue of a slide’s unsafe condition or position, and problems operating a door, overwing hatch or tailcone exit. For aeroplanes, the umbrella term escape slide encompasses single lane and dual-lane emergency evacuation slides, slide/rafts, exit ramps and combination ramp/slides. The evacuation slide is a device folded, packed and installed inside a cabin door or into an external fuselage compartment. The slide deploys automatically a few seconds after an armed door has been opened with electrically powered actuation or manually with a handle. Automatic inflation occurs until the erection of the air compartments stops (in a maximum 10 seconds). If functioning normally, the evacuation slide at this point enables safe descent from a floor-level exit or from an aircraft wing. (A manual-inflation system serves as an optional backup to the automation.) The slide/raft functions similarly as a slide for an emergency landing on the ground and adds capabilities for evacuation after a water landing (ditching). The device’s mooring line, which fastens the slide/raft to a point near its exit door, can be cut by occupants with the supplied emergency knife. Otherwise, the line’s fail-safe breakpoint will release the slide/raft due to forces exerted by the sinking aircraft. After separation, the slide/raft functions as a typical life raft with lanyards, heaving line, protective canopy and a fitting to accept a hand-operated air pump. Survival kit equipment, the hand pump, lights, raft-boarding station and emergency-locator devices support the rescue of survivors. Flight attendants carry equipment to slide/rafts and life rafts, such as emergency locator transmitters, megaphones, first aid kits and flashlights. An exit ramp is an inflatable platform designed to help evacuees to safely descend from certain overwing exits to the wing. A combination ramp/slide, also called a slide/ramp, is an inflated platform (ramp) extending horizontally at sill height from certain overwing exits, leading to an evacuation slide for descent from the wing to the ground.