an improvement in visibility, the evidence available suggested that there had been insufficient focus by the crew on validating their position during the subsequent taxi out.. The DC-9 Captain, having realised that the aircraft could be on the active runway, began an escape manoeuvre without waiting for the First Officer to finish his exchange with the GND controller.. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was: "The unknown incursion of DC-9 on the runway 01/19, when the B727 was on take-off roll. The DC-9 was on the active runway because visibility conditions due to fog in the zone where the aircraft was taxiing prevented the crew obtaining sufficient visual references to determine that their taxi route was not the correct one that they should follow to reach the threshold of runway 01". Nine Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Flight Crews should be reminded/instructed about the importance of training on coordination in the flight deck and the effective deployment of resources.. that Flight Crews be reminded/instructed about the possible orientation difficulties when taxiing if they only take into account available RVR readings.. that Aeronautical Authorities should establish minimums and publish taxiing procedures for aircraft and vehicles for different visibility conditions on the movement areas of airports.. that Aircraft Operators should give instruction to their flight crews for taxiing in low visibility conditions, establish restrictions on taxiing and provide taxi charts which are easily interpreted.. that Airport Operators should ensure that signage and markings on taxiways are painted in colours which are sufficiently differentiated from those used on active runways. Any one way taxiway should have appropriate signage and markings.. that Airport Operators should ensure that active runway crossings are appropriately protected with signage and lighting that includes a standardised warning light indicating intersection with an active runway placed adjacent to the sign on the taxiway indicating the position of the holding point.. that the ICAO consider establishing different levels of mandatory and standardised signage and lighting for the movement area of airports.. that National Aeronautical Authorities should encourage Aircraft Operators to fit CVRs in every aircraft used for air transport.. that National Aeronautical Authorities should encourage Aircraft Operators to fit digital FDRs which are capable of recording a greater number of parameters in every aircraft used for air transport.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed in May 1986 and subsequently published in both Spanish and English.