but then, in what was assessed to have been a reaction to a recognition that the aircraft had entered a runway, it turned right to cross to the opposite side of the runway and as it did so, was hit by the 727 which, with the Captain as PF, had just passed V1. The 727 had begun taxiing towards the runway 01 threshold after the DC-9 but as it had been parked a lot nearer and had reached there well ahead of when the DC-9 would have, and had then been cleared for take-off whilst the DC-9 was still on the GND frequency. At the point of impact, the DC9 was on runway 01/19 approximately 230 metres south of the intersection of that runway with runway 15/33. A fuel fed fire began immediately in the wreckage of both aircraft. It was found that this final turn by the DC-9 had begun at the point where the GND controller had commenced his radio call querying the aircraft's position in the absence of the requested call when entering taxiway 'O5'. The radio exchange and the manoeuvre had both taken up the 19 seconds which remained until impact. The Investigation considered various possible explanations for the gross error in taxiing by the DC-9 crew and, at length, examined issues relating to the measurement of RVR in relation to meteorological visibility in radiation fog of the sort which prevailed at Madrid on the morning of the accident. For the purpose of the latter, reference was made to the then-current ICAO Circular 148 'Surface Movement Guidance and Control Systems' (1979). It was noted that at the time of the accident, there was no applicable State regulation or guidance on low visibility taxiing by departing aircraft although there was reference in the AIP to procedures for "towed aircraft", "arrivals" and "movement of vehicles on the apron" in low visibility conditions. The airport was limited to Cat 1 approaches by arriving aircraft although plans to progress to Cat 2 had been initiated in 1979. In respect of the recorded flight data available to assist the Investigation, the limitations of the type of FDRs installed in both the aircraft involved and the loss of potentially useful evidence due to the lack of a retrospective regulatory requirement to fit a CVR to the DC-9 were noted. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: In the area where the DC-9 was taxiing, the forward visibility in the fog was less than that at the various fixed positions at which it was recorded.. Radio transmissions to the GND controller from the DC-9 in respect of position were not timely and when made without sufficient clarity were not queried.. There was no specific (airport) plan for aircraft taxiing in low visibility (and) neither had aircraft operators established firm guidance for their flight crews.. Monitoring of compliance with taxi clearances issued by ATC was completely reliant on position reports from aircraft.. Although the DC-9 crew had initially delayed their departure to await