available for Runway 14. Approximately four minutes before landing, TWR gave the wind as from 020° at 17-23 and issued a landing clearance. The approach was stabilised and the AP was kept engaged. A final spot wind of 010° at 19 knots (indicative of a 13 knot crosswind component) was provided by TWR approximately one minute before landing but the crew subsequently stated that they had not recognised this. The AP was disconnected at approximately 100 feet following which the aircraft descended at a rate that was high enough to cause an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE” annunciation just before the aircraft entered the flare. The threshold was then crossed at 35 feet agl and touchdown followed 365 metres from the beginning of the 2350 metre-long runway. During the flare, the airspeed fluctuated between 13 and 17 knots above the VREF calculated for runway 05 and not subsequently revised. The groundspeed at touchdown was some 26 knots above the (originally calculated) VREF. The speedbrakes and thrust reversers were deployed on touchdown and the autobrake system activated for 8 seconds after touchdown which was consistent with the autobrake 3 setting. Maximum reverse thrust was reached seven seconds after touchdown as the aircraft was decelerating through 144 knots groundspeed with 1340 metres of runway remaining and soon after this, the Captain reported having realised that deceleration was less than he had expected and initiated manual braking, upon which the antiskid system activated. Twelve seconds later decelerating through 68 knots groundspeed (60 knots airspeed) with 520 metres of runway remaining, the Captain selected reverse thrust to idle and reduced the amount of braking. It then became apparent that the aircraft was not going to have slowed down enough to make the turn off at the end of the runway and it overran onto the snow-covered grass RESA and came to a stop 91 metres from the end of the runway. The airport RFFS attended and after confirmation that there was no visible damage to the aircraft and there were no injuries, everyone remained on board until buses arrived to transport them to the terminal. The first bus arrived after about 35 minutes but it was 1½ hours before the last of the 172 passengers were disembarked. Whilst waiting for buses, the flight crew received an ACARS message from the maintenance controller reminding them to trip four specific CBs to interrupt power to the CVR and FDR which they did but as the CVR CB was not one of the four, it continued recording. There was no evidence indicating that the aircraft was other than airworthy in all relevant respects at the time of the investigated event. The Investigation therefore focused on the consequences of the crew’s decision-making process when changing runways and the aircraft performance on the contaminated runway with the tailwind conditions present. The wind velocity information provided by ATC at the time the crew determined that the lowered cloudbase would preclude a successful landing on runway 05 as originally intended were such as