the flight crew and, as a result, they continued the approach to Runway 14.. The unchanged target approach speed combined with the tailwind resulted in the aircraft crossing the threshold 10 knots faster than recommended and touching down at a faster groundspeed, thus requiring a longer stopping distance.. The wet snow contamination on the runway resulted in a reduction in braking effectiveness, contributing to an increase in landing distance.. The increase in the landing distance due to the fast approach, combined with the tailwind component and contaminated runway, was in excess of the remaining runway available and resulted in the overrun.. Two Findings as to Risk were also formally recorded as follows: If the cockpit voice recorder is not disabled following an occurrence, there is a risk that information valuable to the Investigation may be lost.. Without additional cues (e.g., enhanced technology or visual aids) to help flight crews determine runway suitability before landing and aircraft position once on a runway, there is a continued risk that flight crew actions based on weak or non-salient cues will result in runway overruns.. Safety Action taken by WestJet as a result of the investigated event prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: A revised emergency response checklist was created to include the requirement to trip the CVR/FDR CBs after an incident.. A new OFDM event was added to capture landings made with the detected crosswind component in excess of the permitted maximum.. An awareness communication was issued to all pilots to highlight the importance of considering continually changing conditions that may impact runway surface or anticipated wind conditions, the importance of utilising the actual runway of intended landing for performance calculations and the requirement to obtain the numbers from two out of three of the required methods - the ACARS Landing Distance Calculator, the Takeoff and Landing Report or the QRH actual landing distance table.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 5 May 2021 and it was officially released on 20 May 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.