to result in a 15 knot tailwind component for runway 14. However, this was not noticed by either pilot and thereafter, the relatively small subsequent changes in wind velocity were unlikely to have been registered as of significance, thus contributing to the continuation of the approach to runway 14. The 15 knot tailwind component and those subsequently implied by all later wind velocity reports exceeded the clearly stated company landing limits of 10 knots, which even if met would have still required a lower than normal approach speed of VREF+5 knots. All methods of calculating a landing distance which would have produced a result if input of the out of limits tailwind component had been accepted, would have produced a required landing distance which exceeded runway 04 LDA (landing distance available).. Although the Captain flew a stabilised approach, he did so using a VREF+15 approach speed as intended for a nil tailwind approach to runway 05 and maintained it to the landing flare. Touchdown was within the TDZ and deceleration devices were initially deployed as standard. The decision to commence manual braking in an attempt to improve on the use of autobrake 3 was considered not to have made any difference since the anti-skid system would have been active in either case.. Although the runway surface condition advised for runway 14 was the same as for runway 05 - ‘trace of wet snow’- the achieved deceleration was in fact indicative of ‘medium to poor’ rather than the ‘good to medium’ implied by the description ‘trace of wet snow’. The Investigation was unable to determine the actual condition of the runway but it was observed that even if the braking action had been ‘good to medium’, the required landing distance would still have exceeded the distance available.. In respect of the information available to the Captain on how much of the runway was still ahead in relation to his use of deceleration aids, it was noted that runway 14 had a longitudinal profile which would have precluded sight of the end of the runway until about two thirds of the way along it. However, recorded data showed that the aircraft had travelled past this point before the maximum braking effort was reduced.. Five Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally recorded as follows: While preparing for the runway change, the flight crew mentally assessed that the wind for Runway 05 would become a crosswind for Runway 14. As a result, they did not recalculate the effects of the wind for the approach to Runway 14, but rather considered that the landing distance and the target approach speed calculated for Runway 05 were still appropriate.. The reported winds on the ground had backed and increased slightly as the flight progressed. This resulted in a tailwind component that exceeded the operator’s limitation of 10 knots, a lower required approach speed of Vref + 5 knots, and a landing distance that exceeded the runway length available. None of this was recognized by