as published in the AIP, 2160 metre long runway 29 has neither a RESA, nor a Stopway and did not meet the applicable ICAO standards for a runway strip which only extends 10 metres beyond the end of the runway - a 60 metre strip which extends before the threshold and beyond the end of the runway or stopway is required. Only 30 metres from the end of runway 29, there is the steeply sloped ravine followed by a major road adjacent to the airport perimeter fence. It was noted that although the Captain of the accident aircraft was aware of the ravine and had sought to avoid it, it was not included in the Sao Tome AIP entry. The Cause of the Accident was determined as “the rejection of the takeoff at a speed above decision speed V1 due to the presence of birds on the runway which is inconsistent with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of CAVOK Airlines”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Failure of the crew to deploy the speed brakes/spoilers.. Inadequate flight crew training on details of rejected take-off procedure scenarios.. The omission of the take-off briefing from CAVOK’s Normal Operations Checklist.. Poor Crew Resource Management (CRM), especially for a multi-crew flight operation.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should improve the habitat management programme (including reduction or elimination of trees, shrubs and other plants which provide food, shelter or roosting sites for birds).. that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should enhance its aerodrome grass management appropriate to the prevalent species and the degree of risk that they pose.. that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should liaise with local inhabitants to limit the attraction of birds to fields (in the vicinity of the airport).. that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should install specialized ground-based radar equipment used for tactical detection of large flocking birds.. that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should adopt and extend Runway End Safety Area to conform to ICAO standards.. that the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (National Civil Aviation Authority of STP) should include the information about the ravine at the end of runway 29 into the AIP and issue it as a Notice To Airmen (NOTAM).. that the Ukraine Civil Aviation Authority should enhance its oversight functions by reviewing all safety related items pertinent to operators’ checklists and manuals.. that CAVOK Airlines should review its Rejected Take Off (RTO) training syllabus to incorporate robust RTO training plan for both initial and recurrent aircraft type simulator training and assessment to include unexpected scenarios and stop-go decision making.. that CAVOK Airlines should review its Normal Operations checklist in order to include take-off briefing as an item for each flight.. The Final Report