not enough, he used emergency braking. Then, with about 200 metres of runway left, and having realised that it would not be possible to stop on what was left of the runway, he had begun to intentionally turn to the right with the intention of extending the available stopping distance and trying to avoid entering the ravine located just 15 metres beyond the end of the runway. It was found that the crew had failed (presumably inadvertently) to deploy the speed brakes/spoilers during the rejected take off and noted that this action would have made a significant contribution to slowing the aircraft both directly and by indirectly facilitating enhanced braking effectiveness which may have enabled the aircraft to be stopped on the runway. Just before the aircraft left the end of the runway at its right hand edge at a speed of approximately 40 knots, the Captain instructed the Flight Engineer to close the fuel emergency shutoff cock. After leaving the runway, the aircraft then continued for about 95 metres as it plunged into the ravine (see the illustration below) at which point impacts led the forward fuselage to separate from the bulkhead located immediately to the rear of the flight deck. The TWR controller saw the aircraft leaving the runway and immediately alerted the ARFS who went to the crash site and applied foam to the wreckage to prevent any risk of fire breaking out before rescuing the occupants. The initial post-crash inspection conducted by the Investigation did not find any immediate physical evidence of a bird strike in the vicinity of the engine or visible within the left engine, although bird remains were visible embedded in the nose landing gear. However, a subsequent engine inspection by the manufacturer’s representative found “fragments of birds feathers” at various locations within the left engine - fan blades, slots between the guide vanes, the cavity of the lower engine mount strut and embedded in the main engine cowling - which confirmed that a bird encounter of some sort had occurred. The recovered bird fragments and photographs of a dead bird found on the runway were sent to specialists in Ukraine. Their report suggested that the fragments of feathers probably belonged to the recovered dead bird which “might have been ingested into the left engine as a result of being ‘overtaken’ by the aircraft from behind during takeoff”. Noting that the engine had failed immediately after surging for no apparent reason, it was also considered equally possible based on the nature of the impact that the aircraft had impacted and ingested part or all of a bird in flight during the take-off roll just before the left engine surge occurred. No final conclusion as to the origin of the bird remains which had entered the engine was therefore drawn but the bird species involved was likely to have been a juvenile Common Honey Buzzard, Pernis apivorus, a diurnal carnivorous species in the area known to be a ground feeder which seeks insect food