in grass not kept short. NB: Although not mentioned in the Official Report, the mass of a juvenile Common Honey Buzzard would have been significantly less than the 1.8 kg up to which current EASA and FAA certification requirements are that ingestion of a single bird at takeoff thrust shall enable at least 50% thrust to be obtained for at least 14 minutes provided there is no thrust lever movement on an affected engine for at least 15 seconds after impact. Although it was not suggested that it would have necessarily have prevented the accident bird strike, it was noted that the usual runway inspection to check for the presence of the birds was not carried out prior to the departure despite this being a requirement of the Airport Wildlife Control Programme. The Investigation considered that having taken control when the birds appeared ahead, the Captain had unnecessarily delayed initiating a rejected takeoff until the aircraft was 10 knots above the applicable V1. He stated that his action was “motivated by a state of emergency and aimed at minimising the consequences of the occurrence, since an aircraft overrun during the takeoff is obviously less dangerous than an aircraft impact at failure of two engines at the initial stage of the climb”. However, it was noted that he had specifically requested runway 29 when runway 11, also 2130 metres in length, was equally suitable when aware that there was a steep ravine just over 30 metres from its end with a “major road” just beyond it outside the perimeter fence. It was also found that none of the sequence of normal checklists required to be completed prior to takeoff included the item “Take-off Briefing” despite the fact that the Ukrainian CAA had reviewed these checklists on 21 February 2017 and approved them. There was therefore no definition of the responsibilities of individual members of the four man flight crew in the event of any unexpected emergency or abnormal condition - or adequate crew training in support of safe rejected takeoffs. This alone was considered to have resulted in degraded CRM with the consequence that interaction between crew members was not optimal. In respect of the overrun, it was determined that if the rejected takeoff had been initiated at or before the correctly calculated V1 of 108 knots the aircraft, which was almost 7 tonnes lighter than the MTOW of 34.8 tonnes, should have been able to accelerate normally and then stop within a total distance of 1500 metres, some 660 metres before the end of the runway as long as maximum braking was applied and the spoilers deployed. It was also concluded that even with delayed and moderate braking, initiation of the reject by V1 and use of the spoilers/speed brakes should have resulted in the aircraft being brought to a full stop without leaving the runway. It was only “the combination of the reduced braking effectiveness and RTO initiation speed which resulted in the runway excursion”. It was noted that