An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Banjul Accord Group Accident Investigation Agency (BAGAIA) after the State of Occurrence, Sao Tome & Principe, delegated the entire investigation to BAGAIA which is the Regional Accident Investigation Authority. Both the FDR and the CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data was successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 59 year-old Captain had a total of 12,847 hours flying experience of which 986 hours were on type. The 48 year-old First Officer had a total of 5,389 hours flying experience of which 618 hours were on type. The flight crew also included a 56 year-old Flight Engineer who had a total of 17,301 flying hours of which 4,479 hours were on type and a 57 year-old Navigator who had a total of 11,974 hours flying experience of which 286 hours were on type. There were also two ground support personnel on board, an airframes and powerplant engineer and an avionics engineer. All occupants were qualified for their roles by the Ukrainian CAA. It was established that the previous day, the aircraft had arrived in Sao Tome from Stavanger via Luxembourg and Ghardaia (Algeria) as a non-scheduled cargo flight. The following morning, the same crew prepared the aircraft for a flight to Accra which included refuelling the aircraft with an uplift of 5,700kg. Once ready to go, TWR initially issued a clearance to taxi to runway 11 as marginally favoured by the very light surface wind across the runway but the crew expressed a preference for runway 29 and their request was approved. It was noted that no information about the possible presence of birds on the runway, which is the subject of a cautionary note in the AIP entry for the airport, was given. Once cleared for takeoff, it was commenced with the First Officer as PF. According to the subsequent statement of the Captain, "five or six eagles had flown up from the runway and been dangerously close to the aircraft". He had instructed the Flight Engineer to check that the runway lights were on and to carefully monitor the engine instruments. The crew “asserted” that the birds had appeared from the grass next to the runway as the aircraft was accelerating through about 100 knots and had not previously been seen. The Captain took over control of the aircraft from the First Officer and reported that after assessing the situation for around four seconds that it was appropriate to abandon the take-off due to the risk of losing both engines. At that same moment, the crew heard a bang, which they suspected was a bird strike and it was followed by warnings of “Left Engine Failure”, “Dangerous Vibration” and “Takeoff is prohibited”. The available recorded data showed that the rejected takeoff began from 120 knots about five seconds after the birds were first sighted. The Captain instructed the Flight Engineer to deploy the thrust reversers and began braking but at about 70 knots, realising that this braking was