It was established that the First Officer had been PF and that the flight crew had detected abnormal pitch control during the approach as soon as Flaps 35° had been set with the First Officer stating that she had "run out of (nose down) trim". However, they concluded that the aircraft was still controllable and in particular noted that elevator control was still available. After establishing the aircraft on the final approach at about 700 feet aal the flight crew discussed whether to return the flap to 20° but, having satisfied themselves that the aircraft was still controllable with control authority in all axes, they decided to continue the approach to land. The nominated Reference Speed (Vref) of 113 KIAS was achieved over the runway threshold but as the First Officer began to flare the aircraft for touch down, she reported having remarked that it “does not feel normal". Nevertheless, the touchdown was uneventful with the thrust lever movement from Flight Idle towards Ground Idle being commenced normally. However, as both power levers were retarded below Flight Idle, the aircraft nose began to rise rapidly. The stall warning activated and despite both pilots applying full nose down elevator, the nose continued to rise until the crew lost sight of the horizon. The crew considered carrying out a go-around, but with the stall warning activated and doubts about the aircraft's controllability they decided to remain on the runway. After a "few seconds" at the maximum attitude reached, the power levers were advanced to Flight Idle and the aircraft nose pitched downwards. Following this de-rotation and the selection Reverse propeller pitch, the crew were able to bring the aircraft to a halt about 350 metres from the end of the 1430 metre long runway. The aircraft came to a stop in an unusually high nose attitude and the flight crew had to confirm with ATC that the nose wheel was in contact with the ground. The aircraft commander decided to disembark some rear-seated passengers and the hold baggage before taxiing to the ramp. The passenger bags were weighed after landing and were found to be 215 kg more than shown on the load and trim sheet. A further weight and balance calculation was then made using the actual weights and distribution found and this disclosed that the aircraft had been 85 kg over maximum take-off weight, the maximum load for one of the two rear baggage compartments had been exceeded by 45 kg and the aircraft had operated with a centre of gravity (CG) position beyond the aft limit for both take off and landing. The investigation considered that the principal event in the sequence of events leading to this accident was the mis-loading of the aircraft holds in Aberdeen, which was not in accordance with the loading instructions issued. It was also noted that “despite this operation of the aircraft with the CG position beyond the aft limit there were other factors that also contributed to the tail scrape.” It was