An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were located and recovered and their data were successfully downloaded and of assistance to the Investigation. The 60 year-old Captain had a total of 11,172 flying hours experience which included 1,252 hours on type of which 157 hours were in command. After joining Atlas Air as a 767 First Officer in 2015, he had failed to complete type training to a standard which was considered adequate to take the type rating check ride but after remedial training had taken and passed it. He had then been placed in the Pilot Proficiency Watch Program (PWP) and remained within it for 15 months. Eighteen months after this, he successfully upgraded to 767 Captain and had subsequently successfully completed his first recurrent training on type two weeks prior to the accident. The 44 year-old First Officer had a total of 5,073 flying hours experience which included 520 hours on type. He had joined Atlas Air as a 767 First Officer in July 2017 and commenced initial type training. He had required additional remedial training prior to taking and passing his oral type rating examination and further remedial training before achieving the standard required during fixed base simulator training to begin full flight simulator training for the type rating. He subsequently failed his practical 767 type rating examination due to “unsatisfactory performance in CRM, TEM, non precision approaches, steep turns, and judgment”. During an interview conducted as part of the Investigation, the Examiner who failed him stated that the First Officer “was very nervous, had very low situational awareness, overcontrolled the airplane, did not work well with the other pilot, omitted an emergency checklist during an abnormal event and exceeded a flap speed”. The Examiner also said that the First Officer had “not been thinking ahead and (that) when he realised that he needed to do something, he often did something inappropriate, like push the wrong button”. He added that the First Officer’s performance was so poor that he had wondered if he would be able to “mentally recover” enough to complete the course, however, after further remedial training, he had done so. His subsequent initial line training and recurrent checks were completed without further problems. No evidence was found that any aspect of the airworthiness or loading of the aircraft played any part in the loss of control which led to the accident. No evidence was found that the performance of either of the pilots involved was impaired by a lack of physical fitness to fly but “there was insufficient information to determine whether they were fatigued at the time of the accident”. It was established that the First Officer had been acting as PF for the flight. As the descent towards Houston continued, FDR data showed that the aircraft had been descending normally at a pitch attitude of around 1° nose down with the AP and A/T engaged. With the flight about 73 miles southeast of Houston