recover". Three Contributory Factors were also identified as: the Captain’s failure to adequately monitor the airplane’s flight path and assume positive control of the airplane to effectively intervene.. Systemic deficiencies in the aviation industry’s selection and performance measurement practices, which failed to address the First Officer’s aptitude-related deficiencies and maladaptive stress response.. The Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to implement the Pilot Records Database in a sufficiently robust and timely manner.. Safety Action taken by Atlas Air after the accident was noted to have included: revisions to its interview process for new pilots to include a telephone screening interview where questions are asked to gauge credibility and consistency in an applicant’s answers during formal interview.. the addition of a pilot logbook review to the interview process so as to obtain a better picture of the applicant’s overall career trajectory.. the addition of an additional level of review of each candidate’s Pilot Records Improvement Act (PRIA) records by a member of the flight operations team to provide an additional technical perspective to its candidate vetting process.. the formulation of a Standard Operating Procedure dedicated solely to pilot hiring.. A total of 6 new Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration inform Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 119 certificate holders, air tour operators, fractional ownership programs, corporate flight departments, and government entities conducting public aircraft operations about the hiring process vulnerabilities identified in this accident, and revise Advisory Circular (AC) 120-68H, ‘Pilot Records Improvement Act and Pilot Records Database’ to emphasise that operators should include flight operations subject matter experts early in the records review process and ensure that significant training issues are identified and fully evaluated. [A-20-33]. that the Federal Aviation Administration implement the Pilot Records Database and ensure that it includes all industry records for all training started by a pilot as part of the employment process for any Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 119 certificate holder, air tour operator, fractional ownership program, corporate flight department, or governmental entity conducting public aircraft operations regardless of the pilot’s employment status and whether the training was completed. [A-20-34]. that the Federal Aviation Administration ensure that industry records maintained in the Pilot Records Database are searchable by a pilot’s certificate number to enable a hiring operator to obtain all background records for a pilot reported by all previous employers. [A-20-35]. that the Federal Aviation Administration establish a confidential voluntary data clearing house of de-identified pilot selection data that can be used to conduct studies useful for identifying effective, scientifically-based pilot selection strategies. This program should be modelled after programs like the Aviation Safety Information Analysis and Sharing (ASIAS) and Flight Operations Quality Assurance (FOQA). [A-20-36]. that the Federal Aviation Administration issue a safety alert for operators to inform pilots and operators of Boeing 767- and 757-series airplanes about the circumstances of this accident and alert them that, due to the close proximity of the speed brake lever to the left