and buried beneath up to 10 feet of soft mud”. Lightweight cargo and composite airplane structure were found floating in the bay or along the shore up to 20 miles south of the initial impact point. More than 90% of the wreckage was recovered over a continuous seven week period and taken to a warehouse for examination. Selected flight parameters and crew speech following go around mode activation. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Since the available evidence pointed to inadvertent activation of go around mode during descent, the way this was most likely to have happened was considered. Activating this mode required a pilot to push one of the go-around switches located on the outboard lower surface of each thrust lever. This process was confirmed by a ‘click’ sound on the CVR at the same time as the FDR recorded the mode change. Whilst it was not possible to be sure which go-around switch was pushed or how, it was determined that a likely scenario for its activation was that the First Officer probably had one hand on the (extended position) speed brake lever as a reminder to retract the speed brakes upon capture of the selected altitude (3000 feet) and the associated automatic increase in thrust in accordance with the applicable Atlas’ SOP for automated flight control. Simulator observations of pilots performing this scenario were found to show that a right seat PF holding the speed brake lever can place their left hand and wrist under the thrust levers and thereby “sufficiently close to the left go-around switch such that very little upward arm movement would be needed to make contact with the switch”. It was considered that the light turbulence which was recorded at the time of mode activation would have been sufficient to move a pilot’s arm this small distance and result in their wrist or wrist watch inadvertently moving the go around switch. This proposition is illustrated on the picture below. Whilst the unexpected mode change associated with inadvertent selection of go-around mode and the abnormal altitude at which it had occurred would have been readily detectable by either pilot making an effective instrument scan and both the flight mode annunciator (FMA) and the EICAS would have displayed “GA” indications, neither pilot appeared to have appreciated the mode change. Had they done so, Atlas’ SOPs required that the response to unwanted operation of automated flight systems should be disconnection of the automation. The position of a right seat pilot’s left hand and wrist whilst holding the speed brake lever. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that although the First Officer had been slow to verbalise awareness that something unexpected had happened, the manual control inputs that began before this were considered to suggest that he had “sensed changes in the aircraft state and had begun to react without fully assessing the situation”. It was considered that manual retraction of the speed brakes 5 seconds after go-around mode activation was probably an instinctive action of