go-around mode switch, it is possible to inadvertently activate the go-around mode when manipulating or holding the speed brake lever as a result of unintended contact between the hand or wrist and the go-around switch. [A-20-37]. that the Federal Aviation Administration convene a panel of aircraft performance, human factors, and aircraft operations experts to study the benefits and risks of adapting military automatic ground collision avoidance system technology for use in civil transport-category airplanes and make public a report on the committee’s findings. [A-20-38]. Six Previously Issued Safety Recommendations, four which remain ‘Open’ because the response received has been deemed ‘Unacceptable’ and two for which the response has not yet been classified and were also formally reiterated as a result of this Investigation. They are as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require all Part 121 and 135 air carriers to obtain any notices of disapproval for flight checks for certificates and ratings for all pilot applicants and evaluate this information before making a hiring decision. [A-05-1] Classified ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’. that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to document and retain electronic and/or paper records of pilot training and checking events in sufficient detail so that the carrier and its Principal Operations Inspector can fully assess a pilot’s entire training performance. [A-10-17] Classified ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’. that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to provide the training records requested in Safety Recommendation A-10-17 to hiring employers to fulfil their requirement under the Pilot Records Improvement Act. [A-10-19] Classified ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’. that the Federal Aviation Administration develop a process for verifying, validating, auditing, and amending pilot training records at 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91K operators to guarantee the accuracy and completeness of the records. [A-10-20] Classified ‘Open - Unacceptable Response’. that the Federal Aviation Administration require that all existing aircraft operated under Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 121 or 135 and currently required to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder be retrofitted with a crash-protected cockpit image recording system compliant with Technical Standards Order TSO-C176a, “Cockpit Image Recorder Equipment” or equivalent (and) the image recorder should be equipped with an independent power source consistent with that required for cockpit voice recorders in 14 CFR 25.1457. [A-15-7] Response Not Yet Classified. that the Federal Aviation Administration require that all newly manufactured aircraft operated under Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 121 or 135 and required to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder also be equipped with a crash-protected cockpit image recording system compliant with TSO-C176a, “Cockpit Image Recorder Equipment”, or equivalent (and that) this image recorder should be equipped with an independent power source consistent with that required for cockpit voice recorders in 14 CFR 25.1457. [A-15-8] Response Not Yet Classified. The Final Report of the Investigation was dated