and having just passed through 18,000 feet, the Captain checked in with the Houston Terminal Radar Control (TRACON). A few minutes later, the controller advised of an area of variable precipitation about 35 miles ahead and that they could expect vectors to navigate around it. Just after this exchange, the First Officer was recorded as saying “okay - I just had a…,” before temporarily transferring PF duties to the Captain. Whilst acting as PM, the First Officer confirmed to ATC that the flight would like vectors to take it west of the weather and acknowledged the re-clearance to 3000 feet QNH, to be conducted expeditiously due to potentially conflicting outbound traffic so as the descent continued, the speed brakes were extended. The controller then advised the flight to turn left onto 270°, which the Captain acknowledged before transferring PF duties back to the First Officer. Just under a minute later, with the aircraft about 40 miles from Houston and passing 6,300 feet QNH, FDR data showed that the go-around mode had been activated. During the next six seconds, the engaged automation advanced the thrust levers and commanded an increase in the pitch attitude to about 4° nose up to initiate a climb. Neither pilot indicated that they had recognised the unintentional activation of the go-around mode and neither took action to disconnect the automation and the Captain “continued to receive and respond to routine ATC communications”. Five seconds after the go-around mode activation, the speed brakes were retracted and the elevators began to move in response to manual control inputs commanding a steadily increasing amount of nose down pitch which caused the aircraft to enter a steep descent. It was noted that on the subject aircraft type, the automated flight systems could be overridden but such action would not disconnect the automation. After a further 8 seconds, the CVR recorded the First Officer saying “oh” followed in an elevated voice by “whoa… (where’s) my speed, my speed… we’re stalling” and a few seconds later by him exclaiming “stall”. The corresponding FDR data at this time determined that the airspeed and pitch attitude were not consistent with a stalled or near stalled condition and the stall warning system was not activated. Almost immediately, after the “stall” callout by the First Officer, the Captain was recorded as asking “what’s goin’ on?” and three seconds later, the non revenue pilot passenger occupying the supernumerary crew seat called out “pull up”. This call was followed by the elevators moving in a manner consistent with manual control inputs to achieve a nose up pitch attitude. These nose up pitch control inputs continued for the remaining 7 seconds of the flight but failed to arrest the descent in time to prevent terrain impact. An annotated depiction of the final 32 seconds of the flight is depicted below. The wreckage of the aircraft was scattered in a marshy area of Trinity Bay with most of it “immersed in or submerged beneath water up to a foot deep