First Officer at a succession of regional air carriers. He had been employed as an Embraer 120 First Officer between 2008 and 2010 and again between 2013 and 2014. In 2011, he had failed to complete a DHC-8 type rating (and resigned) and in 2012 he had failed to complete a CRJ type rating (and resigned). Completion of an Embraer 145 type rating in 2014 was followed by failed line check (and resignation). In 2015, he had obtained an Embraer 175 type rating with Mesa Airlines before failing in an attempt to upgrade to Captain after two years as a First Officer and resigning. This long history of training performance difficulties was found to have been characterised by “a tendency to respond impulsively and inappropriately when faced with an unexpected event” during training at multiple employers which suggested a consistent “inability to remain calm during stressful situations, a tendency that may have exacerbated his aptitude-related performance difficulties”. Overall, it was concluded that “although compelling sensory illusions, stress, and startle response can adversely affect the performance of any pilot, the First Officer had fundamental weaknesses in his flying aptitude and stress response that further degraded his ability to accurately assess the airplane’s state and respond with appropriate procedures after the inadvertent activation of the go-around mode”. It was found that Atlas Air’s reliance on the use by their human resources personnel of “designated agents” to review the background records of applicants for pilot jobs and thereby identify any significant concerns was an ineffective process and had led directly to “the company’s failure to evaluate the First Officer’s unsuccessful attempt to upgrade to captain at his previous employer”. It was more generally observed that operators who “rely on designated agents or human resources personnel for initial review of records obtained under the Pilot Records Improvement Act should include flight operations subject matter experts early in the records review process”. It was also concluded that “the manual process by which Pilot Records Improvement Act records are obtained” could easily result in the assessment of a prospective pilot employee’s history not obtaining all background records for a pilot who has failed to disclose a previous employer due to either wilful deception or, having resigned before successfully completing the initial aircraft type training required to be “considered fully employed”. In respect of the situation generally, it was concluded that “had the FAA met the deadline and complied with the requirements for implementing the pilot records database (PRD) as stated in Section 203 of the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010, the PRD would have provided hiring employers relevant information about the First Officer’s employment history and training performance deficiencies”. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as “the inappropriate response by the First Officer (acting) as the PF to an inadvertent activation of the go-around mode, which led to his spatial disorientation and nose-down control inputs that placed the airplane in a steep descent from which the crew did not