the First Officer on feeling the increased load factor as the aircraft levelled off and hearing the increase in engine thrust which he was likely to have been anticipating when the aircraft reached its cleared altitude. In the absence of any apparent recognition by either pilot of any problem, it was concluded that when the aircraft’s acceleration and upward pitch began to increase about a second later - which would have resulted in an aft movement of the gravito-inertial force (GIF) vector detectable by the pilots, the manual forward control column inputs which were then applied were likely to have been made by the First Officer. It was noted that at the time this occurred, the Captain was in communication with ATC as part of his PM duties. On the basis that human vestibular and somatosensory systems alone cannot distinguish between acceleration forces due to gravity and those resulting from manoeuvring of an aircraft, it was surmised that the First Officer’s pitch down control movement when confused as to the unexpected situation could plausibly be attributed to somatogravic illusion of a pitch up to which the only defence is reliance on the aircraft instruments. About fifteen seconds after the go-around mode activation, FDR data showed that after initially confining his attention to communications and thereby not monitoring the aircraft state, the Captain had belatedly reacted to the dive by taking hold of his control column and pulling back against the First Officer’s continued nose down control input. This resulted in the elevator system control column override mechanism splitting the positions of the elevators on each side. FDR data showed that “these opposing elevator control forces continued for about 10 seconds” during which the dive became steeper. Available weather information showed that the aircraft would have emerged from cloud at around 3,000 feet QNH at which point, FDR data showed that both elevators began to move concurrently in the nose-up direction, reaching full nose up and then remaining there until impact. It was considered that the Captain’s failure to take over full control or disconnect either the AP or the A/T indicated that he had not been able to fully process the aircraft’s energy state, its automation status or the reason for the First Officer’s actions in the time available. He had thus enabled the First Officer to continue to force the aircraft into a steepening dive until "the situation was unrecoverable”. The First Officer’s career history was examined to see if his unacceptable response to the unexpected change of automated flight mode might have any bearing on it. It was found that he had repeatedly submitted “incomplete and inaccurate information about his employment history on resumes and applications” and that these represented “deliberate attempts to conceal his history of performance deficiencies” and had “deprived Atlas Air and at least one other former employer of the opportunity to fully evaluate his aptitude and competency as a pilot”. It was noted that between 2008 and 2017, he had been employed as a