The use of urgency phrases has some safety aspects. There are situations where improper use can lead to or contribute to a loss of safety. Some potential scenarios for this are: Reluctance to use urgency instructions – it is possible that a controller is unwilling to use urgency phrases. They may be unsure the situation demands it or they may think that since urgency phrases do not imply exact restrictions, their use is just a waste of time. This may lead to pilots not responding promptly enough.. “Expedite” undefined – since “expedite” does not assign a specific vertical speed it is possible that the safe outcome depends on providence (as shown in example 4 above).. Differences in training and documentation – controllers and pilots are trained at different facilities, at different times and in different countries. This can easily lead to a situation where the controller expects a particular response from a pilot and/or the latter gets a wrong impression of the expectations of the former. Precious time can be wasted in a time-critical situation.. Line up, be ready for immediate departure – ICAO Doc.9432 states that it is acceptable to issue the line-up instruction and the takeoff clearance separately. It is possible, however, that the controller gets distracted, or the frequency gets blocked (e.g. by an unexpected lengthy transmission). In this case there is an aircraft on the short final and another one lining up. A possible outcome here is a missed approach that could have easily been prevented.. Situation misjudgment concerning an immediate departure – a controller may assess the traffic situation wrongly due to the many and complex factors that need to be considered (speeds and positions of the aircraft, the absence or restricted availability of radar equipment). A contributory factor here can be that the procedure for an immediate departure is not adequately specified in applicable procedures.. Pilots accepting an immediate takeoff clearance when the aircraft is not ready – the reasons can include misunderstanding the degree of urgency implied or wrongly assessing the readiness of the aircraft..