The word “expedite” is used when a higher-than-normal rate of climb or descent is required. It provides a simple way to achieve vertical separation because the use of a single word instruction reduces the chances of an incorrect readback. The use of “expedite” implies that the action should start “now”. The controller’s expectations when the word expedite is used are that climbing aircraft will maintain the best rate of climb possible and that descending aircraft will achieve vertical speeds between 2000 fpm and 3500 fpm. When using “expedite” in respect of the rate of climb or descent, a controller should remember that such an instruction is not a specific vertical speed. For climbing aircraft, even the best possible rate of climb may not be sufficient to ensure ay required traffic separation and for descending aircraft the chosen rate of descent is at the pilot's discretion and the degree of uncertainty about the vertical position will grow as time passes. Examples of proper and improper use of “expedite”: Another example for the use of the word “expedite” in a time-critical situation is when an aircraft is requested to vacate (or to cross) a runway and to do so without delay. ICAO Doc. 4444, 7.10.3.1 states: When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic, a landing aircraft may be requested to: [..] d) expedite vacating the runway. However, caution should be used when issuing this instruction to a landing aircraft because the pilot may be unable to assess the extent of the implied urgency and may be indirectly encouraged to attempt to exit the runway at an inappropriately high speed or to continue along the runway to the first (but distant) exit at an inappropriately high speed which may then lead to directional control difficulties if ground speed is not reduced to that appropriate to the turn off. The timing of any such instruction to landing traffic should also be considered carefully. When given to traffic whilst it is still airborne, it may indirectly encourage a long landing and when given to any aircraft whilst still at a high ground speed during the landing roll, it may represent a distraction to the pilot(s) at a critical time. ICAO Doc. 4444 is specific regarding the phraseology to be used when a runway crossing clearance which must be actioned quickly is issued: EXPEDITE CROSSING RUNWAY (number) TRAFFIC (aircraft type) (distance) KILOMETRES (or MILES) FINAL.