of the “Fuel Imbalance” checklist which indicated that the procedure was not to be applied in case of a suspected fuel leak. That could have made the crew consider the existence of a fuel leak. It was only shortly afterward that the crew noticed the fuel on board was only 11 tons, 8.5 tons below the expected quantity. Both the imbalance and fuel quantity indications remained inexplicable to the crew because: Engine indications were reviewed and no abnormalities were found.. There had been no other in-flight events or conditions that could have led to the fuel loss.. The cabin crew did not observe any sign of a fuel leak during a visual check.. The fuel loss rate appeared to be abnormally high.. Apart from the lower-than-expected quantity of fuel on board, no other signs such as electronic centralized aircraft monitor (ECAM) warnings supported the assumption.. All these factors confirmed the crew’s initial mental image (confirmation bias), and therefore the crew concluded that the problem was a computer fault. Contributing to the crew building an incorrect mental image (situational awareness) was the high workload in that phase of flight, which included: Flying the aircraft.. Diagnosing the fuel fault, which entailed simultaneously deciding, remembering and looking up information, requesting assistance from the cabin crew and the MCC, and scanning to acquire new information.. Coordinating the diversion, which included planning and performing the diversion, and radio communications with ATC and the MCC.. When the estimated fuel on board at destination dropped below the minimum level, the captain decided to divert to the alternate airport. It was only when the remaining fuel on board dropped to 7 tons that the crew reassessed the possibility of a fuel leak. Suspecting that there was a fuel leak from the right wing tank, the captain decided not to apply the relevant procedure (nonadherence to procedures) because it would have obliged him to descend to 20,000 ft. If there was really a fuel leak, he would be losing fuel anyway, and that would have reduced his margin for maneuver by giving up altitude and performance. The crew suffered from framing bias in its decision making, which is a bias toward choosing a less probable but more disastrous loss in preference to a sure but more limited loss. The pilots stated that they continued to believe the low fuel-quantity indications were caused by a computer error and continued in this belief up to and beyond the flameout of the right engine. Indeed, they were so fixed in their mental image that sensitivity to detecting errors or signals that did not conform to their image was greatly reduced (confirmation bias). The captain showed excellent airmanship and flying skills during the engines-out descent and landing, given that the situation was stressful, it was night, there were few instruments available and pitch control was limited. The first officer provided full and effective support to the captain during the engine-out glide and the successful landing.