they led to accidents and incidents, the Investigation noted that although an Flight Data Monitoring programme was not a regulatory requirement, an assessment of the handling differences between the three variants of ATR-72 in the fleet, which was considered as a potential factor in landing technique during the investigation, would have been more effective with access to such data rather than relying on pilot comments on the subject. The Investigation concluded that the Probable Cause of the accident was “excessive approach speed and inadequate control of aircraft pitch during a crosswind landing in very blustery conditions” and that Contributory Factors were: (1) Confusing wording in the FCOM that led the crew to compute an excessive wind factor in the determination of Vapp. (2) Incorrect power handling technique while landing. (3) Inexperience of the pilot in command. (4) Inadequate information provided to flight crew regarding crosswind landing techniques Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. On 23 Aug 2011 it was recommended: that Aer Arann should review the maximum crosswind limitations for approaches onto RWY 24 at Shannon in conditions where the wind direction lies in the sector from 260° - 320° and the wind speed is more than 15 knots, i.e. when turbulence on the landing/approach may be expected.. [IRLD2011010] The remaining four Safety Recommendations were issued following the completion of the Investigation: that Aer Arann should review the training provided to its pilots regarding crosswind landings and standard speed call outs during approach. that Aer Arann should institute a Flight Data Monitoring (FDM) program across its fleet.. that Avions de Transport Regional (ATR) should provide improved guidance regarding landing techniques for the different models of ATR 72 during turbulent crosswind conditions.. that Avions de Transport Regional (ATR) should amend its FCOM to provide a better understanding of “gust in full” and “headwind velocity” in the determination of wind factor computations, thus preventing the computation of an excessive wind factor when determining approach speeds.. In respect of the 2011 Recommendation, the Investigation was subsequently advised that Aer Arann had addressed its content through the issue of Flight Crew Instruction FCI No. ATR 11/13 which designated Shannon as a Category ‘B’ airport with special requirements including a reduction in the normally applicable Cat 1 crosswind limits and to wet/contaminated runway limits. It was noted that because the Aircraft Operator was considered to have satisfactorily addressed the consequences of approach and landing with an IAS well in excess of the computed Vapp, no Safety Recommendation on that subject was necessary. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 15 May 2013