An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. DFDR and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was successfully downloaded and ATC and useful airport CCTV recordings were also available. It was found that the final stopping position was on the left hand edge of Taxiway Alpha parallel with its centreline and some 1200 metres from the initial impact marks on the runway. During its ground track to this position, the aircraft left hand propeller was found to have struck a runway sign, demolishing it and damaging one propeller blade and a runway edge light was also destroyed. It was found that the Captain, PF for the accident landing, had recently been promoted to command after acquiring the majority of her flying experience as a First Officer on the accident type with the operator. Having achieved just over 200 hours in command, she was clear of restrictions placed on new commanders. The First Officer had over a year’s experience on type with the operator. It was established that immediately prior to the accident landing, another landing had been attempted on the same runway and rejected in favour of a go around following contact of the nose landing gear before the main landing gear – although on this occasion at only 1.3g. During that go around, the CVR recording included the Captain stating that it was her first go around since promotion and only her third ever during line operations. The First Officer commented that it was her first go around in the past year. The Investigation also noted that “following the go-around the CVR recording indicated that the PF had higher levels of stress”. DFDR data indicated that both approaches had been flown at a considerably greater airspeed than recommended. The ATR72 FCOM was noted to recommend Vapp (calculated as 99 knots in this case) plus a ‘wind factor’ defined as “the highest of 1/3 of the headwind velocity” and the gust factor (the difference between the mean wind speed and the maximum gust) until a flare at 20 feet agl when power should be reduced to flight idle for touchdown at a slightly lower airspeed. Information provided by the aircraft operator was at variance with this and led to a Vapp of 114 knots compared to the FCOM method which would have produced 107 knots. However, DFDR data (see diagram below) showed that “the typical IAS flown during both approaches was 20 to 25 knots above that”. It was also noted that “although both flares correctly commenced at 20 ft RADALT, the IAS recorded on both occasions were excessive at touchdown, momentarily reaching 139 and 140 knots respectively (which) was partly due to the PF increasing torque after flaring.” The first attempt at landing had involved two main gear bounces in quick succession followed by a pitch down input which caused the aircraft to bounce on the nose landing gear before transitioning into the subsequent go around without further event. The second landing attempt, although intentionally planned at the TDZ