rather than intentionally displaced upwind, consisted of one main gear bounce followed by a similar pitch down input which forced the nose landing gear onto the runway and precipitated the collapse of the leg. Collateral damage caused failure of one of the two hydraulic systems and led to the normal engine feathering and shutdown methods being rendered ineffective, which delayed that action. The Investigation established that the prevailing cross wind conditions did not exceed the limits established by the operator which were slightly more restrictive than those given by the aircraft manufacturer. However, the potential effect of additional turbulence generated by a large six-bay hanger situated 450 metres from the runway 24 TDZ with the prevailing wind direction (see below) was considered. It was noted that the required ATC caution about this turbulence had been given and that, like all Aer Arann flight crew, the accident aircraft pilots were aware of it. A technical assessment undertaken in 1996 following reports of turbulence resulting from the construction of this hangar was found to have concluded that there were only “slight wind velocity deficits and turbulence intensity changes along the runway close to the hangar when the approach wind is blowing almost normal to the rear face of the hangar." However, the author of the Report, when contacted by the Investigation “stated that a neutral air mass had been considered and that no allowance was made for atmospheric instability” which would typically - and had at the time of these approaches - prevailed. A study of the effect of building-generated turbulence on aircraft making an approach published by the Dutch NLR in 2010 was also consulted. However, after considering these sources against the available evidence from the investigated event, it was stated that “the Investigation notes from the DFDR readouts that the gains and losses of IAS, though significant, were of short term duration, typically over one or two seconds, and is satisfied that the longer term average airspeed changes were due to engine power changes and not wind shear”. At the time of the accident, although the secondary runway 13/31 was still in use, the airport operator advised the Investigation that that "a maximum weight restriction of 25 tonnes for landing or take-off movements had been imposed and the runway was last used in 2001 for landing and take-off”. It was declassified as a runway on the 26 July 2012 “due to its surface condition not being in conformity with ICAO recommendations regarding longitudinal slope changes and smoothness of surface.” In respect of the performance of the flight crew, the Investigation concluded that “the severity of the prevailing conditions was not recognised by either of the Flight Crew, either before or after the go-around” and that the objective of landing at Shannon “was not evaluated against the prevailing weather conditions and their relative experience levels”. However, it was also concluded that guidance available to the Operator’s crew on crosswind landing techniques was deficient. In respect of managing operational safety issues before