An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The combined CVFDR was recovered and successfully replayed, making a significant contribution to the available evidence. Two Special Bulletins were issued in early stages of the Investigation. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the 132nm flight with the cruise being made at FL055 and the AP engaged in four-axis mode. On the basis of the initial destination weather report, the crew had decided to make an Non Precision straight in Airborne Radar Approach (ARA) commencing from an altitude of 1500 feet which had a MAP at 0.75 nm prior to the platform and an MDH of 300 feet on the radio altimeter. Shortly before reaching 1500 feet, Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) was regained and since the crew could what appeared to be the ETAP platform it was agreed to make a straight-in visual approach descending on the radio altimeter to a height of 300 feet as necessary to remain clear of any cloud. Before reaching 1500 feet, the crew visually acquired the lights and flare of the ETAP platform at a range of about 20 nm and decided to make an en-route descent to a height of 300 feet to position the helicopter for a visual approach and landing. However, when low cloud was entered during the descent to 300 feet, a climb to 400 feet was all that was necessary to regain visual contact with the platform. A second descent to 300 ft was initiated at a range of 1.5 nm but, again, the helicopter entered low cloud and a climb was commenced. At 400 feet the platform lights and flare became visible again and the aircraft commander, remaining as PF, continued the approach. He de-selected the upper modes of the AP at a range of approximately 0.75 nm and also de-selected the 150 feet radio altimeter height call out. Whilst manoeuvring left, the helicopter entered a continuous descent. The First Officer identified and called out the descent but no corrective action was taken. He also called out range and speed. Both pilots could see the platform flare and diffused lights but only the First Officer could see the green perimeter lights of the helideck. The PF became focussed on visually acquiring the helideck which was not visible to him. Neither pilot was aware of the continued descent and neither could see the oval shape defined by the perimeter lighting and so had no means of visually determining the approach path angle. The PF gradually pitched up in order to maintain what he thought was a constant approach angle using the visual picture of the platform relative to his windscreen. The non-cancellable 100 ft height audio alert did not activate (and it was concluded that this was probably due to a malfunction of the GPWS/TAWS of which the pilots were unaware). The PF reported having had “the sensation that the helicopter was high and fast” and had therefore increased the pitch attitude and both pilots