thought that the helicopter was still above the level of the helideck when it impacted the sea surface. Very soon after thus, the helicopter impacted the surface of the sea with the last vertical acceleration reading on the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) just over 4g. It remained upright and the Helicopter Emergency Floatation Systems (EFS) deployed. With only the emergency exit lights illuminated, the PF located the engine control switches and selected them to ‘off’ whilst shouting to the passengers not to evacuate until the rotors had stopped. Evacuation into both life rafts was accomplished uneventfully. It was considered that “it was probable that both pilots were subjected to the effects of oculogravic and somatogravic illusions possibly reinforced by the reflection of the platform lights in the surface of the sea”. The Investigation noted that: there was no specified visual approach profile providing the crew with recommended range, height and rate of descent information for the approach.. there were no minimum heights at which a go-around must be initiated... there was no specified procedure for the PM to monitor the approach using the flight instruments.. The platform helideck lighting was in full compliance with the guidance contained in UK CAA CAP 437.. The helideck perimeter lighting was visible from below the 166 feet elevation of the deck.. The apparent GPWS/TAWS malfunction which prevented the 100 feet height alert sounding would also have prevented the 150 feet alert sounding had not been deselected anyway.. survivable water impacts such as this highlighted various opportunities for safety improvement in respect the safe recovery of survivors.. Although recovered, the helicopter was declared a hull loss because of extensive damage caused by the impact, prolonged salt water immersion and additional damage sustained during the salvage operation. It was established that the helicopter had been airworthy and there were no open ADDs which might have had a bearing on the accident. However, a transient false TAWS alert was noted as having occurred en route during the accident and it was noted that the ETAP Platform was not in the TAWS database. The Investigation formally identified the following Causal Factors: The crew’s perception of the position and orientation of the helicopter relative to the platform during the final approach was erroneous. Neither crew member was aware that the helicopter was descending towards the surface of the sea. This was probably due to the effects of oculogravic and somatogravic illusions combined with both pilots being focused on the platform and not monitoring the flight instruments.. The approach was conducted in reduced visibility, probably due to fog or low cloud. This degraded the visual cues provided by the platform lighting, adding to the strength of the visual illusions during the final approach.. The two radio altimeter-based audio-voice height alert warnings did not activate. The fixed 100 ft audio-voice alert failed to activate, due to a likely malfunction of the GPWS/TAWS, and the audio-voice element of the selectable 150 ft alert had been suspended by the crew. Had the latter