not been suspended, it would also have failed to activate. The pilots were not aware of the inoperative state of the TAWS.. In addition, the Investigation also formally identified the following Contributory Factors: There was no specified night visual approach profile on which the crew could base their approach and minimum heights, and stabilised approach criteria were not specified.. The visual picture on final approach was possibly confused by a reflection of the platform on the surface of the sea.. A total of 27 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation. Four of these were made during the Investigation and first published in Special Bulletin S4/2009 which was issued on 23 June 2009 as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority review the carriage and use in commercial air transport helicopters of any radio location devices which do not form part of the aircraft’s certificated equipment.. [2009-064] that the Civil Aviation Authority advise the European Aviation Safety Agency of the outcome of the review on the carriage and use in commercial air transport helicopters of any radio location devices which do not form part of the aircraft’s certificated equipment.. [2009-065] that the European Aviation Safety Agency require manufacturers of Emergency Locator Transmitters (ELT(S)s)/Personal Locator Beacons (PLBs) units to add details, where absent, of the correct use of the antenna to the instructions annotated on the body of such beacons.. [2009-066] that the Civil Aviation Authority ensure that all aspects of Emergency Locator Transmitter (ELT(S))/Personal Locator Beacon (PLB) operation, particularly correct deployment of the antenna, are included and given appropriate emphasis in initial and recurrent commercial air transport flight crew training, as applicable.. [2009-067] The remaining 23 were published at the conclusion of the Investigation: that the Civil Aviation Authority re-emphasises to Oil and Gas UK that they adopt the guidance in Civil Aviation Publication (CAP) 437, entitled Offshore Helicopter Landing Areas - Guidance on Standards, insofar as personnel who are required to conduct weather observations from vessels and platforms equipped for helicopter offshore operations are suitably trained, qualified and provided with equipment that can accurately measure the cloud base and visibility, in order to provide more accurate weather reports to helicopter operators.. [2011-049] that the Civil Aviation Authority encourages commercial air transport helicopter operators to make optimum use of Automatic Flight Control Systems.. [2011-050] that the Civil Aviation Authority ensures that commercial air transport offshore helicopter operators define specific offshore approach profiles, which include the parameters for a stabilised approach and the corrective action to be taken in the event of an unstable approach.. [2011-051] that the Civil Aviation Authority commissions a project to study the visual illusions that may be generated during offshore approaches to vessels or offshore installations, in poor visibility and at night, and publicises the findings.. [2011-052] that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) amends Civil Aviation Publication (CAP) 437 Offshore Helicopter Landing Areas - Guidance on Standards, to encourage operators of vessels and offshore installations, equipped with helidecks, to adopt the new lighting standard,