for which a draft specification has been published in Appendix E of CAP 437, once the specification has been finalised.. [2011-053] that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews the procedures specified by commercial air transport helicopter operators as to when a crew may or should suspend a radio altimeter aural or visual height warning.. [2011-054] that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews commercial air transport offshore helicopter operators’ procedures to ensure that an appropriate defined response is specified when a height warning is activated.. [2011-055] that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews the procedures set out by commercial air transport offshore helicopter operators to ensure that a member of the flight crew monitors the flight instruments during an approach in order to ensure a safe flight path.. [2011-056] that the International Civil Aviation Organisation introduces a Standard for crash-protected recordings of the operational status of Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) and Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS) equipment, where fitted, on helicopters required to carry a flight data recorder.. [2011-057] that the European Aviation Safety Agency requires that crews of helicopters, fitted with a Terrain Awareness and Warning System, be provided with an immediate indication when the system becomes inoperative, fails, is inhibited or selected off.. [2011-058] that the European Aviation Safety Agency reviews the acceptability of crew-operated on /off controls which can disable mandatory helicopter audio voice warnings.. [2011-059] that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews the guidance in Civil Aviation Publication (CAP) 562, Civil Aircraft Airworthiness Information and Procedures, Part 11, Leaflet 11-35, Radio Altimeters and AVADs for Helicopters, regarding the pre-set audio height warning that is triggered by the radio altimeter and may not be altered in flight, to ensure that crews are provided with adequate warning to take corrective action.. [2011-060] that the European Aviation Safety Agency ensures that helicopter performance is taken into consideration when determining the timeliness of warnings generated by Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning Systems.. 2011-061 that the European Aviation Safety Agency reviews the frequency of nuisance warnings generated by Terrain Awareness and Warning System equipment in offshore helicopter operations and takes appropriate action to improve the integrity of the system.. [2011-062] that the European Aviation Safety Agency, in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration, defines standards governing the content, accuracy and presentation of obstacles in the Terrain Awareness and Warning System obstacle database for helicopters operating in the offshore environment.. [2011-063] that the European Aviation Safety Agency establishes the feasibility of recording, in crash protected memory, status indications from each avionic system on an aircraft.. [2011-064] that the European Aviation Safety Agency considers amending certification requirements for rotorcraft, that are certified in accordance with ditching provisions, to include a means of automatically inflating emergency flotation equipment following water entry.. [2011-065] that the European Aviation Safety Agency modifies European Technical Standard Order (ETSO) 2C70a and ETSO 2C505 to include a requirement for multi-seat liferafts, that do not automatically deploy their Sea Anchor, to include a label, visible from within the inflated liferaft, reminding the occupants when