together, it was clear that the situation rapidly led to both pilots becoming overloaded. Acknowledging and actioning heading instructions “could have distracted the First Officer from his monitoring tasks” whilst the Captain, flying manually, was having to manoeuvre the aircraft in roll during a very dynamic period of pitch change. Overall, it was concluded that the crew had been “unaware of the descent for a significant period” until the point at which the radar controller was alerted to the descent and called them. The Investigation considered whether the crew might have been “affected by a somatogravic illusion as the aircraft accelerated, but although this could not be completely dismissed, an analysis of the OFDM data showed it was unlikely (with) any nose-down force on the controls during the initial part of the go-around being most likely due to the aircraft being out of trim” so that the pitch up caused by the unexpected large thrust increase being countered by the Captain pushing forward on the control column. It was noted that there had been no further nose-down inputs as the aircraft then accelerated during the descent. It was already becoming clear that the fact that the decline in passenger air travel during the COVID 19 pandemic had led to most pilots flying significantly less than usual had been presenting challenges to the retention of normal pilot currency and skill levels with similar challenges affecting controllers. Nevertheless, the aircraft operator involved had rearranged their normal simulator recurrent training system explicitly to allow their pilots to maintain their skills in both the normal and emergency phases of flight whilst undertaking considerably less line flying duties than usual. However when presented with a two engine go around not commenced at the procedure DA, a procedure which is not often practised in simulators anyway, the circumstances encountered had evidently overloaded both pilots who had then been “unable to retain their situational awareness” during manually controlled flight and in particular had not responded to pitch and configuration changes by manually trimming the aircraft. It was considered that whilst this go-around “should have presented little problem to the experienced crew”, the combination of less than average flying in the recent period (and very little flying in the case of the First Officer) could reasonably have led to both the aircraft not being managed effectively by the PF Captain and a monitoring failure on the part of the PM First Officer. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The flight was instructed to go-around by ATC. After initially climbing towards the missed approach altitude, the aircraft began to descend. The descent continued for 57 seconds reaching a minimum of 1,565 feet agl before the aircraft was recovered to a climb. A combination of an unexpected large increase in thrust when the go-around was initiated, instructions from ATC to fly a heading and a lack of manual pitch trimming or flap configuration caused the crew to become overloaded, allowing the aircraft to descend unnoticed for a