re-engaged and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. It was noted that there had been no EGPWS activation during the unintended descent. The fact that the radar controller was unaware of the high speed and high rate descent which was occurring instead of returning to and remaining at 3000 feet was attributed by him to an assessment that “it was reasonable for the crew to complete a turn to the left and climb back to 3,000 feet QNH” whereas “had the aircraft been significantly lower, it would have been more appropriate to instruct the crew to conduct a standard missed approach” by continuing straight ahead and climbing back to 3,000 feet. He also stated that he had observed aircraft Mode ‘C’ return approaching 3,000 feet before beginning to communicate with two recent departures that required instructions. It was noted that Aberdeen ATC had two non-mandatory alerting systems with activation thresholds which it was considered might have been reached. In the case of the MSAW system, it was found that when the aircraft descended to 1,780 feet QNH, it had not reached a position which would have put it “within 23 seconds of breaching 750 feet QNH” which was required to trigger a stage 1 system alert. In respect of the second such system, a radar-based ‘Descent Rate Monitor’, which was set to activate if a rate of descent of 2,500 fpm or more was detected below 3,000 feet QNH in controlled airspace, QAR-derived data indicated that although the aircraft had been descending at more than 2,500 fpm for approximately nine seconds, no alert was generated. This was explained when it was found that the detection process involved was based on successive six second radar sweeps of aircraft altitude to the nearest 100 feet and it was concluded that this would have meant that the derived vertical speed had not exceeded 2,500 fpm. The annotated flight path showing the unintended descent. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was considered that having pressed the TO/GA switches once for the go around, the crew would have expected the A/T to select thrust for a rate of climb of between 1,000 and 2,000 fpm but since the aircraft was above 2,000 feet agl, the thrust was (unexpectedly for the crew) advanced to TO/GA. This sudden large increase in thrust resulted in a significant pitch up and a correspondingly rapid rate of climb but when thrust was almost immediately reduced, the pitch attitude reduced. This pitch change was then exacerbated by flap retraction from 15 to 5 and since the aircraft had not reached the 3000 feet ‘ALT HOLD’ altitude, the AFDS remained (passively) in ‘ALT ACQ’ mode. Completion of the remaining two stages of flap retraction then resulted in a further decrease in pitch attitude which, as the aircraft was descending, led to the speed increasing without regard to the 200 KIAS selected speed. At the same time, the crew were being given heading changes to get the flight onto downwind and taken