A Field Investigation was carried by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). Relevant recorded data was recovered from the operators OFDM service provider but that on the CVR had been overwritten as a result of the aircraft continuing in service prior to the AAIB being notified of the event. ATC radar and voice recordings were also available. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain, who was PF during the excursion, had a total of 15,490 hours flying experience which included 1,524 hours on type. Similar experience and age information for the First Officer was not recorded. When descending through 5,100 feet QNH five minutes after establishing initial contact with Aberdeen Radar to establish on a Cat I ILS approach to Runway 34, the flight was informed that it was possible that their approach may have to be discontinued due to the need to prioritise an imminent SAR helicopter departure in which case a climb ahead to 3000 feet could be expected. Shortly after becoming fully established on the ILS at 3,000 feet QNH, with the AP and A/T engaged, the landing gear down and flap 15 selected, the radar controller instructed the flight to break off the approach, climb back to 3,000 feet and turn left onto 270°. After 12 seconds, the AP was disengaged and the A/T, which remained engaged, increased engine thrust to 97% N1, then after another six seconds, the gear was retracted and the aircraft, now at 2,250 feet QNH, began to climb towards the cleared altitude and started the left turn towards the required radar heading. However, as the aircraft which was being manually flown approached 3,000 feet, the A/T began to reduce thrust and the aircraft pitch decreased as the FD began to command the level-off. As the aircraft passed a recorded 2,850 feet, the flaps were retracted from 15 to 5 and on reaching a recorded 2,930 feet then began to descend. It briefly levelled at 2,650 feet and the flaps were retracted to Flap 1 and then, almost immediately, to zero after which the descent was resumed. Further heading instructions were passed by ATC whilst the aircraft continued descent, reaching a minimum altitude of 1,780 feet QNH (1,565 feet agl) before a climb was re-established. The rate of descent was recorded as peaking at 3,100 fpm as the aircraft passed 2,160 feet QNH. The TWR controller saw from his radar repeater in the VCR (visual control room) that the aircraft was descending unexpectedly and contacted the radar controller to advise him which led to him instructing the flight to climb to 3,000 feet. This instruction was read back “at about the same time as the climb was initiated”. During the recovery, the airspeed initially continued to increase reaching a maximum of 286 KIAS whereas the speed which had been selected when the approach was discontinued was 200 KIAS and the maximum permitted speed in the airspace involved was 250 KIAS. As the aircraft finally reached 3000 feet, the AP was