Coordination procedures within the same ATC unit are defined in local instructions (e.g. Manual of Operations). Unlike the coordination with neighbouring units, these are not subject to a letter of agreement. In general, however, coordination procedures within the unit are similar to those with the adjacent units because both are based on ICAO SARPS and the same (or similar) methods and tools are used - verbal (phone) and non-verbal (electronic). Coordination with controllers of the same unit is usually smoother (but not necessarily better) due to: Improved system support. It is much easier (and therefore more widespread) to have more and better functions to support electronic coordination between sectors of the same ATC unit. While OLDI generally offers a broad range of messages, it is very often the case that only basic features are used. This is mainly because different ATC units are at a different stage of their ATM system development/deployment. For a new inter-unit feature to work, both sides need to implement it at the same time (otherwise the first unit to implement a new capability will have to wait and depend on someone else to be able to use it). By contrast, within a single ATC unit the new features are: Readily available. There is no need to wait or negotiate the use of a new function with another party. This makes implementation of new features more cost-efficient. Customizable. Sometimes different units have different needs (e.g. some would appreciate the possibility to coordinate weather avoidance electronically while other would not use the feature and prefer verbal communication).. Readily available. There is no need to wait or negotiate the use of a new function with another party. This makes implementation of new features more cost-efficient.. Customizable. Sometimes different units have different needs (e.g. some would appreciate the possibility to coordinate weather avoidance electronically while other would not use the feature and prefer verbal communication).. Enhanced communication features. The voice communication system (VCS) is usually tailored to the needs of the ATC unit and offers some advantages for internal users. For example, most modern VCSes have a priority feature which is used by the caller to indicate higher importance.. Sharing the same picture. Using the same ATM system generally means that all controllers see more or less the same picture. While in most cases this is true for inter-unit interaction, there are specific situations where being in the same unit gives an advantage, e.g.: Primary radar targets are usually assigned unique system numbers. Different systems, however, assign different values. Therefore, in an inter-unit coordination it is impractical to refer to such a target by its system name. Map features. The focus is generally on the unit's airspace and while usually there is a possibility to show those of a neighbouring unit, it is often neither ergonomic nor as user friendly as with the own airspace. This often restricts references to the common boundary points. Correlation. All flights of interest to the ATC unit are supposed to be correlated. Therefore,