the controllers have extended information about flights that are flying in proximity to their boundary but are not supposed to enter their sector. This improves the situational awareness and is especially useful during weather avoidance. Also, some ATS system functions are only available for correlated flights which may potentially improve coordination within the unit.. Primary radar targets are usually assigned unique system numbers. Different systems, however, assign different values. Therefore, in an inter-unit coordination it is impractical to refer to such a target by its system name.. Map features. The focus is generally on the unit's airspace and while usually there is a possibility to show those of a neighbouring unit, it is often neither ergonomic nor as user friendly as with the own airspace. This often restricts references to the common boundary points.. Correlation. All flights of interest to the ATC unit are supposed to be correlated. Therefore, the controllers have extended information about flights that are flying in proximity to their boundary but are not supposed to enter their sector. This improves the situational awareness and is especially useful during weather avoidance. Also, some ATS system functions are only available for correlated flights which may potentially improve coordination within the unit.. Better understanding of the other party's tasks. Often controller within the same unit are qualified to work on a number of sectors and are therefore well acquainted with the specifics of the next sector (i.e. landmarks, hotspots, etc.). This usually helps to achieve better coordination. Sometimes however this can be abused to the point where a controller "extends" their area of responsibility in the neighbouring airspace while not having the necessary level of situational awareness (due to e.g. the colours used in the aircraft labels).. Language. In most cases controllers are not native English speakers. While it is possible to have verbal inter-unit coordinations in the mother tongue (e.g. between two ACCs or an ACC with an APP or TWR unit in the same country) it is more common to use English for inter-unit interactions and the national language within the unit. Therefore, coordination within the unit is somewhat easier, especially in complex situations where Standard Phraseology cannot be used.. Inter-personal relations. People working together inevitably develop some sorts of relationships. This sometimes facilitates better coordination but may also lead to non-operational conversations.. Face-to-face communication. It is possible for controllers within the same unit to make direct verbal coordinations without using any equipment. This may increase efficiency (and also safety in some cases) due to the zero delay of message delivery. The downside is that such communication can easily distract other, non-involved sectors. Also, if there is no ambience recording, it is not possible to objectively establish the facts during an investigation. Therefore, face-to-face coordination is generally not favoured by prevailing operational procedures..