provide data that shows the fuel consumption rate at standard power settings with the mixture leaned. If those settings are used, an assessment of the fuel remaining should be correct. However, even small changes in engine operating technique, such as leaning or a small increase in rpm, can make a big difference to fuel flow.. Flights are planned on the basis of expected en route conditions. Monitoring a flight’s progress allows a pilot to assess if the flight is maintaining an adequate fuel reserve, and to make timely decisions if the flight conditions change.. A fuel planning chart should be used and fuel flow/fuel used should be checked against planned values. Pilots should be alert for different fuel flow rates to that used in the flight plan. It is very important to be aware that time alone is not an accurate means of determining fuel remaining as consumption can vary with changed power settings, using non-standard fuel-leaning techniques, fuel leakage or flying at different cruising levels to those planned.. The operator must establish a procedure to ensure that in-flight fuel checks and fuel management are carried out, and promulgate it in the Operations Manual.. The pilot-in-command must ensure that fuel checks are carried out in flight at regular intervals. The remaining fuel must be recorded and evaluated. ensure that the amount of useable fuel remaining in flight is not less than the fuel required to complete the task with the specified reserve remaining. declare an emergency when the actual useable fuel on board is less than the reserve fuel. determine the last possible point of diversion to any en-route alternate if the flight is to an isolated aerodrome. Before reaching this point, they must assess the expected fuel remaining, the weather conditions, and the traffic and the operational conditions prevailing at both the destination and the en-route alternate aerodromes before deciding to how to proceed.. ensure that fuel checks are carried out in flight at regular intervals. The remaining fuel must be recorded and evaluated.. ensure that the amount of useable fuel remaining in flight is not less than the fuel required to complete the task with the specified reserve remaining.. declare an emergency when the actual useable fuel on board is less than the reserve fuel.. determine the last possible point of diversion to any en-route alternate if the flight is to an isolated aerodrome. Before reaching this point, they must assess the expected fuel remaining, the weather conditions, and the traffic and the operational conditions prevailing at both the destination and the en-route alternate aerodromes before deciding to how to proceed.. It is advisable to keep an accurate fuel record by logging at least the: quantity of fuel on board at start-up;. time of starting up engine(s), and time of take-off;. time of landing and time of shutting down engine(s);. cruising level, power setting and TAS, with fuel flows and times for each significant phase of flight;. any delays incurred;. any holding;. quantity of fuel on board after