To continually improve on existing levels of commercial air transport safety amid industry challenges, the safety management system (SMS) became mandatory worldwide for specified airlines in March 2006. The concept evolved from guidelines, proofs of concept and prototypes pioneered by the airline industry in the early 1990s. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) urges each of the world’s airlines to fully implement a unique SMS, adhering to international standards and recommended practices. A 2017 working paper presented by the United States to the Technical Commission of ICAO Assembly 37th Session said, “Service providers’ safety management systems, and particularly the interactions between the State Safety Program (SSP) and the network of SMSs in the State’s air transportation system, must … be considered. It is in these interactions where the oversight functions become important, so the performance of service providers [e.g., airlines] is a key target of measurements of safety performance.” ICAO Doc 9734, Safety Oversight Manual, adds, “The characteristics of an effective State safety oversight system include ... a robust and effective approach to the management of safety, including the adoption of Safety Management Systems in the functional areas of regulation as well as in operation and service provision.” For an airline, implementing an SMS is as important to business survival as a financial management system. A continually refined SMS enables each airline to reliably achieve one of civil aviation’s key goals: enhancing safety performance through best practice by moving beyond mere compliance with regulatory requirements. A large volume of reports and presentations about airline SMS recount unprecedented achievements in risk management. This has influenced other segments of aviation to adopt versions of SMS. Examples include: air traffic management; aerodromes; civil aviation authorities; manufacturers; flight operations auditors and analysts; accident investigation authorities; aircraft ground handling services; aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul organisations; and general aviation organisations, such as business aircraft operators and flight training centers.