An Investigation was carried out by the German BFU. It noted that on the afternoon of the accident day, an active cold front had been moving eastwards over Germany but that the pre flight briefing received by the flight crew had only mentioned isolated Cb clouds and had not included the then-valid SIGMET for the Berlin FIR or, in particular, the SIGMET issued at 1500Z for the destination Bremen FIR which contained a warning of a squall line reaching FL380 even though the aircraft remained on the ground until 1609Z. It was established that the approach to the intended destination Hamburg had been abandoned 90 minutes after departure from Basel due to the weather conditions. The crew had then decided to divert to their planned alternate of Hannover but did not first obtaining a comprehensive weather overview of those airfields within range and as yet unaffected by the front. After a 20 minute flight in a south-easterly direction in advance of the squall line, the crew decided against trying to reach Hannover by flying around the thunder cells and instead began a diversion to Berlin Tegel on the basis of their weather radar display, flying at a maximum of 5000ft. The Tegel Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast did not, at that time, indicate that the existing CAVOK weather would significantly worsen by the ETA. Upon nearing Tegel, the crew requested a “priority approach” because they had “just observed a low fuel warning light”. However at this time, the weather reports for all the Berlin airports included imminent thunderstorms with heavy precipitation and winds gusting up to 55 knot and a few minutes later, the approach to Tegel was discontinued because of the thunderstorms. The aircraft then set course for the airfields at Finow and Neubrandenburg northeast of Berlin but this plan was soon abandoned because of the weather in the vicinity and the distance away in relation to estimated fuel endurance. ATC advised that Werneuchen Special Airfield was reported as currently unaffected by the line of thunderstorms and the crew decided to fly there. ATC referred to the AIP and advised the crew of the length, width and nature of the runway surface. This airfield was not licensed or equipped for public transport flights and although the runway was long enough, the airfield chart did not, in the view of the Investigation, provide absolute clarity in respect of a non-usable portion of the runway. It was also not clear whether the crew had understood that part of the original runway length was no longer in use. The airfield radio frequency was not passed to the crew nor was it requested. A direct visual approach was made to runway 08 at Werneuchen without any radio contact with the airfield and, because of the overall weather situation and the low fuel endurance, without first inspecting the runway from the air. The markings on the disused portion of the old full-length (2400m) runway had not been removed, nor had the disused portion