been marked as such. The touchdown zone markings on the old full-length runway were still in good condition and misled the crew to use this as a touchdown target marker. A low earth bank extending the full width of the runway at the boundary of the disused and available (1500m long) parts of the runway was not, in the prevailing poor lighting, noticed by the crew during the final stages of their approach and, after a normal touchdown, it was too late for the aircraft to avoid a collision with the bank. The track followed by the aircraft is depicted on the map below: The Investigating Agency stated that it was not provided with any evidence that the crew had taken part in Line Oriented Flight Training exercises, which “might have improved their in flight responses to the circumstances encountered, as part of their flight training”. The Findings of the Investigation included: The Swiss AL Operational Control Centre provided insufficient pre flight information to the crew.. According to the Swiss Operations Manual Part ‘A’, Crew Resource Management training for the crew had not included LOFT.. The extra fuel above minimum requirements loaded by the crew was reasonable given the weather briefing they had received.. Short term weather forecasting for the Berlin airports at the time of the event was deficient.. The active and disused runway markings at Werneuchen were not in accordance with the requirements of ICAO Annex 14 or with applicable Germany regulations.. The last airfield inspection made by the responsible CAA prior to the accident had produced no criticism with respect to the runway or the disused runway markings.. The Investigation concluded that the accident was due to the following ‘Immediate Causes’: The extent and intensity of the thunderstorm frontal system, plus the speed of change in the weather system.. Insufficient use (by the flight crew) of available resources when making decisions in flight.. The loss of alternative landing options, coupled with increasing time pressure.. The aircraft touched down outside the operational area of an airfield.. The earth wall was not detected and collision with same followed.. It was also concluded that the accident could be associated with the following ‘Systemic Causes’: Insufficient information with respect to weather situation and development, both prior to and during the flight.. Insufficient information about Werneuchen Special Airfield due to inadequate chart illustration plus absence of and misunderstood communications.. Insufficient signs and markings of operational and non-operational airport areas (at Werneuchen).. After an unexplained substantial delay, the Final Report: Accident Investigation Report AX002-0/02 of the Investigation was completed in October 2010 and published in English in December 2010. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation.