that, in accordance with a new procedure, only flights already approved by them could be permitted to start engines. Until then, civil ATC had been issuing all civil flight clearances and then providing the relevant information to the civil-military coordination unit. This new procedure was stated as having been “implemented with the aim of more (reliably) ensuring the correct identification of civil flights by the defence network and avoiding targeting them by mistake”. About 1 hour 50 minutes after receipt of this message, the accident flight requested the engine start clearance and the request for approval was submitted as specified and approval granted. The flight subsequently taxied to runway 29R and was cleared for takeoff without delay. Prior to the takeoff, one of the mobile missile air defence systems in the Teheran area had relocated to a new alignment but there had been “a human error in following the procedure for system north alignment (and) as a result, a 107° error had been introduced into the system”. Thus, by the time the accident flight became airborne, the system operator was seeing the direction of detected objects and targets on a bearing 107° greater than the real bearing. Nevertheless, it was noted that whilst the error had “initiated a hazard chain”, this could be controlled providing other required procedures were correctly implemented. Two minutes after the takeoff of the accident flight, the missile system operator detected a target at a bearing of 250° flying on a 056° track, which put it on track towards Teheran. However, this target was actually the approaching 737 flying a 309° track. The system operator “notified the specifications of the detected target to the Coordination Centre over the communication network” but the message “was not communicated successfully”. The illustration below shows this. The system operator then “began analysing the observable information and categorised the detected target as a threat” without identifying it as a passenger aircraft. Then, 20 seconds after submitting the detected target details but without receiving the required explicit authority to launch a missile, he did so anyway. The applicable procedure was found to state that “if the system operator cannot establish communication with the Coordination Centre and does not receive the fire command, they are not authorised to fire”. The Investigation found that the missile radio fuse had been activated when the aircraft had reached the last position recorded by SSR. Once it had been activated, the system radar remained locked on to its target and tracked it and 30 seconds after the first firing, the system operator then fired a second missile at the aircraft. Thirteen seconds after this, “the last communication between this missile and the firing source was recorded in a place close to the (intended) aircraft track” and thereafter, the firing system “showed a message indicating the strike had failed” and the target then cleared from the radar lock-on. The Investigation has not found any evidence of functional error in the missile defence equipment involved. The sole origin of