An Investigation is being carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). Its reported progress to date has been qualified by the following statement: “Such information has been obtained and verified through the independent investigation done by the investigation team up to this stage. Therefore, it is possible that upon obtaining new information at any time, the report will be updated. The investigation team had access to the individuals, evidence, records and information required, and the PS752 accident investigation team has achieved the following results independently.” The SSFDR and SSCVR were eventually located and recovered from the accident site and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that although the ELT had been activated at ground impact, its satellite transmitter aerial was simultaneously detached and no detectable signal therefore resulted. It was noted that there were three pilots on the flight deck, a Training Captain and two others but the rank of the two line pilots, which pilots were in the operating crew seats and whether crew training / checking was in progress has not yet been disclosed. The same crew had operated the earlier inbound flight from Kiev to Teheran and were on a split duty with three hours rest taken at an airport hotel prior to returning to prepare for the return flight to Kiev. The actual takeoff weight (TOW) for the return flight was noted to have been within 32 kg of the aircraft’s 72,500 kg MTOW after it had not been possible to load almost a third by weight of the checked baggage - 82 pieces with an average weight of 25.5kg each. It has been established that around three minutes after takeoff from runway 29R, the flight was instructed to climb to 6000 feet QNH (the airport is at 3,305 feet amsl) and then turn slightly right direct to waypoint ‘PAROT’ and continue climb to FL 260. Approximately three minutes after takeoff, and climbing as cleared, the flight disappeared from SSR radar display with the last altitude shown as 8,100 feet and no further radio communications were received from it. Soon after this, primary radar then showed it turning to the right for a further three and a half minutes before it crashed and exploded on open ground. Recorded flight data showed that just over a minute after the loss a SSR data, a fire had begun on board and quickly intensified. The nationality of the passengers and crew on board was documented and showed that the majority of passengers were Iranian nationals about half of whom had dual citizenship elsewhere, especially Canada. Conclusive evidence that the aircraft had been damaged by a missile warhead was found on the wreckage of the fuselage. The Investigation has ascertained the following facts relating to the erroneous identification of the flight as a legitimate military target and the firing of missiles at it. A little over 2 hours prior to the flight’s takeoff, civil ATC were informed by the military