As previously stated, to ensure efficient and safe airport ground operations, separation between aircraft or between aircraft and vehicular traffic must be maintained and optimised. On occasion, however, minimum separation, particularly aircraft/vehicle separation is compromised. Whilst all events do not result in collision with an aircraft, the majority of taxiway occurrences involve vehicle operators deviating from a surface movement controller clearance. These "failure to comply" occurrences most usually involve vehicles: using an incorrect taxiway. failing to stop at a taxiway holding point. failing to stay on the surface movement control radio frequency or ground frequency as appropriate. failing to obtain a clearance before entering an area subject to control.. In all cases, these actions have the potential to put the vehicle in conflict with an aircraft which, in turn, could: lead to collision. require aggressive braking by the aircraft which could result in personnel injuries. Cabin crew are especially vulnerable as they might be moving within the cabin preforming pre-departure or post-landing duties. Most of the remaining occurrences are related to one of the following: aircraft-aircraft collisions or near collisions - collisions can result from: failure to follow taxiway centreline guidance failure to stop prior to a stopbar taxiing at speeds unsuited to the conditions or level of congestion taxiway deviation whilst trying to manoeuvre to "squeeze" past another aircraft. Manoeuvring around an aircraft partially blocking a taxiway (as might be the case if the aircraft was approaching, but not yet at the stop point of, a gate) can lead to collision. If misjudged, this could result in a wingtip striking the tail of the stopped aircraft or it could compromise clearance between obstacles or other aircraft and the wingtip opposite the stopped aircraft taxiway configuration - converging taxiways can potentially lead to reduced or compromised clearance, especially where they cross. failure to follow taxiway centreline guidance. failure to stop prior to a stopbar. taxiing at speeds unsuited to the conditions or level of congestion. taxiway deviation whilst trying to manoeuvre to "squeeze" past another aircraft. Manoeuvring around an aircraft partially blocking a taxiway (as might be the case if the aircraft was approaching, but not yet at the stop point of, a gate) can lead to collision. If misjudged, this could result in a wingtip striking the tail of the stopped aircraft or it could compromise clearance between obstacles or other aircraft and the wingtip opposite the stopped aircraft. taxiway configuration - converging taxiways can potentially lead to reduced or compromised clearance, especially where they cross. reduced aircraft clearance with ground equipment or obstacles. Reduced clearance accidents or incidents can occur in various ways. These include: inappropriate use of a restricted taxiway - some taxiways are restricted by wingspan. Use by a larger aircraft could compromise obstacle clearance failure to follow taxi lane guidance - deviation from the lane guidance whilst manoeuvring in proximity to light stands, gates or stationary equipment can result in collision. inappropriate use of a restricted taxiway - some taxiways are restricted by wingspan. Use