Most taxiway accidents and incidents are preventable. This prevention is dependant upon appropriate training and testing, compliance with clearances, published procedures and right-of-way rules, maintaining situational awareness and adapting speed of movement to suit the weather and surface conditions. Some specific accident prevention strategies are as follows: Vehicle operators - It is imperative that vehicle operators be properly trained, tested and authorised for ramp and taxiway operations. Driving infractions should be investigated and additional training provided where appropriate. Multiple infractions should be considered grounds for suspension of airside driving privileges. Operators should: ensure daily inspection for their vehicle is complete and that beacon/hazard lights are operating when the vehicle is airside maintain situational awareness operate their vehicle safely and in accordance with all company and airport rules obey all "rules of the road" inclusive of speed limits, stop signs and right-of-way guidance yield to aircraft at all times obtain and read back any ground movement controller clearance prior to entering an area where clearance is required. If clearance is not understood, ASK!. ensure daily inspection for their vehicle is complete and that beacon/hazard lights are operating when the vehicle is airside. maintain situational awareness. operate their vehicle safely and in accordance with all company and airport rules. obey all "rules of the road" inclusive of speed limits, stop signs and right-of-way guidance. yield to aircraft at all times. obtain and read back any ground movement controller clearance prior to entering an area where clearance is required. If clearance is not understood, ASK!. Tug operators - Tug operators have the additional responsibility of moving aircraft on and off gates as well as positioning aircraft from one location on the airfield to another. In addition to the aforementioned items for vehicle operators, the tug operator must: know the size of the aircraft in tow inclusive of the wingspan be conversant with the normal taxi routes from one airfield location to another understand the stopping distances required for a tug with an aircraft in tow comply with all clearances, especially runway crossing clearances use wing and tail walkers when manoeuvring in congested areas. know the size of the aircraft in tow inclusive of the wingspan. be conversant with the normal taxi routes from one airfield location to another. understand the stopping distances required for a tug with an aircraft in tow. comply with all clearances, especially runway crossing clearances. use wing and tail walkers when manoeuvring in congested areas. Controllers - The ground controller is responsible for the safe and efficient movement of aircraft and vehicle traffic on the taxiways and aprons. They should: provide the appropriate clearance for the requested action ensure that the clearance readback is accurate to the extent possible, monitor the movement visually, via transponder or by use of multilateration equipment to ensure clearance compliance. provide the appropriate clearance for the requested action. ensure that the clearance readback is accurate. to the extent possible, monitor the movement visually, via transponder or by use of multilateration equipment to ensure clearance