first. The disposition of wheel chocks at the time of the event was found to have been the GHAs "default configuration" for narrow body aircraft, used in the absence of any specific instruction from an aircraft operator which appeared to be the case. Boeing documentation was found to specify a minimum wheel chock configuration of one chock fore and one chock aft of one of the two pairs of Main Landing Gear (MLG) wheels, either inner or outer, on the left and right hand sides. It was found that as a result of past events, Lion Air had issued a 'Quality Assurance Notice' dated 21 March 2013 which required that eight chocks should be inserted during short turn arounds when wind speeds would not exceed 35 knots, one pair fore and aft of both nose wheels and each set of outboard main wheels but "this requirement was apparently not conveyed to the GHA". The Investigation concluded that as actually chocked and "based on the aircraft’s weight distribution at the time of the incident, the wind speed limit, beyond which the aircraft could be vulnerable to being moved by wind, is estimated to have been between 20 to 25 knots" - less than the probable gust which was recorded around the time of the movement. It was considered that if either the baggage had been loaded in the front baggage compartment first, or wheel chocks had been inserted in front of as well as behind the main wheels, the aircraft may not have moved. It was also noted that "Had the NLG steering bypass pin not been inserted, the nose wheels would have remained aligned with the aircraft longitudinal axis (i.e. facing forward) and the wheels’ resistance to sliding could have contributed towards countering any tendency of the aircraft nose to swing". It was considered that when the GHA adopted its default chock configuration in the absence of any other instructions, "it should have made its default configuration known to the Operator and ascertained if the configuration was acceptable". Safety Action taken by Lion Air as a result of the event was noted as informing their Ground Handling Agent at Singapore of the following aircraft turn round handling requirements: Eight wheel chocks should be inserted for transit aircraft when the wind strength is less than 35 knots with two at the front and rear of both nose wheels and both outer main wheels.. Baggage should be loaded into the front baggage compartment first.. The nose landing gear steering bypass pin should only be inserted when the tow bar is about to be connected with the aircraft.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Aerodrome Operator monitor wind speed forecasts and disseminate any relevant wind speed warning to the airline operators or their handling agents. [R-2014-006]. that the Ground Handling Agent review its apron procedures to ensure that wind speed information is monitored and timely action can be taken to stabilise or tie down