An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) of the Singapore Ministry of Transport. It was established that once the aircraft had arrived at its final parking position, wheel chocks were inserted both fore and aft of one of the nose wheels and to the aft only of the outboard wheels of each main gear. The Nose Landing Gear (NLG) steering by pass pin had also been inserted in preparation for pushback. The air bridge was positioned at door 1L for passenger, crew and ground staff access and it remained there as would normally be the case for a one hour turn round. When the unexpected movement of the aircraft occurred, crew members were on board and baggage loading equipment was positioned at the access to both the front and rear baggage compartments on the right hand side of the aircraft. The front compartment was empty and loading of baggage into the rear compartment had commenced. Refuelling of the aircraft was also in progress from a refuelling truck parked adjacent to the right engine and substantially complete - both wing tanks were full and the centre tank was estimated to contain around 3,000 kg. Twenty three minutes after the aircraft had arrived and after heavy rain had started to fall a few minutes earlier, a gust of wind caused the aircraft nose to swing rapidly about 30° to the right pivoting about the main gear so that the nose gear was moved approximately 3.5 metres away from the parking stand centreline where it had previously been. When this happened, the aircraft parking brakes had already been released in accordance with the operator's SOP. The movement caused impact damage to door 1L and to the lower fuselage and to both the attached air bridge and to the forward baggage loader. A nearby wind velocity sensor recorded a gust of 26.4 knots at the time of the event. A Meteorological Service Warning of an imminent thunderstorm over the airport had been issued which forecast a wind speed of 10 knots gusting to 20 knots. It was noted that the Service provides a web-based weather alerting system but neither the airport operator nor the aircraft operator nor their ground handling agent (GHA) were subscribed to, and that they did not make use of any other sources to obtain wind information. It was found that although Boeing recommended that the front baggage compartment should be loaded first so as to achieve a forward centre of gravity and thus reduce the risk of any pivoting about the main gear in the event of strong side winds and the aircraft operator's SOPs reflected this, "there was no evidence that this procedure had been conveyed to the GHA" by the Operator. It was also noted that "there was no evidence that the load control officer had emphasised the need to load the front baggage compartment first to the GHA staff concerned" and neither did the Loading Instruction Form specify which compartment should be loaded