and 300 feet vertically apart with the A320 now having begun climbing to follow its modified TCAS RA. The Closest Point of Approach (CPA) followed 25 seconds later. The Investigation noted that both PAC and VAC Alerts were both aural and visual and also that neither instantaneous nor any averaged vertical speed of aircraft was displayed to controllers on the basis that such calculations based on barometric altitude were unreliable. The Investigation considered the findings of the internal investigations carried out by both operators and by ANSP ENAIRE. It was noted that the ENAIRE Investigation had significantly failed to identify that the A320 had initially been flown contrary to the TCAS RA annunciated as it descended towards the 737 and also concluded without qualification that there had been "no ATM contribution" to the conflict. In respect of the latter finding, the Investigation did note that under Spanish Air Traffic Regulations, which corresponded to the equivalent entry in ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM, "an aircraft will be informed if a climb or descent vertical speed restriction is no longer applicable" and that ATC had not made any such call to the A320 since they intended that the restriction issued should continue as the track of the A320 converged with that of the 737. The Investigation noted that the A320 crew had not only responded incorrectly to their initial RA (displayed on their respective VSIs) by increasing vertical speed instead of reducing it, but they had also comprehensively failed to follow the relevant Vueling Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). It also noted that the crew's simultaneous sidestick inputs during the reversal of their vertical flight path had also been contrary to SOP and a direct cause of the high 'g' loading created when the two similar inputs were summed. The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the Serious Incident was that "the crew of VLG2226 did not comply with the descent rate instructions given by the sector controller - instead of maintaining a descent rate of 2,000 fpm or less they increased this rate, which resulted in an AIRPROX involving RYR314Q, which was on a converging path below VLG2226 and descending at a rate in excess of 2,000 fpm". The following three Potential Contributory Factors were also identified: The controller instructed VLG2226 to proceed direct to reporting point ROTEX, indicating that the rate restriction was still in effect. This part of the instruction was not acknowledged by the crew and the controller did not demand a full acknowledgment.. The controller then re-cleared VLG2226 to a lower flight level. This time, he did not explicitly state in his clearance that the descent rate restriction was still in effect, which led the crew to mistakenly select a higher descent rate.. The controller did not have descent rate information for the aircraft on the radar display, which contributed to his inability to detect that VLG2226 was not complying with the descent rate instruction given.. One further Potential Contributory Factor which could have aggravated the conflict was