identified as "the failure of the crew of VLG2226 to adhere to the TCAS RA 'Adjust Vertical Speed, Adjust' and increasing their rate of descent rate instead of decreasing it". Safety Action taken because of the investigated event and during the Investigation into it was noted as included the following: Vueling has updated the TCAS installation in both its aircraft and its pilot training simulators from v7.0 to v7.1 in compliance with EASA requirements.. Spanish ANSP ENAIRE has confirmed its intention to upgrade its radar to display Mode 'S' downlink data but this will not include 'rate of descent' because this is "generally based on barometric altitude information from the aircraft which is not conducive to parameter stability".. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that Spain’s National Aviation Safety Agency (AESA) take the regulatory initiative to have an article included in Spain’s Air Traffic Regulations specifying that when an aircraft is cleared to climb/descend and climb/descend rate restrictions are imposed, controllers must repeat them if said restrictions still apply when the aircraft is cleared to a different flight level, or when communications are transferred between control sectors or stations. [REC 63/16]. that Spain’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC) engage in the relevant regulatory proceedings required to include an article in Spain’s Air Traffic Regulations specifying that when an aircraft is cleared to climb/descend and climb/descend rate restrictions are imposed, controllers must repeat them if said restrictions still apply when the aircraft is cleared to a different light level, or when communications are transferred between control sectors or stations. [REC 64/16]. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) consider the need of including in the 4444 Document an article specifying that when an aircraft is cleared to climb/descend and climb/descend rate restrictions are imposed, controllers must repeat them if said restrictions still apply when the aircraft is cleared to a different light level, or when communications are transferred between control sectors or stations. [REC 65/16]. The Final Report was approved on 29 March 2016 and subsequently made available in English translation.