The event was investigated by the UK Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). The Investigation noted that aircraft commander had been the PF for the flight and that although the operating crew were experienced pilots, in both cases their time on the aircraft type involved was low - in the commander’s case just 155 hours. It was established that the first of the smoke warnings, which lasted 7 seconds, had occurred as the aircraft passed FL187 some 15minutes after take off. After a short pause, the warning was annunciated again and lasted 9 seconds. The commander made contact with the Company engineering base whilst the third crew member went into the cabin to see if there was any corroborating evidence of an actual fire or overheat. During the call to engineering, the warning began again and the commander terminated the conversation with engineering and decided that a return to Gatwick should be made. Having just been advised by London ACC to call Brest ACC, the First Officer then advised the latter that a technical problem meant that routing back to London was now required. However, the response to this request was an onward clearance and a request for the required cruising level, so the commander declared a PAN advising of “smoke in the cargo hold”. When this was acknowledged and the controller said they would call back shortly, the commander replied that he was turning the aircraft back towards London and this prompted the controller to pass a London frequency to call. The aircraft was levelled at FL220, the First Office took over as PF and the crew carried out the Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) actions and made contact with London. The intermittent smoke warnings continued - see the annotations on the map of the flight track taken from the official report below. The Flight Service Manager (senior cabin crew member) was briefed by the commander and advised that although an evacuation after landing was a possibility, this should not take place unless specific instructions to that effect were given. An ILS approach to Runway 08R was accomplished and the aircraft brought to a stop on the runway where direct contact was made with the attending RFFS. After a further smoke warning and a degree of doubt in respect of the external inspection, the commander advised the RFFS that he was going to order an evacuation and declared a MAYDAY three minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop. The evacuation was completed in 109 seconds, with all passengers off the aircraft within 90 seconds with two sustaining serious injuries. The slide at one of the 8 emergency exits did not inflate properly and the exit was not used. The cabin crew reported that the evacuation was conducted in accordance with the applicable SOPs but several commented that their own use of the slide was faster than training had led then to expect. Passengers had to be told not to bring their cabin baggage with them but many