root cause for the fault could be determined. However, Airbus did identify an unexpectedly high rate of similar faults across the A330 global fleet and is investigating.. One smoke detector was found to have generated 12 of the smoke warnings which it was considered were probably all thermal alarms. It was concluded that the other three warning system annunciations were attributable to optical alarms from two other smoke detectors caused by the effects of the fire extinguishant discharged following the crew response to the warnings.. The 12 false warnings generated by a single smoke detector were found to be the result of damage to the the insulating Kapton film of its thermistor. This exposed its active area to the external environment and caused a resistance response such that the sensed temperature for a given actual temperature, became inaccurate. It was not possible to determine the cause of this damage and it was not possible to reproduce a reduction in thermistor electrical performance even on thermistors with intentionally-induced damage. It was noted that smoke detector system internal temperature monitoring had failed to detect the fault, which was also found on another installed detector from the same manufacturing batch.. In respect of the three false warnings not generated traced to the damaged detector, it was noted that the precise impact of the Halon exposure on the sensitive elements of the multi‑criteria smoke detector appears to be determined by a number of variables which include the cargo loading configuration and thus the available volume of air in which the Halon can dissipate.. The failed slide inflation was found to have probably been the result of a packing fold which had led to an early release of the primary restraint and the non-release of the secondary restraint. It was found that the slide involved “had been manufactured and packed before a change to packing instructions was implemented, to address previous similar partial inflations”. In respect of the intermittent cargo smoke warnings the Investigation formally recorded the following Causal Factor: “A latent fault on the T1 thermistor of smoke detector 10WH, in combination with a CAN Bus fault and possible high levels of humidity in the cargo compartment due to the carriage of perishable goods, provided circumstances sufficient to generate multiple spurious aft cargo compartment smoke warnings.” Two Contributory Factors in respect of the intermittent cargo smoke warnings were also formally stated as: (i) The thermal channel fault in 10WH was not detected prior to the event by the internal smoke detector temperature monitoring. (ii) The proximity of the fire extinguisher nozzles to the smoke detectors. Safety Action was noted as planned by Airbus to change the degraded mode ECAM message to a Class 2 Maintenance Message so that it is reflected on the ECAM status page. Seven Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency amend AMC1 CAT.OP.MPA.170, ‘Passenger briefing’, to ensure briefings emphasise the importance of leaving hand baggage behind in an evacuation.