still did so. It was also noted that “most passengers were cautious when they reached the doors and most did not jump onto the slides in pairs” and that “many passengers were seen to land awkwardly at the bottom of the slide”. One lady was seen to fall near the bottom of the slide and those following collided with her. It was also found that “at one exit, the fireman at the bottom of the slide asked the crew to slow down the rate that passengers were leaving until the blockage at the bottom of the slide could be cleared”. One man was injured at the bottom of a slide and this led to a slow down in the rate of evacuation until he had been moved. The RFFS advised the Investigation that they “had been told that the aircraft had smoke in the cockpit” and had therefore positioned their vehicles at the front of the aircraft. Only after talking to the aircraft commander did the officer in charge learn that the problem was actually possible smoke in the aft cargo hold. In order for thermal imaging cameras to be able to detect potential heat spots deeper within this hold, which was carrying largely perishable goods, some pallets had to be removed but “once sufficient space had been created, it was discovered that there was no smoke present and that there were no heat spots”. It was found that the incorrect information abut the nature of the emergency was the result of incorrect transmission of information in London ATC. It was found that the ATC planner involved had received a (correct) phone call from the Brest controller advising that the aircraft had “smoke on board” and was diverting back to London Gatwick. However, this information was passed on as “smoke in the cockpit” to both the ACC Controller and the ATC Watch Manager at Gatwick. The airport had consequently declared a ‘Full Emergency’ for an aircraft with smoke in the cockpit. The planner “stated subsequently that he had just completed his Training in Unusual Circumstances and Emergencies (TRUCE) and the training scenario included an aircraft with a suspected fire on board”. He also stated that “the garbled sounding RTF” led him to believe that the pilots were using oxygen masks and that therefore there was smoke in the cockpit. The absence of any evidence of fire or smoke in the cargo holds led to the conclusion that the 15 smoke warnings annunciated had been false. A detailed assessment of how these false warnings has been generated led to the following findings: Redundancy in the Smoke Detection System had been lost during electrical power-up prior to departure from Gatwick when a wiring fault led to the system reverting to single detection mode. The fault did not recur when the aircraft electrical system was next repowered after the investigated event.. Inspection of the faulty wiring involved in the reversion to single smoke detection mode did not find any wiring anomalies and no