Structural fatigue has produced a number of ageing aircraft losses. An early illustration of the extent to which the controls against fatigue failure introduced during the early years of the ‘jet age’ might have been inadequate was delivered by a 1988 incident to a 19-year-old Boeing 737-200: on an internal flight in Hawaii it suffered sudden structural failure and explosive decompression at FL240. Nearly 6 metres of cabin skin and structure aft of the cabin entrance door and above the passenger floor line separated from the aircraft. The subsequent investigation found de-bonding and fatigue damage which had led to the failure. For that aircraft at least, the introduction of static test hulls with simulated hours and cycles kept well ahead of equivalent in-service aircraft was not sufficient. The aircraft involved had completed 89,680 flight cycles with an average flight time of only 25 minutes, almost all of them in the marine environment of the Hawaiian Islands, a somewhat atypical service life which was considered to have allowed corrosion to increase the likelihood of fatigue. See B732, en-route, Maui Hawaii, 1988. The possibility of structural fatigue from any origin has been actively considered since the advent of pressurised aircraft when there were accidents attributable to an insufficient understanding of some basic design issues. Since then, aircraft design procedures have involved the carefully-researched creation of structures which will withstand a stated number of flight cycles and/or flight hours with a low probability that the strength of the structure will degrade below its designed ultimate strength before the end of its approved life. However, sometimes older structures are found to no longer meet their damage tolerance requirements because repeated cyclic or exceptional ‘g’ loading has unexpectedly produced cracks of a sufficient size and density in a structure to weaken it so much that it no longer has the intended residual strength. This may happen not just in metals but other materials which are increasingly used in aircraft construction. The only available defence is better detection inspections during base maintenance including the use of NDT. In some cases, this means proper application of existing maintenance procedures, especially in respect of repairs; but in other cases, the specification and oversight of those procedures has been such as to make detection of dangerous levels of structural fatigue unlikely, especially when a direct or indirect consequence of a repair. The mechanism by which fatigue propagates in a structure is the well known crack. Cracks propagate because the geometry of a crack produces a very high concentration of stress at the end of the crack and eventually, if a growing crack goes undetected, fracture will occur. Fatigue cracks have been found to arise in three main ways: Finally, as with Ageing Aircraft - Electrical Wiring, it also appears that there has often been ineffective safety reporting to the NAA which has approved an aircraft operator or maintenance organisation. This is especially true of minor but possibly significant incident or inspection findings which, taken together, could have helped identify