taxi clearance as inferring that the necessary runway crossing was approved and continued across the unlit stop bar at ‘J6’ and entered the runway on track to the opposite side. As they approached the runway, they reported having seen what appeared to be a stationary aircraft at the beginning of runway 07R with its landing lights on. The taxi route of the 747 showing the ‘J6’ holding point. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Once the 747 had entered the runway and the speed of the approaching A330 had exceeded 50 knots ground speed, a visual and aural warning was automatically triggered on the A-SMGCS at both the GND and TWR controller positions. However, these warnings went unnoticed because the volume for the aural alert had been turned down at both controllers’ positions to the extent that it was inaudible. The conflict was resolved safely because the A330 crew observed the incursion ahead and initiated a rejected takeoff during which the maximum ground speed reached was recorded as 69 knots. The A330 was finally brought to a stop abeam RET ‘K2’ after rolling for approximately 630 metres and about 1100 metres from the 747 ahead. It was noted that in accordance with ATC procedures, the illuminated stop bar system provided at all runway access points including ‘J6’ was inactive because it was daylight, the visibility was not less than 6 km and/or the cloud ceiling was not less than 1,000 feet and the runway lighting system was not in use for any reason. The Investigation noted that this policy was “in line with ICAO Doc 4444 requirements”. The OJTI and their unqualified trainee had been in position for about an hour in traffic conditions assessed by the ATC Supervisor to have been “moderate”. It was found that prior to taking over control of the GND frequency just before the incursion occurred, the OJTI had already done so on several previous occasions after observing several unforced errors in transmissions by the trainee and/or in order “to avoid build up of traffic”. The Cause of the investigated event was determined as “a taxi instruction without a specific runway crossing clearance being misconstrued as implying a runway crossing clearance” which resulted in a runway incursion. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as: An instruction for the 747 to contact TWR for a runway crossing clearance was not given, probably as a result of a lapse of concentration by GND.. The position of the 747 was not verified and instead an incorrect assumption that the aircraft had already crossed RWY07R resulted from the GND controller’s lack of necessary situational awareness when taxi instruction was issued.. The 747 crew did not seek clarification from ATC before entering an active runway without a specific runway crossing clearance.. Safety Action taken by Hong Kong Civil Aviation Department during the course of the Investigation and advised to it was noted to have included the following: The wording of the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) relating to runway crossing