An Investigation into the Serious Incident in accordance with Annex 13 principles was carried out by the Hong Kong Air Accident Investigation Authority (AAIA). Digital flight data recorder (DFDR) data retrieved from the Airbus A330 and recorded data from various air traffic control (ATC) systems were available and two of the three pilots present on the 747 flight deck and the controller involved were interviewed. The Captain of the Boeing 747, who was acting as pilot flying (PF), had a total of 10,408 flying hours experience which included 4,296 hours on type and held a Luxembourg-issued ATPL and was accompanied by a First Officer who had a total of 4,457 flying hours experience which included 909 hours on type and held a Belgian-issued ATPL. A relief pilot of Captain rank was occupying a supernumerary seat in the flight deck at the time of the investigated event. The Captain of the Airbus A330, who was acting as pilot monitoring (PM), had a total of 10,290 flying hours experience which included 1,384 hours on type and was accompanied by a right seat qualified Captain who had a total of 14,160 flying hours experience which included 2,960 hours on type. Both these pilots held Hong Kong-issued ATPLs. A third pilot, unqualified on type, was occupying a supernumerary seat on the flight deck for familiarisation purposes. The GND Controller involved had held his controller rating for almost three years and had recently qualified as an OJTI (on-the-job training instructor) in which capacity he was working at the time, supervising an unqualified trainee. It was established that after clearing runway 07L after landing, the 747 crew contacted GND where the OJT Instructor had momentarily taken over the position from the trainee because of his observed inability to perform despite being three months into his in-position training. The Instructor cleared the aircraft to taxi to the ‘J6’ holding point at the parallel departure runway 07R (see the illustration below). This runway would have to be crossed in order to reach the allocated parking stand and in accordance with applicable ATC procedures, this crossing would require transfer to the TWR frequency and clearance from the TWR to cross the runway before being transferred back to GND to complete the taxi in. Soon after issuing this clearance, the Instructor handed the GND position back to the trainee but by the time the 747 was approaching the limit of its clearance five minutes later and reported this to GND, the Instructor had again taken over the position from the trainee. On receiving the call from the 747, the GND Instructor immediately responded by issuing the rest of the taxi instructions having failed to check which side of runway 07R the 747 was on either visually or referring to the A-SMGCS display provided. Meanwhile, TWR had cleared the departing A330 to take off from 07R having not yet received any contact from GND transferring the 747 ready for the crossing. The 747 crew, as visitors to the airport, took their