When first indications for probable RCF are received, the controllers should determine whether the event is: Partial communication failure (one way RCF), or. Complete communication failure (two way RCF) by. determining whether or not the aircraft’s receiver is functioning by instructing the aircraft on the channel so far used to acknowledge by executing a specified manoeuvre which can be observed on the ATS surveillance system display, or to transmit, if possible, a specified signal in order to indicate acknowledgement (e.g. instructing the aircraft to activate IDENT or to squawk specified SSR code and/or ADS-B transmission changes). If the action prescribed above is unsuccessful, it shall be repeated on any other available channel on which it is believed that the aircraft might be listening, including the emergency frequency 121.5 Mhz channel. Where it has been established that the aircraft’s radio receiver is functioning, continued control can be effected using SSR code/ADS-B transmission changes or IDENT transmissions to obtain acknowledgement of clearances issued to the aircraft. Any manoeuvring instructions shall be such that the aircraft would regain its current cleared track after having complied with the instructions received. Special attention to avoid misinterpretation should be paid when the aircraft is located near an airway turn. When a controlled aircraft experiencing complete communication failure is operating or expected to operate in an area and at flight levels where an ATS surveillance service is applied, separation minima based on ATS surveillance systems may continue to be used. However, if the aircraft experiencing the communication failure is not identified, separation shall be applied between identified aircraft and all unidentified aircraft observed along the expected route of the aircraft with the communication failure, until such time as it is known, or can safely be assumed, that the aircraft with radiocommunication failure has passed through the airspace concerned, has landed, or has proceeded elsewhere. Action taken to ensure suitable separation shall cease to be based on the assumption that the aircraft follows ICAO SARPs when: it is determined that the aircraft is following a procedure differing from ICAO SARPs (VMC and IMC RCF procedures above). through the use of electronic or other aids, air traffic control units determine that action differing from that required by VMC and IMC RCF procedures may be taken without impairing safety; or. positive information is received that the aircraft has landed.. As soon as it is known that two-way communication has failed, appropriate information describing the action taken by the air traffic control unit, or instructions justified by any emergency situation, shall be transmitted blind[1] for the attention of the aircraft concerned, on the frequencies available on which the aircraft is believed to be listening, including the voice frequencies of available radio navigation or approach aids. Information shall also be given concerning: meteorological conditions favourable to a cloud-breaking procedure in areas where congested traffic may be avoided; and. meteorological conditions at suitable aerodromes.. Pertinent information shall be given to other aircraft in the vicinity of the presumed position of the aircraft experiencing