control had been lost and as the aircraft moved to the left of the runway center line and the end of the runway approached with poor deceleration, the PF initiated a 45° turn to the right to avoid an overrun. The aircraft crossed a taxiway and continued onto an unpaved wet surface and over drainage pipes before stopping near a large open drain 150 metes away from the edge of the runway and 90 metres longitudinally from the paved surface of the landing runway. The evacuation was uneventful apart from the fact that it the crew were unable to shut down the No 2 engine even by pulling the fire handle, although by the time the latter method was attempted, there was no battery power. It was concluded that the approach made had comprehensively failed to meet both the Operators stabilised approach criteria and their requirements for response to EGPWS Warnings. The approach brief given was found to have been inadequate and Crew Resource Management within the flight deck ineffective. The First Officer had not intervened to encourage - or make - a go around. In this context, the flight crew combination of a male expatriate PF and a female local PM was recorded but not discussed. It was reported that a day prior to the reduced length availability of runway 27, the Chief Flight Inspector of DGCA Flight Standards Directorate had advised all scheduled service operators by telephone, and then followed up by written communication, some conditions which had to be met to support the maintenance of safe flight operations on the restricted-length runway. As per these instructions “only training captains are to be utilised for flight and the Co-pilot should have minimum 300 hours of experience on type. Further no assisted take off and landing is permitted and no operation shall take place when runway surface is wet”. It was established that the flight crew on the accident flight did not meeting the requirements since the aircraft commander was not a Training Captain. Also, the runway surface had (at the very least) been ‘wet’, a further contravention of the temporary restrictions which it was found that neither ATC nor the flight crew had been aware of. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the event was: “the unstabilised approach and decision of (the) crew not to carry out a ‘go-around’”. It was also concluded that Contributory Factors were: Water patches on the runway. Inability of the ATCO to communicate (with) the (accident) aircraft about (the) aquaplaning of the previous aircraft. Lack of input from the co-pilot.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: Corrective training may be imparted to the involved crew in view of the lapses brought out on their part in the report.. AAI (the ANSP) may bring it to the notice of all concerned that while giving the landing clearance to the aircraft the characteristics of aquaplaning or water patches on the runway, if any, should be mentioned.. Kingfisher should