An Investigation was carried out by the Indian DGCA. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was available as were ATC radar and R/T recordings and also video recordings of all landings on runway 27 as mandated by the DGCA because of the reduced landing distance available (LDA). It was noted that on the day of accident, maintenance action had meant that the secondary runway 14/32 had been closed and the primary runway 09/27 had been available only with a reduced LDA of 1703 metres beginning at a displaced landing threshold. The Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) valid at the time of landing gave a W/V of 070° / 07 knots in slight rain and normal ground visibility so that a significant tailwind component had existed for the landing. It was also established that the previous landing aircraft, an Air India Airbus A319, had reported aquaplaning and the destruction of two runway edge lights to ATC which had sent runway inspection vehicle to inspect the runway. It was further established that the ATCO on duty was not familiar with the terminology of ‘aquaplaning’ and cleared the ATR72 to land without advising of water patches on the runway or advising of the aquaplaning reported by the previous A319. The aircraft commander had been PF for the accident approach. Available evidence showed the aircraft had made the ATC-cleared LLZ-only approach very significantly above the specified vertical profile (see diagram below) and that both the crew and ATC had been aware of this at the time. FDR and ATC radar data showed that the aircraft had been in excess of 750 feet above the procedure vertical profile at a range of 4nm from touchdown and this had continued through 3nm, 2nm and 1nm range. At 1nm range, the actual height aal was 1400ft compared with the procedure profile height of 640 feet. According to the Investigation, at about 4 nm from touchdown, ATC had advised the aircraft to check altitude since it was high and “report field in sight”. Once this had been acknowledged to the effect that the field was in sight, a landing clearance was issued. Thereafter, it was found that the EGFWS Mode 1 ‘Sink Rate’ Warning had been “continuous till touch down” during which time the PF flew the aircraft manually. The Investigation noted that “the maximum rate of descent reached was 2550 fpm” and that “even below 500 ft (aal) the rate of descent was high and a maximum value of 2040 fpm was reached at a radio altitude of 291 feet”. Touchdown occurred 700m beyond the displaced threshold and although the aircraft was correctly configured touchdown registered a 1.32g vertical acceleration. It was calculated during the Investigation that the remaining length of paved surface should have been just sufficient to stop the aircraft in the reported prevailing conditions without the onset of aquaplaning. However, the FDR data showed that the aircraft had aquaplaned when maximum braking had been applied with full reverse pitch. Directional