This is an extract from the executive summary from the official report into the incident published by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). "...The aircraft commenced to climb normally at about 3,600 ft/min, however, shortly after the go-around was initiated, the climb performance substantially reduced to less than 300 ft/min due to the effects of the microburst downdraft and from flight through heavy rain. The pilot in command applied maximum engine thrust to improve the aircraft’s climb performance, and advised the Aerodrome Controller that the aircraft had encountered severe windshear. The crew then diverted the aircraft to Maroochydore, where it landed without further incident." "…For some time before the occurrence, air traffic controllers in the Brisbane aerodrome control tower were concerned about the visual appearance of the approaching thunderstorm, and its image on their weather radar display. However, the terminology and language used by air traffic controllers did not convey their concerns about the intensity of the thunderstorm to the crew of TJX until the aircraft was on final approach." "…The occurrence…again highlights that thunderstorms and convective activity in terminal areas are a significant issue…It also illustrates the significant adverse effect of heavy rain on aircraft performance. The hazards associated with those weather conditions are not solely confined to the presence of severe thunderstorms, and should not be underestimated. Whenever thunderstorm activity is forecast, there is a potential for microburst windshear and heavy rain. Aircraft in the landing, take-off, missed approach or goaround phases of flight are particularly vulnerable in or near thunderstorms. The effects of microburst windshear and, to a lesser extent, the aerodynamic penalties imposed by flight through heavy rain, can place an aircraft in a potentially-high-risk situation…" The following 19 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that Airservices Australia review air traffic controller initial and periodic recurrent training programs to ensure they adequately address the effect of convective weather on aircraft performance and the limitations of airborne weather radar. [R20020168] that Airservices Australia expedite the development of an integrated weather radar/air traffic control radar video display system capable of providing multiple weather echo intensity discrimination without degradation of air traffic control radar information.. [R20020169] that Airservices Australia increase the emphasis in its controller training programs to ensure that all appropriate sources of weather information, such as meteorological forecasts, controller observations, radar information, and pilot reports are provided to flight crews.. [R20020170] that Airservices Australia develop a comprehensive convective weather refresher course as part of recurring training for all personnel actively engaged in the control of air traffic.. [R20020171] that Airservices Australia in conjunction with the Bureau of Meteorology and the Civil Aviation Safety Authority develop a standard scale of thunderstorm intensity for use within the aviation industry.. [R20020172] that Airservices Australia in conjunction with the Bureau of Meteorology develop a position in major air traffic control locations, to be staffed with Bureau of Meteorology meteorologists, to be the focal point for weather information coordination.. [R20020186] that the Bureau of Meteorology in conjunction with