The declaration of "MINIMUM FUEL" informs ATC that, for a specific aerodrome of intended landing, the aircraft has sufficient fuel remaining to follow the cleared routing, execute an arrival and approach procedure and land with the required fuel reserves. However, there is little or no extra fuel on board and any change to the existing clearance could result in landing with less than planned final reserve fuel. (Diversion to alternate aerodrome is usually not an option except for cases where arrival and landing at the planned aerodrome includes considerable airborne holding.) MINIMUM FUEL is not a declaration which confers any special treatment by ATC, i.e. it is not an emergency situation, but merely an information message which, before this guidance was promulgated, would have led some operators to require that their pilots to declare a PAN. However, controllers should bear in mind that an fuel emergency may arise should any additional delay occur. Controllers are not required to provide priority to pilots of aircraft that have indicated or suggested that they are becoming short of fuel or have used the RTF phraseology “MINIMUM FUEL”. The term MINIMUM FUEL indicates that the pilot, intending to land at a specific aerodrome, calculates that any change to the existing clearance to that aerodrome might result in landing with less than the planned final reserve fuel. Controllers should also take into account that a particular State and/or aircraft operator's procedures may or may not require the use of MINIMUM FUEL and that PAN remains a universally prescribed means of declaring any urgency situation which requires assistance, and which in the case of such a declaration due to low fuel would require priority to be given. Controllers should also recognise that a PAN or a MAYDAY declaration arising because of low fuel may not necessarily use the fuel-specific phraseology suggested in PANS-ATM - the pilot may make a standard urgency or emergency declaration first and only once it has been acknowledged, explain that the problem is low fuel and priority corresponding to the declaration made is required. Controllers shall respond to pilots, who indicate or suggest that they are becoming short of fuel or who have declared “MINIMUM FUEL”, by asking the pilot to confirm whether or not he wishes to declare an emergency after confirming to the pilot, the estimated delay (expressed in minutes) he/she can expect, if the pilot is en-route to, is joining, or is established in an airborne hold, or by expressing the remaining track mileage from touchdown, if the aircraft is being vectored to an approach. Controllers should take into account that: Common sense and good judgment will determine the extent of assistance to be given in minimum fuel situations. If, at any time, the remaining usable fuel supply suggests the need for traffic priority in order to ensure a safe landing, the pilot should declare an emergency ("MAYDAY FUEL") and report the estimated fuel endurance in minutes. The pilot-in-command shall declare a situation of fuel emergency ”MAYDAY FUEL”, when