An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB assisted by data recovered from the 2 hour CVR and the FDR. It was noted that the 46 year old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated almost all of his 3880 hours recorded flying experience on the accident aircraft type. It was established that the aircraft had entered runway 18 from Taxiway 1 and had commenced a rolling take off simultaneously with a spot wind check from ATC of 270ยบ / 28 knots. Subsequent examination of the recorded data from nearby anemometer showed that around the time of the take off attempt, the wind speed had varied between 14 and 27 knots at an average speed of 20 knots and the wind direction had varied between 261ยบ and 291ยบ and averaged 273ยบ. AFM Limitations for the operation of the aircraft were found not to include a maximum cross wind component for take off but as the maximum demonstrated cross wind component for landing was 35 knots, it was noted that "operators often use 35 knots as a take off limit in case a return to the departure airport is required". During the initial part of the take off roll, the ailerons were held into-wind by the First Officer and the Captain kept the rudder at neutral and maintained directional control using the Nose Wheel Steering (NWS). The first signs that directional control was being lost occurred as soon as the Captain had moved his left hand from the steering tiller to the control column which the First Officer estimated had occurred between 60 and 80 knots. FDR data indicated that the rudder had remained at neutral and the right aileron had remained into-wind throughout this time and tyre marks on the runway indicated that the aircraft had left the paved surface after it had travelled about 300 metres as it had been accelerating through 80 knots. As this happened, a right rudder command was made and maintained but it had no effect on the ground track of the aircraft which continued, yawing, in a straight line slowly diverging from the runway axis. There was no call to reject the take off and at the point where both the FDR and CVR recordings terminated - at approximately 48 knots - the power levers were still "fully advanced". It was considered likely that this relatively early termination of recorder function had been the consequence of the loss of aircraft electrical power following impact damage to the avionics bay and its equipment. The aircraft finally stopped almost 40 metres from the edge of the runway after an excursion distance of approximately 250 metres which had included crossing a disused runway. Once it had stopped, both pilots noticed that the remains of the propellers were still turning and whilst the Captain made a PA instructing passengers to remain seated, the First Officer operated the Fire Handles as a means to shut down both engines. This action caused the LP fuel