cocks to close but would not have resulted in the immediate shutdown of the engines unless accompanied (as required by relevant QRH drill) by selection of the Condition Levers to the 'Fuel Off' position. The Captain stated that "he did not recall whether the condition levers were set to OFF during the evacuation". No formal conclusion of the Investigation was recorded but in the absence of any evidence that the aircraft had not been airworthy, the following observations were made in respect of "Takeoff Technique": The technique for controlling the direction of the aircraft on the runway is to use rudder assisted by NWS at low speeds because the rudder has reduced effectiveness below 40 knots.. Although the left pilot’s hand should remain on the NWS control until 80 knots (for directional control in case of a rejected take off), NWS should not normally be used above 60 knots.. When rudder is used, the requirement for NWS to assist directional control will reduce progressively as speed increases above 40 knots and rudder effectiveness increases.. It is likely that no assistance will be required by 60 knots and, therefore, there will be no step-change in NW directional effect when the pilot releases the steering control.. It was observed that during the accident take off roll, the rudder had remained at neutral throughout the time the aircraft had remained on the runway. In particular, it had remained so after the point around 40 knots where it would have become effective, with directional control having probably been maintained through the use of NWS alone. Had the rudder been applied as described in the Operations Manual, "there would have been a reduced NWS requirement at any given speed and therefore there would have been a reduced likelihood of a changed directional effect when the NWS control was released". It was, however, recognised that "the lack of data showing NWS commands meant that these considerations could not be verified". In respect of the emergency evacuation, it was noted that no evacuation order had been given and the passengers had begun evacuation on theor own initiative. The Cabin Attendant reported that upon hearing a PA from the Captain for passengers to remain seated due to the still turning propellers, she had walked through the cabin to ensure passengers complied. Subsequently, she had then seen that "a passenger had opened the over-wing exit on the right side of the aircraft but, because the right propeller had now stopped and he was helping passengers to exit the aircraft, she (had) let him continue". The Final Report was initially published on 8 October 2015 and this was then replaced by a slightly amended version on 13 October 2016. No Safety Recommendations were made.