auxiliary holding 78 litres each. The latter were intended to be used in the cruise and were not equipped with their own fuel pumps, so their use below 1000 feet agl was not recommended. After the accident, both engine throttle levers were found set fully forward and both fuel tank selector switches set for feed from the main tanks with the crossfeed closed. The quantity of fuel in the undamaged left main fuel tank was "too small to recover on site". The right main fuel tank was "assessed…..unlikely to have held more than about 10 litres of fuel, probably less". The right engine fuel injection manifold valve was found full of fuel, but the left engine valve was only approximately half full. It was found that there had been approximately 30 litres of fuel in each auxiliary tank. Analysis of the available evidence suggested that immediately prior to impact, it was likely that the left constant speed propeller had been in fine pitch and the right at a pitch angle of 15° - suggesting that the engine could have been at full power. To the extent possible, a detailed examination of the pilot's pre flight fuel planning and flight progress was undertaken in the light of his known priority not to carry unnecessary fuel especially when, as in this case, he knew that the price of fuel at the destination would be cheaper than at the point of departure. There was no evidence that the pilot had monitored actual flight progress against the assumptions which had informed his departure fuel decision and pre departure fuel uplift. It also appeared at least possible that he had used a still air assumption for fuel planning although this would have made little difference to the estimated flight time. The actual progress of the flight was found to show that for some undetermined reason, the initial part of the flight until crossing the south coast of England, had taken slightly longer than expected but thereafter had been nearer to that which would have been expected. The time / fuel required for the flight found on the tablet computer was 2 hours 34 minutes / 206 litres. A calculation using the en route forecast available to the pilot pre flight gave 2 hours 41 minutes / 215 litres. The actual flight time was 2 hour 57 minutes and was calculated to have required 236 litres. With departure fuel estimated to have been just over 300 litres including 60 litres in the auxiliary tanks which appeared unlikely to have been selected for long if at all en route, it was clear that fuel starvation prior to landing had been a real possibility. Once the left engine had run down it was noted that a successful go around was not assured even with continued availability for the right engine. It was noted that the Owner's Manual stated that: "Although the aircraft is controllable at the minimum control speed [86 MPH], the aircraft performance is so far below