An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft was not fitted with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and was not required to be but a tablet computer which the pilot had been using for flight planning purposes was recovered from the wreckage and useful data was subsequently downloaded from it. It was noted that the 58 year old pilot had held a PPL(A) since 1996 and in 2000, he had also gained a PPL(H). He had followed these with a CPL(A) in 2002 and a CPL(H) in 2003 although he had only ever used the private pilot privileges of these licences. He had intermittently held an MEP rating and had most recently renewed it in August 2013 flying the accident aircraft which he owned and had accumulated 261 hours on. The examiner who renewed his MEP rating in 2013 described the pilot's flying as "competent, including his single engine handling". The pilot’s father, who was also an experienced private pilot, described his son as being "competent and meticulous". In respect of fuel, it appeared that the pilot was "known for always using a dipstick to measure fuel quantities before flight rather than relying on fuel gauges and would have been aware of the exact quantity of fuel required for a flight". He was also described by more than one source as "being very sensitive to fuel economy and aware of fuel prices at different airfields". It was noted that the pilot had not flown the aircraft, which he owned, for five years until three months prior to the accident when it returned to service after "an extensive refurbishment programme". The accident flight had departed from Lognes-Emerainville aerodrome, to the east of Paris after filing a Visual Flight Rules (VFR) flight plan to Hawarden. Initially, the flight had remained at 1500 feet beneath controlled airspace near Paris before a climb to 4500 feet for the Channel crossing for remainder of the flight. All the evidence pointed to an entirely routine flight right up to the control problem just before landing. When the aircraft was below 50 feet and about to land on runway 22 in benign weather conditions after a flight of almost three hours, a number of witnesses on the ground reported a range of observations that collectively indicated that the aircraft had suddenly been seen to drift left of the runway before an aircraft control problem followed by abnormal noises from the engines became evident. The aircraft was described as appearing briefly unstable before the left wing dropped, the aircraft rolled rapidly to the left and struck the ground nose first. Both occupants were found trapped in the wreckage but alive but one died at the scene and the other shortly afterwards. Global Positioning System (GPS) position data from the recovered tablet computer was used to reconstruct the final stages of the flight - see the diagram below: It was noted that the aircraft had four fuel tanks, two mains holding 193 litres each and two