optimum that continued flight near the ground is improbable. A more suitable recommended safe single-engine speed is 105 MPH Indicated Airspeed since at this speed, altitude can be maintained more easily while the landing gear is being retracted and the propeller is being feathered." A review of the assembled evidence concluded that it was "all consistent with a go-around attempt, during which the pilot would have selected full power". It was considered possible - and noted that there was some witness evidence to support this - that the left engine may have responded to the pilot's selection of full power, but only for a very short time. It was considered that the pilot would have been unable to control the left yaw and roll created by the asymmetric power. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation were, in full, as follows: "The engineering examination showed that the right engine appeared to be operating normally at impact while the left engine appeared to be operating at a lower power. The investigation did not identify a mechanical defect within the engines, the propellers or their control systems which could account for this difference. In view of the lack of fuel recovered from the left main tank and the left engine fuel injection manifold valve it is considered that the probable reason for the differing engine power was fuel starvation of the left engine. The lack of evidence of fuel spillage from the ruptured right main fuel tank suggests that fuel starvation of the right engine may have been imminent. The majority of usable fuel at the time of the accident was in the auxiliary tanks, which were not selected for engine feed. From the available evidence, it is probable that the pilot originally intended to complete the flight using fuel from the main tanks only, and loaded them with what he considered to be a sufficient quantity. However, the main fuel tank quantity was insufficient for safe completion of the flight. Options to use auxiliary tank fuel or to land and refuel would have been available to the pilot. With no evidence of a prepared fuel plan, and in the absence of any obvious concernon the part of the pilot, he appears to have continued to believe that the fuel in the main tanks alone was sufficient, albeit with a greatly reduced reserve. Although he would not have intended or expected to land with such a low fuel state in the main tanks, the fine weather conditions of the day and his familiarity with Hawarden may have been factors in his apparent acceptance of the situation. The accident occurred when the pilot lost control during a single-engine go-around manoeuvre, after the speed had fallen below the minimum control speed. The investigation concluded that the loss of power on the left engine just before landing was due to fuel starvation which resulted from mismanagement of the aircraft’s fuel system." The Final Report was published on 13 November 2014 . No Safety Recommendations were made.