Traffic-alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS II) logic, currently at Version 7.1, automatically identifies a risk of midair collision and issues alerts for affected pilots. The system is known in some world regions as the airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS). The risk identification is based upon in-flight analysis of the relative trajectories of two or more closing aircraft and second-by-second projection of their future relative positions. In Europe, installation of Version 7.1 software was mandated with effect on 1 December 2015. Based on secondary surveillance radar transponder signals, this mature technology enables — within defined distances — automatic exchange of position, time, velocity and other parameters between equipped aircraft. Most importantly, TCAS II provides an independent, last-resort safety net'' irrespective of air traffic control (ATC) separation standards or the pilots’ situational awareness, according to EUROCONTROL. The agency also notes, “While assessing threats, it does not take into account the ATC clearance, pilot’s intentions or autopilot inputs.” Despite TCAS II’s accuracy and reliability, accident and incident investigations reveal that pilots at times take actions contrary to the resolution advisory (RA), the system’s most urgent collision-avoidance alert. In this circumstance, the logic generates a TCAS RA reversal — e.g., a “Climb, climb NOW” RA seconds after a “Descend, descend” RA. TCAS RA reversals also occur because the pilot of a TCAS-unequipped aircraft changes the flight path from a climb to a descent (with unknown intentions) or while relying solely on visual traffic avoidance. The TCAS RA reversal also could be prompted, for example, by a pilot’s misguided decision to comply with an opposite ATC instruction during the RA. Overriding the TCAS II logic this way likely will increase the risk of collision. Therefore, pilots and controllers must understand these functions well and comply with the responses mandated by flight operations standards, according to EUROCONTROL.