An Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau. It was established that the ingested container and two attached baggage trailers had been wholly within the designated Equipment Restraint Area (ERA) of the designated arrival gate F37 at the time the gate entry guidance system had been switched on by the ground service provider personnel covering the arrival of the accident aircraft. They were located just clear of the red hatched area marking the extent of the Passenger Loading Bridge (PLB) safety zone. It was also noted that the commander of the arriving aircraft had observed that the aircraft docking guidance system was not switched on as the gate area was approached and had stopped the aircraft prior to gate entry for approximately 20 seconds until it was. It was found that the Ground Service Provider's arrival crew - two technicians - had arrived at the gate about 25 minutes prior to the expected arrival of the aircraft. The technician in charge of the crew was a 'Certifying Technician' (CT) and the other technician was a 'Lead Technician' (LT) under training to himself qualify as a CT. Whilst the CT checked the correct function of the PLB, the LT "inspected the ERA to ensure that it was clear of obstructions and equipment" They then waited below the PLB for the aircraft to arrive and no further inspection of the area was carried out as it was not required by procedures. About 15 minutes prior to the actual arrival of the aircraft, another CT joined the arrival crew and was assigned to act as the chock bearer. Meanwhile, an A330 was due to arrive at the adjacent gate F42 shortly after the 777 had arrived on F37. An Equipment Operator (EO) from different Ground Service Provider arrived driving a tractor towing two baggage containers which, on seeing that the ESA for gate F42 was already full, he then left just within the ESA of gate F37, returning few minutes later to attach an empty cargo container on a dolly to the two baggage trailers so that all three trailers were within the F37 ESA. The EO then waited for an A320 to depart from gate F42, expecting that when it did, some of the handling equipment serving the A320 would be moved which would release some ESA space. However, with the A320 still on the gate after about 10 minutes, he decided to try and rearrange equipment in the gate F36 ESA to make room for his trailers in the gate F42 ESA. Just as the aircraft docking guidance system had been activated and the 777 was proceeding into gate F37, he left the area, leaving the baggage trailers and the cargo container behind. The LT acting as chock bearer walked slowly towards the approaching aircraft and "only then … noticed the cargo container and baggage trailers". He reported having called out to the technician in charge who was operating the PLB to try to get him to