stop the aircraft using the guidance system but the noise of the engine drowned out his voice and the cargo container had been sucked into the left engine before the aircraft reached the stop line. The Investigation noted that the aircraft commander, although he had not announced verbally that the left side of the gate area was clear, reported that "he had done a visual sweep of the area from his position and did not notice any obstructions". In order to understand what the chances of pilots detecting obstructions on a gate area which they would not expect if the aircraft docking guidance system was 'live', the Investigation team set up a simulation on the gate concerned using a towed 777 aircraft. This exercise (see the picture below) led to the conclusion that "it was not easy to judge" whether the cargo container and the two baggage trailers would have been in the ERA or not, although "one could infer, from the fact that the PLB safety zone could not be seen", that the cargo container and the baggage trailers were in the ERA because they were partially obscuring the marked PLB safety zone and the wheels of the airbridge. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the ingestion incident was the result of the incorrect positioning of the cargo container/dolly and the baggage trailers in the ERA and: the failure of the Ground Service Provider's arrival crew to continue to monitor the ERA to ensure that it remained clear of obstructions and equipment, after they had done one round of inspection.. the failure of the inbound aircraft flight crew to detect that there was equipment within the ERA.. It was noted that in the light of the findings of the Investigation, "it may be useful for flight crews to check for tell-tale signs that might suggest an abnormal situation in the ERA, for example, when the hatched lines of the PLB safety zone or the wheels of the aerobridge are not visible". Safety Action taken by the Aerodrome Operator whilst the Investigation was in progress was recorded as including the following: increased the frequency of airside inspections and safety audits on Ground Service Providers. has limited the use of gate involved to smaller aircraft to allow provision of a bigger equipment storage area for both this and the adjacent gate and service vehicle access.. initiated a comprehensive review of the aircraft parking bay layout at the airport.. replaced all remaining 30-key aircraft docking guidance system operator panels with the 54-key alternative to standardise operating procedures.. Also, the Aviation Regulatory Authority found that "there was no one organisation or person who was overall in-charge and responsible for the various ground handling activities conducted by multiple parties at the bay" and has since required that the aerodrome operator "to ensure that there is an overall person-in-charge of the operations at the bay for each arrival flight so as to ensure that the operations are carried out safely at the bay". Three