An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Division of the Hong Kong Civil Aviation Department with assistance from the UK AAIB and the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It found that after becoming visual with the runway at approximately 700 ft, the aircraft commander, who was a Training Captain and acting as PF for the sector disconnected the Autopilot but left the Auto Throttle system engaged. The aircraft had continued to track the extended runway centreline, but descended and then stabilized at about half scale below the ILS GS. Although an attempt was made to flare the aircraft, no thrust was added and the action taken was ineffective and led to an extremely hard impact with the runway in a slightly right wing-down attitude at an estimated landing weight just below MLW. It was found that the rate of the descent during the last 300 feet of the approach had averaged approximately 1000 fpm and that this was the rate of descent at touchdown. The approach and landing were characterised by a strong crosswind from the right at or marginally in excess of the prescribed wet runway landing limit. The aircraft commander’s crosswind approach technique was found to have been in accordance with Operator SOPs and therefore not considered to be contributory to the accident outcome. The Investigation noted that although the “late and sporadic crew briefings for the approach, including reference to the wrong runway, are not considered to have contributed directly to the accident, they do have human factors aspects” It also found that: Neither pilot perceived the increasing rate of descent and decreasing indicated airspeed as the aircraft approached the landing flare.”. The commander’s attempt to flare the aircraft by initiating a small increase in pitch attitude, as prescribed in the MD11 Standard Operation procedure (SOP) Manual was in the circumstances ineffective.”. The aircraft touched down …at a rate of descent calculated as approximately 18 feet per second, well beyond the design structural limit of 12 feet per second.. The Investigation concluded that “the cause of the accident was the commander’s inability to arrest the high rate of descent existing at 50 ft RA.” and that “’probable contributory causes to the high rate of descent were: (i) The commander’s failure to appreciate the combination of a reducing airspeed, increasing rate of descent, and with the thrust decreasing to flight idle. (ii) The commander’s failure to apply power to counteract the high rate of descent prior to touchdown. (iii) Probable variations in wind direction and speed below 50 ft RA may have resulted in a momentary loss of headwind component and, in combination with the early retardation of the thrust levers, and at a weight only just below the maximum landing weight, led to a 20 kts loss in indicated airspeed just prior to touchdown.” It was also considered that a “possible contributory cause may have been a reduction in peripheral vision as the aircraft entered the area of the landing flare, resulting in the