the path of hydraulic fluid as it is atomised and enters the conditioned air. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation findings in respect of the response to the consequences of the air conditioning system contamination, in particular the conduct of the evacuation, were analysed in detail. A range of concerns in respect of the behaviour of the passengers and the collective performance of the cabin crew were identified, most of which were traced to perceived deficiencies in both the evacuation procedures and their clarity for passengers and inadequate cabin crew training. The somewhat unusual absence of a ‘rapid disembarkation procedure’ which could well have been more appropriate in circumstances where the aircraft was parked with engines shut down was also noted. It was effectively assessed that the circumstances at the time the evacuation was ordered were arguably nearer ‘urgency’ than ‘emergency’ which is what other operators use their rapid disembarkation procedure for. Three Contributing Factors were formally documented based on the findings of the Investigation as follows: The rudder servo hydraulic system pressure hose ruptured in flight, depleting the green hydraulic system of fluid, which necessitated a return to Sydney.. After the auxiliary power unit (APU) was started and bleed selected on, and the aircraft was towed back to the terminal, the leaking hydraulic fluid was ingested into the APU air intake. The atomised hydraulic fluid, which appeared as haze, mist or smoke, was then distributed into the cabin and flight deck through the air conditioning system, resulting in the captain deciding to evacuate the aircraft.. A number of passengers evacuated using the escape slides in a manner that increased the risk of injury (for example, on their knees, lying down or sitting before sliding, or with hands on the slides). Of the 93 passengers that used the escape slides to exit the aircraft, one was seriously injured and 5 received minor injuries.. A total of 12 Other Factors that Increased Risk, four of which were classified as ‘Safety Issues’ (and are identified as such) were also identified: Although some cabin crew members had detected unusual smells both before and after the aircraft had been towed back to the terminal, they did not pass this information on to the flight crew prior to the captain’s decision to initiate an evacuation.. Although some of Qantas’ A330 aircraft were fitted with an emergency evacuation signal, the emergency evacuation checklist located in the flight deck for these aircraft did not include the use of the evacuation signal. In addition, there was no documented procedure that detailed when the evacuation signal should be used by cabin crew.. A cabin crew member did not open an available exit even though they had observed that there were no signs of smoke, fire or obstruction outside the aircraft. Rather, they assumed that there was fire outside due to haze/smoke being visible inside the cabin.. During the evacuation, one cabin crew member did not assess outside conditions properly and 2 cabin crew members did not continue to