check exit availability, instead directing passengers to the available air bridge(s).. The aircraft evacuation occurred at a time when cabin crew members had completed their shut-down duties and the doors had all been disarmed, with an air bridge already connected to the aircraft. As a result, 2 exit doors were opened in the disarmed mode. Although one of these exits was then armed and reopened and the slide deployed, the other exit remained open without the slide deployed and was declared blocked.. Qantas’ cabin crew recurrent training did not include any situation whereby a disarmed door would have to be rearmed in an emergency. This increased the likelihood that a door would be opened without the escape slide deployed, reducing the number of available exits. [Safety Issue]. Qantas’ method of briefing passengers provided limited and inconsistent information about how to use the escape slides safely and what to do with cabin baggage in an emergency. [Safety Issue]. Qantas' cabin crew primary evacuation commands did not include phrases such as 'leave everything behind' and 'jump and slide'; instead, these phrases were optional. Consequently, passengers would generally not receive specific guidance until they reached an exit, which would likely slow down the evacuation. [Safety Issue]. Some passengers evacuated utilising the slides and airbridges carrying their cabin baggage. As a result, the evacuation was delayed and the risk of injury to themselves and others was increased.. Following the evacuation, the cabin crew did not assist the passengers who had evacuated using the slides on the tarmac (as required by Qantas procedures).. Following the evacuation, the passengers were cleared from the cabin but the cabin crew and other staff members re-entered the cabin prior to the aircraft being deemed safe by emergency services (as required by Qantas procedures).. Qantas did not have a procedure for a rapid disembarkation or other similar procedure that would effectively enable rapid deplaning at a slower and more controlled pace than an emergency evacuation. Therefore, the only option for rapid deplaning was an emergency evacuation utilising slides, which unnecessarily increased the risk of injuries in some situations. [Safety Issue]. One Other Finding was also recorded: Just after the cabin crew at the rear of the aircraft were alerted to the haze/smoke in the cabin, they completed a verbal review of evacuation procedures together, which included discussion about the need to rearm their doors if an evacuation was required. As a result, they were prepared for the evacuation, rearmed their doors when the evacuation command was given, and successfully deployed both escape slides.. Safety Action taken in respect of the event was noted as having included, in summary only, the following which address most of the detailed Safety Issues listed in the Final Report: Qantas Airways: Issued a revised passenger safety briefing video which shows how to descend an escape slide safely and is consistent with the safety briefing card. Incorporated a practical exercise involving evacuation when parked at the gate into recurrent cabin crew training. Initiated a review of