A Serious Incident Investigation into the event was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was noted that the Captain had been employed by Qantas for “about 30 years” and had a total of about 20,100 hours flying experience which included 8,238 hours on type. He had transferred to the A330 about 3½ years prior to the investigated event. The First Officer, who was initially acting as PF, had been employed by Qantas for 15 years and had a total of about 12,200 hours flying experience which included 900 hours on type. He had transferred from the 747 to the A330 in October 2018. Approximately seven minutes after departure from Sydney, a ‘green’ hydraulic system leak (HYD G SYS LEAK) message appeared on the ECAM. The flight crew saw that the indicated hydraulic fluid quantity in the system concerned was fluctuating and decreasing. In accordance with the required response, the engine-driven pumps for the affected system were switched off and ATC were advised of a hydraulic problem and a request to stop the climb at FL 230 was made. However, when the green system quantity continued to drop, the ECAM message (HYD G SYS LO PR) was annunciated and, after completing the required actions, it was decided to return to Sydney. The Captain took over as PF and the operator was advised of the plan to return and the need for a tow after landing because of the loss of nose gear steering. The SCCM was briefed and a PA was made to inform the passengers of the situation. The ECAM status page and the inoperative systems were then checked and all further checklist items completed, an arrival briefing was carried out and descent was commenced in good weather conditions. The crew subsequently stated that they had considered declaring ‘PAN’ status but decided urgency was not required given that there were still 2 other hydraulic systems available and no problems with landing the aircraft or exiting the runway after landing were anticipated. During an uneventful approach to runway 34L, the landing gear was locked down by the free fall procedure which meant that the landing gear bay doors remained open. ATC activated a precautionary alert phase and two Airport RFFS tenders were made ready to meet the aircraft. On completion of the landing roll, the aircraft was taxied clear of the runway using differential braking for directional control and brought to a stop. Whilst waiting for a tug, the APU was started and when the tug and accompanying engineers arrived, both engines were shut down and APU bleed air selected. An external engineering inspection of the aircraft found nothing of concern and twenty minutes after landing, the tug began towing the aircraft to the terminal. Having discussed the situation with the Captain, the RFFS was stood down. The First Officer stated that during the tow, they had told the Captain that they could “smell something strange.....but had thought that the smell was smoke or diesel fumes from