the tug”. They subsequently initiated a further discussion about the smell when the aircraft reached the terminal. The Investigation also discovered that whilst the aircraft had been stopped on the taxiway, the SCCM had detected “a very strong mechanical oil smell” that they suspected, from previous experience, was probably attributable to the hydraulic and nose-wheel steering problem. On mentioning this to a co-located member of the cabin crew, they found that they were also aware of an abnormal smell which they described as “being like cooking oil”. Neither considered that the smell was of concern and therefore did not contact the flight crew or other cabin crew about it. As the tow was about to be completed, the standard flight crew instruction to “disarm doors and crosscheck” was received and actioned. The L3 cabin crew recalled having said to the R3 cabin crew as they passed to complete their crosscheck procedure, that they could smell something similar to “dirty socks” and during the report back of ‘check complete’ to the SCCM, the L3 cabin crew added that a ‘haze’ was forming in the cabin with other cabin crew also recalling that they had seen “haze, mist or smoke” in the cabin at about this time. The flight crew stated that soon after the aircraft tow had been completed, they had both become aware of “an acrid smell” on the flight deck and had begun to experience eye and throat irritation upon which they opened both flight deck windows. They too recalled seeing a haze/mist/smoke appear on the flight deck and soon after this, the Captain and the SCCM discussed the haze/smell over the interphone and the latter advised that the haze was “getting worse and that they needed to get out”’. The Captain then ordered an emergency evacuation over the PA system and the First Officer declared a MAYDAY to ATC advising that there was “smoke in the cabin”. Prior to this order to evacuate, airbridges were in the process of being connected to doors L1 and L2 in accordance with SOP. CCTV showed the L1 door being opened just as the interphone conversation between the Captain and the SCCM finished and passengers were reportedly already standing up and beginning to retrieve their cabin baggage from the overhead lockers. The evacuation was completed using the airbridges connected to the L1 and L2 doors and three other exits from which escape slides were deployed (R3, L4 and R4). The L4 and R4 doors were rearmed before being opened but after the R3 door was initially still disarmed, it had to be closed, re-armed and re-opened before it could be used. The L3 door was also opened but without first being re-armed and the exit was not used. The R2 exit was not used because the cabin crew there decided that despite having checked that outside conditions were fine, they nevertheless thought that the haze/fumes inside the cabin may indicate fire outside and therefore decided to block their exit. The R1 cabin