crew stated that they could see vehicles outside and therefore declared their exit blocked without any further checks on outside conditions. Of the 222 passengers, 129 utilised the 2 air bridges to exit and the other 93 left via the 3 available escape slides and the evacuation of passengers was completed in just over 2 minutes. It was noted that after some passengers had begun to retrieve their cabin baggage prior to the order to evacuate, this continued after it had been given. Whilst most passengers arriving at the exits complied with cabin crew requests to leave their bags on the aircraft, a minority did not. CCTV and passenger video footage showed that at least 40 of the 129 passengers who left via the two airbridges did so whilst carrying cabin baggage. Cabin crew who were present at the doors where slides were deployed subsequently stated that “many passengers did not know how to use the escape slides when they reached the exits, with some passengers pausing to ask what to do and others descending the escape slides by kneeling or lying down”. One passenger was seriously injured whilst using an escape slide and five others sustained minor injuries. The RFFS commander stated that when they left their vehicle on arrival at the aircraft’s assigned parking gate, a smell and taste of oil which was assumed to be hydraulic fluid was immediately apparent and when they noticed a gold-coloured fluid near the APU air intake, an exclusion zone was set up around the rear of the aircraft. After then proceeding to the front of the aircraft they had then heard the airport crash alarm activate (in response to the First Officer’s MAYDAY call) and had initially thought it was the weekly test of the alarm which usually took place around the same time each Sunday. However within a few seconds there was a loud bang and aircraft escape slides began to deploy. All other RFFS vehicles then arrived and their personnel began to assist those passengers arriving down the escape slides and directing them away from the aircraft. Approximately five minutes after the passenger evacuation had been ordered, the Captain and all the cabin crew left the aircraft via the two attached airbridges – the First Officer had already exited onto the apron using the steps attached to the L1 door air bridge. The Captain did the same and went to assist passengers before returning to the aircraft cabin. Airport CCTV footage showed that over the next couple of minutes, multiple members of the cabin crew subsequently re-entered the aircraft via the L1 air bridge to retrieve cabin baggage and other items and other personnel, including engineering staff, also did so ahead of it being deemed safe to do so by the RFFS. After two RFFS personnel had entered the aircraft wearing breathing apparatus to assess the cabin air status, the aircraft was declared safe approximately twelve minutes after the passenger evacuation had begun. Once the evacuation was complete and