the aircraft had been declared safe, the operator’s engineers found residual hydraulic fluid near the base of the vertical stabiliser which indicated that this fluid had flowed downwards towards the APU air intake (see the first illustration below). Further internal examination of the vertical stabiliser showed that the origin of the leak was a failed flexible high pressure hose supplying fluid to the central rudder hydraulic servo, which was powered by the green hydraulic system. The hose had failed near where it joined a 45° end fitting (see the second illustration below). No other hydraulic system abnormalities were found. The aircraft tail showing evidence of hydraulic fluid flowing towards the APU Air Intake. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The failed hydraulic hose and the location of the leak. [Reproduced from the Official Report] An inspection of the subsequently removed hose by the OEM found that the outer steel braid of the three-layered hose was damaged with the fractured wires of the braid affected by corrosion. Striations on the wire were assessed as indicative of fatigue fracture and the overall conclusion was that the wire fractures originated from corrosion attack and then failed due to fatigue load and corrosion. The inspection did not find any other mechanical damage which could have led to the initiation of the wire fractures. The failed hose was fitted at build in 2003. The operator was found to have had an identical hose failure earlier in 2019 on another of their A330 aircraft which had also been fitted at build in 2003 but this leak had not led to fluid entering the APU air intake. This aircraft had recorded similar flight hours and cycles at the time of hose failure to the one being investigated. It was noted that Airbus mandates flexible hose replacements where a high in-service failure rate is detected but the failure rate for rudder servo hoses did not meet the threshold failure rate for proactive replacement. Only one other similar event with fluid contamination of APU-derived air conditioning and the need for a emergency evacuation occurred to an Emirates A330-200 during pushback from Karachi in 2014 after a similar failure to the yellow system high pressure hose supplying fluid to the central rudder hydraulic servo. It was noted that the widely used hydraulic fluid, Skydrol, is fire resistant but if heated to decomposition emits acrid smoke and fumes which are toxic to humans if significant exposure occurs. It was also noted that because of this, an air intake diverter and fluid gutters are installed in and around the APU air intake. These “form a frame that protrudes from the fuselage skin around the air intake opening” which aims to minimise any fluid ingress into the APU air intake. However, when the aircraft is on the ground lack of airflow means that it is possible for some fluid to bypass the frame and in atomised form eventually mix with air fed to the air conditioning system (see the illustration below). The APU showing