the absence of precautionary rapid disembarkation procedure available at many other airlines which avoids the use of slides in situations of urgency rather than emergency and thereby prevents avoidable injury. Will now proactively treat the pressurised fluid supply line to the rudder hydraulic servo as a fixed life rather than on condition item.. Issued a revised passenger safety briefing video which shows how to descend an escape slide safely and is consistent with the safety briefing card.. Incorporated a practical exercise involving evacuation when parked at the gate into recurrent cabin crew training.. Initiated a review of the absence of precautionary rapid disembarkation procedure available at many other airlines which avoids the use of slides in situations of urgency rather than emergency and thereby prevents avoidable injury.. Will now proactively treat the pressurised fluid supply line to the rudder hydraulic servo as a fixed life rather than on condition item.. CASA: Issued an Advisory Circular which provided additional guidance about the requirement for consistent passenger safety information across all formats used. Released a Cabin Safety Bulletin on ‘Brace and Evacuation Commands’ which provided guidance on commands that can be used during an evacuation. It highlighted the need for cabin crew to be ready to manage passengers that bring cabin baggage to exits during an evacuation. It also suggested that once the evacuation command has been given, passengers are proactively instructed to “leave everything behind” and that this instruction should be repeated throughout the evacuation. It also recommended that for evacuations from aircraft which, like the A330, have dual-lane slides, instructions such as “form two lines” and “come this way” followed by “jump and slide" or “sit and slide” should be used. Released guidance material covering the practical training and checking requirements for cabin crew in respect of both annual and three-yearly requirements and stressed that operators must have a process to verify that cabin crew are competent in those functions required to be performed but which may not be specifically mentioned in the regulations. Issued a Part 121 ‘Manual of Standards’ which included requirements for flight and cabin crew to be trained in rapid disembarkation procedures when converting to a new aircraft type and for cabin crew to be trained annually. Guidance material that included the definition of a rapid disembarkation was also released in Acceptable Means of Compliance and Guidance Material. Issued a Cabin Safety Bulletin on ‘Emergency evacuation and occupant survivability’ which explained the difference between an evacuation and a rapid disembarkation and described the types of situations where this procedure may be appropriate to prevent unnecessary injury and avoid possible external hazards that may be present if needing to get out quickly at a terminal.. Issued an Advisory Circular which provided additional guidance about the requirement for consistent passenger safety information across all formats used.. Released a Cabin Safety Bulletin on ‘Brace and Evacuation Commands’ which provided guidance on commands that can be used during an evacuation. It highlighted the need for cabin crew to be ready