to manage passengers that bring cabin baggage to exits during an evacuation. It also suggested that once the evacuation command has been given, passengers are proactively instructed to “leave everything behind” and that this instruction should be repeated throughout the evacuation. It also recommended that for evacuations from aircraft which, like the A330, have dual-lane slides, instructions such as “form two lines” and “come this way” followed by “jump and slide" or “sit and slide” should be used.. Released guidance material covering the practical training and checking requirements for cabin crew in respect of both annual and three-yearly requirements and stressed that operators must have a process to verify that cabin crew are competent in those functions required to be performed but which may not be specifically mentioned in the regulations.. Issued a Part 121 ‘Manual of Standards’ which included requirements for flight and cabin crew to be trained in rapid disembarkation procedures when converting to a new aircraft type and for cabin crew to be trained annually. Guidance material that included the definition of a rapid disembarkation was also released in Acceptable Means of Compliance and Guidance Material.. Issued a Cabin Safety Bulletin on ‘Emergency evacuation and occupant survivability’ which explained the difference between an evacuation and a rapid disembarkation and described the types of situations where this procedure may be appropriate to prevent unnecessary injury and avoid possible external hazards that may be present if needing to get out quickly at a terminal.. In conclusion, the Investigation formally presented the following ‘Safety Message’ in respect of the emergency evacuation as follows: The management of passengers in an emergency situation is the last line of defence in avoiding injury and fatalities, therefore it is important that passengers are well informed through the provision of sufficient and accurate communication about what they may be required to do. The timing of this occurrence highlights the necessity for crew members to remain prepared to react to an emergency at any time, until everyone has disembarked the aircraft. Using a method such as the silent review prompts cabin crew members to mentally rehearse emergency procedures, which ensures they are ready to act in case of an emergency. Communication between the cabin crew and flight crew is essential in abnormal situations, and it is important for information to be relayed as soon as it becomes available. Cabin crew should be trained to recognise and report to the flight crew any unusual smells, sounds and sights, including the use of common terminology to describe odours. The Final Report was released on 21 June 2022. Emergency Evacuation on Land. Rapid Disembarkation. Hydraulic Hystems. Hydraulic Problems - Guidance for Flight Crews. Smoke. Fumes. Corrosion. A332, Karachi Pakistan, 2014.