Selected altitude is one of the downlink data items transmitted in Mode S enhanced surveillance. Representation of selected altitude differs from one system to another but in most cases the data is shown in the track label (either as a separate field or hidden "under" another value, e.g. the cleared level but available by cycling between the two by e.g. the right mouse button). There is usually a warning (e.g. using a different colour) in case of mismatch between the cleared level and the selected altitude. CopyrightSKYbrary Example representation of Mode S selected level in the track label. Note that the image is for illustrative purposes only and is not taken from a real ATS system. Availability of selected altitude information is beneficial in a number of ways: reduces the risk of a level bust. If spotted immediately, the indication for discrepancy between the selected and the cleared level gives the controller the opportunity to issue an appropriate instruction, e.g. to maintain the level. Examples of this include: early warning in case of misunderstood clearance. For example, if a controller clears an aircraft to descend to FL 290 (out of FL 370) and the pilot sets the target level as FL 190, the discrepancy will be discovered and rectified well in advance. If selected level information is not available, this will only happen after the aircraft does not stop its descent at FL 290 at which point an incident may already have happened (e.g. a loss of separation or an infringement of an active SUA). CopyrightSKYbrary Note that while ASB0409 is descending to the wrong level (FL 190 instead of the cleared FL 290), the system warns the controller by using colour (yellow) and special symbols (arrows) to draw attention to the parameter of concern. early/additional warning in case of [[callsign confusion]]. If a pilot accepts a vertical clearance intended for another aircraft, there will be two warnings for CFL/Mode S level mismatch - one for the aircraft that the clearance was indended for (but is not acted upon) and another one for the aircraft that is not supposed to change level. CopyrightSKYbrary Both ASB0409 and ASB977 have start their initial descent as they approach their destination. ASB977 mistakenly accepts the clearance intended for ASB0409. If the incorrect readback remains undetected, the controller may still issue a corrective instruction in time to prevent a potential loss of separation between ASB997 and DVK1208.. early warning in case of misunderstood clearance. For example, if a controller clears an aircraft to descend to FL 290 (out of FL 370) and the pilot sets the target level as FL 190, the discrepancy will be discovered and rectified well in advance. If selected level information is not available, this will only happen after the aircraft does not stop its descent at FL 290 at which point an incident may already have happened (e.g. a loss of separation or an infringement of an active SUA). CopyrightSKYbrary Note that while ASB0409 is descending to the wrong level