apparently overwhelming desire for a quick turnround in Oslo despite the Investigation being unable to find any pressing reason for it. The ‘fixation’ on a quick turnround led to an engine being left running (for which there was no routinely applicable SOP in the company OM) and a consequently abbreviated external check and was considered to be an example of ‘plan continuation bias’ which continued right up to the persistent ‘no de-icing required’ calls made before and after engine start. The First Officer stated that he had considered the ground stop "rushed" and that he "was a bit behind". Noting that this was his first flight where de-icing was an issue, “he wasn't sure if his feeling of not being comfortable with the situation was professionally justified or if it was due to inexperience”. The different responses of the two pilots to the loss of control were marked. The Captain stated that he had been “overwhelmed (by the) dramatic change in the aircraft's position” and had been convinced that his instruments were wrong and “that they could impact the ground”. He had not believed his instruments until the aircraft came below the cloud layer and visual reference was available and he had still lacked confidence in them as the First Officer had continued to climb back into the cloud layer after taking control and pulling out of the dive. The First Officer explained that he had seen that “all three artificial horizons changed colour at the same time” and thus had not identified any flight instrument malfunction. He had therefore taken over control and started to pull back on the control column. The fact that the recovery was attempted without reducing engine thrust was clearly an oversight attributable to the confusion. However, the Investigation considered that in fact “the rapid increase in speed provided a positive contribution toward clearing the tailplane stall and thus resulted in rapid control response”. It was noted that it would have required a very hard pull on the control columns to achieve positive g of 5.99 and its achievement was seen as “an indication that the First Officer, and eventually the Captain realised the risk of impacting the ground during the pull-out”. The Investigation considered that the situation which the crew was in was so extreme that it was only this powerful pull-out with a high g load which had saved them from a fatal accident. Whilst having no bearing on the accident, the Investigation found from its examination of Hesnes Air that “allowing one person in a company to hold several key roles linked to operational safety may have unfortunate consequences” and that there is a discrepancy between the regulatory approval of Norwegian aviation organisations and what appears to be the intention of EASA Regulations. The Primary Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The probable explanation for the aircraft suddenly diving is that the tailplane stalled. No explanations for this have been found other than slush / spray from the runway and falling