point where the cloud base was approaching with the First Officer still controlling the aircraft, the Captain had “pushed the control column forward [...] to prevent the aircraft from entering the clouds” but the First Officer “was able to convince him that the instruments were correct and that they should climb further into the clouds”. FDR data showed that engine thrust remained close to that set for takeoff until after the pull out and was only reduced to 39% as the aircraft pitch was approaching 5° and as it continued increasing through 18.6°, thrust was increased to around 83% where it remained until the aircraft levelled off at approximately FL150. The Captain then cancelled the MAYDAY and confirmed that the flight would continue its planned destination. It was noted that as the After Takeoff Checks were not run, the altimeter subscales had remained set to QNH so the level-off was made at a slightly lower altitude than the cleared level but with the altimeters re-set, there was little traffic and the flight was allowed to continue at a non-standard level. For the remainder of the flight, “further routines and checklists were partially completed in accordance with SOPs” and on nearing their destination, radar vectors were provided until the flight was clear of cloud at about 3,500 feet QNH, after which the approach was completed visually to a landing after a total of 20 minutes airborne. Due to the high g loads to which the flight was exposed during the upset, deformations had occurred in multiple locations on the upper wing surfaces as well as on the engine and the aircraft was deemed a hull loss due to the prohibitive cost of repair. The Investigation noted that an aerodynamic wing stall “would not cause negative g”. It was additionally noted that no evidence that the crew's manoeuvring of the aircraft had contributed to the onset of the loss of control had been found. After very considerable investigative effort, it was concluded that an ice-induced tailplane stall was the only credible explanation for the uncommanded dive. It was, however noted that no previous ice-induced tailplane stall accident investigation was known to have attributed the stall to the process of retracting flaps, rather all known previous instances of ice-induced tailplane stall had been assessed as a result of deploying flaps. However, no evidence was found that the concurrence of flap retraction with the dive represented a causal link. Rather, the initiation of tailplane stall due to the accretion of slush deposits during the takeoff roll which then froze and/or falling snow throughout the time on the ground in Oslo was assessed to be highly credible. It was noted that the Cessna Aircraft Operating Manual for the Citation variant involved contained the explicit warning that “trace or light amounts of icing on horizontal tail can significantly alter airfoil characteristics which will affect stability and control of the aircraft”. On the evidence available, the Captain’s decision not to de-ice was flawed and associated with an