The GND controller then asked for confirmation that they did not want de-icing which was given and once with TWR, there was no other traffic ahead and the flight was given an immediate line up. With continuous light snow falling and a surface temperature of zero, the wing/engine anti-ice and tailplane de-icing systems were selected to auto as part of the Before Takeoff Checks and once clearance had been given, takeoff was commenced using 88% N1. Cloud was rapidly entered and since the aircraft was very light, it accelerated very quickly during takeoff and in the initial climb and to keep the airspeed below 200 KIAS until the height specified for flap retraction, approximately 1,500 feet aal, the normal 12° climb angle had to be increased to 21.0° and then further to 25.5° and despite this, the speed still reached a recorded 202.5 KCAS before the pitch was reduced which occurred at around the target 1,500 feet aal - approximately 2,100 feet QNH. Although the normal trim change when retracting flap would be nose up, FDR data showed that in this case, the nose began to drop and a bunt became a sustained dive. The aircraft also simultaneously banked sharply to the left and these two sudden and unexpected changes together with the onset of significant negative g were bound to have caused spatial disorientation for both pilots. The dive, turn and negative g continued and eventually the aircraft reached a recorded 33.6°nose down and the accompanying negative g reached 2.62. By this time, the speed was 230 KIAS and still increasing and a rapid succession of EGPWS Warnings and Alerts was occurring - SINK RATE, PULL UP, TOO LOW TERRAIN PULL, WINDSHEAR, BANK ANGLE. As the dive had developed, the Captain was “not active on the controls” and the First Officer therefore took control and both initiated and completed a pull-out and recovery to normal flight. Negative g steadily reduced and the maximum nose down attitude of 53° was achieved at +2 g. Positive g continued to increase during the pull out and reached 5.99g with the pitch still 22° nose down 10 seconds after flaps up was initiated. With the aircraft only about 500 feet agl, the aircraft emerged from cloud into visual conditions and the Captain then joined the First Officer in pulling hard back on the control column and this helped in the conversion of the dive to “a relatively quick climb [...] and preventing the aircraft from flying into the ground”. The aircraft nose passed through the horizon at 2.13 g and the speed peaked at 325 KCAS at 7° nose up and +0.45g. The aircraft came to within approximately 170 feet of the terrain before climbing. As the positive pitch increased, a normal climb was re-established at up to 21.5° pitch. The Investigation noted that the crew reported having “hesitated somewhat before continuing the climb after the pull-out [...] because the Captain did not trust the instruments”. When the aircraft had climbed to a