An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN) after the event was notified the same day by the Gardermoen TWR Supervisor. The CVR and 2 hour FDR were removed from the aircraft and their available data were successfully downloaded. However, it was noted that “unlike most FDRs it did not register the control surface and yoke positions, which would have been highly beneficial in this Investigation”. It was noted that the Captain, who was PF for the accident flight, was also the Flight Operations Manager and the nominated post holder responsible for both fixed wing and rotary wing operations by the company. He had completed his initial pilot training in 1991 and had joined Hesnes Air in 2014. He had a total of 12,000 hours flying experience which included 300 hours on type. The First Officer had completed pilot training in 2012 and had joined Hesnes Air in 2015 after a period as a light aircraft flying instructor. He had a total of 1,500 hours flying experience which included 240 hours on type. It was established that the same aircraft and crew had operated a non scheduled revenue flight from Bern to Oslo earlier the same day cruising initially at FL380 and then at FL 430. This flight landed at Oslo at 1603 LT and after passenger disembarkation at the GA Terminal was flight planned to then position out of service from Oslo to Sandefjord/Torp under the same flight number. It was noted that as per a pre flight conversation in Bern, the crew had agreed that the Oslo ground stop would be “as brief as possible” with no refuelling unless unavoidable, leaving one engine running whilst the passenger disembarked and the First Officer conducted the external pre-flight check of the aircraft. They planned to avoid refuelling and de-icing if weather conditions permitted it. This plan was followed and, as a consequence, the First Officer’s external pre flight check was limited to an inspection of only the left hand side of the aircraft during which he “saw water on the wings and presumed that this was also the case on the other wing and tailplane” but no ice. By the time the First Officer had returned to the flight deck, the Captain had already obtained a departure clearance and had advised GND that they did not want de-icing. After less than 10 minutes on stand, the left engine was restarted and taxi clearance was requested. Clearance to taxi to the holding point of runway 19L via taxiway C3 was given after which the Captain asked the First Officer to remind GND that “they did not want de-icing”, in the hope that they would then be given a runway 19R departure which would save taxi time and avoid a need for de-icing. However, there was no change to the 19L holding point clearance and the Captain “then realised that they were approaching a need for de-icing and there was a certain urgency to get in the air”.