was achieved by making the centre compartment a dry bay, the level of a given amount of a 777-200ER would be lower than that for the same amount of fuel in a 777-200. Given that the FQIS had been found to have been operating as if it was computing fuel in a 777-200 with a dry bay, it had not included readings from the 8 sensors in the centre tank centre compartment thus under-recording the actual fuel load. The second illustration below shows this as an annotated graphic. Finally, it was noted that the fact that the overfuelled aircraft was 41 tonnes heavier than the crew believed it was would have created a higher in-flight drag effect and thus the higher fuel consumption rate observed by the flight crew. The incorrect 86 tonne FQIS base reference, coupled with the higher fuel burn by the engines, would have caused the FMC to show a faster than expected reduction of the ‘calculated' fuel quantity remaining and thereby generated the increasing discrepancy between the FMC quantity remaining. The overall Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The aircraft was overfuelled by about 41 tonnes prior to its departure from Singapore. The increasing discrepancy between calculated fuel quantity remaining and the measured fuel quantity remaining on the aircraft prompted the flight crew to return to Singapore.. The cause of the overfuel situation was that the B777-200ER aircraft involved was erroneously recognised as a B777-200 version by the FQIS owing to a fault in the Program Switch Module (PSM) which had resulted in the readings of the eight sensors within the mid-section of the centre fuel tank not being included in the fuel load computed by the aircraft FQIS. The nature of the fault in the PSM could not be established.. The discrepancy between the actual fuel quantity uplifted to the aircraft by the refuelling dispenser and the fuel quantity indication on the aircraft prompted the maintenance crew to perform a manual fuel quantity check using the magnasticks but it was likely that this check did not reveal the overfuel situation because it was not performed correctly. The two technicians involved in overseeing the refuelling of the incident aeroplane had not received any practical training on magnastick checks during their training on refuelling operations and it was noted that magnastick checking was not a commonly performed task in the course of their work.. There was no regulatory requirement for duplicate inspection of magnastick checking and neither the airline operator nor the service provider involved had such a requirement.. Apart from the abnormally high fuel uplift recorded by the refuelling dispenser which prompted the magnastick check, there was no indicator to provide an alert when an incorrect aircraft variant was detected by the FQIS. It would be desirable to have an aircraft safety system that could detect or alert the flight crew or maintenance crew when there was a mismatch between the aircraft model referenced by the FQIS and the actual aircraft model.. Safety Action taken