achieved uneventfully and with no abnormal aircraft handling issues. The Investigation considered the difference between the centre fuel tank of a 777-200 and that of a 777-200ER and noted that the former was much smaller, having a substantial dry bay volume within the confines of the centre tank which reduced its capacity by about 40.5 tonnes. It was noted that the FQIS computation of fuel remaining relies on sensors in the wing and centre tanks with 8 less sensors being required for the smaller 777-200 centre tank than for the larger 777-200ER tank. The aircraft fuel management system included a Program Switch Module (PSM) which consisted of a series of pin switches that would be preset at manufacture to correspond to the correct aircraft type variant and thereafter, the only periodic maintenance action was to confirm the correct switch pattern was set. The PSM pin switch pattern for the 777-200ER was different to that for the 777-200 because the Fuel Quantity Processing Unit (FQPU) needed to accept the inputs from the eight additional sensors in the 777-200ER centre tank. A review by Boeing of the FQPU data after the event under investigation showed that it was operating in 777-200 mode instead of 777-200ER mode so that the readings from the eight extra centre tank sensors on the aircraft involved were not included in the fuel remaining figures computed by the FQIS which thus registered only 86 tonnes when the actual fuel quantity was 127 tonnes. However, when the PSM was inspected by Boeing, they found that it had the correct pin switch pattern for a B777-200ER and also noted that the FQIS had been operating normally prior to the incident flight and that no recent maintenance work had been carried out on the FQIS or the PSM. A detailed inspection and testing of the PSM did not find any electrical or mechanical fault and although there had been reports of previous FQIS faults attributable to problems with the FQPU, the PSM or poor connection between components, no such finding applied to the FQIS components on the incident aircraft. The way in which the manual fuel load check had been carried out was reviewed. It was noted that the process involved allowing each ‘magnastick’ to free fall from its normally constrained position to its equilibrium position, which would result in it protruding below the external surface of the airframe, thus providing an indication of the fuel level at that location in a tank (see the first illustration below). The correct way to manually derive the centre fuel tank contents of a 777-200ER when its load was likely to be significant was to take readings from all four of its ‘magnasticks’, whereas the CT had instructed the LT to drop only the outer stick on each side of the tank. Somce the actual centre tank on the 777-200ER made use of all three sub compartments - the left, right and centre compartments - but the smaller centre tank on the 777-200 variant