An Investigation was commenced by the Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) and subsequently completed and published under the auspices of the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB) who took over responsibility for the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) from August 2016. It was established that the flight crew had requested a fuel uplift to 86 tonnes and on completion of fuelling, although this figure was shown on the aircraft refuelling panel and in the flight deck, the quantity of fuel loaded as measured by the refuelling dispenser’s fuel flow counter was 121.5 tonnes. The refuelling dispenser operator was uncertain at that time if he had reset the fuel flow counter but accepted the suggestion of the Certifying Technician (CT) present that the fuel flow counter might not have been reset prior to refuelling although he subsequently told the Investigation that the dispenser hose mechanism actually would not allow fuel delivery if the fuel flow counter was not first reset. Since the CT had noted prior to the commencement of refuelling that the flight deck fuel quantity indicator reading had been around 5.5 tonnes, the dispenser-measured uplift of 121.5 tonnes of fuel would have resulted in a total fuel on board of about 127 tonnes, some 41 tonnes above the required figure of 86 tonnes. Having informed the flight crew about the fuel discrepancy, he consulted his supervisor and was instructed to carry out a manual fuel quantity check using the fuel measuring sticks, commonly referred to as ‘magnasticks’. He delegated the check to the Lead Technician (LT) who was also present and asked him to check only the centre fuel tank on the assumption that the wing tanks would be full anyway. The LT then performed the check using only the two magnasticks located on the left and right sides of the centre fuel tank which, when these readings were added to the content of the (correctly) presumed full wing tanks, the total corresponded to the required 86 tonnes. It was therefore presumed by the flight crew that fuel quantity figure based on the amount of uplifted fuel recorded by the refuelling dispenser was inaccurate and the flight departed. One hour into the subsequent flight, an EICAS ‘FUEL DISAGREE’ message was annunciated indicating that the threshold (in this case calculated as having been 1.786 tonnes) for alerting the crew to a discrepancy between the fuel remaining calculated by the FMC based on fuel used deducted from the initial fuel load input and that derived from the direct measurement of the amount of fuel remaining in tanks had been reached. As the FMC calculated fuel figure was less than the figure measured by the Fuel Quantity Indicating System (FQIS) and both were sufficient to complete the intended flight, no immediate action was deemed necessary. However, when the difference between the two fuel remaining figures was observed to be increasing, suggesting that fuel use was greater than expected, it was decided after consulting Company Maintenance, to return to Singapore. This was