was found to include: damage to frames and stringers over a 4.5 metre length of the lower fuselage. deformation of the web plates on one of the stringers. deformation of the cross beams of three frames supporting the aft cargo compartment. damage to or severance of parts of the mounting elements between the inner fuselage structure and the outer skin. It was noted that "past experience has shown that the A330-300 is generally not very prone to tailstrikes" so a detailed examination of relevant FDR data was carried out. The focus of this work was the period just before and just after the aircraft had become airborne. It was found that exactly at Vr, the PF begun to pitch up to approximately 9° and "approximately one second later, rotation had begun and the nose landing gear lifted off". During this change, the maximum rotation rate reached was 4.2°/second and it was concluded that this was when the tailstrike had occurred. Once the aircraft pitch angle had reached 11.5°, the rotation rate decreased to around 2.8°/second and approximately one second later, with the airspeed at 164 knots and the aircraft pitch angle at approximately 13.5°, the main landing gears lifted off. In the case of the A330-300, the aircraft pitch angle which will produce tail contact during rotation was found to range from 10.1° with complete compression of the main landing gear oleos to 14.4° with full 'rebound' of the landing gear. Within these limits, there are various factors which are capable of increasing or decreasing the relative risk of a tail strike during take-off. All were considered in relation to the accident take-off and the following were found to have influenced the tailstrike: Rotation Rate. The rate of pitch change during rotation recommended by the manufacturer was found to between 2°/second and 3°/second - somewhat less than the rate which had been used and it was evident that this had been a significant contributor to the tailstrike. It was noted that there is no flight deck indication of rotation rate - it is the response of the aircraft which shows the pilot what the consequences his control inputs are. Flap Configuration. It was noted that the reduced flap extension of the 1+ F configuration compared to that of the F2 configuration means that less lift surface is available for take-off so the aircraft must have a slightly steeper angle of attack to lift the aircraft into the air from a rotation speed which is almost the same. This then means that there is less distance between tail section of the fuselage and the runway surface which reduces the margin available before a tailstrike occurs. It was concluded that the configuration used had also been a factor which increased risk. Shock Absorber Oleo inflation. The nominal increase in tail clearance as the aircraft rotates will be delayed if the main landing gear shock absorbers do not extend normally which requires that the respective oleos are correctly inflated in accordance with AMM