procedures. After arrival in Munich, checks found that although both main landing gears contained at least the required amount of hydraulic oil, both shock absorbers were low on gas and gas pressure so that the expected rebound performance was not met which resulted in a decreased in tail clearance. Centre of Gravity(CG)/Pitch Trim Setting. The aircraft was loaded within the allowable limits for take-off, but both the MACTOW and consequent take-off trim position were indicative of a centre of gravity towards the aft end of the allowable range. Wind Gradients. The manufacturer’s analysis of FDR data during the investigation process showed a downward wind gradient of 6kt in 2.5s and a tailwind of 6 kt in 5 s. These gradients were assessed to have produced a lift reduction during rotation The Cause of the Accident was formally documented as a reduction of clearance due to the following factors: Flaps configuration. Rotation rate dynamic. Position of centre of gravity and pitch trim. Reduced rebound of the main landing gear shock absorbers. It was concluded that it must be pointed out that it was the concurrence of these factors which had resulted in the tailstrike - the complete system would have tolerated each individual factor by itself. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator included informing all A330 pilots that compared to flap configuration 2, flap configuration 1+F poses an increased tailstrike risk. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Airbus should improve the indications of a possible tailstrike risk in the documentation, especially in combination with the configuration of the lift surfaces during take-off (and that) the design of the flight performance program should (provide an) alert (to) the cockpit crew whenever the provided flap configuration is not one with the highest level of tailstrike tolerance. [04/2016]. that Airbus should develop a strategy which allows the crew to unambiguously detect if a tailstrike has occurred once airborne. [05/2016]. The Final Report was completed and published in December 2016.