The NTSB delegated the Investigation to the German BFU. The FDR and CVR were downloaded but relevant data from the latter had been overwritten during the subsequent flight. Based on the severity of the damage found, the occurrence was classified as an accident by the BFU. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain had a total of 17,963 total flying hours which included 2,729 hours on type. The 39 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the departure from Chicago, had a total of 9,332 total flying hours which included 5,431 hours on type. The augmenting crew member, a 36 year-old Senior First Officer, was occupying a supernumerary seat in the flight deck for take-off and he had a total of 8,967 total flying hours including 4,186 on type. It was established in accordance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that as the TOM was 7½ tonnes below the maximum permitted, a flex take-off thrust setting would be used. Although any take-off below MTOM is normally made with the configuration which gives the best thrust reduction for take-off, flap configuration F2 in this case, since "the crew feared the flaps could be hit by raised snow slush and ice", they chose the alternative 1+F configuration for the Chicago departure. The Investigation "understood" the reasoning for the chosen configuration - less flap deployment - because it would reduce exposure of the lift surfaces to frozen deposits and also noted that guidance on configuration choice is "very general" as "There is no quantification or assessment, e.g. between the different configuration options. Therefore it is difficult for a pilot to assess the risk.". It was also noted that "from the flight crew’s point of view entering the alternative configuration 1+F into the flight performance software did not result in changed speeds (from an F2 configuration) and therefore difficulties during take-off would not have been expected." The take-off was perceived as normal by the flight crew and the speed profile was accurately followed but examination of the FDR data showed that a tailstrike had occurred "about one second prior to the main landing gear lifting off completely from the runway". It was noted that "the energy of the strike (would have been) transported by struts and cross beams to the cabin floor of the aft galley" where cabin crew were seated. The Investigation noted that once the decision to continue the flight as planned, the Captain had personally "explained to the cabin crew the measures taken and the decision to continue the flight". Because of the assumption that there had not been a tailstrike, ATC were not advised of the possibility that there might be debris or marks providing evidence of fuselage contact on the departure runway. It was also noted that “The damages on the tail section of the airplane could be associated to the tailstrike. The area of the pressurised cabin was damaged but not degraded in its stability. There was no pressure loss during the flight.” On arrival structural damage