On 27 April 2008 an Airbus A340-300 being operated by UK-based Virgin Atlantic AW on a scheduled passenger flight from London with the First Officer as PF had carried out a night auto ILS approach to Runway 06 with the A/T engaged and been cleared to “land at your own discretion” with visibility reported as 3000 metres and the W/V 050 at 5 kts. The crew stated that they became visual with the runway at a height of between 300 and 200 ft. and at the DH of 200 ft, both pilots had more than the minimum visual reference required and could see “all the approach lights and a good section of runway lights”. The autopilot was disconnected at 100 ft radio altitude and the PF began to flare the aircraft at between 75 and 50 ft radio altitude. The aircraft floated at around 20 ft for a few seconds before it entered an area of fog and the PF lost sight of the right side of the runway and the runway lights. The commander also lost sight of the right side of the runway. The aircraft touched down in a normal attitude but on the main gear only; the body and nose gear did not contact the ground throughout the event. The PF was not aware that the aircraft was moving laterally on the runway, but the commander became aware of the left runway edge lights moving rapidly closer to him before he lost the lights completely and was only aware of their position by the glow of the lights illuminating the fog. The commander called “go-around” and the PF immediately advanced the thrust levers from idle to full thrust. The aircraft became airborne after less than five seconds on the ground, the gear retracted normally and the crew continued with the go-around, climbing to an altitude of 9,000 ft to enter the hold. During the ground roll the crew had heard and felt a rumbling and suspected that the aircraft might have departed the left side of the declared runway although they did not believe that the aircraft had left the paved surface. The aircraft entered the hold while the crew considered their options. Having decided to divert to Mombasa the commander informed ATC that they may have run off the runway side and that they wished to divert to Mombasa. The First Officer remained as PF for the diversion, which was followed by a normal, day Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) landing. At an early stage of the investigation, in July 2008, the UK AAIB had issued a Special Bulletin to publicise factual information available at that time. This information was incorporated in the Final Report