The Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB after the Ministry of Transport (Air Accident Investigation Department) of Kenya delegated the entire investigation to them and appointed an Accredited Representative to assist with the subsequent enquiries. It was found that after loosing visual reference, during which time the PF had made a left rudder pedal input, ground markings showed that the aircraft had touched down heading away from the 45 metre wide runway centerline until the left main landing gear passed over a runway light (which had been destroyed) before continuing off the paved surface before curving right to run approximately parallel with the runway for 180 m. A set of parallel set of marks from the right main gear were found to not quite leave the paved surface (stopping 5 cm from the edge of the paved shoulder) although they were off the declared runway surface. Only very minor damage, within Aircraft Maintenance Manual limits, was found to the aircraft and consequential ground installations damage was limited to the one broken runway light. It was noted in the Report that “the loss of visual references during the flare is a complex event. Sudden changes in RVR can occur due to the natural variability in the density of fog. The phenomenon of rapidly-forming drifting fog during the wet season at Nairobi is not fully understood. In addition, although advisories to pilots caution about such phenomena for certain times of the year it can occur outside those periods, depending on the climatic conditions. A modern instrumented RVR system capable of immediately displaying changing visibility was installed at NBO 18 months before this incident. However, its value was limited as, due to the absence of appropriate training on the AWOS, information from that system was not passed to flight crews and pilot-assessed visibility from several minutes earlier was routinely relayed instead.” However, it was also stated that “In this incident, had the deteriorating RVR figures been passed to the crew it is unlikely that they would have made a significant change in their approach strategy as the recorded RVR remained above CAT1 limits. The decision to continue the approach was made at decision height with the required visual references and the autopilot was disconnected for a manual landing. Instances of loss of visual references during the landing phase are relatively rare, but not unknown, and occur due to a variety of causes. In the case of this aircraft it could not be determined whether the loss of visual reference was due to a localised area of denser fog, a localised reduction in the quality of runway lighting, or a combination of both.” It was further notes that “loss of visual references almost at the point of touchdown….could occur due to either changing meteorological conditions or a simple failure of runway lighting. This incident also reinforces the generic advice that crews should remain ‘go-around minded’ throughout the landing phase” On the subject of the Runway Surface, although it was considered to be