of limited consequence to this particular investigation, the level of contamination seen on the surface of Runway 06 and the lack of any evidence that grip testing had been conducted was of concern. The Investigation noted that “the quantity of rubber deposition may reduce the available friction and braking action for landing aircraft on Runway 06, whilst aircraft conducting a rejected takeoff on the reciprocal runway (Runway 24) in wet conditions could suffer a significant loss of braking effectiveness. In the absence of routine grip testing it is unlikely that an airport authority can determine the condition of the runway with regard to either “slippery when wet” or maintenance planning levels.” The Report concluded that “ The aircraft departed the left side of the runway as a result of the PF’s rudder pedal inputs during the flare which were made during a period when the crew reported that they lost their visual references. In such cases, at this critical phase of flight, it is important that flight crews can recognise and react in a timely manner to unexpected events. The crew recognised the deviation and carried out the initial actions of the go-around within two seconds of the aircraft touching down. This suggests that the decision to go-around had been made before the aircraft actually touched down. The reason for the loss of visual references could not be conclusively proven, but it was considered that local changes in fog density together with variability of runway lighting quality were a factor. The excursion was contained and damage was limited by the timely application of corrective rudder combined with the decision to go-around. However, the aircraft’s left main landing gear did run off the side of the runway for 180 metres.” And that since training for rejected landings is now routinely carried out by UK carriers both during type conversion and recurrent training, no safety recommendations were necessary in that respect The Five Safety Recommendations made were as follows: It is recommended that the Air Traffic Controllers at Nairobi International Airport are provided with appropriate training in the use of the Runway Visual Range measuring equipment which is a function of the Automated Weather Observation System installed at the airport.. It is recommended that the Kenya Airports Authority review their maintenance programme for runway lighting at Nairobi International Airport to ensure that runway lighting quality complies with ICAO Standards.. It is recommended that the Kenya Airports Authority take action to ensure that the positioning of the runway edge lights at Nairobi International Airport complies with ICAO Standards.. It is recommended that the Kenya Airports Authority notify all aircraft operators using Nairobi International Airport of the fact that the runway edge lights are positioned 7.5 m away from the edges of the declared runway surface rather than the maximum of 3 m specified by ICAO.. It is recommended that the Kenya Airports Authority initiates routine testing to monitor runway friction levels at Nairobi International Airport in order to ensure compliance with the standards