During the analysis phase, all collected raw data are analysed and interpreted, and the results collated into a report resulting from a collaborative process between the assessment team and ANSP members. In assessing the collected data, it is important to note that the opinions and perspectives accessed during a Safety Culture assessment are generally obtained from only those personnel who interact directly or indirectly with the assessment team and may not, therefore, be representative of the views of all employees. An essential step towards presenting an accurate assessment of an organisation’s Safety Culture is therefore to compare and ‘triangulate’, or cross-check, information collected from a variety of different sources: Safety Culture questionnaire / survey. Analysis of documents (manuals, policies, etc.). Interviews with management. Workshops / focus groups. Site visits (e.g., observations, informal discussions, etc.). The analysis is based primarily on the appraisal of the observable and analysed issues in the actual context of the organisation, that is, the ANSP’s safety outcomes and performance, and the organisational and national culture and the commercial and social environment in which the ANSP operates. The outcomes of the analysis are used to identify and summarise strengths and weaknesses (or ‘opportunities for improvement’) in the organisation’s Safety Culture to help ANSP managers and staff to understand their Safety Culture and how they might improve it. Typically, three to five or so major areas for improvement are identified. Within these areas there are usually some ‘quick wins’ related to communication and safety strategy, for example, or incident learning practices. Other issues may be more ‘long hand’. In all cases, it is up to the ANSP to decide which to tackle, or indeed to consider other options. The resultant ‘strategy’ needs to be ‘owned’ and driven by the company. It is essential that the ANSP has ‘ownership’ of these goals and develops improvement strategies that are realistic and practical, given the organisation’s constraints and margins for manoeuvring, as imposed by both the organisational context and national culture. Thus, there is a need for a collaborative approach to translate the identified change needs into action plans and solutions. This can be achieved through a facilitated workshop involving the decision-makers who can assure the implementation of the agreed actions.