climb rate and soon afterwards, with vertical separation slowly increasing whilst lateral separation reduced, both aircraft received successive ‘Clear of Conflict’ annunciations, the 737 after a 10 second RA and the A320 after a 15 second RA. Both aircraft then continued climbing until around the time the lateral CPA occurred, by which time the 737 had reached its cleared level and the A320 had ceased its climb at FL 374. A re-creation of the relative flight paths of the two aircraft is provided below. It was noted that the relevant part of the radar surveillance system was configured so that filters for the lower (SCL) sector provided for display of traffic up to FL380 and that filters for the upper (SCU) sector provided for display of traffic from FL350. Both MTCD and STCA alerting was installed and functioning for the two control sectors involved. In the absence of any evidence of equipment malfunctions in respect of either of the aircraft or at the ACC, it was concluded that the origin of the loss of separation lay in “inefficient implementation of applicable procedures by the controllers involved”. This was found to relate primarily to poor inter-sector coordination including the confirmation of the requested climb of the 737 into the SCU sector being confirmed by the SCU Planning Controller instead of the SCU Executive Controller. However, the Investigation also noted that the action to begin climbing above the cleared level by the A320 crew and the same crew’s failure to follow their subsequent TCAS RA or notify TC of its receipt were evidence of poor crew performance. The Investigation considered that the actions of the A320 pilots “were probably due to inadequate interaction and/or due to gaps in their training in the event of abnormal or emergency situations in flight”. The horizontal and vertical recreations of the relative flight paths of the two aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Main Cause of the conflict was found to be the "incorrect assessment of the air situation and the issuing by the SCL sector ATCO of permission to change the flight path of the 737 without carrying out relevant coordination with the SCU sector ATCO and the unauthorised initiation of a climb by the crew of the A320 and their lack of any response to the TCAS RA they received”. A Contributory Factor was identified as “the inefficient performance of coordination procedures between the SCL and SCU sector ATCOs at Sofia ACC during work in vertically separated sectors which were subject to the unit MATS Part 2”. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Bulgarian Air Traffic Services Authority (BULATSA) shall carry out a workshop with ATCOs from the ACC-Sofia, which will discuss the causes and conclusions related to ATS as addressed in the Final Report on the event Investigation. A record of proceedings on the conduct of the workshop shall be drawn up and submitted to the Aircraft, Maritime and Railway Accident Investigation Unit