Two of the latest documents issued by EASA detail the final ATCO LPR decisions that now guide the European Union’s NAAs and ANSPs, and place these decisions into a 2020–2024 planning context. Essentially, they explain what is now in place and further steps to be taken to improve the performance of ATCOs who are qualified to conduct their duties in English as needed, and those who are qualified to conducted their duties only in languages other than English — typically based on the demand at specific aerodromes and airspace. The European Plan for Aviation Safety (EPAS 2020-2024), published in November 2019, highlights the status of ATCO and pilot LPRs and the focus of EASA’s latest planning: “LPRs have now moved beyond implementation [envisioned in] Assembly Resolution A38/8, entering a phase of post implementation.”;. “Despite the successful establishment of national LPR systems, there remains insufficient awareness, particularly in the selection of suitable and appropriate testing tools that meet ICAO LPRs, which may result in safety risks.”;. “Raw safety data shows only a very low number of incidents related to a lack of language proficiency, whilst a significant number of incidents are related to a lack of situational awareness because the radio communications were only in the local language.”;. EASA currently is working to “increase safety by reducing the risk of ineffective communication or even miscommunication when pilots and/or controllers need to face an unexpected situation and to use plain language.”;. “EASA has initiated an analysis of the raw data to ensure that not only those incidents that are directly related to language proficiency are included, but also those that show the lack of language proficiency in the chain of events.”; and,. Another EASA aspiration is for “all relevant stakeholders and Member States to work together on the maintenance, monitoring and revision of LPRI; to promote the common understanding of LPRI as a safety issue, linked to human factors principles; share lessons learned; encourage progress and harmonisation and develop good practice document to cope with operational, safety and standardisation needs.”. EASA was able to declare launch of its “post-implementation” phase of ATCO LPR, as noted, because the agency had finalised the Easy Access Rules for Standardised European Rules of the Air (SERA) in December 2018. The most pertinent SERA regulation — SERA.14015, “Language to Be Used in Air-Ground Communication” — was the culmination of a multi-year consultation process with EU NAAs, ANSPs, ATCOs and other stakeholders. The following abbreviated key provisions settled longstanding disagreements about ATCO LPRs or, by their absence, deferral of an open question until a later time: “The air-ground radiotelephony communications shall be conducted in the English language or in the language normally used by the station on the ground;. “The English language shall be available, on request of any aircraft, at all stations on the ground serving designated aerodromes and routes used by international air services;. “Unless otherwise prescribed by the competent authority for specific cases, the English language shall be used for communications between the ATS unit