Airport and propose mitigation measures. [17/15]. that AESA (the Spanish Aviation Safety Regulator), in coordination with Air Navigation Services Provider, ENAIRE, review the evaluation of the changes associated with runway configuration changes at the Barcelona-El Prat Airport and the mitigation measures proposed. [18/15]. The CIAIAC then held a meeting with Safety Regulator AESA and ANSP ENAIRE in which the Commission "expressed its concern over the continued presence of the risk scenario, given that three incidents had occurred under similar circumstances". The Investigation continued with a detailed examination of ATC TWR/GND operations and relevant controller training arrangements at the airport as they had affected the investigated scenario. It was noted that stop bars were in use for inactive as well as active runways. If a runway crossing "is not part of the standard taxi route for the (runway) configuration in use, the stop bars will be on" with the GND controller authorised (and required) to turn them off where a clearance involving such a clearance has been given before turning them back on once the aircraft has passed. It was concluded that "it seems clear that the instruction given by the central ground controller to the aircraft taxing on taxiway 'D' was due to a mental lapse." This conclusion was considered to be "supported by the fact that initially, when the (A321) crew saw that the stop bars were on and asked if the instruction was correct, the controller automatically replied to hold short (and remained) unaware that he had given an incorrect instruction until the Captain informed him that he would report the incident". Only then did the controller admit to "having doubts as to the instruction he had given" and "it was not until he heard the voice recordings that he was sure of his mistake". Before the completion of the Investigation, conformation of Safety Action taken by both ENAIR and AESA in response to three Safety Recommendations issued early on in the Investigation was reviewed and during a Commission meeting on 26 October 2015 was considered as having been "satisfactory". No further Safety Recommendations were considered necessary. The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the Serious Incident had been "that the (A321) was cleared to cross the runway due to an oversight by the Central Ground controller". The Final Report was approved on 25 November 2015 and subsequently made available in English translation.