The best management and mitigation strategy for unruly passenger events is prevention through early detection, intervention and resolution of the root problem. To achieve this, the air carrier needs to develop an SOP for a preventative strategy that is based on increased awareness of passenger behaviour and the education of all employees on: the implementation of a “Zero Tolerance” policy. how the air carrier will respond to disruptive acts. the type of response to and the consequences of unruly behaviour. The company policy for dealing with unruly passengers should be robust and fully endorsed by senior management. Dealing firmly with disruptive behavior will likely serve as a deterrent to unruly passenger events. Company polices might include provisions to: Provide necessary awareness training and the appropriate procedures and protocols to identify potentially unruly behavior and to intervene when unruly behavior occurs.. Encourage Ground Staff to detect and report unruly passenger behavior at check-in, in the lounges and at the boarding gate.. Ensure that Gate Staff, Cabin Crew and Flight Crew are kept aware of potentially unruly passengers.. Pay particular attention to large groups of travelers and develop procedures to monitor group travel.. Prevent unruly passengers and, where appropriate, potentially unruly passengers, from boarding.. Empower Cabin Crew and Ground Employees to take reasonable steps to prevent unruly and intoxicated behavior. Should such behavior occur, ensure that they are appropriately trained and empowered to deal with it as effectively as practicable.. Support Crewmembers and Ground Employees taking such action.. Encourage the police/local authorities to prosecute unruly passengers, especially when there has been an assault or threats to staff or other passengers.. Outline company policy regarding Crewmembers and Ground Employees who are required to give witness statements to the police after an incident or to appear in court when passengers are prosecuted.. Provide appropriate training to Cabin Crew and Ground Employees in dealing with conflict and its aftermath..