TWR controller recognise what had happened. He then cancelled the 737’s takeoff clearance using phraseology applicable to cancelling a takeoff clearance before a takeoff has commenced rather than when it is already in progress. It was accepted that the local practice of describing the two runways as the “north” and “south” runways may have been indirectly contributory to the event but noted that the driver had correctly read back the clearance to enter the active runway and cross a lit red stop bar without any response from the TWR controller. The formal determination of the Cause of the runway incursion was “the TWR controller’s failure to adhere to the procedures set out in the unit’s Operating Manual and the provisions of the Air Traffic Regulation in regard to the use of phraseology, active listening and surveillance of the airport manoeuvring area”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: The phraseology used by the vehicle driver when naming the runway he wanted to access, given that it was contrary to the stipulations in the Palma ATC Operating Manual because he failed to use the runway designator.. A spatial error made by the vehicle driver in his first communication once established at H5, in that he requested entry to a runway he could not access from H5.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ENAIRE as the navigation service provider should reinforce its tower controllers’ training in visual observation and the use of the surface radar at Palma de Mallorca Airport.. that AENA, as the airport service provider, should reinforce the training of its airside drivers in using standard phraseology for communications at Palma de Mallorca Airport.. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 28 April 2021. Related Articles Radio Discipline. Standard Phraseology. ATC Active Listening. Controller Detection of Manoeuvring Area Conflicts. Surface Movement Radar. Runway Incursion Prevention - Runway-holding Position, Stop Bars and ATC Clearance.