to which the controller responded by clearing the flight for takeoff and advising that there was inbound traffic at 8 nm and received a correct readback. At this point the A-SMGCS showed both the 737 and an uncorrelated label on the 06L runway threshold. The inbound aircraft then made an initial call to TWR to which the controller responded with “continue”, advised that there was traffic to depart and that he would advise when the runway was clear which was acknowledged. Immediately after this, the vehicle driver called TWR and said “[callsign] I’m on the north runway, you cleared me to enter, exiting immediately”. At this time recorded radar data showed that the 737 was just beginning its takeoff roll at the opposite end of the same runway. The TWR controller responded saying that the driver had told him he was on the south runway (having evidently failed to listen to transmissions from the driver after his original error) and telling him to vacate the runway immediately. He then instructed the 737 to “hold position, I say again hold position” to which, as the aircraft was already accelerating through 35/40 knots the crew responded to with “stopping [callsign]” as the vehicle cleared the runway onto taxiway H4. The 737 then came to a stop abeam taxiway N1. They then declined the controller’s invitation to recommence take off from their stopped position and instead cleared the runway to carry out checks and contact their company before taxiing back to H1 for an uneventful full length departure which occurred just over 20 minutes later. The closest the aircraft and the vehicle came to one another during the incident was 1.6 nm (just under 3000 metres). The relative positions of the aircraft and the vehicle during the conflict. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Having examined the available evidence, the Investigation concluded that the primary responsibility for the conflict lay with TWR controller who had failed to perform his duties in accordance with a number of the relevant procedures or, more generally, to the expected standards of professionalism. Give that the initial communication from the vehicle driver to the TWR controller in respect of his position and intentions were confusing, the controller made no attempt to clarify and instead then authorised the vehicle to pass over the lit H5 stop bars and onto the active runway without any justification for doing so after erroneously believing that he had cleared the vehicle onto runway 06R/24L which was not operational at the time. He then cleared the 737 to take off from the occupied runway 24R without checking the physical location of the vehicle either visually or by making use of the available surface movement radar where the position of the transponder-equipped vehicle would have been shown at all times. Only when the vehicle driver, by monitoring the TWR controller’s transmissions, detected the conflict and advised that he was, despite having been cleared to enter the runway by the controller, now vacating it immediately, did the