An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Relevant FDR and CVR information from the 737 had been overwritten but QAR data equivalent to that recorded on the FDR was available as well as relevant ATC voice communication and radar data recordings and statements from all those involved. The 43 year-old Boeing 737 Captain had a total of 12,161 hours flying experience of which 10,951 hours had been on type and his 28 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,080 hours flying experience all but 234 hours of which had been on type. The vehicle driver held a valid airside driving permit and had been employed as an airport lighting technician for eight years. The 32 year-old TWR Controller involved had held a licence for 7 years and been working at Palma for 11 months. The 25 year-old GND controller in position at the time had held a licence for just under two years and had been working at Palma for 10 months and the 48 year-old Supervisor on duty had held a licence for over 16 years and had been working at Palma since obtaining it. All three controllers held only aerodrome control ratings and they and all the others involved were Spanish nationals. The airport was using runway 24R for both arrivals and departures and with the GND controller about to go off duty, the GND position was about to be closed and merged with the TWR position with the TWR controller taking over both. Following completion of its pushback, the departing Boeing B737-800 requested taxi clearance from the GND controller and was cleared via position ‘F’ (see the illustration below) to the holding point for 3270 metre-long runway 24R (also referred to locally as the ‘north runway’) and subsequently to call on the TWR frequency “when ready”. The GND and TWR controllers then prepared for the planned integration of the two positions and their frequencies at the TWR position which then took place just over a minute later. Shortly before this integration had been completed, the airport vehicle driver called TWR for permission to enter the (north) runway from H5 ( a runway 24R access taxiway) but inadvertently transmitted “permission to occupy the south runway when possible" rather than the north runway (06L/24R) to which the TWR controller replied with the single word “approved”. The driver then requested the TWR controller to switch off the red stop bars at holding point H5 (his actual 06L/24R access position) so that he could enter the runway and the controller responded by instructing him to “go over the lit stop bars” to which the driver replied “with permission to pass lit stop bars, north runway occupied by [vehicle callsign], listening on frequency 118.305” (the TWR frequency). The TWR controller did not reply. Almost immediately, the departing 737, still on the parallel taxiway taxiing towards the full length runway 24R holding point H1, called TWR and reported fully ready for departure