cylinder into the passenger compartment via a single regulator. Attachment ports allow passenger oxygen masks to be connected to the manifold. A shutoff valve capable of isolating the passenger compartment is normally incorporated. Portable systems consist of a storage tank, a regulator and one or more passenger masks. These will be distributed to the passengers when required.. Fixed systems draw their oxygen supply from a pressurised cylinder of gaseous oxygen. This can be a dedicated cylinder or it might be the same cylinder that is used to supply the flight deck occupants. An oxygen manifold runs from the cylinder into the passenger compartment via a single regulator. Attachment ports allow passenger oxygen masks to be connected to the manifold. A shutoff valve capable of isolating the passenger compartment is normally incorporated.. Portable systems consist of a storage tank, a regulator and one or more passenger masks. These will be distributed to the passengers when required.. Pressurised aircraft which have a certified maximum altitude of 25,000' or less do not require passenger oxygen systems subject to the aircraft being able to descend to 13,000' or below within 4 minutes of loss of pressurisation. If the aircraft is not capable of achieving the descent profile or the route structure does not allow the descent due to terrain, an oxygen system must be fitted in the aircraft as per the provisions which apply to aircraft which are certified to fly at higher altitudes (above 25,000').. For pressurised aircraft which are certified to operate above 25,000', emergency oxygen equipment must be available. Some aircraft utilize cylinders of pressurised oxygen to meet this requirement but most types are fitted with chemical oxygen generators. The emergency oxygen supply must last a minimum of 10 minutes. Provisions must be provided in the system to automatically deploy the emergency oxygen masks when the cabin altitude exceeds a pre-determined level, normally 14,000'. Sufficient masks must be provided for at least 10% more passengers than there are seats in the passenger compartment. This excess requirement provides masks for small children who may not be assigned a seat and for anyone (such as Flight Attendants) who might not be in their assigned seat at the moment emergency oxygen is required.. The emergency oxygen supply must last a minimum of 10 minutes.. Provisions must be provided in the system to automatically deploy the emergency oxygen masks when the cabin altitude exceeds a pre-determined level, normally 14,000'.. Sufficient masks must be provided for at least 10% more passengers than there are seats in the passenger compartment. This excess requirement provides masks for small children who may not be assigned a seat and for anyone (such as Flight Attendants) who might not be in their assigned seat at the moment emergency oxygen is required.. The most typical passenger oxygen masks consist of a soft, yellow silicone cup fitted with elastic bands for securing the mask to the face. The bands are adjustable to accomodate passengers of different sizes. The mask may also have a