National regulations for the provision and use of supplemental or emergency oxygen systems are based on the guidance provided in Annex 6 of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPS). In general terms, this guidance first differentiates between pressurised and non-pressurised aircraft and then provides specific requirements based on the altitude at which flight is to be conducted. Some of the more salient items found in the ICAO guidance on oxygen are as follows: All Aircraft An operator shall ensure that passengers are made familiar with the location and use of: ... d) oxygen dispensing equipment, if the provision of oxygen for the use of passengers is prescribed.... An operator shall ensure that passengers are made familiar with the location and use of: ... d) oxygen dispensing equipment, if the provision of oxygen for the use of passengers is prescribed.... Non-pressurised Aircraft An aeroplane intended to be operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure is less than 700 hPa (see Note 1) in personnel compartments shall be equipped with oxygen storage and dispensing apparatus A flight to be operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure in personnel compartments will be less than 700 hPa shall not be commenced unless sufficient stored breathing oxygen is carried to supply: a) all crew members and 10 per cent of the passengers for any period in excess of 30 minutes that the pressure in compartments occupied by them will be between 700 hPa and 620 hPa ; and b) the crew and passengers for any period that the atmospheric pressure in compartments occupied by them will be less than 620 hPa. An aeroplane intended to be operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure is less than 700 hPa (see Note 1) in personnel compartments shall be equipped with oxygen storage and dispensing apparatus. A flight to be operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure in personnel compartments will be less than 700 hPa shall not be commenced unless sufficient stored breathing oxygen is carried to supply: a) all crew members and 10 per cent of the passengers for any period in excess of 30 minutes that the pressure in compartments occupied by them will be between 700 hPa and 620 hPa ; and b) the crew and passengers for any period that the atmospheric pressure in compartments occupied by them will be less than 620 hPa. Pressurised Aircraft An aeroplane intended to be operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure is less than 376 hPa or which, if operated at flight altitudes at which the atmospheric pressure is more than 376 hPa , cannot descend safely within four minutes to a flight altitude at which the atmospheric pressure is equal to 620 hPa ... shall be provided with automatically deployable oxygen equipment. The total number of oxygen dispensing units shall exceed the number of passenger and cabin crew seats by at least 10 per cent. All flight crew members of