In describing the concept of Advanced Flexible Use of Airspace (AFUA), EUROCONTROL said, "Airspace should be considered as a single continuum, planned and used in a flexible way on a day-to-day basis by all categories of airspace users." The intent of the AFFUA project is to improve network performance and to provide safe, efficient and accurate information/data flows. EUROCONTROL facilitates the development of European airspace into a continuum that is flexible and reactive to strategic and short-term changes in airspace user needs. Any necessary airspace segregation is temporary and based on real-time usage within a specific time period. Contiguous volumes of airspace are no longer constrained by national boundaries. Airspace allocation is dynamically updated and information is constantly being shared to all affected participants. An example of this is informing airspace users when their desired trajectory is impacted by the request for airspace reservation made by a military user. The trajectory can then be updated accordingly. Military users are to be informed of the impact of their request on the planned trajectories so that they may choose a solution that keeps the impact of reservation to a minimum. In order for this approach to be successful, new processes for negotiation needs to be defined. To support the military operations, a MILO service is organised in the Network Manager operational environment to advise and coordinate military activities which could influence the network capacity. This guarantees for the military that the operations are not hampered. AFUA makes use of dynamic mobile areas. These are airspace structures whose aim is to increase flexibility and minimise the impact on the network while satisfying the needs of military airspace users. Examples of this concept are having several smaller areas with time-based activation (activating the next one deactivates the current one) and an area of defined dimensions moving along with the aircraft inside, etc.