reached and the sudden roll left occurred without the AP disconnecting.. The formally documented Causes were as follows: Latent failure in the actuator of spoiler #6, due to a cracked Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing. Loss of right hydraulic system pressure due to cracked hydraulic tube. Full deployment of the flaps, with the right hydraulic system unpressurised and the Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing cracked, caused spoiler #6 to float. Floating spoiler #6 separated the airflow over a section of the left wing, causing the airplane to roll to the left due to an imbalance in lift between the left and the right wings. Safety Action already taken during the course of the Investigation was recorded as including the following: Icelandair carried out a fleet check for malfunctioning spoilers which resulted in four actuators being replaced on other aircraft.. Moog redesigned the housing of the actuator blocking and thermal relief valve to improve its fatigue performance by substituting a stainless steel for aluminium. Boeing communicated with 757 operators to appraise them of the Investigation findings and revised FCOM procedures in the event of un-commanded roll after a hydraulic system pressure loss and advised its intention to release on 25 June 2016, with reference to a corresponding Moog Component SB, an Alert SB for installation of the redesigned spoiler blocking and thermal relief valve.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Moog in co-operation with the airplane’s manufacturer, set up a program to support fleet wide replacement of the blocking and thermal relief valve housing with the fatigue improved unit made from stainless steel. that Boeing issue the planned service bulletin 757-SB57A0154 to support fleet wide replacement of the Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing in co-operation with the actuator‘s manufacturer. that Boeing research other Boeing large transport category aircraft for similar spoiler actuator design and take corrective action as needed. that the FAA research the need for making inspections, and possible replacement, of spoiler actuator’s Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing mandatory via issue of airworthiness directive, for Boeing 753 airplanes. that the FAA research the need for making inspections, and possible replacement, of spoiler actuator’s Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing mandatory via issue of airworthiness directive, for other large transport category aircraft with similar spoiler actuator design. The Final Report was completed on 13 August 2015. Further Reading/Related Articles Hydraulic Systems. Spoilers And Speedbrakes. Flight Controls. Type Certificate. Loss of Control. Hydraulic Problems: Guidance for Flight Crews. Hydraulic Problems: Guidance for Controllers.