position, leaving the aircraft in a flap overspeed condition" - subsequently attributed to an oversight whilst busy. TWR asked if they could reach the airport and the commander replied “Negative, we have problem with the controls... just a moment we are trying to regain control”. Following this response, ATC initiated the airport emergency response plan. Almost two minutes after the initial upset, the aircraft was levelled off at an altitude of 3000 feet. Soon afterwards, the commander took over as PF and the First Officer, in response to an offer of runway 29, advised TWR (in Icelandic) “we’re going to start by regaining control of the airplane. We have lost the right hydraulic system and it behaves strangely. We are trying to regain control and would like to continue the present course if possible.” It was noted that "three minutes and 22 seconds after the initial upset, the flight crew contacted ATC and advised that they had regained control". Preparations were made for a further approach to runway 20 and, after discussing the upset and concluding that it had to do with the flight controls and that it had occurred when the flaps were fully deployed, it was decided that only 15° flap would be used. The crew requested that a trauma team should meet the passengers after arrival. The track of the aircraft during the event is shown on the diagram below. FDR data showed that there had been a pre-existing spoiler fault which had only begun to have an effect on the flight control system once the unrelated malfunction of the hydraulic system occurred. The spoiler fault was found to be attributable to a fractured housing of a valve in actuator No 6 which, without the presence of normal hydraulic system pressure, would have allowed hydraulic fluid to leak and thereby compromised the normal function of the actuator. The actuator Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Moog advised that similar failures had been seen before during overhauls but had never featured as part of an in-flight incident and had not been reported to Boeing. The cause of the hydraulic system failure was found to have been a cracked hydraulic pipe, the suspected origin of the cracking being a weld flaw. The combined effect of the two identified airworthiness malfunctions in creating the sequence that eventually led to a loss of control were as follows: a spoiler module failure present for the past 27 flights before the investigated upset had been caused by a latent failure in the actuator of the No 6 roll spoiler due to a cracked Blocking and Thermal Relief Valve Housing. the spoiler failure would have been masked in service by normal hydraulic back system pressure. the subsequent loss of right system hydraulic pressure combined with the pre-existing actuator fault caused the faulty spoiler to float. the lateral asymmetry created by this was initially masked by the AP but shortly after the flaps were selected to 30º, the limit of AP corrective authority in this respect was