applicable DA for the approach was noted to have been in direct conflict with regulations as well as Company SOPs. It was concluded that, contrary to their statements, "the pilots had enough time to carry out a missed approach". They had also had enough time to find out what caused the blurred windshield they had commented on earlier in the approach (at 8nm range). There was no further recorded reference on the CVR to a blurred view through the windshield and the Investigation was not able to find any explanation for an absence of forward visual reference once clear of cloud. It was noted that Windshield Defog is achieved by the electrically powered windshield heat system which is supposed to be selected on prior to descent from altitude to provide adequate clearing for descent into high humidity conditions. The most recent Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) timed 23 minutes prior to the accident gave a prevailing visibility of 6km in drizzle with air an temperature of 24ºC and a Dew Point Temperature of 22ºC. The CRM issues raised by two pilots of Captain rank flying together were an area of focus for the Investigation. It was noted that "it was the Captain flying as Co-pilot that gave the command to the Captain flying the aircraft to go down, even when he complained that he could not see and that he was not aligned". It was considered that "a regular First Officer would not give a command like that to his Captain" and concluded that "in crew pairing, necessary consideration should be made to avoid personality clashes, ego and unnecessary supremacy based on cultural and age differences which might jeopardise aircraft operational safety". It was noted as a matter of fact that neither pilot appeared to have received enough simulator training to satisfy the applicable regulatory requirements. It was also noted that the Operations Manual stated that "the normal retirement age for pilots shall be on their 58th birthday" but that discretion to continue beyond that age might be used. And although it was not linked causally to the accident circumstances, it was found that at the time of the accident, Bristow Helicopters' fixed wing operations had been being conducted for almost a year without a valid regulatory approval of Parts A and C of their Operations Manual. The delay in AFS vehicles reaching the crash site due to the lack of adequate arrangements at the aerodrome for radio communications with AFS vehicles was noted not to have prejudiced the survival of the occupants of the crashed aircraft on this occasion. The formally stated Cause of the Accident was "the decision of the pilot to continue the approach without the required visual references". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Poor crew co-ordination CRM.. Pairing two captains together.. The weather was marginal.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the NCAA should ensure that AOC holders do not pair two Captains on a flight, provided