An Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). Data were recovered from the CVR and FDR which were both undamaged and were successfully downloaded by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The FDR data were readable but the CVR data were variously classified as 'unusable' or 'poor' by NTSB, these being the two lowest points on a five point CVR Quality Rating Scale used by the Board. It was noted that at the time of the accident, fixed wing operations were new to Bristow Helicopters Nigeria. Both pilots had accumulated well in excess of 10,000 hours total flying experience but both had less than 700 hours on the accident aircraft type. Both the 56 year-old aircraft commander who was PF for the accident flight (and also the Chief Pilot and a Training Captain) and the 60 year-old Co-Pilot held the rank of Captain but the Co-Pilot, although he held the rank of Captain on two other aircraft types at the Operator was only "certified" as a Co-Pilot on the accident aircraft. It was noted that there was no Cabin Attendant on board the accident flight which was in compliance with Bristow policy of carrying at least one cabin attendant only when there are nineteen or more passengers. It was established that a straight-in ILS approach to runway 21 was flown. The aircraft was cleared to land at 3nm range whilst still in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) on the Instrument Landing System (ILS). There was no crew response to the auto callout of 'minimums' at DA and after various subsequent remarks from the PF to the effect that the aircraft was not on the centreline and "couldn't see down", the PM was recorded as saying "I am telling you to go down" which received the response "I will go down". Five seconds later, the aircraft crashed with a 2.43g vertical acceleration spike occurring on the recorded flight data. The aircraft was turned rapidly to face across the runway after an undercarriage leg became trapped in a culvert alongside the runway. Analysis of FDR data showed that "the last few seconds before the crash, the aircraft was in an unstable approach situation and not aligned, this due to the magnetic heading values indicating a left directional change". It was found that the flight crew had not used the emergency evacuation checklist or spoken to their passengers after the aircraft came to a stop. After they found that the main passenger exit door could not be opened due to fuselage impact damage, they and the passengers exited the aircraft via the right rear emergency exit which was in close proximity to the still-running right hand engine. It was noted that although all AOC holders are required to have a program to demonstrate the effectiveness of their crew members' emergency evacuation procedures, the Investigation could find no evidence of the existence of such a Program in respect of Bristow Helicopters' fixed wing operations in Nigeria. The violation of the