Flight clearance does not provide adequate separation from other traffic: Controller is aware but makes a misjudgement. Controller is unaware. A trainee Controller is being mentored and the mentor fails to intervene appropriately when the trainee allows a potentially hazardous situation to develop Failure in sector or unit co-ordination The controller fails to see the conflict due to the blind spot effect.. Controller is aware but makes a misjudgement.. Controller is unaware.. A trainee Controller is being mentored and the mentor fails to intervene appropriately when the trainee allows a potentially hazardous situation to develop. Failure in sector or unit co-ordination. The controller fails to see the conflict due to the blind spot effect.. Flight in controlled airspace (CAS) deviates from cleared track or level without clearance due to flight crew: Mis-setting of aircraft equipment; Mismanagement of FMS inputs; Failure to follow ATC clearance; Not flying instructed or expected speeds or rates of climb and descent which have been the basis of a controllers flight sequence management; Inattention to equipment malfunction; Avoiding a perceived (visual) loss of separation with another aircraft; Avoiding weather perceived as potentially hazardous when unable to make timely contact with ATC on a busy frequency;. Mis-setting of aircraft equipment;. Mismanagement of FMS inputs;. Failure to follow ATC clearance;. Not flying instructed or expected speeds or rates of climb and descent which have been the basis of a controllers flight sequence management;. Inattention to equipment malfunction;. Avoiding a perceived (visual) loss of separation with another aircraft;. Avoiding weather perceived as potentially hazardous when unable to make timely contact with ATC on a busy frequency;. Flight outside CAS: Ineffective visual "look out" when operating VFR; Allowing the aircraft to enter CAS without ATC clearance; Failure to follow an ATC Clearance;. Ineffective visual "look out" when operating VFR;. Allowing the aircraft to enter CAS without ATC clearance;. Failure to follow an ATC Clearance;. Response to TCAS RA: Failure to properly follow a TCAS RA, including failure to terminate the deviation in a prompt manner when the RA ceases which may lead to a 'chain reaction' causing secondary TCAS RAs for aircraft in the same vicinity at adjacent levels.. Failure to properly follow a TCAS RA, including failure to terminate the deviation in a prompt manner when the RA ceases which may lead to a 'chain reaction' causing secondary TCAS RAs for aircraft in the same vicinity at adjacent levels.. Any of the above scenarios is exacerbated by high traffic density or a rapidly changing traffic situation and many can also lead to inadequate separation outside controlled airspace associated, for example, with military fast jet low flying. Entry to an ATZ outside CAS without clearance has also caused many losses of adequate separation.