An independent Technical Investigation of the event was carried out by the UK Military AAIB (MilAAIB) in support of the wider remit of the corresponding Service Inquiry. Data from the DFDR, QAR and CVR were downloaded and successfully read and were crucial in establishing the cause of the upset. It was noted that the CVR data had only been preserved because its CB had been tripped by an attending ground engineer when the aircraft arrived at Incirlik. Had this not happened, it was observed that the Investigation would have been very significantly hindered. No external or significant other damage was found to have been caused to the aircraft but the Captain's side-stick was determined by the aircraft manufacturer to have been subjected to abnormal forces and was required to be replaced. An Interim Report on the progress of the Investigation was completed on 17 March 2014 and published on 19 March 2014. It was demonstrated from the available evidence that the Captain, who was PF and had been alone in the flight deck for 18 minutes prior to the investigated incident, had placed his personal camera directly behind his side-stick, in the space between the side-stick and the left arm rest of his seat. Prior to this, he had been using it to take photographs. One minute and 44 seconds prior to the beginning of the upset, it was found that his seat had been moved forwards "creating a slight physical jam between the front of the arm rest and the rear base of the side-stick" which the Captain had been unaware of. Then, concurrently with the onset of the event, the Captain's seat was moved forward again, this time forcing the camera against the side stick and moving it quickly to a jammed fully-forward position. Again the Captain was unaware what had happened. The timeline and the initial and final positions of the camera, based on these findings are shown below. The effect of the pitch down command was the immediate transition to negative 'g' which caused unsecured objects, passengers and members of the crew throughout the aircraft to be propelled to the ceiling, many sustaining minor impact injuries. No immediate corrective action was possible since the Captain was still alone in the flight deck and found himself unable to move his side-stick rearwards to any significant extent. He continued to attempt to disconnect the AP without appreciating that automatic disconnection had already occurred and was being annunciated. The Inquiry concluded that these actions confirmed that he had not detected the obstruction to side-stick movement caused by the camera. It was considered unsurprising that the Captain, having been in an extremely low workload phase for some time, remained lacking in situational awareness and unable to transition readily to a heightened state of alertness. The Co-pilot reported that following the upset, his initial focus was on gaining access to the flight deck. He reported "pushing off from the galley ceiling, entering the flight deck and travelling across the ceiling to