on this subject was reported as coming from the Captain (although small parts of the report are shown to have been redacted ahead of external publication). However, extensive analysis of the circumstances which might have prevailed concluded that it was "unlikely that the camera could have become free without a positive movement of the armrest, the seat or the camera itself (or some combination of the three)". A careful examination of CVR and FDR data and the use of a simulator to replicate some of these was then undertaken. This, together with the fact that "the camera was eventually retrieved from the back of the flight deck" was considered to "suggest strongly that the camera was removed from behind the side-stick by means of a physical manipulation and possibly ejected to an area aft of the Captain's seat". The situation which had been created in the cabin following the upset was reviewed by the Inquiry. It was found that 24 of the passengers and all 7 cabin crew had sustained physical injuries, mainly bruising, cuts, neck or back injuries and head injuries, mostly whilst not wearing a seatbelt or wearing one fastened only loosely. These injuries were mainly the result of impact with the ceiling or with overhead fittings but "some cabin crew injuries were the result of being struck by flying loose articles in the galley or burned by hot liquids". One further passenger was recorded as suffering from a "minor mental injury" and various cabin fittings were found to have sustained impact damage. Overall, it was concluded that "the situation in the passenger cabin was managed effectively" and that "the actions of the Purser were particularly noteworthy in bringing the situation under control". It was, however, also noted that in addition to the minor physical injuries recorded, "a number of personnel were admitted to hospital in the days or weeks following the incident suffering from acute stress". The selection and planning of the post incident diversion by the pilots was also reviewed. It was found that, contrary to Operations Manual requirements, there had been no continual en route monitoring and discussion of possible diversions and their weather, so that "there was no scope for a planned diversion location to be used as part of the decision making process" when one became necessary. ATC suggested Trabzon (60nm distant) and it was found that in addition to Trabzon, information was available on board for Samsun (142nm), Tbilisi (242nm), Ankara (331nm) and Istanbul (500nm). The crew requested Istanbul as diversion but on the subsequent recommendation of Turkish ATC accepted a diversion to Incirlik, which was 340 nm distant at the time. It was noted that as a result of the negative 'g' episode, the crew did not have ready access to approach plates for any of the diversions for which they were carried but that in the event, the benign weather conditions, the availability of ATC primary radar and the lack of challenging terrain around Incirlik had led to a simple