his seating position". Based on instructions from the Captain, he attempted to move his side-stick rearwards and disconnect the already disconnected AP. FDR data showed that automatic pitch down protection had been activated approximately three seconds after the upset began and that it had led to a pitch limit of approximately 17° nose down being imposed and that once this attitude was reached, "the position of the elevators was automatically reduced to zero". High speed protection was activated approximately 13 seconds after the upset began, almost simultaneously with the annunciation of the overspeed warning which began to sound as the airspeed exceeded 330 KIAS / Mach 0.86. It led to an automatic pitch upwards at a sustained positive 'g' force of approximately 1.75. It was found that "although the thrust levers were moved to idle by a pilot input, the engine thrust had already been automatically reduced to idle prior to this by the 'Flight Envelope Protection System' in order to facilitate the recovery". It was noted that by the time recovery from the dive had begun, no sustained or meaningful pitch-up commands had been made by either the Captain or the Co-pilot and that therefore, "the initial recovery from the dive was the result of the aircraft's own protection measures and not the product of pilot inputs". The timeline of the period from the beginning of the upset to the arresting of the dive after a height loss of 4400 feet showing key data from the DFDR trace is shown on the diagram below. In respect of side stick movements by the two pilots when attempting recovery themselves, it was noted that there was no formal handover of control to the Co-pilot and he had not taken control by using the button which would have allowed his rearward movement on the side-stick to 'lock out' the opposite position of the Captain's side stick. The effect of this was that the two inputs were, as per the design of the system, summed which resulted in very little change in the pitch command being generated. It was reported by the Captain that when trying to recover control, he had considered switching off the ADIRUs so as to put the aircraft in 'Direct Law' which would have had the effect of disabling the Flight Envelope Protection System which is only available on this aircraft type when in [[Flight Control Laws#Normal Law|'Normal Law'. The Inquiry assessed that without Flight Envelope Protection, "significant (structural) damage to the aircraft" would have been likely and it was considered by the Convening Authority for the Service Inquiry that in such circumstances, the loss of the aircraft had been "not an unrealistic possibility". The available evidence indicated that the Captain's side-stick "became free" quite suddenly some 33 seconds after the uncommanded pitch down had begun with the aircraft back under positive 'g' and in an approximately straight and level attitude and that this was the result of the now-dented camera becoming free from its jammed position. No information