solution which had not, on this occasion, compromised flight safety. It was noted that the Captain had "elected not to inform ATC" about the dumping of 20 tonnes of fuel during the diversion and had not recorded this action on his post flight report as required. The track of the aircraft (reproduced from the Official Report) The formally stated Cause of the Incident was determined as "an inadvertent physical input to the Captain's side-stick by means of a physical obstruction (a camera) that jammed between the left armrest and the side-stick unit when the Captain's seat was motored forward". The following 15 Contributory Factors were "assessed to have made the incident more likely": normalised behaviour regarding the carriage and treatment of loose articles. the carriage of the camera in the flight deck. the use of the camera in the flight deck. low workload. boredom and low arousal. the presence of only a single person on the flight deck for an extended period of time. the armrest setting. the design of the side-stick area. the placing of the camera behind the side-stick. a widespread lack of awareness regarding the risk of side stick interference. a lack of reporting regarding inadvertent operations of the side-stick. the RAF Brize Norton Occurrence Safety Investigation into loose articles. the lack of an identified Duty Holder risk regarding flight deck control interference. distraction and cognitive lack of expectation. the movement of the Captain's seat. The following 5 Aggravating Factors were assessed to have made the outcome worse: the presence of only a single person on the flight deck. competing control inputs on the flight deck. the absence of flight deck inputs in accordance with the overspeed drill. the lack of seatbelt restraint amongst some of the passengers and crew. the presence of loose articles and hot liquids in the galley. A total of 24 Safety Recommendations were made to 11 different RAF post holders "in order to enhance Defence Air Safety". Many were RAF-specific but those which were not included the following: implement a comprehensive strategy to effect a positive change in the safety culture with respect to loose articles on the flight decks of (transport) aircraft. The strategy should promote awareness of the risks that loose articles pose to flight safety and improve behaviours and accountability. review the rules governing crew members at their station to minimise the risks associated with having a single pilot on the flight deck. examine methods of enhancing seatbelt use amongst air transport passengers, including (but not limited to) policy, the content and frequency of briefings and publicity. amend the policy on Cabin Crew restraint to reduce the risk of Cabin Crew injury during in-flight upsets. Specifically, Cabin Crew should wear a seatbelt during controlled rest periods. examine and, if possible, implement measures that could help prevent the placing of loose articles in close proximity to the side-stick of aircraft so equipped.. issue advice for Duty Holders on the preservation and handling of CVRs post-incident. examine ways of managing low