Before the development of Height Monitoring Systems it was not feasible to measure the ASE of large populations of aircraft. It was believed that an aircraft’s ASE was stable over time and that large errors could be clearly identified by regular maintenance checks and inspections. The evidence gathered to date by the European Regional Monitoring Agency (EUR RMA) indicates that these assumptions are not always correct. One of the original assumptions about Altimetry System Error was that it was stable over time, i.e. the ASE characteristics of an aircraft would be constant. Once confirmed as compliant with international standards there should be no requirement for the ASE to be re-evaluated, providing that the configuration of the aircraft remained the same. It is only since the evolution of practical height monitoring systems that the real picture has emerged and the evidence suggests that the facts may in some cases be significantly different to the theory. The design and careful siting of the individual HMU systems has enabled the RMA to build up an ASE profile, over time, for many hundreds of airframes. Evaluation of many of these profiles indicated that a number of aircraft were exhibiting ASE characteristics that were not constant but drifting in a linear fashion. Additional investigations identified that this drift was not always isolated to individual airframes but observed as a characteristic of the aircraft type. Another surprising characteristic frequently observed was a bi-modal split between the 2 separate altimeter systems on board some aircraft. Splits in ASE performance in excess of 100 ft between pilot’s and co-pilot’s systems have not been uncommon. The graph below illustrates an aircraft ASE profile that has a low ASE and is also stable over time. The zero value on the vertical axis represents a zero value of ASE so that the position of the individual results above or below this value (as indicated by the graph plots) represents the magnitude of ASE for this aircraft (between +40 and -50 feet) In contrast, the next example ASE curve shows the long term ASE curve for an individual aircraft where deteriorating ASE has not been identified during scheduled checks. The graph below shows the ASE curve for an individual airframe showing an increase of ASE from approximately -50 feet to over -150 feet in 1 year. The vertical line illustrates when this aircraft came to the attention of the EUR RMA and took action. Improvement in performance after the operator changed faulty pitot heads is clear to see.