After receiving a logon request, the ATSU will need to establish ADS contract(s) with the aircraft before it can receive any ADS-C reports. There are three types of ADS contracts: a) Periodic contract; b) Demand contract; and c) Event contract. The ground system can establish ADS contracts without flight crew action provided that ADS-C in the aircraft system is not selected off. The flight crew has the ability to cancel all contracts by selecting ADS-C off and some aircraft systems allow the flight crew to cancel an ADS contract with a specific ATSU. A periodic contract allows an ATSU to specify: a) The time interval at which the aircraft system sends an ADS-C report; and b) The optional ADS-C groups that are to be included in the periodic report. Each optional group may have a unique modulus which defines how often the optional group is included with the periodic report (e.g. a modulus of five indicates that the optional group would be included with every fifth periodic report sent). A demand contract allows an ATSU to request a single ADS-C periodic report. A demand contract does not cancel or modify any other ADS contracts that may be in effect with the aircraft. The ADS-C application also supports emergency alerting. An ADS-C emergency report is a periodic report that is tagged as an “emergency” report, allowing the emergency situation to be highlighted to ATC. An ADS-C emergency can be triggered by the flight crew in a number of ways: a) Manually, by selecting the ADS-C emergency function; b) Indirectly, by triggering another type of emergency alerting system (e.g. transmission of a CPDLC position report or selection of an SSR emergency code); and c) Covertly (The availability of that functionality may vary between aircraft types). Once an ADS-C emergency has been triggered, under normal circumstances the avionics will continue to transmit ADS-C emergency periodic reports until the flight crew de-selects the ADS-C emergency function. An event contract allows an ATSU to request an ADS-C report whenever a specific event occurs. An ATSU can establish only one event contract with an aircraft at any one time. However, the event contract can contain multiple event types. These types of optional events include: a) Waypoint change event (WCE); b) Level range deviation event (LRDE); c) Lateral deviation event (LDE); and d) Vertical rate change event (VRE). An event contract remains in effect until the ATSU cancels it or until the event(s) used to trigger the report occurs. The waypoint change event contract will trigger a report for all waypoint changes. All other event contracts will trigger a report on the first occurrence and then, if necessary, the ATSU will need to request a new event contract indicating all desired event types.