encounter, the airspeed has been between 140 and 145 knots with a 5-10 knot headwind component. Then, about seven seconds prior to impact, the airspeed began to decrease and the headwind component, which had increased to 15 knots quickly became a tailwind component of a similar amount which persisted for around seven seconds before switching back to a headwind over about four seconds. A subsequent inspection of the aircraft found that the aft lower fuselage had sustained abrasion damage over an area about 6 metres long by 1½ metres wide which was “concentrated at the frame and stringer locations” with “several punctures of the lower fuselage skin and several fractured or deformed fuselage frames”. The potable water service door was missing and recovered from the undershoot and one of the main landing gear tyres had sustained several cuts and had pieces of metal embedded in it. Inspection of the impact area found “damage to several lights and evidence of fuselage contact with the paved undershoot surface”. Main landing gear tyre marks began “prior to the last row of High Intensity Approach Lighting System" (HIRL) and there was impact over an area of about 14 metres long by 1 metre wide with blue paint and aluminium metal transfer beginning a little over 9 metres from the runway 36L threshold. Three HIRLs and two REILs (Runway End Identifier Lights) had been sheared off at their bases and in addition to the detached service door, debris from these lights and small pieces of fuselage skin were recovered from the paved runway undershoot and runway 36L surface. A detailed study of the prevailing weather conditions and the communication to pilots was performed by the Investigation. Prior to departure from Atlanta, the forecast given to the crew included rain showers in the vicinity of the destination around landing time and this was then amended after the flight’s departure to include “a temporary period of thunderstorms and moderate rain around arrival time”. Recordings from the nearest ground weather surveillance radar to Charlotte was found to show “the rapid development of two defined cells over the approach path and airport” between eight minutes prior to the commencement of the go around and one minute afterwards which, within 15 minutes, had merged into a single larger cell. These cells had no lightning activity associated with them and “a three-dimensional cross section showed bases near 6,000 feet and tops up to 15,000 feet”. The Charlotte Terminal Doppler Weather Radar system which provided ATC with real-time weather information was found to have shown “several small echoes along the flight path and a larger echo above the runway 36L TDZ from five minutes before the commencement of the go around and one minute afterwards”. This encounter with a short period of rapidly changing wind velocity was considered to be clearly indicative of passage through a “small microburst”. It was noted that ATC receive information and predictions which include windshear and microbursts integrated from “various weather sensors around the airport” and the