An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant data from the CVR and the FDR were downloaded to inform the Investigation and when it became apparent that a temporary loss of control attributable to meteorological conditions may have been a factor in the event, a comprehensive specialist analysis of the available data in that area was commissioned. It was noted that the 58 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 13,621 hours flying experience including 10,030 hours on type and that the 40 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,877 hours flying experience including 838 hours on type. The crew stated that they were on a three-day pairing and the accident flight was the first flight of the second day. It was established that it had proceeded uneventfully until it neared its destination with the aircraft weather radar on for the whole flight and set to automatic mode. An ILS approach to runway 36L was briefed with autobrake at low because of possible water on the runway and using ‘CONF FULL’ (full flap) rather than the usual ‘CONF 3’. On contacting Charlotte APP at 11,000 feet and reporting that they had ATIS ‘Y’, 36L was confirmed and ATIS ‘U’ advised as current. The crew subsequently acknowledged that a low-level wind shear advisory was in effect for the approach and the Captain reported noting a rain cell close to the airport just after this commenting to the First Officer that this was preventing him seeing the runway. The flight was cleared for the 36L ILS approach about 5 minutes out and soon afterwards, the First Officer was recorded as saying "that thing a really is just like on the approach end isn't it?" to which the Captain responded that the rain shower was "right over the field" but that it had "cleared the right half". As the aircraft descended through 2,500 feet, the Captain disconnected the AP and called for flaps to ‘CONF FULL’ about 30 seconds later. On transfer to TWR, “the flight was cleared to land on runway 36L following a CRJ ahead of them” and were advised a windshear alert with a 20 knot loss of airspeed on a one mile final and advised that the aircraft ahead had reported a gain of 8-15 knots airspeed at 300 feet. Half a minute later, the CRJ ahead went around and after a further half minute, the A321 entered rain at around 180 feet agl and the auto callout "one hundred" followed about 5 seconds later. Almost immediately, a ‘WINDSHEAR’ aural alert was annunciated and the Captain immediately called "go around, TOGA". Three seconds later, the aircraft hit the ground, recording a 2.6 g impact. The First Officer advised TWR that they were going around and reported “a 20 knot loss of airspeed at about 10 feet”. The flight was subsequently radar vectored for a landing on runway 36C without further event. FDR data showed that during the minute prior to the windshear