corresponding display had, from 20 minutes prior to the commencement of the go around until one minute afterwards, been showing “detected windshear conditions at or in the terminal area”. At the time of the accident, this system “was depicting a 25 knot windshear condition over runway 36L and 36C associated with an area of echoes over the area” and “the ribbon display indicated a windshear alert for arrivals on 36L with an expected 20 knot loss of airspeed at 1 mile final” which was the alert provided to the flight by the APP controller. This ATC system was found to have “detected several microburst conditions around the airport area in the minutes prior to the accident" [but] there were no microburst alerts were active for any of the runways at the time of the accident", the earlier windshear advisory given to the crew having expired. The composite weather radar reflectivity image about 90 seconds after go around began (the black dots indicate the approach flight path). [Reproduced from the Specialist Meteorological Report carried out for the Investigation] Guidance provided in the parts of the American Airlines QRH applicable to low level windshear classified pilot reports of airspeed changes greater than or equal to 15 knots as representing a high risk actual windshear. The precautions to be considered in the event of this (or even a medium) windshear risk were given in the QRH as using flap 3 rather than full flap and increasing VAPP by up to 15 knots above VREF. In the presence of TWR advice of a windshear alert for a 20 knot loss of airspeed at one mile final and awareness that the CRJ ahead had reported an 8-15 knot airspeed gain at a similar position and then gone around, no such precautionary action was taken by the A321 crew. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to be “an encounter with a small microburst on short final at low altitude that resulted in a loss of lift and a tail strike during the go-around”. A Contributory Factor to the accident was also identified as “the Captain's decision to continue the approach without applying appropriate windshear precautions in accordance with published guidance”. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 June 2020. Note that the Official Report does not include the ‘Figure 1’ it refers the reader to on page 5. No Safety Recommendations were made.