This is an extract from official report by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB): Precipitation was encountered about 1000 ft after takeoff and propeller anti-ice was selected ON. The autopilot was also engaged. The crew were given a direct routing […], and cleared to climb to FL160 (approximately 16000 ft amsl). The aircraft encountered heavy precipitation during the climb, and a number of visual checks were made for ice. When airframe ice was seen, the crew switched the airframe icing protection system from MANUAL/OFF to FAST. The crew reported that, at FL100, they checked the altimeter indications, which were normal, and carried out a number of other routine check items. As the aircraft continued to climb, the crew received an ICE DETECTED message on the ED [Engine Display], generated by the automatic ice detection system. No action was necessary as airframe, engine and propeller de-ice systems were already on by this time[…]. As the aircraft approached its cruising level, the crew received an “ALT MISMATCH” alert on their Primary Flying Displays (PFDs), warning of a discrepancy in the displayed altitude. A cross-check of the standby flight instrument display showed that the commander’s (left-hand) PFD was showing an erroneous altitude of approximately 150 ft below the co-pilot’s PFD altitude. As the autopilot was selected to receive its inputs from the right hand (co-pilot’s) instrument sources, the crew were content for it to remain engaged. The aircraft levelled at FL160, just above a cloud layer. Soon after reaching FL160, the crew began to experience further discrepancies between both indicated altitudes and airspeeds, and observed heavy icing on the aircraft structure. The autopilot then disconnected automatically. The commander’s indications of altitude and airspeed decayed rapidly, and were replaced by red failure indications. By selecting the right hand instrument sources to feed his own PFD, the commander was able to restore speed and altitude indications to his display. The Air Traffic Controller handling the flight noticed that the aircraft’s SSR Mode C altitude had disappeared from his radar display, and queried it with the crew. In response, the commander requested an immediate descent, stating that the crew were experiencing instrument problems and that he required a descent to clear the icing layer. The crew were cleared for a descent to FL80. As the descent began, the co-pilot’s altitude indication (now displayed on both pilots’ PFD as a result of the commander’s source selection) appeared to read correctly, but the airspeed indication began to show a deceleration at a rate which matched the decreasing altitude. The co-pilot kept the power levers at the cruise setting as the indicated airspeed reduced, concerned that the aircraft was approaching a stall (he recalled seeing an IAS of 134 kt). Recognising that this was an erroneous indication, the commander intervened and directed the co-pilot to reduce power and to select an appropriate pitch attitude for the descent. Both the altitude and airspeed indications subsequently reduced rapidly and were replaced by red failure indications. Both pilots reported that several