amber caution lights illuminated on the Caution/Warning Panel (CWP), associated with the instrument failure indications. The commander made a ‘PAN -PAN ’ call to ATC, stating that the crew had lost all pressure instruments, and initiated the Emergency Checklist. The controller assisted by providing the crew with groundspeed readouts from his display, and Mode C altitude information, when it became available in the later stages of the descent. Both pilots reported that the standby IAS display also showed a red FAIL indication during the descent, though it was uncertain whether the standby altitude display remained valid. As the aircraft approached FL80, the PFD altitude indication returned and the co-pilot used it to level the aircraft. Subsequently, the remaining airspeed and altitude indications from both left and right sources recovered to normal. […] During discussion between the flight crew immediately after the icing encounter, the co-pilot queried the position of the pitot/static probe heat switches (See Figure 1) with the commander, and said that he thought they may be off. Later, neither pilot could be completely certain whether or not the switches were physically moved at this point, but information from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) was consistent with the standby pitot/static probe heat switch being moved from OFF to ON, about three minutes after levelling at FL80, having been at OFF since the start of the recording (switches for the left and right pitot systems were not monitored by the FDR). The aircraft subsequently reached the intended destination without further incident. The investigation noted that repeated non-standard checklist procedures, (interrupted checklist prior taxi) and distractions may have created an environment in which the selection of the probe heat switches to ON was missed before takeoff and not detected until after descent out of icing conditions. It was noted that illuminated cautions relating to flight without pitot / static heaters on would have been present on the Master Caution / Warning Lights panel (See Figure 2) throughout the time when they were off. The report comments that there were undoubtedly distractions and pressures during the taxi and early takeoff phase and continues that it is difficult to say whether this fact may have had a bearing on this incident, but it is important to stress that a correct and disciplined use of the checklist should alert the flight crew to the fact before takeoff. The following factors are identified as to Contributory factors to the Incident: a combination of non-standard use of the checklist, distraction on the flight deck and external pressure contributed to the aircraft taking off with the pitot/static probe heat switches incorrectly selected OFF.. a high workload during the climb in poor weather and heavy icing conditions probably contributed to further missed checklist actions, such that the aircraft climbed to its cruising level without the omission being noticed.. the resulting instrument failure indications and subsequent recovery of information were consistent with the probe heat switches being OFF until after the incident had occurred.. the position of the CWP