Runway incursion prevention strategies should be in place to encompass all potential aerodrome staff, users and visitors. Some of the mitigation strategies are as follows: When people are required to work out on an aerodrome,and particularly on the runway, they should: Be clearly visible at all times.. Be provided with a radio. The radio must be checked for functionality and frequency selection. The user should, at all times, listen out for traffic but also be aware that not all aircraft use radio.. The radio must be checked for functionality and frequency selection.. The user should, at all times, listen out for traffic but also be aware that not all aircraft use radio.. Where possible, work in pairs and proceed against the aircraft traffic direction to improve lookout.. Understand the terms pilots use to describe runways, taxiways, aircraft position on the ground and in the air in the proximity of the aerodrome. Be familiar with the relevant rules and regulations. Be aware of: Low visibility of aircraft due to size, weather conditions, and sun position. Quietness of aircraft conducting glide approaches. The directions from which an aircraft may approach. The pilot’s reduced ability to steer the aircraft and to see when the aircraft is on the ground, particularly in the case of tail wheel aircraft.. Low visibility of aircraft due to size, weather conditions, and sun position.. Quietness of aircraft conducting glide approaches.. The directions from which an aircraft may approach.. The pilot’s reduced ability to steer the aircraft and to see when the aircraft is on the ground, particularly in the case of tail wheel aircraft.. Runway crossings should be limited, or better still, prevented. This can be done by: Providing routes around a runway or alternative access to the aerodrome site.. Providing physical barriers along with good signage around and on the aerodrome to prevent vehicles straying onto runways and taxiways.. Controlling the number of vehicles permitted.. Ensuring all drivers are aware of the rights-of-way described in the relevant national documents.. The aerodrome owner/manager should consider the aerodrome from the perspective of an unfamiliar visiting or student pilot by: Ensuring all runway holding positions are clear to pilots in the approaching directions, noting that different aircraft types present different height and viewing perspectives.. Implementing clear, simple taxiway layouts and junctions of 90° shown by grass cut heights to avoid confusion.. Limiting runway access and the width of any access points to reduce the possibility of pilots accidentally entering a runway.. Positioning a runway access point so that it provides clear views of both approaches, ideally at 90°; consider any slope or obstacle issues to reduce the risk of conflict.. Making sure that all runway access point approach views are regularly checked and maintained.. Ensuring the AIP shows the correct aerodrome layout, if applicable.. Visitors (and passengers) may be unaware of the possible dangers. To avoid the risk of getting hurt or causing others to get hurt they should follow the rules as written on the aerodrome signs as well