time and fuel as well as e.g. airspace infringement.. Weight - incorrect values will affect FMS predictions and the calculation of maximum and optimum altitudes.. Environmental Data - inaccurate winds and temperatures leads to wrong predictions and calculations.. Descent - the FMS fuel and time predictions become more critical to pilot decision making and any incorrect data may impact upon this process. Top of Descent - wrong calculation couild lead to high RoD, time compression and unstable approach. Landing Performance calculations based upon FMS predictions may be incorrect. Fuel - incorrect FMS data may cause inaccurate fuel predictions and affect operational decisions related to holding or diversion. Route - an incorrectly entered route for descent may take the aircraft into restricted airspace or close to terrain. ATC - amended clearances require the pilots to divide their attention.. Top of Descent - wrong calculation couild lead to high RoD, time compression and unstable approach.. Landing Performance calculations based upon FMS predictions may be incorrect.. Fuel - incorrect FMS data may cause inaccurate fuel predictions and affect operational decisions related to holding or diversion.. Route - an incorrectly entered route for descent may take the aircraft into restricted airspace or close to terrain.. ATC - amended clearances require the pilots to divide their attention.. Arrival, Approach and Landing - all of the considerations applicable to descent are even more relevant as available time, fuel and altitude diminish. ATC - changes to the arrival, approach and runway in use could render the FMS data incorrect. Weather - unexpected changes in surface conditions and runway state may differ from FMS data. Approach & Landing Performance - incorrect speeds and flap settings can result in an unstabilized approach and/or runway excursion.. ATC - changes to the arrival, approach and runway in use could render the FMS data incorrect.. Weather - unexpected changes in surface conditions and runway state may differ from FMS data.. Approach & Landing Performance - incorrect speeds and flap settings can result in an unstabilized approach and/or runway excursion..