the conduct of it or relate to the substance of the investigated event. This was formally stated as follows: Stale flight data and poor-quality audio recording of the 787 enhanced airborne flight recorder (EAFR). The incident airplane was equipped with forward and aft EAFRs, which recorded cockpit audio data and flight parametric data. The EAFRs recorded stale flight data for some parameters (that is, data that appeared to be valid and continued to be recorded after a parameter source stopped providing valid data), which delayed the NTSB’s complete understanding of the recorded data. In addition, the audio recordings from both EAFRs during the airborne portion of the flight were poor quality. The signal levels of the three radio/hot microphone channels were very low, and the recording from the cockpit area microphone channel was completely obscured by the ambient cockpit noise. These issues did not impact the NTSB’s investigation because the conversations and sounds related to the circumstances of the incident occurred after the airplane arrived at the gate and the engines were shut down, at which point the quality of the audio recordings was excellent.. The Investigation formally documented a number of Findings which included the following which were central to the identification and resolution of the Safety Issues related directly to the occurrence: The battery failure resulted from an internal short circuit that occurred in cell 5 or cell 6 and led to thermal runaway that propagated to adjacent cells.. GS Yuasa’s cell manufacturing process allowed defects that could lead to internal short circuiting, including wrinkles and foreign object debris, to be introduced into the Boeing 787 main and auxiliary power unit battery.. Boeing’s electrical power system safety assessment did not consider the most severe effects of a cell internal short circuit and include requirements to mitigate related risks, and the review of the assessment by Boeing authorized representatives and Federal Aviation Administration certification engineers did not reveal this deficiency.. Boeing failed to incorporate design requirements in the 787 main and auxiliary power unit battery specification control drawing to mitigate the most severe effects of a cell internal short circuit, and the Federal Aviation Administration failed to uncover this design vulnerability as part of its review and approval of Boeing’s electrical power system certification plan and proposed methods of compliance.. The Probable Cause of the occurrence was determined by the NTSB as: "An internal short circuit within a cell of the auxiliary power unit (APU) lithium-ion battery, which led to thermal runaway that cascaded to adjacent cells, resulting in the release of smoke and fire. The incident resulted from Boeing’s failure to incorporate design requirements to mitigate the most severe effects of an internal short circuit within an APU battery cell and the Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to identify this design deficiency during the type design certification process." A total of 23 Safety Recommendations were issued during and at the conclusion of the Investigation. Five Recommendations were released on 24 May 2014 in respect of initial findings that the