An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Although it did not materially hinder the conduct of this particular investigation, it was found that there were data recording deficiencies in respect of both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) elements of both Enhanced Airborne Flight Recorders (EAFR) fitted to the aircraft. It was found that the FDR elements had ceased recording valid data during the previous flight and had instead - in accordance with the unit design - continued to repeat the last valid readings of the recorded parameters - described as 'stale data' by the Investigation. It was also found that the data recording quality on the CVR elements was poor so that although this did not affect the ability to replay an intelligible recording with the engines shut down - the relevant action in this investigation, with the aircraft in flight, much of the recording was obscured by ambient noise, with the effect only reducing with engines running on the ground. The occurrence of an apparently related in-flight incident involving the same battery type fitted to another Boeing 787-8 nine days later was noted and the NTSB assisted in the investigation of that event which led to the publication of a Final Report by the Japan Transport Safety Board on 25 September 2014. This Report concluded that the aircraft main battery had been destroyed as a consequence of thermal runaway after a short circuit in one of the cells and considered that the certification process for the aircraft type had "underestimated" the effects of such a situation. The Investigation also noted the failure, on 14 January 2014, of the main battery of a Japan Air Lines 787 whilst it was parked at the gate at Tokyo Narita and being prepared for a service. In this case, preliminary indications are that one battery cell had overheated and vented electrolyte which was contained, as expected, within the battery case enclosure introduced after the events in January 2013. The FAAs initial response to the event being investigated here in the form of the announcement on 12 January that a comprehensive review of the 787 Electrical Power System (EPS) and its interaction with aircraft mechanical systems would be undertaken was noted. Further FAA action four days later, following the occurrence of the second similar event in Japan earlier the same day, to ground the US 787 fleet until corrective action to be determined had been formulated, published and complied with was also noted. Other operators of the type worldwide grounded their 787s to await developments. The required corrective action was subsequently detailed in FAA AD 2013-08-12 issued on 26 April 2013. An Interim Factual Report detailing progress with the NTSB Investigation was issued on 7 March 2013. An Appendix to this Report providing a copy of the FAAs Type Certification Special Conditions for the Boeing 787 which had been issued in 2007 in place of the normally applicable requirements for electrical equipment and