with Boeing relying on an independent auditor to perform surveillance assessments of Thales twice a year. It was found that Thales had conducted two audits of battery supplier GS Yuasa between the time that battery production began and the failure events. These audits, in June 2011 and September 2012 had found 11 discrepancies, none of which had been directly related to battery or cell manufacture and all of which were reported to Boeing and had been subsequently closed. Boeing had not been conducting any audits of GS Yuasa, relying instead on Thales. However, afterwards, they sent their own audit team to both Thales and GS Yuasa to review the management of sub-tier suppliers, the quality of their manufacturing and business processes and their adherence to Boeing standards. This audit found 17 instances of non-compliance with Boeing requirements. At GS Yuasa, these involved failure to follow written procedures and communications from Thales and Boeing in respect of authorisation for proposed procedural and testing changes for the battery. At Thales, they involved adherence to the contractual requirement to obtain Boeing approval for changes to drawings or procedures. Analysis of the accumulated evidence on the battery failure and its wider context led to the identification of five Safety Issues relating to the safe installation and use of large lithium-ion batteries as main aircraft electrical power sources. The text of the Safety Issues provided below is an exact quotation of the NTSB report: Cell internal short circuiting and the potential for thermal runaway of one or more battery cells, fire, explosion, and flammable electrolyte release.. The investigated incident involved an uncontrollable increase in temperature and pressure (thermal runaway) of a single APU battery cell as a result of an internal short circuit and the cascading thermal runaway of the other seven cells within the battery. This type of failure was not expected based on the testing and analysis of the main and APU battery that Boeing performed as part of the 787 certification program. However, GS Yuasa did not test the battery under the most severe conditions possible in service, and the test battery was different than the final battery design certified for installation on the airplane. Also, Boeing’s analysis of the main and APU battery did not consider the possibility that cascading thermal runaway of the battery could occur as a result of a cell internal short circuit. Cell manufacturing defects and oversight of cell manufacturing processes.. After the incident, the NTSB visited GS Yuasa’s production facility to observe the cell manufacturing process. During the visit, the NTSB identified several concerns, including foreign object debris (FOD) generation during cell welding operations and a post-assembly inspection process that could not reliably detect manufacturing defects, such as FOD and perturbations (wrinkles) in the cell windings, which could lead to internal short circuiting. In addition, the FAA oversight of Boeing, Boeing’s oversight of Thales, and Thales’ oversight of GS Yuasa did not ensure that the cell manufacturing process was consistent with established industry practices. Thermal management