installation requirements contained in 14 CFR 25.1353. was also included in the Final Report as Appendix 'B'. At this point, it had been established that APU use prior to and during the preceding flight had been in line with normal procedures - for about 30 to 40 minutes on the gate at Narita until after engine start and then after landing at Boston when it had been left running when the flight crew departed the aircraft 15 minutes after gate arrival and the airline station maintenance manager and a mechanic boarded along with cleaning staff. Shortly after this, one of the cleaners had come to the maintenance manager who was in the flight deck and advised that there was “an electrical burning smell and smoke in the aft cabin.” The maintenance manager then noticed that electrical power to systems powered by the APU had been lost and that the APU had automatically shut down and so he selected both APU and main battery switches to the ‘off’ position. FDR data showed that the APU battery had failed about a minute after the flight crew had left the aircraft and that the APU had shut down 22 seconds after that. Following an initial investigation of the aft electronic equipment bay, within which thick smoke was developing, and an unsuccessful attempt to extinguish the fire at the front of the APU battery case using a hand held dry chemical extinguisher, the ARFF were called. An extinguishant effective in controlling the spread of a lithium ion battery fire, supplied as the product ‘Halotron’, a Halon 1301 replacement based on CH2FCF3, CHF2CF3 and CO2, was applied to the clearly overheated battery and its container and after a series of applications directed through the thick smoke with the aid of a thermal imaging camera, the fire and smoke finally ceased and the remains of the battery were subsequently removed from the aircraft. The area which had contained the failed battery was examined and found to show damage consistent with both heat generation and the discharge of smoke, hot gases and electrolyte. Thermal damage was limited to an area no more than 50 cm from the battery installation and no aircraft primary structure was found damaged. The Investigation noted that the failed battery was installed in the rear electrical equipment bay to facilitate starting of the APU either on the ground or in the air and that the main aircraft battery in the forward electrical equipment bay was of exactly the same type. This main battery functions as the primary source of power for selected electrical equipment under both normal and failure conditions. The location of the two batteries and an annotated view of one are shown in the diagrams below taken from the Official Report. Each 75 ampere hour battery has eight lithium-ion cells which have a nominal voltage of 3.7 - the first use of such a large cell size in this type of aircraft battery. Comprehensive analysis of all the available evidence led