or modify existing safety standards related to the design of permanently installed lithium-ion batteries to require monitoring of individual cell temperature and voltage and recording of exceedances to prevent internal cell damage during operations under the most extreme operating temperatures and currents. [A-14-115]. that the FAA should, once the guidance requested in Safety Recommendation A-14-115 has been issued, require type certification applicants to demonstrate that the battery monitoring system maintains each individual cell within safe temperature limits at the most extreme battery operating temperatures and the heaviest electrical current loads approved for operation. [A-14-116]. that the FAA should work with lithium-ion industry experts to. (1) conduct research into battery monitoring system technologies that could improve the recognition of conditions leading to thermal runaway, (2) develop active mitigation of such conditions to minimize damage, and (3) update design and safety standards accordingly. [A-14-117] that the FAA should Work with industry experts to develop appropriate test methods for determining the initial point of self-heating in a lithium-ion cell to establish objective margins of thermal safety for future battery designs. [A-14-118]. that the FAA should provide their certification engineers with written guidance and training to ensure that (1) assumptions, data sources, and analytical techniques are fully identified and justified in applicants’ safety assessments for designs incorporating new technology and (2) an appropriate level of conservatism is included in the analysis or design, consistent with the intent of Advisory Circular 25.1309 (Arsenal draft). [A-14-119]. that the FAA should, during annual recurrent training for engineering designees, discuss the need for applicants to identify, validate, and justify key assumptions and supporting engineering rationale used in safety assessments addressing new technology. [A-14-120]. that the FAA should develop written guidance for their certification engineers and engineering designees about the use of traceability principles to verify that the methods of compliance proposed by type certification applicants for special conditions involving new technology are correct and complete. [A-14-121]. that the FAA should, once the guidance requested in Safety Recommendation A-14-121 has been issued, provide training to their certification engineers and engineering designees on the subjects discussed in the guidance. [A-14-122]. that the FAA should require applicants to discuss key assumptions related to safety-significant failure conditions, their validation, and their traceability to requirements and proposed methods of compliance during certification planning meetings for type designs involving special conditions. [A-14-123]. that the FAA should require Boeing 787 operators to incorporate guidance about the enhanced airborne flight recorder stale data issue in their maintenance manuals to prevent stale data from being used for maintenance activities or flight recorder maintenance. [A-14-124]. that the FAA should evaluate whether the recording of stale data by the Boeing 787 enhanced airborne flight recorder, including whether the data are specifically identified as stale, impacts the certification of the recording system regarding the ranges, accuracies, and sampling intervals specified in 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 Appendix M, and take appropriate measures to correct any problems found. [A-14-125]. that the FAA should Require Boeing to improve the quality