to the conclusion, by elimination of all other potential causes, that the malfunctioning of the cell which initiated the thermal runaway had been caused by an internal short circuit of unknown origin. Since the battery was being used in accordance with approved operating and airworthiness instructions, the applicable FAA Certification process, in particular the Special Conditions for the certification of both the battery and its charging system, as well as all the supporting documentation relating to the safety assessment of the Electrical Power System (EPS) design as a whole, soon became the main focus of the Investigation. In respect of Boeing's use of external suppliers for the detailed design and manufacturing of the EPS, it was established that Boeing had responsibility for overall integration and certification of the equipment used in the electrical power conversion subsystem. Boeing had contracted Thales Avionics Electrical Systems to design this subsystem which included the main and APU batteries and Thales had then subcontracted various manufacturers to produce the necessary components. These manufacturers included GS Yuasa Corporation, which developed, designed, and manufactured the main and APU batteries. To achieve aircraft type certification, Boeing had been required to demonstrate that the 787 design met the nine explicit requirements for Lithium Battery installation in the FAA Special Conditions 25-359-SC. To provide assurance that these requirements had been addressed, Boeing had carried out a Safety Assessment to determine the potential hazards that various failure conditions of the components in the Electrical Power System (EPS) could expose the aircraft and its occupants to. The Investigation found that Boeing had "determined that the rate of occurrence of cell venting for the 787 battery would be about 1 in 10 million flight hours". However, it noted that at the time of the investigated and the related events, both of which involved the precipitation of thermal runaway after failure of a single cell, the in service 787 fleet had accumulated less than 52,000 flight hours. Given the significant ingress of smoke to the passenger cabin during the investigated event, the potential impact of smoke generation within the aircraft passenger cabin and flight deck environment at any time when the aircraft might be occupied and the doors closed was considered. It was noted that the system for the removal of smoke and fumes from the vicinity of the failed battery was predicated on the presence of smoke detectors to trigger the dispersal of smoke overboard by fans in the cooling ducts and by a change in the position of the electrically-driven air supply valves. However, in the absence of electrical power, this process did not work, hence the build up of smoke which had occurred in both the affected bay and in the cabin area above it. The nature of oversight of the supply chain from the battery supplier and the EPS lead contractor Thales which had prevailed prior to the investigated event was examined. It was found that Boeing surveillance of Thales had been conducted "in accordance with contractual specifications and requirements"