certification testing methods and guidance for addressing the safety risks of internal short circuits and thermal runaway on large lithium-ion batteries were "insufficient" and that more generally, there was a need for outside technical knowledge and expertise to address "inadequate" certification processes for validating the safe introduction of new aircraft technology into aircraft designs: that the FAA should develop abuse tests that subject a single cell within a permanently installed, rechargeable lithium-ion battery to thermal runaway and demonstrate that the battery installation mitigates all hazardous effects of propagation to other cells and the release of electrolyte, fire, or explosive debris outside the battery case. The tests should replicate the battery installation on the aircraft and be conducted under conditions that produce the most severe outcome. [A-14-032]. that the FAA should , after Safety Recommendation A-14-032 has been completed, require aircraft manufacturers to perform the tests and demonstrate acceptable performance as part of the certification of any new aircraft design that incorporates a permanently installed, rechargeable lithium-ion battery. [A-14-033]. that the FAA should work with lithium-ion battery technology experts from government and test standards organizations, including US national laboratories, to develop guidance on acceptable methods to induce thermal runaway that most reliably simulate cell internal short-circuiting hazards at the cell, battery, and aircraft levels. [A-14-034]. that the FAA should review the methods of compliance used to certify permanently installed, rechargeable lithium-ion batteries on in-service aircraft and require additional testing, if needed, to ensure that the battery design and installation adequately protects against all adverse effects of a cell thermal runaway. [A-14-035]. that the FAA should develop a policy to establish, when practicable, a panel of independent technical experts to advise on methods of compliance and best practices for certifying the safety of new technology to be used on new or existing aircraft. The panel should be established as early as possible in the certification program to ensure that the most current research and information related to the technology could be incorporated during the program. [A-14-036]. The individual context for all these recommendations can be found in the covering letter communicating them to the FAA dated 22 May 2014. A further 18 Recommendations were made following the conclusion of the Investigation: that the FAA should develop or revise processes to establish more effective oversight of production approval holders and their suppliers (including sub-tier suppliers) to ensure that they adhere to established manufacturing industry standards. [A-14-113]. that the FAA should work with aviation industry experts to develop or modify design safety standards for large-format lithium-ion batteries to require that sources of excessive heating, including electrical contact resistance from components and connections, be identified, minimized, and documented as part of the design. The standards should include measures for identifying and minimizing potential sources of heating that consider the range of operating temperatures and the most extreme electrical currents that the battery could be expected to experience during repeated charge and discharge cycles. [A-14-114]. that the FAA should work with aviation industry experts to develop