723 feet. Analysis of all available evidence indicated that the helicopter had "struck the crane at a point where its separation from the building was approximately 105 ft." It was noted that the pilot was required to maintain separation of at least 500 feet from the building in accordance with Rule 5 of the UK "Rules of the Air Regulations" and that this must be achieved by means of a visual assessment of distance which is likely to vary between individuals. However, the view was taken that "105 ft is significantly less than 500 ft and was considered to be outside the bounds of variability" and that therefore "the pilot flew too close to the building not because he misjudged 500 ft separation but because he either did not see the building or because he disregarded Rule 5". With the assistance of the helicopter manufacturer, the observed radius of the right hand turn made in order to begin the requested holding track eastbound along the river was compared with the maximum bank angle which was possible with the autopilot engaged. It was found that this turn had been "flown tighter than is possible by the autopilot, suggesting that it was flown manually". It was also concluded that the subsequent erratic height-keeping along the river indicated that the autopilot had not been used to control altitude at that point either. The conduct of the pilot was reviewed in respect of his decision making and the use of text messaging whilst flying, including whilst flying manually. The purpose of the positioning flight from Redhill to Elstree was to pick up two passengers and take them to the north of England. The pilot was aware before departing that there was fog at Elstree and was considered to have had "a safe contingency plan" to return to Redhill. However, it was nevertheless concluded that there were two specific risks which invited explicit mitigation: The flight was likely to be conducted to a large degree above fog or cloud. There was no instrument approach procedure at Elstree and any intention to descend to minimum safe altitude in cloud, while looking for a clear area into which the helicopter could descend further, would have involved the possibility of icing if entering visible moisture conditions’.. The later decision to divert to the London Heliport rather than return to Redhill which led to "increasingly challenging circumstances" on account of the prevailing adverse weather conditions relative to this intention was also considered. It was noted that after the pilot sent a text message to the client waiting at Elstree indicating his intention to return to Redhill, he received a reply pointing out that London Heliport was open which was immediately followed by his request to ATC to confirm this was the case. Once he knew that this option may be possible but ahead of confirmation, he had begun descent in conditions where "there was widespread freezing fog over London" and knowing that he "had been unable to see the