heliport when he overflow it 14 minutes earlier" heading north. It was therefore considered likely "that he knew that the flying conditions he would encounter at low level would be close to the limits for flight under VFR". It was further noted that "the pilot did not know the current weather conditions at London Heliport when the helicopter began to descend. The fact that the heliport was open indicated only that there was at least 1,000 m visibility and a 600 ft agl cloud base". Circumstantial evidence that finding a hole to descend to the river and be able to hold over it clear of cloud once there was not straightforward was considered to have included an incursion into Restricted Area 157 and entry into Class A airspace when taking an indirect route rather than a direct track to a location which the pilot had claimed to ATC was in sight less than two minutes before the collision. It was concluded that the final minutes of the flight had been conducted in "conditions that were probably marginal for flight under Special VFR." Overall, it was considered that whilst it was unknown if the pilot had periodically reviewed his plan to proceed to the heliport, "he did not change his decision despite the increasingly challenging circumstances". The question of airspace use requirements, air traffic service provision and information on obstructions in the context of achieving required lateral or vertical clearances from the latter was reviewed in depth. In respect of the responsibilities of a pilot on a Special VFR clearance, which by default the accident flight was obliged to operate when VFR conditions no longer existed, it was noted that “when operating on a Special VFR clearance, the pilot must ...remain at all times in conditions which enable him to determine his flight path and to keep clear of obstructions.” However, the practicalities of this in a complex and dynamic urban environment in which the combination of airspace access restrictions and the need to avoid obstructions was already potentially demanding was found to be in some respects questionable. It was noted that, although parts of central London were affected by airport safeguarding requirements, these were not intended to address issues relating to the presence of either temporary or permanent obstructions other than for airport safeguarding purposes. In this matter, it was concluded that "there is no effective system in place to anticipate the potential effects of new obstacles on existing airspace arrangements when the obstacles are outside safeguarded areas". Relevant international developments in supporting the safe operation of helicopters over large urban areas were reviewed. NTSB recommendations in respect of HEMS operations in the USA and the FAA response to them were noted, in particular the FAA conclusion that "most of the safety issues identified applied equally to commercial passenger operations as they did to HEMS operations and that the majority of the proposed safety changes should be applied across the industry". However, it was noted that whilst the FAA regulatory