An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). ATC radar and R/T recordings, CCTV and the record of text messages to and from the pilot involved whilst airborne were obtained to assist. No CVR or FDR was fitted or required to be fitted to the accident helicopter. An AAIB Special Bulletin was published on 23 January 2013 to advise on the initial assembly of relevant evidence. Subsequently, it was concluded that there was no evidence of any technical defect which might have been causal or contributory to the accident outcome and as a result, this was considered "unlikely" and the Investigation focussed on the operational and regulatory context in which the collision had occurred. It was established that the aircraft had left its base at Redhill Aerodrome south of London to position to Elstree aerodrome in north London despite pilot awareness of widespread freezing fog there and across the general area. Upon finding, after the 14 minute flight, that a landing at Elstree was not possible, the pilot had then set course for a return to Redhill via the London Eye on an ATC clearance “not above 1500 feet VFR or SVFR if required”. When asked by ATC almost immediately after accepting that clearance if he’d like an IFR clearance, he responded with “I have good VMC on top here, that’s fine”. At this time, the just-issued weather report for London City Airport, about 10 nm to the east of the southerly track being flown, included a cloud base of 100 feet agl and a visibility of 700 metres. This was typical of the general aftercast for the London area at the time of the accident provided by the UK Met Office which stated that “much of the area was prone to widespread low cloud, poor visibility and patches of freezing fog" with "cloud bases...in the range of 100 feet to 400 feet agl at 0800 hrs and visibility...generally below 4,000 metres, with several areas of London…reporting freezing fog with visibility of approximately 700 metres.” Four minutes later, abeam the London Eye at a radar-recorded altitude of 1570 feet amsl and having already asked about the possibility of diverting to the London Heliport at Battersea, the pilot had reported being able to see and identify his surface location and the adjacent River Thames as he approached the former Battersea Power Station and suggested he could “head down to (the river)” tracking southwest as a means of getting to Battersea. However, ATC instructed him to take up a hold on the river between Vauxhall and Westminster Bridges whilst they checked if the Heliport would be able to accept him. As the approved manoeuvring commenced with a right turn to head downriver again, a descent which reached approximately 570 feet amsl was begun before a climb back to approximately 770 feet amsl as Vauxhall Bridge was approached. Having been assured by the controller working the helicopter that it was "visual with the river", the TWR controller at