the Heliport agreed to accept the diversion and the pilot was so advised and cleared to go there along the river. By this time, almost at Vauxhall Bridge heading eastbound, the pilot began a 180° turn to the right whilst taking the frequency change to TWR at the heliport. A few seconds later, impact with the crane attached to a high rise building under construction approximately 275 metres from the south east end of Vauxhall Bridge occurred. This position was approximately 2 nm to the east north east of the London Heliport, the relative positions being shown on the first diagram below. The radar-derived final part of the track of the helicopter on the right and the London Heliport at the lower left (the earlier northbound track towards Elstree is on the left). Reproduced from the Official Report The final stages of the flight are shown in the second illustration taken from the Official Report and also based on radar track data. The radar-derived final track and altitude of the final stages of the flight. Reproduced from the Official Report The collision initially resulted in the separation of the helicopter’s main rotor blades from the main rotor head followed by damage to the fuselage structure above the cabin and then separation of the main rotor head and main gearbox from the upper fuselage. The latter fell to the ground separately from the rest of the helicopter. The vertical stabiliser and tail rotor separated from the tail boom as the cabin of the helicopter made contact with a building shortly before it hit the ground where the impact led to further extensive damage and a severe post-impact fire fed by the approximately 500kg of Jet A1 on board followed. Part of the crane boom also fell to the ground but the remainder was only partly severed. Impact of all falling items led to considerable collateral impact damage. It was noted that eye witness evidence collected was generally consistent with the top of the crane and the top of the building to which it was attached being in and out of cloud around the time of the impact. Some witnesses claimed to have seen the helicopter flying 'in' the cloud or appearing to emerge from it. It appeared that the crane and/or the building to which it was attached could well have been in, or transiently obscured by, cloud at the time of the impact. CCTV footage also supported this probability. It was also noted that a NOTAM was current in respect of the crane, identifying it as having a maximum height not above 800 feet amsl and “lit at night extending to 770 ft amsl”. Lighting only at night was in accordance with prevailing regulatory requirements. At the time of the accident, the crane was not in use and the crane jib was therefore parked in the 'minimum jib position' at a 65° angle above the horizontal giving a total height from the ground to the tip of the jib of