visibility there but was expected to clear before the ETAs of both aircraft. The Qantas crew were aware of the changes contained in the TTF and continued towards destination in the knowledge that they had sufficient fuel to hold for about 45 minutes should the fog last longer than forecast and still land with required fuel reserves. The Virgin Australia crew were not aware of the changes to the forecast and first learned of the presence of fog at their destination when they changed to the en route sector immediately prior to the Adelaide TMA 35 minutes prior to their ETA. The Qantas crew elected to take up the hold at a waypoint which was 48 nm from Adelaide rather than continue their descent. The Virgin Australia crew had already commenced their descent and obtained further weather information from the Adelaide TWR controller who advised a reported 150 metres visibility in fog with broken cloud on the surface and a TTF giving a clearance beginning at 0930. Based on this, they decided - fifteen minutes prior to their ETA - to divert to Mildura where the METAR was giving visibility >10km with the lowest cloud BKN at 3,900 feet and the just-issued Mildura TAF was giving no change in visibility and just scattered cloud at 3,000 feet and at 5,000 feet with a 1° temperature/dew point split. On noting the Virgin Australia decision to divert and after re-checking the Adelaide and Mildura weather reports and forecasts, the Qantas crew also decided to divert to Mildura. Whilst both aircraft were still en route to Mildura, an aircraft which had just taken off from there advised that contrary to the recently issued forecast, the weather conditions there were deteriorating with the cloudbase now around 400 feet, only just above the lowest IAP minima there. The Aerodrome Weather Information System (AWIS) at Mildura was inoperative and so the first weather report received was from the en route sector Controller as both aircraft were approaching Mildura a few minutes later, which was a cloudbase of 200 feet and visibility 2,100 metres in mist with equal temperature/dew point. The crews of the two aircraft were in contact with each other on the Mildura CTAF and after hearing that a Qantaslink DHC8 had gone around from its approach without seeing anything at MDH, it was agreed by the Virgin Australia crew that Qantas could begin an approach first "due fuel". This resulted in a successful landing which involved agreeing to continue the runway 27 RNAV (GNSS) non-precision approach to a modified MDA of 360 feet QNH - 193 feet aal - and then continuing descent beyond that until the runway became visible at 150 feet aal. Fuel reserves were not used. A SPECI weather observation promulgated two minutes after this landing gave the visibility as 900 metres in fog and the lowest cloud as overcast at 100 feet. A few minutes later, the en route Sector Controller broadcast the first updated TAF since the one issued