A detailed combined Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) into this event and a similar below-minima landing event involving a Virgin Australia Airlines Boeing 737-800 which had been inbound to Adelaide from Brisbane as Velocity 1384 with a very similar ETA the same day and had also diverted to Mildura. This aircraft had only been able to land at Mildura 28 minutes after the Qantas aircraft after continuing the second of two approaches below minima, by which time the observed visibility had dropped to 200 metres in fog. Data from the FDR and CVR from both aircraft were downloaded to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the Virgin Australia Captain had accumulated 19,966 total flying hours which included 9,111 hours on type and their First Officer had accumulated 7,100 total flying hours which included 1,120 hours on type. The Qantas Captain had accumulated 17,069 total flying hours which included 7,590 hours on type and their First Officer had accumulated 7,714 total flying hours which included 3,982 hours on type. It was noted that Mildura was a Non-Towered airport on which communications, including those with the ACC frequency covering arrivals and departures from and to the airways system were conducted on the common traffic advisory frequency (CTAF). It was also noted that at the time of the investigated event, major international aerodromes in Australia, which included Adelaide, differed from ICAO/WMO standards for forecasts in that both TAFs and Trend (TTF) Forecasts were issued with the latter having a higher update priority than TAFs. This difference would have been widely understood to Operators based in Australia such as those which operated the two aircraft which breached landing minima at Mildura. A Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) Review referenced by the Investigation and completed since this event has now led to a decision to cease issuing TTFs and simply issue and update TAFs using an ICAO-compliant procedure. It was also noted that the lowest minima IAP at Adelaide was a Cat 1 ILS and that the lowest minima IAP at Mildura, the Alternate filed for both flights, was an RNAV GNSS non precision procedure with an MDH of 393 feet provided an aerodrome QNH was available which it was. Mildura was approximately 220 nm east of Adelaide and both aircraft would pass close to its overhead en route to their destination. It was found that the Virgin Australia 737 had departed Brisbane with 940kg of "Additional Fuel" on board and that the Qantas 737 had departed Sydney with 1,300kg of "Additional Fuel" on board. The Qantas Captain reported that he "routinely uploaded additional fuel for contingencies" but that the upload made that day had not been in response to forecast conditions. Shortly after the Virgin Australia aircraft had left Brisbane but almost half an hour before the Qantas aircraft had left Sydney, the previously-issued Adelaide TAF was updated to add a PROB30 of fog developing. One hour later, a TTF for Adelaide which showed that fog had reduced