night landing on runway 18 at Riga with no adverse weather conditions was completed twenty minutes ahead of the airport closing time. Once the aircraft had been shut down on the assigned parking stand, “a mobile health service unit examined the Captain, but found no reason for transporting him to the hospital or performing immediate medical care”. A specialist examination of the Captain which was performed “abroad” after the event found that he was suffering from “fatigue due to long-lasting stress”. The Captain himself reported that “several stressful events” in the period prior to the investigated flight had “contributed to his physical and mental exhaustion”. He identified these events as “multiple changes of base airport, an adverse change in his private life, several bird strike incidents in the previous months and a flight with a malfunctioning weather radar in stormy weather a few weeks earlier”. He also mentioned “an emotionally charged conflict in the previous month” which arose after he had to divert to an alternate airport after missing the closing time of Riga Airport. He considered that his condition was aggravated by events on the day of the occurrence “in particular the risk of a late arrival at Riga, which had previously been a very unpleasant experience” on a day when the usual destination alternate, Vilnius, would not have been available meaning that any diversion would have been a much longer one to Helsinki. It was noted that after the investigated flight, the Captain had not been rostered to fly for a long time and had finally left his employment with Wizz Air. It was noted that almost a year prior to the investigated event, the airline had begun to establish a department to “manage the risk arising from fatigue of flight crews” but that this establishment was still incomplete. It was noted that the main responsibilities of this new department were intended to be: raising awareness of the subject through training and regular information for flight crew, their managers and crew rostering personnel,. gathering information on exhaustion or imminent danger of exhaustion among flight crew,. assessing and evaluating the extent and evolution of the risk arising from exhaustion,. developing proposals to reduce these risks,. following up and monitoring the implementation and impact of the proposals adopted.. It was noted that, as the Investigation was being completed some 4½ years after the event had occurred, the computerised flight crew rostering output was still being checked manually against a hard copy “crew member fatigue module”. The Investigation noted that “the fatigue-related organisational culture of flight crews is contradictory and difficult to quantify”. It was also observed that whilst it is well known that flight crew fatigue poses a threat to aviation safety, “the assessment of the risk it entails for a crew member and its meaning is not a simple task (since) on the one hand, it may conflict with the image perceived by the person of his/her own physical condition and endurance and on the other (induce) anxiety about