Following notification of the event to the Hungarian Transportation Safety Bureau by the aircraft operator late on the following day, a Serious Incident Investigation was opened. It was noted that relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. The 35 year-old Captain, who had joined Wizz Air as a direct entry Captain and was a Belgian national, had initially acted as PF on the investigated flight. He had a total of 8,060 hours flying experience on all aircraft types. The 33 year-old First Officer, who was a French national holding a CPL (Commercial Pilot Licence), which was a licence that did not permit him to fly in command of an A320, had a total of 3,486 hours flying experience of which almost all were on type. On the day concerned, the flight crew involved were rostered for a return flight from Riga to Barcelona. During the crew’s pre-flight preparation for the first of these flights, it was reported that the Captain’s state of health was discussed, but that “he had said that he felt fully fit to perform his duties”. Due to operational reasons not connected with the flight crew, this outbound flight departed an hour late which, in combination with “unfavourable, stormy weather” forecast around their ETA at Riga, meant that the crew recognised it might be difficult to get the return flight back into Riga before it closed for the night. The outbound flight was completed uneventfully but the subsequent turnround “placed considerable stress on the Captain” when the return departure was reportedly further delayed by several operational issues including “clarification of differences of views with the ground handling personnel” and the expiry of the initially submitted navigational FPL. Once the flight was able to taxi for takeoff, “the Captain’s health problems became visible to other crew members” but when the First Officer asked whether he was alright, he replied that he “felt tense but fit to fly”. The 3½ hour return flight initially proceeded uneventfully but in the cruise over northern Italy, “the Captain’s health problems worsened, which, as he (subsequently) said, manifested in a tense mood, intense heartbeat, and mood swings”. Soon after this, he “began to complain of sickness and panic attacks” and although the idea of an emergency landing in Milan was dismissed, the Captain then “assigned all flight-related tasks” to the First Officer. However, “despite a thirty-minute rest, the Captain’s symptoms got even worse” and so another Wizz Air First Officer travelling as a passenger, was invited onto the flight deck to assist the operating crew from the supernumerary crew seat. When, over the next 90 minutes or so, the Captain’s condition had still not improved, he decided, just after the descent into Riga had been commenced, to swap seats with the assisting First Officer who then continued in the Captains seat for the remainder of the flight. A PAN PAN message was transmitted to ATC to advise of the situation and the rest of the descent, and the approach to and a