the real or perceived danger of reprisal from the airline” which may mitigate against the open admission of fatigue. It was further observed that ensuring “the highest possible anonymity” of fatigue reports and credible communication in relation to them may help to overcome those difficulties. In the case of Wizz Air, it was found that over the four year period since the investigated event, there had been a continuing but erratic upward trend in fatigue reporting which it was speculated “may indicate the gradual acceptance of the system (as) an important pre-requisite for effective recognition and management of fatigue and fatigue-related problems”. It was clear that during the weeks and months preceding the investigated event, “the life of the Captain concerned had contained a number of events which increased his fatigue to a level exceeding the usual and was also fairly demanding for him mentally”. These circumstances had interfered with a normal off duty resting and sleeping regime beyond the normal challenges of the irregular working hours typical of a professional airline pilot. Although the Captain recognised “the worsening symptoms of his fatigue and stress”, he continued to believe that they were not compromising his fitness and so had not considered it necessary to inform his colleagues or the airline about his condition. It was considered that when the Captain had discussed his condition with the First Officer before beginning the day's flying and stated that he was fully fit to perform his duties, the situation of the junior pilot is potentially difficult. Only clearly-evident incapacitation of a Captain removes his authority and “in this case, the Captain was far from incapacitated at the time of the departure” so even if the First Officer had foreseen what might occur, there was no way to intervene. A similar situation occurred on the ground in Barcelona where when the First Officer remarked about the Captain’s condition, the Captain “deflected the issue”. However, it was accepted that “when the Captain’s condition actually turned critical on the way back to Riga, the crew, including the Captain, acted in a constructive and responsible manner”. It was noted that it is impossible for the applicable regulatory requirements in relation to the fitness of pilots to cover all possible situations so the attention of individual aircraft operators to this matter is essential and “as flight crews perform their work and make their decisions in a fairly autonomous manner, workplace culture is also an important element of safety”. The Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as the Captain’s serious physical and mental exhaustion which had been the result of the combined effect of chronic fatigue and stress. Two Contributory Factors were also formally identified: The Captain had not properly assessed his physical and mental condition.. The other member(s) of a flight crew have no means to override a Captain’s decision on his own physical and/or mental condition until he/she becomes incapacitated.. The Final Report was finalised on 24 March 2021 and subsequently published in both English translation