Detecting conflicts between aicraft is an important part of the air traffic controller job and arguably the most complex one. Once a conflict is properly identified the resolution is relatively straightforward - the controller chooses an appropriate method (e.g. level change, vectoring, speed control, etc.), implements the plan and monitors aircraft compliance. If the situation remains undetected, however, this may result in loss of separation, late (and more abrupt) manoeuvres, STCA/TCAS activation or worse. If all aircraft are assigned different levels, and are not expected to climb or descend, then there are no conflicts. Most commercial operations however take place in the RVSM layer which means that this situation is unlikely. Therefore, normally the first thing to be done in a surveillance environment, is a "same level scan", i.e. looking for aircraft that are maintaining the same level. This initial step identifies aircraft that need further examination. The second phase is to discard the pairs that are "obviously" non-conflicting, e.g. flying at the same speed to the same point with long distance between them, those whose paths do not cross, etc. After that, the minimum distance of the "suspicious" pairs is determined and, if necessary, a plan for solving the conflict is created. Climbing and descending flights present a special challenge as they require more checks to be done, e.g.: Does the current level cause conflicts?. Will the final level for the sector cause a conflict (within the sector or at the exit point)?. Will any of the intermediate levels cause a conflict within the sector?. Will the aircraft be able to reach its planned level before the exit point? If not, will this cause a conflict in the next sector?. These checks may become more complex if the aircraft climbs or descends through a high number of flight levels (e.g. climbing from FL 140 up to FL 360). This results in significant change in groundspeed (due to wind and IAS variations) which hinders precise calculations. The effect may be mitigated by system support tools based on aircraft performance data (as opposed to surveillance-derived data) and controllers are often able to make reasonably precise estimates based on experience. Nevertheless, such situations require much more attention than aircraft in level flight. Factors that help controllers detect conflicts are: system support (see section below). discipline, i.e. performing structured scan of the aircraft that are, or will be under control and evaluation of the impact of each flight profile change. fixed-route environment. This usually means that there are fixed "hotspots" (normally where airways cross). An experienced controller can often detect a conflict by knowing that when there is an aircraft at point A then if the other one is at point B they will be in conflict at point C.. recurrent training for non-routine situations. Factors that may cause a conflict to be missed include: Strong winds (e.g. 50-100 kt or more). These may alter aircraft speeds in such a way that a BOEING 737-300 becomes faster than a AIRBUS A-380-800 in terms