An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Relevant data was successfully downloaded from the recovered FDR and a forward facing cockpit camera and the wreckage, spread over a 5 mile area north east of Mojave was subjected to a careful examination. It was found that the break up had occurred approximately 13 seconds after the release of the SS2 from its launch aircraft, the WhiteKnight Two (WK2) with registration N348MS. It was noted that the operator/manufacturer of the SS2 was carrying out test flights, including the accident flight, under a permit issued by the FAA Office of Commercial Space Transportation (FAA/AST) according to the provisions of 14 CFR Part 437 and was developing the SS2 for Virgin Galactic, which was planning to use it for future commercial suborbital flights. The SS2 was equipped with a system which "rotated a feather flap assembly with twin tail booms upward from the vehicle’s normal configuration (0º) to 60º to stabilise SS2’s attitude and increase drag during re-entry into earth’s atmosphere" and that this system "included actuators to extend and retract the feather and locks to keep the feather in the retracted position when not in use". It was noted that after release of the SS2 from the WK2 carrier, the SS2 rocket motor propels it from gliding flight into an almost vertical climb during which it rapidly accelerates from subsonic to supersonic speed. It was established that "the flight test data card used during the accident flight indicated that the co-pilot was to unlock the feather during the boost phase when SS2 reached a speed of 1.4 Mach" and that this action was required to avoid the risk of a hazardous subsequent descent if a lock failure were to occur. However, it was found that, contrary to this and his training, he had unlocked it soon after passing Mach 0.8 and that thereafter, "the aerodynamic and inertial loads imposed on the feather flap assembly were sufficient to overcome the feather actuators" which had not been designed to hold the feather flap assembly in the retracted position as passage through the transonic region occurred, and uncommanded extension of the feather flap had occurred leading to immediate and catastrophic structural failure. The Investigation found that to support its application for the necessary FAA Experimental Permit for SS2 flights, the Operator had been required, in accordance with 14 CFR 437.55, to "identify and describe those hazards that could result from human errors" . However, when doing so, although the Systems Safety Analysis (SSA) it had employed had "correctly identified that un-commanded feather operation would be catastrophic during the boost phase of flight and that multiple independent system failures had to occur to result in this hazard", it had been inadequate because had failed to recognise that a single human error could also lead to unintended feather operation at this high workload point in a flight. It was also found that the Operator "did not ensure that the accident pilots and