other SpaceShip Two Test Pilots adequately understood the risks of unlocking the feather early" and had additionally made the assumption that "pilots would correctly operate the feather system every time because they would be properly trained through simulator sessions and would follow the normal and emergency procedures for a given situation". Issue of the Experimental Permit for SS2 operations which was current at the time of the accident, a second annual renewal in May 2014, was found to have been subject to a waivers from the normal requirements for the failure to satisfy the software and human error requirements of 14 CFR 437.55(a). The Investigation found that the FAA had considered that mitigations that the Operator had put in place "would prevent hazards resulting from (human) errors". However, the Investigation concluded that the waivers had bee issued "without understanding whether the mitigations would adequately protect against a single human error with catastrophic consequences" and that the FAA also "did not determine whether mitigations, other than those intended to protect against human error, were sufficient to ensure public safety". The Investigation noted that the Operator "did not request the(se) waiver(s), participate in the waiver evaluation process, or have an opportunity to comment on these waiver(s) before (they were) issued". Overall the Investigation concluded that "human factors should be emphasised in the design, operational procedures, hazard analysis, and flight crew simulator training for a commercial space vehicle to reduce the possibility that human error during operations could lead to a catastrophic event". In respect of the Operator's emergency response planning, it was noted that the failure to have the usual helicopter on standby at their Mojave base during the accident flight had meant that the location of and the initiation of medical treatment to the surviving pilot had been delayed. It was also considered that "additional parachute training and procedures would have better prepared (the Operator's) Test Pilots for emergency situations". Seven Safety Issues were formally identified as a result of the Investigation, as follows: Lack of human factors guidance for commercial space operators. Scaled did not emphasize human factors in the design, operational procedures, hazard analysis, and simulator training for SS2. For example, by not considering human error as a potential cause of uncommanded feather extension on the SS2 vehicle, Scaled missed opportunities to identify design and/or operational factors that could have mitigated the catastrophic consequences of a single human error during a high workload phase of flight. To prevent a similar situation from recurring, commercial space operators should fully consider human factors during a commercial space vehicle’s design and operation. However, because commercial space flight is an emerging industry, no guidance currently exists specifically for commercial space operators that advises them to, among other things, obtain human factors expertise, consider human error in hazard analyses, ensure that hazard analyses avoid or adequately mitigate single-point failures, and ensure that flight crews are aware of known catastrophic hazards that could result from a single human error.. Efficacy and timing of pre-application consultation