An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from both the FDR and CVR as well as from the NVM in the two GCUs. It was found that the Training Captain who had been PF for the flight had approximately 8,000 total flying hours and was supervising the First Officer, who had approximately 8,500 hours total flying experience but was a new Air Canada employee and was undertaking type line training. It was established that eighteen minutes after departure - four minutes after the flight had reached its planned cruise level FL 360 – EICAS Fault messages had begun to appear accompanied by audible alert tones and detailing "numerous faults". One minute later, the Master Warning Light and Alarm were activated, the AP disconnected and three of the five EFIS Display Panels "went dark". Several more EICAS warnings were then annunciated including “ELEC EMERGENCY”, “IDG 1 OFF BUS” and “IDG 2 OFF BUS”, the two IDGs together being the main source of electrical power to the aircraft. The RAT automatically deployed and power to the Essential Bus Bars was quickly restored. Boston Centre were advised that the aircraft had suffered an electrical malfunction and, in the absence of navigation systems and the AP the crew requested "a heading and possible altitude deviation". In response to ATC asking if they "required assistance", the crew told ATC to stand by because "they were uncertain of the severity of the problem". They "discussed declaring an emergency but decided that they would attempt to restore main electrical power first". The Electrical Emergency Checklist was run and since the first item after "LAND AT THE NEAREST SUITABLE AIRPORT" (which was discounted) was to start the APU for which the AFM maximum altitude was 30,000 feet, a descent was requested and approved. By the time the aircraft was levelling as cleared at FL 240, the APU had been started and the two IDGs had been brought back online and full power had been restored to both main AC and DC bus bars and the EICAS 'ELEC EMERGENCY' annunciation had ceased. A fault with TRU2 was still shown but the systems connected to it were being powered by TRU1. At this point, the electrical emergency was essentially over "although a few non-critical components were unavailable" and the AP was re-selected some 17½ minutes after the onset of the problems and, with 170 nm to run to Toronto, Boston ATC were advised "that they had restored some electrical power but were still requesting vectors for the (destination) final approach" as well as use of "the longest runway available because they planned to land with decreased flap". This was relayed accordingly and "all ATC units involved made accommodations to minimise delays for the aircraft for the rest of the flight". The remainder of the flight was without further event and after landing, the aircraft was taxied to the gate for normal passenger disembarkation. It was noted that the crew had not realised that