AC BUS 2 meant that the area in which the fire had started was no longer being provided with electrical current" and that there had been "limited combustible material nearby". It was concluded that the reason why no smoke had been apparent in the cabin or flight deck air supply and no EICAS smoke warning had been triggered by the smoke which had accumulated in the avionics bay was that the loss of power to all the main bus bars had disabled both the relevant smoke detector and the recirculation fans and this had happened before enough smoke had been drawn through the recirculation ducts leading to the cabin or over the smoke detector. Once the main power had been lost, it was considered that "the smoke likely began to vent overboard from the recirculation bay through the outflow valve, which remained powered through the essential bus". By the time power to the recirculation fans and the smoke detector had been restored almost 10 minutes later, "the smoke had likely dissipated to a level that was no longer detectable". It was determined that the dried fluid contaminant which had caused the failure "was a beverage, possibly coffee or a soft drink" but it was not possible to establish how much time might have elapsed between the spill and the resultant arcing. It was, though, found that "the contaminant was significantly more conductive when in a liquid state" and testing of similar fluids "determined that fluids spilled in environmental conditions similar to those surrounding the RICC would remain in liquid state for less than 6 hours". The presence of drip trays above the RICC which were intended to prevent fluid spilled in mid cabin above the avionics compartment concerned from coming into contact with the RICC or other electrical equipment in its vicinity were examined and found to show no evidence of any contaminants. It was noted that cabin crew who had operated on the aircraft involved in the days prior to the investigated event had not reported any spills and there was no record of any cabin defects or rectifications that would have required carpet cleaning. The Investigation noted that although ATC were advised at the onset of the emergency condition that the aircraft had suffered "a complete electrical failure and loss of all navigation systems", at no time had the crew declared an emergency. It was found that this was because they considered that "an emergency existed only if the power could not be restored". As a result, once electrical power had been restored, "they believed that because they did not require priority for their approach.....declaring an emergency was also not necessary". In fact, the content of the pilots' transmissions to ATC resulted in all ATC units treating the flight as an emergency anyway and therefore according priority to the flight thereafter and ensuring that the emergency services were on standby for the subsequent destination landing. It was considered that "if flight crews become aware of a situation that