may jeopardise safety but do not declare an emergency with ATC, then there is an increased risk that, should the situation worsen, the flight will still be airborne due to a lack of priority handling, or that it will land without emergency services standing by”. It was also noted that because of the system failures which occurred, the crew had been directed to and had performed the 'Electrical Emergency' Checklist which had as its first item “LAND AT THE NEAREST SUITABLE AIRPORT" but had not considered that such action was necessary. Despite the "explicit checklist guidance", it was noted that this decision was open to them on the basis of related content in the Air Canada AOM. Nevertheless, at this point, "the flight was less than 100 nm from departure and had been airborne for only about 22 minutes......(and) there were several suitable (diversion) options that would have been closer than their planned destination". The Investigation considered that "an electrical emergency involving loss of all main power on the Embraer ERJ 190 is a serious event and involves multiple failures (and that) even with a complex understanding of the aircraft systems, it is unlikely that a crew would be completely aware of the source of the fault and the likelihood of continued safe operation or increased risk". Indeed, as shown in this event, something as serious as a fire may go undetected. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: At some point, a fluid contaminant came into contact with the top of the Right Integrated Control Centre. It could not be determined exactly when or how it was introduced into the avionics compartment.. The fluid contaminant came into contact with electrical components in one of the alternating current bus bars. This caused arcing, which led to smoke and fire. The resultant failures eventually disabled the main electrical system.. Within 36 seconds of the initial fault, power was lost to all main bus bars and, as a result, the smoke detector in the recirculation bay and the recirculation fans lost power.. The smoke that had developed during this time did not travel through the recirculation ducts and onto the detector in a sufficient quantity to trigger a warning before the power supply to the detector was lost.. Without power, the recirculation fans did not transfer air between the middle avionics compartment and the cabin; as a result, the smoke did not enter the cabin and was not detected by the crew.. The flight crew followed the instructions in the Quick Reference Handbook’s 'Electrical Emergency' Checklist and delayed resetting the integrated drive generators until the auxiliary power unit was started. As a result, the smoke detector in the recirculation bay remained un-powered during the period of time when smoke was likely (to be) detectable.. Due to the lack of warning of smoke or fire, the flight crew was unaware of the severity of the situation and elected to continue to destination.. The formally stated Findings as