their attempt to make a PA announcement to the passengers once they had begun descent in order to start the APU had been completely inaudible in the cabin because of the noise generated by the RAT on account of its high rotation speed. As a result, the cabin crew called the flight deck, were appraised of the situation and were then able to relay the information to the passengers. Air Canada maintenance personnel who inspected the aircraft after it had arrived in Toronto found that the Right Integrated Control Centre (RICC) had been "extensively damaged by fire and smoke". Subsequent examination of the removed RICC by the Investigation found that "there had been severe arcing of the 3-phase bus bars that connect to the thermal circuit breakers in AC BUS 2 and that there was evidence that a fluid contaminant had entered the vented top surface of the RICC and entered TRU2". It was concluded that this fluid "had been spilled directly on top of the RICC" before flowing down its face and through its interior and entering the circuit breaker panel compartment, "where it came into contact with the bus bars and other conductive surfaces, eventually causing the arcing that led to the smoke and fire". It was found that although "the arcing, melting, and fire (had) damaged AC BUS 2 and disabled power distribution to several connected systems, including TRU2", the damage was limited to the RICC and had not spread to any other nearby components. The sequence of electrical failure and fire was established from the downloaded flight data as follows: GCU 2 sensed a fault in the AC circuit breaker section of AC BUS 2 and it is likely that it was at this point that smoke started to be produced.. GCU 2 then sensed a distortion in the voltage caused by high-impedance arcing in the bus bar area of AC BUS 2 and tripped Generator Line Contactor 2 (GLC 2) which controls IDG2 and disconnected IDG 2 from the electrical system.. Bus Ties connecting AC BUS 1 and AC BUS 2 automatically which allowed IDG 1 to power AC BUS 2.. After 6 seconds, because the fault had progressed to sustained arcing with smoke and fire, GCU 1 sensed an overcurrent and tripped GLC 1 which disconnected IDG 1 from the system.. With both IDGs now offline, no power was being supplied to the main buses (AC BUS 1 and 2 and DC BUS 1 and 2) which triggered the Master Warning and documented EICAS annunciations.. The No. 1 secondary power distribution assembly, which was still being powered by the DC essential buses, sensed that AC BUS 1 and AC BUS 2 were unpowered and, within 300 milliseconds, commanded RAT deployment which restored power to the essential bus bars.. The main bus bars remained unpowered until the APU was started approximately 8 minutes later.. It was concluded that the reason why the fire in the RICC had "subsided" was that "the loss of power to