Two fundamental principles of piloting an aircraft are those of continually monitoring the aircraft to ensure that it is flying as intended (i.e. at the correct speed, heading, etc.) and of maintaining situational awareness. It is ideal in the interests of maximum safety and redundancy for both flight crew members to do this at all times. However, there are occasions due to the nature of the operation where one flight crew member has no option but to perform actions that remove him from these duties. There are also occasions when, for a brief moment, the same applies to the one remaining flight crew member. During anything other than “watching the aircraft” the pilot is therefore unable to monitor the aircraft and maintain situational awareness. A phrase often used is that of being ‘heads down’ which refers to a situation whereby the pilot is concentrating his attention on something(s) specific other than the aircraft’s primary flying instruments e.g. inputting data into the FMS, writing on the flight plan, or listening to and writing down the ATIS. It should be noted that even the simplest of actions or distraction for just a very short moment constitutes the situation of being ‘removed’ and although on many occasions, particularly those of a momentary nature, it is possible to instantly regain the monitoring and situational awareness it is surprisingly easy, due to human nature, to forget things. Such a simple example could be when a frequency change is given, the PF calls for the anti-ice to be selected on as the PM is dialling the new frequency, the PM then selects the anti-ice on but subsequently forgets to transfer to the new frequency. Although most of these actions are, in isolation, very simple (e.g. moving a switch or reading a checklist), they still provide a distraction from the duties of monitoring the aircraft and maintaining situational awareness. As discussed, it is not just general distractions, for example social conversations, that constitute a distraction, but many essential duties actually provide a distraction, such as changing a frequency, completing a checklist, or communicating with the cabin crew. With reference to completing checklists, the crew member reading the checklist is obviously ‘heads down’ whilst physically reading the checklist, however in order to respond to the checklist this will often require the responding crew member to also be ‘heads down’ as the response requires that crew member to check the position of switchgear or the state of a system. During fam flights it is therefore beneficial for controllers to observe the flight crews actions with respect to the above and note that at any time the pilot moves his eyes away from the primary flying instruments (this is more likely to be noticed from the observers seat by any head movement of the pilot), any radio transmissions or any verbal calls between the flight crew members can constitute such a distraction. It is likely that, due to human nature, every flight will produce at least one occasion whereby such