An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. DFDR data was available but the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had not been stopped after the event and had consequently been overwritten. It was noted that a two pilot crew was operating the flight in accordance with the prevailing crewing agreement. It was established that soon after the First Officer had been woken from a long period of in-seat ‘controlled rest’ by a routine radio call made by the aircraft commander and soon afterwards had been appraised by him of expected opposite direction traffic 1000 feet below, a USAF C17, which was evident as a Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) target on the ND. The First Officer then apparently mistook the planet Venus for an oncoming aircraft but was re-advised by the aircraft commander of the traffic 1000 feet below. When the aircraft commander, who was the designated PF for the sector, sighted the opposite traffic soon afterwards, he exchanged a flash of the aircraft landing lights with it but when the First Officer subsequently sighted the same traffic, he believed, on the basis of visual perception only, that it was above and descending towards them. Despite being PM, he reacted suddenly to what he perceived was an imminent collision by pushing hard forward on the control without reference to the PF with the result that pitch attitude changed quickly from 2º nose up to 6º nose down. The PF responded promptly by disconnecting the AP and restoring the original pitch attitude. The excursion extended to 400 feet below the cleared cruise level to 400 feet above it with an initial speed gain of 7 knots then a speed loss of 14 knots before cruise speed was regained. At no time was a TCAS TA or RA triggered. The push force exerted on the control column by the First Officer was found to have been 80 pounds, considerably more than the 24 pound threshold which is required to override an engaged autopilot. The cabin injuries caused were all of the soft tissue variety with some occupants sustaining lacerations. Two of the cabin crew (one in the rear galley and one in a toilet) and 14 passengers, all of whom were in economy class, were injured. The seat belt sign had been illuminated for around 40 minutes at the time of the excursion but although a visual inspection of seat belts was reported to have been made when the sign was switched on, the passenger injuries were not compatible with a seat belt being secured at the time. The promulgated Air Canada procedure for ‘controlled rest’ was examined and it was found that the rest taken prior to the excursion had failed to comply with it in a number of respects: The senior member of cabin crew had not been informed as required and therefore could not (as also required) “call the flight deck at a specific time” to provide a status check on the flight crew.. The