maximum permitted rest period is 40 minutes whereas the rest prior to the incident had been for 75 minutes.. The amount of rest to be taken must be agreed in advance of its commencement but it was not.. After a rest period has been completed, the awakened pilot “should be provided (with) at least 15 minutes without any flight duties to become fully awake before resuming normal duties. An operational briefing shall follow.” The attempts at both providing and gaining situational awareness were self-evidently premature.. The Investigation considered that “each of these actions was consistent with common misunderstandings among Air Canada pilots” rather than an exceptional example of procedural non-compliance. It was found that the operator’s pilots “understood that they were required to call cabin crew prior to taking a controlled rest, but they tended to rely on their own assessment of the sleepiness of the non-resting pilot in order to decide whether the cabin crew needed to be told that rest was being taken”. It was claimed that “one of the reasons (why pilots) were reluctant to inform cabin crew was that they knew cabin crew were not entitled to controlled rest themselves.” It was also found that there was considerable misunderstanding amongst the operator’s pilots about the reason why controlled rest was limited to 40 minutes. “Some pilots believed that 20 - 40 minutes could not provide appreciable benefits and believed that what was really required was a significant sleeping period - 90 to 120 minutes. Some were unaware that by sleeping longer than 40 minutes there was a high risk of entering slow-wave sleep and increasing the severity of sleep inertia.” It was found that “the training provided by Air Canada on controlled rest was limited to repeating the procedure in the (Operations Manual) to the trainees, and did not explain or emphasize why the boundaries of the procedure are critical to safety.” A recent article in the safety magazine had described some of these issues but it was considered that “this form of training does not reliably lead to the level of training required” and was “insufficient to ensure that pilots fully understood and carried out the controlled rest procedures”. However, in respect of the wider context for potential fatigue, both crew advised that they had reported for duty prior to the flight feeling “well rested” and no evidence that any generic fatigue concerns existed at Air Canada in respect of flights like the incident one was found. The formal statement of Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors was as follows: The interrupted sleep obtained by the first officer prior to the flight increased the likelihood that rest would be needed during the overnight eastbound flight.. The first officer slept for approximately 75 minutes which likely placed the first officer into slow-wave sleep and induced longer and more severe sleep inertia.. The first officer was experiencing a circadian low due to the time of day and fatigue due to interrupted sleep which increased the propensity