In October 2017, ICAO published a concept of operations (CONOPS) that focuses on certificated civilian RPAS operating internationally within controlled airspace, under instrument flight rules (IFR), in non-segregated airspace and at aerodromes. Such flight operations could begin in 2031, the authors predicted. Remote pilot licences are tangible evidence that RPAS personnel responsible for safety of flight are knowledgeable, trained, experienced and otherwise qualified in their respective duties. Coincidentally, the first step toward achieving the CONOPS’ 2031 scenario — consensus on ICAO standards and recommendations for the remote pilot licence — was formalized in March 2019. The CONOPS proposes that “All remote pilots conducting international IFR operations must possess a remote pilot licence. … The training requirements and degree of competency required depends upon the complexity of the RPA being flown and the purpose of flight. … All remote pilots should possess knowledge of aviation rules, regulations and procedures. However, remote pilot certification qualifications may differ based on the RPA type, size or operational environment.” The CONOPS also takes for granted that every national aviation authority will issue only one remote pilot licence, which subsequently can be annotated with specific ratings, limitations and endorsements. (Note: Types of UAS/RPAS operations not mentioned — such as fully autonomous aircraft and operations; flights limited to visual line-of-sight (VLOS); very low–altitude airspace operations and very high–altitude operations (i.e., above Flight Level 600); transportation of passengers without pilots aboard; and domestic operations — were intentionally excluded by the authors of the CONOPS.) In March 2015 and September 2018, several presenters described work on remote pilot licensing and competencies during ICAO Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems Symposiums. Among insights relevant to this article are: Henri Rodenburg, flight crew licensing regulations officer at EASA, emphasised that the remote pilot is a new category of aviation professional, for which the competent national authority’s single remote pilot licence suffices for all operational scenarios. The purpose of a practical-skills (RPA flight) test is to ascertain that the remote pilot candidate is capable of performing the procedures and manoeuvres necessary for advanced operations, as the remote pilot-in-command of the appropriate RPA category and associated remote pilot station;. Patrice Desvallees, programme director, strategic and emerging projects, Civil Aviation Safety Directorate, DGAC-DSAC, France, said that the high-level priority for RPAS training and licensing is first to implementing by 2024 all phases of ICAO’s new RPAS regulatory framework, procedures, and new competency-based training (CBT) and licensing;. Nicole Barrette, technical specialist, training and licensing standards, ICAO, explained RPAS human factors experts’ strong preference for competency-based training — as opposed to traditional qualification-based training. Barrette said, “CBT and the performance-based regulatory approach to licensing is better adapted to the range and rapid evolution of RPAS operations. … A balance should be sought between simple requirements for low-risk operations and more stringent requirements for heavier UA used for complex operations. … BVLOS [beyond visual line of sight] operations pose higher risk than VLOS and require greater skills.”. Denis Jauvin, representing the ICAO Air Navigation Bureau’s RPAS Program, said that