An Investigation was carried out by CENIPA, the Brazilian Aeronautical Accidents Investigation and Prevention Centre. Relevant data from the CVR and FDR had been overwritten due to the completion of the flight and the delay in notification of the event to CENIPA respectively. However, data of assistance to the Investigation were available from the QAR. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 14,000 flying hours which included 700 hours on type and the First Officer, who was PF for the departure, had a total of 6,000 flying hours which included 900 hours on type. However, as per TAP Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), taxiing until lined up for takeoff was always to be carried out by the Captain who would only hand over the control to a PF First Officer once lined up on the departure runway. It was established that at the time of the takeoff, the first 1270 metres of 4000 metre-long runway 10 up to the taxiway AA intersection - see the illustration below - were out of service for the period of 31 October to 12 January due to ‘Work in Progress’. A corresponding NOTAM was in force and the ATIS included information on the reduced runway length. In order to make full use of the remaining 2730 metres, a departing aircraft would need to enter via taxiway AA or backtrack to reach that point. However, the ATC clearance issued by GND was found to have been to route via taxiways ‘M’, ‘T’ and ‘BB’. The Captain subsequently stated that, having seen an ‘X’ marking as the aircraft passed through the AA / BB taxiway intersection, he had “considered that it was closed” and continued ahead in accordance with the clearance received. As the aircraft was approaching the runway on taxiway ‘BB’, a takeoff clearance was given by TWR and immediately upon reaching the runway centreline, the First Officer took the controls and a rolling takeoff was commenced. Both pilots stated that they had “noticed a slight vibration at the end of the runway for about 3 to 4 seconds” but, with the aircraft already rotated they had attributed the vibration to an uneven pavement. After takeoff, there had been a right main gear overheat indication, so the crew had delayed retraction to allow the gear to cool down. Unaware of their excursion and not notified differently by ATC, the flight was completed to the intended destination without further event. A routine post flight maintenance inspection found parts of the runway lighting system stuck between the right main gear and wheel no. 8 as well as damage to the right main landing gear and to main gear wheels no. 3, 7 and 8. It was also found that some parts of the right main landing gear were missing. The Galeão airport operator was advised and an inspection was made. This inspection found damage to several runway 28 approach lights and to three antennae serving the runway 28 ILS. Tyre marks were found for up