to 200 metres beyond the end of the runway 10 stopway with the final obstacle hit by the aircraft during takeoff being ILS localiser antennae which were 300 metres past the end of the stopway. Since this stopway was 60 metres in length, the distance between the end of runway 10 and the last obstacle hit by the aircraft was 360 metres and on the extended runway centreline. Both pilots subsequently confirmed that they had been aware of the reduced available length of runway 10 and the Investigation was able to confirm that the crew had correctly inserted the reduced TODA into the FMGC and that the flex thrust setting used was valid for a takeoff commenced at the start of this available distance - although not for a takeoff commenced from the BB intersection. It was clear that the crew was unaware that their taxi clearance would leave them with approximately 600 metres less runway than they believed would be available. Prevailing ATC procedures were found to envisage two ways for aircraft to reach the beginning of the available runway, one via taxiways N, BB and AA and the other an alternative for “wide body aircraft” which might be unable to make the 135° turn from taxiway BB onto taxiway AA to remain on taxiway N until its intersection with taxiway AA where the left turn onto it was less severe. The Investigation concluded that although responsibility for accepting and following a taxi clearance lay with the flight crew, the clearance given by ATC had been not only inadequate but also not in accordance with either of the documented options and specifically not the one envisaged for wide body aircraft such as the A340. The positional awareness of the pilots involved was assessed to have been poor although in their defence, it was concluded that the briefing material provided to them by TAP on the prevailing arrangements at Galeão had been inadequate. The actual take off distance from the BB intersection was 2095 metres which was not only insufficient for a reduced thrust take off but also not even enough for a rated thrust take off so the overrun which occurred was inevitable. Three Contributing Factors in respect of the event were documented as: Airport Infrastructure - the arrangements in place because of the reduced runway length were inadequate.. Flight Planning - the crew accepted the clearance given without any reference to the aerodrome chart and passively assumed that they had entered the runway at its full available length.. Management Planning - pre flight briefing material provided to the crew by TAP was inadequate.. Two further possible Contributing Factors were classified as “undetermined”: Managerial Oversight - the use of the term “wide body aircraft” against the alternative taxi route to the beginning of the available runway length instead of listing specific aircraft types.. Use of phraseology by ATS – the lack of clear guidance in respect of the location of the beginning of the available runway length and the