best way to get to it may have induced the pilots to begin their takeoff from the wrong position.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress were noted as having included but not necessarily been limited to: The Galeão Airspace Control Department (DTCEA-GL) issued revised instructions for taxi clearances issued to wide body aircraft departing from the restricted length of runway 10 limiting them to either taxiways M, U or AA or M, T, N and AA.. TAP issued revised pre-flight briefing information which more adequately described the situation at Galeão whilst runway 10 was only available at a reduced length.. A total of six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) require that, in the case of work in progress at airports, Airport Operators strive to write requests for NOTAMs in a clear, simple, concise and ambiguity-free way so that NOTAMS can be understood without the need to consult other documents, in accordance with the prescriptions of the ICA 53-1/2012. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 - 01]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) require that during the planning of works at aerodromes, Airport Operators provide the crews with written explanatory material containing information on the works, with widespread publicity to the operators that make use of the airport. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 - 02]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) require that, during the planning of works at aerodromes, Airport Operators simulate aeronautical occurrences in all the phases of the works, with the objective of eliminating the hazards and mitigating the risks involved and monitor compliance accordingly. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 - 03]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) require that airline companies operating in Brazil and regulated by RBAC 129 (which is applicable to foreign aircraft operations) inform the Brazilian Aeronautical Investigation Authority (CENIPA) of any aeronautical occurrence involving their aircraft within Brazilian territory, taking into account the requirements of the relevant legislation in force. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 - 04]. that the Brazil Airspace Control Department (DECEA) require that ATC units establish and maintain, during the time operational agreements (relating to airport work in progress) are in force, an appropriate and standardised radiotelephony communication process taking into consideration the wingspan, length and weight of aircraft. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 – 05]. that the Brazil Airspace Control Department (DECEA) require that ATC units refrain from using generic terms during the time in which operational agreements due to work in progress at the aerodrome are in force, and establish specific aircraft taxi routes taking into account the type of aircraft to which a clearance is being given. [IG-556/CENIPA/2018 - 06]. The Final Report was published on 4 September 2018.