forward bulkhead which were destroyed, the left wing which was severed at the wing root and the left wing tip. An examination of recorded engine power settings found that once takeoff power was set, the left engine torque was 40 psi and the right engine torque was 24 psi against the maximum permitted torque of 50 psi. Engine temperature, oil temperature and pressure, fuel flow and propeller rpm were all correspondingly different. An exceedence of the right engine ITT (T5) also occurred but was not detected by the crew. The cargo was removed from the wreckage before the investigation team arrived but assuming the aircraft was loaded in accordance with the load and trim sheet, the takeoff weight was within the MTOW. It was noted that although it had been dry when the accident occurred, it had rained raining earlier in the day prior to the arrival of the aircraft from Kiunga as well as during the previous day and the runway surface was wet. The annotated ground track of the aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was clear that the aircraft Operator did not have any documentation on standard characteristics and requirements for the aerodrome category applicable to Wobagen or any special procedures for its use. The crew “stated that they operated into Wobagen based on their experience and knowledge”. The Operator advised that the only information for Wobagen was contained in their ‘Route Guide and Training Manual’ which was found to describe the runway surface as “grassed grey gravel”. An inspection of this surface by the Investigation concluded that it was subject to “undulation” throughout and that although the surface was “short grass”, the surface either side of the centreline was “patchy grass and bare”. No evidence was found that the aircraft operator had carried out a Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment of Wobagen prior to beginning operations there. It was clear that neither the asymmetric thrust maintained during the takeoff roll nor the exceedance of the right engine ITT limit until the time the accident occurred had been noticed by either pilot with the PM notably stating that he had also been looking outside during the take-off roll. It was also found that the ‘custom and practice’ procedure used by the crew for takeoff was “an unapproved and undocumented procedure” which was significantly different from the procedure contained in the AFM. This particularly applied to the failure of either pilot to monitor the engine parameters when power was applied for takeoff. It was also found that the power lever advance “was relatively rapid” and had caused an abrupt increase in power and although the AFM required that all takeoffs must use full takeoff power, there had been no attempt by the crew to moderate the increase in view of the evident asymmetry and wet runway conditions. Whilst the right engine was not recovered from the wreckage, which meant that the reason for the ITT exceedence could not be conclusively determined, it was concluded that “actions contrary