to those specified in the AFM takeoff procedure can be considered a probable factor”. Whilst the continued use of asymmetric thrust as a means of maintaining directional control was the reason the aircraft eventually started to drift to the right, once the aircraft had done so and left the hardened surface around the runway centreline and encountered the “wet and slippery” clay/silt surface which existed either side of it, manoeuvrability was significantly reduced. The combination of the momentum of the aircraft and the slippery surface led to it continuing past the boundary markers and into the drainage ditch. The Conclusions of the Investigation were, in summary, as follows: No evidence was found to indicate that the engines were not operating normally.. An unapproved procedure for take-off on unsealed wet runways which was contrary to the procedure in the AFM was used.. The crew failed to monitor engine parameters during the takeoff.. Both pilots were qualified and experienced in operations requiring the use of unsealed surface remote highland runways.. Air Sanga had not risk assessed hazards associated with Wobagen although the crew were aware of a number of such hazards.. The Air Sanga Route Guide was outdated and did not contain current relevant information for Wobagen.. The Contributing Factors to the accident were summarised as follows: The crew did not action the appropriate take-off checklist which caused them to miss crucial checks and actions. This caused the engine abnormalities to go unnoticed after take-off power was applied. The abnormal engine parameters remained unnoticed until impact. The indications of the right engine indicated that it was performing at considerably lower power than the left engine, which was operating to the manufacturer’s specifications. This power difference between the right and left engine was what created the tendency of the aircraft to veer right and depart the runway. This tendency was aggravated by the wet and deteriorated clay/silt surface which did not allow aircraft tyres to gain sufficient traction to follow the control inputs made as asymmetric power was used to try and steer the aircraft back towards the centreline. As the aircraft accelerated towards the right, it ran over an undulating surface and continued veering right because power reduction was unduly delayed and the asymmetric effect continued. Eventually, the PF retarded the power levers to flight idle and applied full braking but this occurred too late to prevent the aircraft from continuing over the slippery surface and reaching the drainage ditch. The Final Report was approved on 13 May 2022 and subsequently released. No Safety Recommendations were made.