The event was reported to the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC) by Air Sanga the same day and an Investigation was immediately commenced. The aircraft was not fitted with a crash protected FDR or required to be but relevant recorded flight data were obtained from the SSCVR and from an Appaero V1000 data recorder. The pilots were both Papua New Guinea nationals and both were Captains on type. The designated aircraft commander, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 6,748 hours flying experience which included 2,696 hours in command (all types) and 1,450 hours on type. The Co-pilot had a total of 14,865 hours flying experience which included 5,130 hours in command (all types) and 9,550 hours on type and was also a fully current DHC6 Training Captain. Immediately before taxiing out after a 25 minute turnround following arrival from Kiunga, the crew called Moresby FIS on the radio and advised that they were amending their destination to Bak instead of their initially planned return to Kiunga. They had noted the wet surface of the runway during the earlier landing and stated that for this reason, they had decided to carry out the ‘Before Takeoff Checks’ at the parking area so as to avoid having to stop prior to beginning the takeoff roll. They added that they “had developed this procedure only for their experienced pilots to use for takeoff on unpaved slippery and boggy airstrips”. The aircraft was then taxied to the threshold of the unpaved and nominally grass runway 11 (which had a 10% downslope) where a 180° left turn was performed using the tiller assisted by asymmetric thrust in order to line up on the runway centreline. During this turn, the PF began to progressively increase power in order to maintain enough momentum to avoid slipping from the top of the central camber of the runway or sinking into the clearly still wet surface. Once lined up, full power was set without stopping and the aircraft began to accelerate. As the speed increased through 33 knots, the aircraft began to drift to the right and on recognising this, the PF attempted to “steer it back towards the centreline using the asymmetric thrust” but this had no effect and after travelling about 200 metres along the 525 metre-long 30 metre-wide runway and reaching a speed of just over 40 knots, the aircraft began to swerve towards the right. In response, the PF selected the power levers to idle and applied maximum braking but the slide sideways continued and a “soft patchy undulated surface” was encountered and the aircraft subsequently impacted a drainage ditch along the south-western edge of the airstrip. Once the aircraft had come to a stop, the engines were shut down and the passengers opened the cabin door and exited the aircraft. Both pilots then exited through their respective flight deck external doors and joined the passengers. Damage to the aircraft included to the nose landing gear and flight deck