Comprehensive guidance material to assist in implementing the EUROCONTROL Specification for Short Term Conflict Alert covers the full STCA lifecycle: Definition of objectives. Implementation or change. Tuning and validation. Operation and monitoring. The STCA Guidance is provide with several appendices to support ANSPs in the implementation of STCA. EUROCONTROL Guidance Material for Short Term Conflict Alert: General description of the full STCA lifecycle, aimed at staff with responsibility for overall management of STCA. Appendix A: Reference STCA System: Detailed technical explanation of typical implementation details of STCA with emphasis on parameterisation and performance optimisation. Optimisation concepts are also covered in detail. Appendix B: Safety Assurance: A set of three documents that can be used as starting point for STCA safety assurance work in a particular local context. Appendix B-1: Safety Argument for STCA System: This document describes a possible initial Safety Argument.. Appendix B-2: Generic Safety Plan for STCA Implementation: Describes what safety assurance activities should be considered at each lifecycle phase, who should do them, and what the criteria for success are.. Appendix B-3: Outline Safety Case for STCA System: Addresses in detail the assurance and evidence from the System Definition stage and outlines the likely assurance and evidence for the later stages.. Appendix C: Cost Framework: Appendix C: Cost Framework for the Standardisation of STCA: A set of guidelines for users of the Cost Framework (an Excel model) to assess the economic impact of the standardisation of Short Term Conflict Alert for individual ANSPs.. Appendix C: Supporting Spreadsheet: Supporting Excel spreadsheet for the Cost Framework model.. Appendix D: Case Study: A set of two documents describing the (partial) application of the optimisation and safety assurance guidance material in a demanding environment. Appendix D-1: Optimisation of STCA for ATCC Semmerzake: Identifies potential solutions for handling military formation flights and a large number of primary tracks in STCA whilst keeping the number of nuisance alerts to an effective minimum.. Appendix D-2: Functional Hazard Assessment of STCA for ATCC Semmerzake: Describes the Functional Hazard Assessment of the identified potential solutions for optimisation of STCA, performed as initial step of safety assurance activities..