Fire protection of underfloor cargo compartments focuses on the following areas: Making the cargo hold air-tight and fire-proof. Special panels are used which seal the compartment and are able to withstand burning.. Cargo fire detection systems. Fire detection systems are designed to alert ﬂight crew in the cockpit within a short period of time (1 minute) of a fire starting. Based on this information, ﬂight crew activate the suppression systems into the affected cargo compartments.. Cargo fire suppression systems. Halon is a very effective suppression agent which operates by chemically reacting with the radicals generated by a fire, to inhibit the reaction. To achieve this, sufficient Halon (5% concentration) needs to be released as a first shot, for a fire knock-down effect. Following this, a concentration of 3% must be continuously maintained for the rest of ﬂight. Maintaining the concentration of Halon is crucial to the effectiveness of the system, and therefore it is essential that the cargo compartment remains air-tight.. Any damage or mis-installation of the cargo compartment lining can degrade the performance of the fire suppression system, and therefore has the potential to make a key defence against on-board fires ineffective. To ensure the lining is in adequate condition, scheduled inspections as well as inspections during loading should be performed. Any damage to the linings, as well as any other circumstances that pose risk to the air-tightness of the cargo compartment (e.g. catches not in correct position, fasteners missing or not tightened) need to be reported. Once any damage has been identified and alerted to the operator, it is the responsibility of maintenance staff to classify the damage and initiate the appropriate corrective actions. Regulations for flight with damaged cargo hold linings are stringent, because any failure of the air-tight and/or flame-proof features of the cargo lining can lead to an uncontrolled fire on board. For this reason, operational constraints can be triggered when any damages are found to the cargo lining, particularly flying with the cargo hold empty under MEL.