The information and performance comments in this paragraph refer primarily to gliders and are taken from the US website www.gliderpilot.org "The following scenarios provide a description of the general differences when FLARM is used versus the scanning for traffic performance without FLARM: Frontal approach - the human eye is not so efficient, particularly in the shade of clouds or in low sunlight. The worst situation for collision is when the two gliders are at nearly the same altitude and when they present their smallest profile and are less visible. In addition, the human eye has evolved to be particularly good at detecting motion. When two objects are on a collision course, neither object appears to move relative to the other; therefore, the eye does not see a relative motion and is less likely to detect the other glider, especially at a distance. Frontal approach is a situation where FLARM is reported to work very well. Approach from side and back - FLARM also performs adequately in relative approach from the side or back. In this case the pilots are not seeing each other mostly because the nose, the fuselage or the wing hide the other glider from view. FLARM’s help is reported as being very good in this situation. Entry in thermal while another glider is circling - In the situation of one glider coming to enter a thermal in which another glider is already turning, the pilot of the turning glider is rarely able of detecting the incoming glider, mostly because his/her attention is typically driven toward the center of the spiral especially if the other gliders are turning too. Another reason is that for at least half of the turn, the nose and/or the fuselage body of the banked glider are obstructing the line of sight toward the incoming glider. Fortunately FLARM is reported as providing good help to the turning glider and very good help to the incoming glider in detecting the other. Opposite direction/off-set spiral - The case of two spirals intersecting each other, or two spirals slightly off-centered from each other as depicted in the graphic or two spirals in opposite directions, is normally contrary to the basic rules of safety and etiquette while thermalling. However, these cases are relatively frequent when two gliders have just arrived under a cloud and start thermalling or looking for the core of the thermal. It is good that FLARM is reported as providing good threat detection help in these cases. Similar spiral turns - The last case is the one in which two or more gliders are following each other fairly closely in the same circle. FLARM's help is reported as poor because it may, rightfully so, send frequent alarms, which may be annoying to the pilots if they are keeping the other gliders well in sight. The alarm sound can be temporarily turned off, but then this is the point: in this situation where possibly several gliders try to maintain close nose-to-tail separation at the same altitude,