The majority of manoeuvring area conflicts fall into one of the following event types: Landing on runway already occupied – either by an aircraft/vehicle being on the runway or an aircraft/vehicle having received a clearance to enter the runway. Take-off on runway already occupied– either by an aircraft/vehicle being on the runway or an aircraft/vehicle having received a clearance to enter the runway. Entry onto runway by aircraft taxying for departure or by vehicle while at the same time another aircraft is taking off or landing. Runway crossing while at the same time another aircraft is taking off or landing. Surface movement conflict on runway – two or more aircraft/vehicles entering/crossing the runway at reciprocal points. Departing or landing on intersecting runways – these events have four sub-scenarios: two aircraft departing from intersecting runways two aircraft landing on intersecting runways one aircraft departing and one aircraft landing on intersecting runways departing or landing aircraft against surface movement on intersecting runways. two aircraft departing from intersecting runways. two aircraft landing on intersecting runways. one aircraft departing and one aircraft landing on intersecting runways. departing or landing aircraft against surface movement on intersecting runways. Departing/landing on a taxiway (not a runway) while there is an aircraft or a vehicle on the taxiway. Incorrect aircraft movement on the manoeuvring area. There are two subtypes of these events: aircraft takes incorrect taxy route aircraft incorrectly pushes back/enters on to manoeuvring area. aircraft takes incorrect taxy route. aircraft incorrectly pushes back/enters on to manoeuvring area. The manoeuvring area conflicts usually include at least one of the following events: Loss of Communication. Incorrect ATC clearance. Non-conformance with ATC clearance due to: spatial/positional confusion misinterpretation or mishear of the clearance poor CRM and forgetting to execute planned action. spatial/positional confusion. misinterpretation or mishear of the clearance. poor CRM and forgetting to execute planned action. The most frequent ATC contributing factors present in the sequence of actions leading to runway and manoeuvring areas safety occurrences are: Memory – most commonly a failure to check/monitor i.e. not following normal practice. Perception – most commonly a failure to see something. Operational environment – commonly distractions, visual impairments and noise. Communication errors – incomplete, incorrect or ambiguous RTF.