Flight instructors must recognize what is happening internally with students and either reinforce positive reaction strategies and attitudes, or identify where restricted thinking exists in order to optimize the students’ capabilities. Flight instruction should emphasize the following: Realistic scenario-based training.. Recognizing and responding to ill-defined events.. The inability to train for all possible surprising situations.. Integration of thinking skills and emotional control, with the requisite “stick-and-rudder” skills necessary to successfully perceive, process and respond to any unexpected situation.. If necessary, use maximum available flight control inputs and power. Employ alternate control strategies as required.. Modify know procedures to novel situations.. The following mental processes should be considered during training and continuously revisited during flight operations: Reflexive — The reflexive process is purely instinctive, involving automatic reactions learned by the pilot.. Reflective — The reflective process is a conscious, systematic thought process aimed at problem solving.. Repeated reviewing — The repeated reviewing process involves intelligence gathering in which the pilot looks for changes in the flight environment that might affect the safety of the flight.. Poor planning leads to poor judgement. Lack of familiarity with the airplane, the flight environment, operating procedures, the route of flight and the destination airport can contribute to bad decisions. By deliberately seeking all available information in flight and during preflight planning, potential surprises may be discovered and remedied before they lead to unmanageable unexpected events.. Continually evaluate the unfolding situation by consciously thinking and communicating about the condition of the environment, the aircraft, the pilots and the interactions occurring. Practice monitoring thoughts and actions by asking, “What am I focusing on now; what is the state of the situation (e.g., aircraft attitude, flight path, altitude, velocity)?”. Continuously ask, “What if?” What should be done in the event of a flight control malfunction? What should be done during a dual engine failure? What if … ?. Maintain cognitive flexibility, which is keeping an open mind to alternatives and possibilities at all times. Approach flying with an appropriate attitude (mental, physical and social) so that when you are faced with a surprising event, solutions become more apparent. Being cognitively flexible helps to counteract fixation tendencies and enhances your ability to handle unexpected events..