Surprise is governed by four principles: Surprise can be insidious (gradually and subtly causing harm).. Surprise can be subliminal (not conscious).. Surprising events are typically common, trivial and mundane.. More often than not, there are cues available to suggest that the unexpected should have been expected.. A person’s reaction to a surprising or unexpected event may contribute to an interruption of his or her ongoing thought processes and motor activities, thus creating an error chain. External behaviour: The first sign of imbalance creeps in as a decrease in accuracy. For example, discrepancies appear between targeted headings and altitudes, and those actually flown.. Second, the aviator may become increasingly distracted by the worsening developments, thus neglecting to monitor the automation or cross-check instruments.. In extreme cases, panic may set in. The aviator may even lapse into a state of resignation due to not knowing what action to take next.. Events in the cockpit, good or bad, that affect the equilibrium of the person, the system or the situation can be considered stressors. Psycho-physical stress: Aviators should strive for optimal stress/arousal levels — too little (complacency) or too much (overload) leads to poor performance.. Psycho-emotional stress: Strive for a measured emotional response. Do not completely ignore your own senses or internal dialogue. Be sensitive to visceral reactions and the “hair standing up on the back of your neck.”. Regardless of the nature of the event or perceived severity, pilots respond in one of two ways: Focus on the unexpected situation, address the condition and return to pre-event duties; or,. Focus on the unexpected situation and fixate on one aspect, without returning to the ongoing activities in a timely manner.. Fixation is particularly detrimental because the ongoing task of flying the aircraft must be attended to continuously. Otherwise, the following tasks may be neglected: Aircraft handling. Monitoring. Procedures. Communication.