An Investigation was carried out by the Argentine Transportation Safety Board (JST). The Investigation was able to access relevant recorded ATC communication data but this was only available for the TWR VHF frequency with airside vehicle traffic controlled on a discrete UHF frequency which was not subject to recording. CVR and FDR data was not available or sought. The pilots’ flying experience details were not recorded but their licensing status was found to be in order. It was also noted that the TWR controller and the Assistant also on duty, who were both 33 years old, had similarly in-order licensing status as controllers. The flight was taking off from the parallel taxiway to the only runway at Comodoro Rivadavia which had been designated as a temporary runway for the duration of planned work on runway 07/25. At an undetermined point during the takeoff roll, the crew saw a vehicle crossing the runway ahead but having assessed their distance from it and its speed, they correctly determined that the takeoff could be safely completed with no residual risk. The prevailing weather conditions and runway conditions were good and the plan to continue was successfully executed. It was found that the vehicle concerned, which was a being driven by an employee of the contractors carrying out work on the temporarily closed normal runway, had not been given permission to cross the (temporary) runway. Personnel employed on the contract stated that they had received training on regulatory procedures for use of the dedicated UHF frequency used by ATC for communication with vehicles operating airside which were understood to have included the requirement that receipt of a clearance from ATC must be followed by a read back to ensure it had been correctly understood. ATC stated that the vehicle involved had not requested a crossing clearance or otherwise been issued with one. It was observed that ATC use of a different (UHF) radio frequency for airside driver communications than the TWR VHF frequency meant that neither pilots nor vehicle drivers had any situational awareness of potential conflicts between vehicles and aircraft. It was found that although the runway works project had been subject to a prior assessment of operational risks which might arise through the SMS of each agency involved, each organisation had produced and implemented its own action plan to mitigate them. Each of these had identified runway incursion as a risk but no evidence that any integrated review of the incursion risk had been carried out was found. The fact that an alternative vehicle route to the closed runway which did not require the temporary runway to be crossed and the fact all access points to the temporary runway had been placarded as no entry for vehicles had not prevented the incursion. Overall, it was concluded that “the measures adopted in respect of training, adequacy of procedures and supervision were not sufficient and/or adequate in some aspects”. This appeared to have explicitly included the “Restricted Radio Operator” course provided by the National