Communications Entity (ENACOM) which was found to lack any standards or procedures in relation to the issues specifically applicable to the airside environment. The Cause of the runway incursion during the takeoff of the ERJ 190 aircraft was the vehicle crossing the runway without authorisation to do so. Three Contributory Factors to the event were identified as: Communication between the TWR and the vehicle driver was not effective in both directions, as the driver did not understand an instruction not to cross the runway and because the controller did not request that this instruction be read back.. The communications system used for coordination of airside ground traffic at the aerodrome used a frequency different from the one used for aircraft control.. Mitigation measures implemented to prevent the danger of a runway incursion occurring were not effective.. Three Non-causal Risk Factors with a potential impact on operational safety were also identified as: The course established by the National Communications Entity (ENACOM) for authorisation to operate the VHF channel called "Restricted Radio Operator", does not provide the knowledge referred to the telecommunications standards and procedures in aeronautical jurisdictions.. The airport in question could have directed mitigation actions taking into account the provisions in the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) 153 Attachment AP-6 ‘Guidelines for the implementation of Information Systems surface movement guidance and control (SMGCS), item 11 Prevention of runway incursions’.. Three Operational Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Administration National Civil Aviation (ANAC) implements a single VHF frequency communication system managed by the aerodrome control tower for the use and coordination of all vehicle and aircraft movements in the manoeuvring area in order to avoid deficiencies in communications between the different operational services [AE-1826-22]. that the Administration National Civil Aviation (ANAC) implements a Platform Management Service in accordance with the guidelines expressed in ICAO Doc 9476-AN/927 ‘Manual of Surface Movement Guidance and Control Systems (SMGCS)’ at airports that are considered to have complex operations or those where special circumstances (works) affect the manoeuvring area and there is a high probability of a runway incursion. [AE-1827-22]. that the National Communications Entity (ENACOM) review, adapt and update the programme defined for the course taken to obtain a "Restricted Radio Operator" licence and consider incorporating the procedures for communications in the aeronautical environment. [AE-1828-22]. The Final Report in Spanish was published by the Argentine Transportation Safety Board (JST) on 19 September 2022. No courtesy English language translation was provided.