for an urgent instruction.. As the flight crew prepared for the second approach, a multi-waypoint sequencing in a row of the flight plan occurred when the crew performed a lateral revision of the flight plan using the ‘DIR TO CRS’ IN pushbutton as per the SOP at a location where several waypoints satisfied the FMS geometrical waypoint sequencing rules. A real time computation issue caused an automatic reset of FMS1.. After the multi-waypoint sequencing of the flight plan and the FMS1 auto-reset during the second attempted approach, the flight crew omitted to reconfigure the FMS by inserting (adjusting the sequencing of the flight plan) the runway 14R ILS approach. They did not anticipate that omitting this action, aiming at providing the missed approach route should a go-around need to be performed, would jeopardise the capture of the localiser by the AFS system.. Safety Action taken by Emirates as a result of this event was noted to have included enhancements to relevant pilot training and to the way in which related procedures were documented. A total of 6 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Emirates add information to the operations and training manuals regarding the possibility of multi-waypoint sequencing of the flight plan, and the FMS auto-reset that can occur during a missed approach. This sequence of events requires reconfiguration of the FMS flight plan by inserting the required ILS approach to adjust the flight plan sequencing. This information should be included in the operations and training manuals until (any) revised system description and procedures are available from Airbus. [SR41/2020]. that Emirates reinforce amongst its pilot body the requirements of CAR-OPS 1 and their own Operation Manual - Part A procedures on the preservation of flight recorder recordings as evidence. [SR42/2020]. that Domodedovo Air Traffic Control emphasise to controllers that only standard terminology must be used in all communications. [SR43/2020]. that Domodedovo Air Traffic Control ensure that controllers provide a series of headings, including the final vector that should result in a localiser intercept angle with a final approach track of 45 degrees or less, in accordance with ICAO PANS-ATM, Doc 4444. [SR44/2020]. that Airbus include the definition of the ICAO envelope elevation coverage lowest angle in the Operations Manual. [SR45/2020]. that Airbus emphasise to A380 pilots the necessity of ensuring that the aircraft is established on the localiser as a mandatory prerequisite action to apply the ‘glide interception from above’ procedure by updating this procedure in the Operations Manual. [SR46/2020]. The Final Report was released on 2 April 2020.