The flight crew involved “did not consider the event to be a ‘serious incident’, despite the available evidence” and only notified the Operator of it by submitting an ASR after the aircraft had taken off for the return flight to Dubai which “did not mention the seriousness of the event”. Once this became apparent, the Russian authorities were contacted and agreed to delegate the Investigation to the UAE AAIS as the State of Registry and of the Operator and the GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS) commenced an Investigation. Relevant DFDR data were downloaded but that from the CVR had been overwritten during the return fight to Dubai and was therefore unavailable. However, FMS BITE data and recorded ATC data were also available. It was found that the 54 year-old Captain, who was acting as PM for the flight, had a total of approximately 18,000 flying hours of which 7,940 hours had been whilst an Emirates employee, initially as a co-pilot. He had a total of 4,855 hours in command on all types and had obtained his A380 type rating in December 2014 after experience on the operator’s A330/A340 fleet and had 2,615 hours on type. The 39 year-old PF First Officer had a total of 7,280 flying hours of which 700 hours were on type. Prior to joining Emirates to fly the A380, he had been employed elsewhere as a Boeing 737NG First Officer. It was noted that both pilots were recorded as having received all required training which in particular included that provided on glideslope interception from above in accordance with the OM Part ‘D’. Whilst approaching Domodedovo from the southeast on track towards the ‘AO’ NDB (see the illustration above) in CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) conditions, ATC began providing radar vectors towards the Runway 14R ILS (see the illustration below) leading direct to the ILS final approach point (FAP) (point ‘P’ on the ILS14R approach chart below) on a track approximately parallel to a line linking the initial approach fix (IAF) at 'AM TAM' and the ILS IF but 2.9 nm closer to the runway. To facilitate establishing on the ILS LLZ at that range, the controller offered a descent to 500 metres QFE (equivalent to 2230 feet QNH) at the flight crew’s discretion which the crew accepted and set 2300 feet as the target altitude. ATC instructed the flight to establish on the ILS LLZ from the present heading 220° maintaining 170 KIAS for as long as possible to avoid minimum separation from following traffic. The descent was commenced in ‘Open Descent’ mode but almost immediately, as the aircraft was passing through approximately 3000 feet pressure altitude, the controller advised that there was no longer a separation issue and the speed requirement was cancelled. With the gear down and the slats/flaps at position ‘3’, the airspeed mode was changed briefly to ‘speed managed’ mode with the target speed reduced to 143 knots, which resulted in a slow decrease in speed. However, nine seconds later, this