cause of the discontinuation of the second approach was the selection by the flight crew of a waypoint using the ‘DIR TO’ function and after a relatively long discussion between them due to: the unavailability of the flight plan on the Navigation Display (ND), as the FMS1, reset after the go-around was not reconfigured by re-sequencing the flight plan as per SOP the aircraft oscillation around the localiser course.. the unavailability of the flight plan on the Navigation Display (ND), as the FMS1, reset after the go-around was not reconfigured by re-sequencing the flight plan as per SOP. the aircraft oscillation around the localiser course.. A total of 7 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The expectation of the First Officer that Radar Control might not provide the flight crew with vectors to intercept the localiser at an angle of 45 degrees or less when the aircraft was on the base leg (90-degrees to the final approach track). The radar vectors provided inside the final approach point (FAP) together with the instruction to maintain relatively high speeds until the aircraft was almost abeam of the Initial Approach Fix (IAF), and the First Officer’s expectation, resulted in an unusually high workload in a dynamic approach phase.. The glide interception from above procedure was performed when the aircraft had not yet established on the ILS localiser for runway 14R. This was not in accordance with the SOP.. During the period when the ‘glide interception from above’ procedure was performed and the go-around, the aircraft position was initially outside the azimuth coverage of the ILS glideslope signal and when it came within azimuth coverage, it was outside the elevation coverage of the glideslope signal. Consequently, invalid glideslope deviation indications were displayed to the flight crew.. Before performing the ‘glide interception from above procedure’, the erroneous flight crew representation of the aircraft position gave them the perception that they were being vectored to a tight approach and that the aircraft would capture the glideslope from above, led the PF to: refer only to the glideslope deviation indication to determine the aircraft vertical position instead of considering and crosschecking any other available indications (pressure altitude, vertical and navigation displays, and the DME distance table in the approach chart) which would have enabled him to reconsider and validate the aircraft position; descend below the cleared altitude and to modify the heading vectors issued by the Air Traffic Controller.. refer only to the glideslope deviation indication to determine the aircraft vertical position instead of considering and crosschecking any other available indications (pressure altitude, vertical and navigation displays, and the DME distance table in the approach chart) which would have enabled him to reconsider and validate the aircraft position;. descend below the cleared altitude and to modify the heading vectors issued by the Air Traffic Controller.. When the aircraft descended below 500 metres QFE, the duration of the radar controller’s instruction to the flight crew “not to descend further” was lengthy and the phraseology used was non-standard