maintain a correct speed profile, due to possible piloting distractions while following failure management and maintaining a constant control of the situation. It must also be taken into consideration the difficulty of correctly using the information supplied by the remaining instruments available.” In respect of guidance on the engines off ditching scenario which prevailed in this case, it was considered that “the structure of “ditching” procedure shown in FCOM does not take into account the causes of ditching. In case of failure of both engines, it is quite difficult for the flight crew to adapt to recommendations shown in the emergency procedure”. In respect of the context in which the incorrect installation of the FQI had occurred, it was considered that at the time of the event, the maintenance and organisation standards of the operator were not compatible with the maintenance of continuing airworthiness. It was noted that the operator had since undertook “a series of actions in order to eliminate maintenance and organisation(al) deficiencies”. Whilst it was concluded that “the ditching was primarily due to the both engines flameout because of fuel exhaustion” it was considered that the accident was the result of a series of linked contributing factors of which the following were of “major importance”: Errors committed by ground mechanics when searching for and correctly identifying the fuel indicator.. Errors committed by the flight crew: non-respect of various operational procedures.. Inadequate checks by the competent office of the operator that flight crew were respecting operational procedures.. Inaccuracy of the information entered in the aircraft management and spares information system and the absence of an effective control of the system itself.. Inadequate training for aircraft management and spares information system use and absence of a responsible person appointed for managing the system itself.. Maintenance and organization standards of the operator unsatisfactory for an adequate aircraft management.. Lack of an adequate quality assurance system;. Inadequate surveillance of the operator by the competent Tunisian authority.. Installation characteristics of fuel quantity indicators (FQI) for ATR 42 and ATR 72 which made it possible to install an ATR 42 type FQI in an ATR 72, and vice versa.. The Investigation was also concerned at the potentially prejudicial effects on flight safety of the conflict which had occurred between the interests of the State Investigation of the accident and the Italian judicial process. In respect of the systemic shortcomings evident in the Tunis Air maintenance organisation at the time of the accident, it was noted that significant Safety Action had since followed including: the commencement of human factors training for maintenance technicians, engineers and administration personnel. recurrent training programmes have been defined and implemented for the whole. staff of the Technical Department section concerning company procedures and line maintenance procedures, with particular reference to engines. a new Aircraft Technical Log format has been introduced supported by relevant filling instructions according to JAR-OPS 1 standards with, in particular, a new section for the recording of refuelling and post-flight residual fuel contents and relevant certification..