crew had been unaware of the risk of fuel exhaustion because the fuel quantity indications were that sufficient fuel was on board. It was found that at the conclusion of the previous days flying by the accident aircraft, a malfunctioning Fuel Quantity Indicator (FQI) for the right wing fuel tank had been recorded in the Aircraft Technical Log by the same Captain who had then flown the aircraft on the accident flight the next day. To clear the defect, the FQI was replaced - but inadvertently with one for an ATR 42 which is only compatible with the maximum capacity, shape, number and positioning of the capacitive probes of that aircraft type. The Investigation established that the effect of installing FQIs from ATR 42 in an ATR 72 would lead to the display of more fuel in tanks than the actual quantity present. It was found that that despite the ATR 42 and ATR 72 FQIs were identical in their dimensions and in respect of the installation procedure and that the procedure applicable at the time “did not require any manual checks, using the so-called dipsticks, of the actual quantity of the fuel present in each tank, or the subsequent comparison with the value shown by the FQI”. 'The only difference between the two FQI types following installation was found to be white lettering on the front of the instrument indicating the maximum fuel quantity for each fuel tank, “2500” for the ATR 72 or “2250” for the ATR 42 – see the illustration below. The effect of the maintenance error made was that whilst the actual quantity of fuel on board after completion of maintenance input was 790 kg, the indicated quantity was between 3050 to 3100 kg. In the case of the actual engine rundown the following day, it was found that the FQI was indicating a total of 1800 kg of fuel remaining, 900 kg in each wing tank when the actual useable fuel on board was zero. It was considered that “the simultaneous failure of both engines is in fact an extremely improbable condition” and that the possibility of fuel contamination could reasonably be discounted given that nearly a hour of prior flight had been uneventful. It was also concluded that the FQI indications “did not allow (the crew) clarification of the cause of engine shutdown” and noted that most of their attention had been given requests for the distance to Palermo airport and to attempts to restart the engines. In respect of whether ditching outcome was inevitable or whether different aircraft management could have prevented it, it was considered as follows: “From simulations performed using the ATR calculation software regarding aircraft performance check, it has been determined from a theoretical point of view that, applying the required procedures in both engines failure conditions, especially with particular reference to the maximum efficiency speed, the aircraft would have been able to reach Palermo airport. However, on the basis of simulator tests, it has proved quite difficult to