An Investigation was carried out by the Italian Agenzia Nazionale per la Sicurezza del Volo (Agenzia Nazionale per la Sicurezza del Volo (Italy) (ANSV)). The FDR and CVR were recovered and successfully downloaded. The CVR was found to have continued recording until impact and the FDR until about a minute before it, when it recorded the aircraft altitude as 728 feet. It was established that in the cruise at FL 230 approximately 50 minutes after takeoff with the aircraft commander acting as PF, the No 2 engine had run down. Shortly afterwards, and four minutes after a previous routine communication, ATC received a request to descend to FL 170 made by the PM due to an unspecified technical problem and permission to descend initially to FL 190 was given. From FDR data, it was apparent that just under 2 minutes after the rundown if the No 2 engine, the same occurred to the No 1 engine. ATC were advised that the aircraft wanted to divert to Palermo. A MAYDAY was declared with a request for radar vectoring to Palermo and the information that they had “lost both engines”. As the aircraft position did not allow the ACC frequency being worked to provide the requested vectors, the aircraft was transferred to Palermo APP. Attempts to restart both engines were unsuccessful and after gliding for approximately 16 minutes, the aircraft ditched approximately 23 nm northeast of Palermo Airport having advised ATC that it would not be possible to reach the Palermo. Two vessels had been observed in the vicinity of the ditching location and the aircraft was turned so as to land parallel to their tracks. The PM did not complete the ditching checklist but the landing gear remained up as required. The Investigation estimated that a rate of descent of 700-800 fpm had been maintained until shortly before impact and that the pitch at water impact had been about 9° - close to the optimum figure. It was also considered that the damage sustained to the aircraft was commensurate with water impact in an approximately wings level attitude. The water impact occurred in sea state at an airspeed which appeared to have been in the vicinity of the speed which would have triggered the aural stall warning. The aircraft broke into three parts at impact, the fuselage ahead of the wing attachment, the wing attachment section and the fuselage to the rear of the wing attachment. It was considered probable that the rear fuselage contacted the water first, followed by a reactive pitch forward which led to the front of the forward fuselage being submerged. All three sections remained afloat and partially attached for 20 to 30 minutes after which time the forward and aft fuselage sections sank. Although the rear fuselage section was partially submerged, almost all the passengers seated in it survived. The front of the forward fuselage section including the flight deck was “completely crushed” by the impact. As the Investigation progressed, it became apparent that the flight