Exemptions from the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 are available, primarily under Chapter 14: Section 31(2)(e) (ascertaining the cause of an accident), and are largely based upon the public interest in not interfering with air accident prevention. It is noted, in guidance on exemptions from disclosure, that there are already statutory provisions which prohibit disclosure of information by the AAIB to which section 44 of the Act is relevant. More generally, it is accepted that a disclosure likely to prejudice the exercise by the AAIB of its duty, to establish the cause of accidents, would in any case be contrary to the public interest. Also, some of the information collected by AAIB investigators is, for a variety of reasons, provided in confidence specifically to assist the investigation. The disclosure of such information beyond the direct requirements of the investigation is likely to result in reduced co-operation from such sources in the future. See also the exemptions in sections 30(2) (information obtained/recorded by investigating authorities from confidential sources), 40 (personal information), 41 (information provided in confidence) and 43 (commercial interests). Again, such disclosures could prejudice the exercise by the AAIB of its functions and be contrary to the public interest. There may also be occasions where national security/defence exemptions will be relevant to information held by the AAIB. However, accident investigations are capable of serving more than one purpose, and there may be another investigation being undertaken with a view to apportioning legal responsibility for an accident. Because of that, other exemptions likely to be relevant in this area include: other parts of section 31 such as prejudice to the administration of justice. section 32 (court records) - where, for example, a criminal prosecution or other legal proceedings are a possible outcome. section 40 (personal information) - for example where the role of an individual in an accident is an issue. section 43 (commercial interests) - for example where the role and reputation of a business is at stake.