With the exception of Magistrates Courts, which are empowered to determine by summary conviction minor offences against criminal or civil law, and are restricted in the penalties which they may impose upon conviction, the Judicial System for criminal prosecution in all parts of the UK follows the adversarial model in which the opposing parties present their cases before a Judge. Magistrates are required to refer a criminal case to a higher court for trial if they assess that the maximum penalty which they would be able to impose might be inadequate, or there are issues of legal complexity, or the defendant requests this. The structure and administration of justice, but not the principles, vary between England & Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Criminal and Civil justice is obtained through two separate court systems which converge at the level of Appeal. The Court system in both cases is hierarchical so that disputed outcomes can be considered by higher Courts. Criminal Justice for minor offences such as the breach of rules and regulations is usually administered by Summary Courts where Magistrates dispense judgment and the penalty for a offender may have been pre-determined in the case of England & Wales and Scotland by association with the Standard Scale of fines which contains five bands levels with maximum fines which change periodically in line with monetary inflation . Any significant criminal prosecutions take place after indictment on specific charges before a Judge and Jury. Defendants usually obtain legal representation, but are not required to. The Jury determines the verdict after direction on legal matters by the Judge and the Judge then determines the Sentence and may also require costs to be paid. Any Appeal against either conviction or sentence is heard before a panel of Senior Judges in a higher court and “leave to appeal” beyond that may be granted if a matter of potential or actual legal significance is found to exist. Cases of civil litigation for damages between ‘claimants’ and ‘defendants’ are heard before a single Judge who sits without a Jury. Legal representation is almost universal in such cases. The determination of each case is delivered as a detailed written judgment some time after the completion of the Court Proceedings, which are usually held in open court. There is an increasing trend, subject to the agreement of the parties involved, in the use of various means of ‘Alternative Dispute Resolution’ (ADR) especially Arbitration. In this way, proceedings are kept private and costs are reduced.