runway with the Captain only aware when passengers were seen outside the aircraft. The Investigation found that an evacuation had been ordered by the senior member of the cabin crew after she was “overwhelmed” by the situation and believed her team members were “scared”. ...further results On 18 June 2021, a Boeing 787-8 being operated by British Airways was being loaded for a cargo flight at Heathrow whilst line engineering carried out checks required to permit despatch with a deferred minor defect for later rectification. The check required cycling the landing gear with locking pins inserted so that only the bay doors cycled but when this was done, the nose gear retracted and the front of aircraft dropped to the ground causing significant damage to the airframe and minor injuries to two people. The nose gear downlock pin had inadvertently been inserted into the wrong hole. On 6 August 2021, an Airbus A319 experienced uncommanded loss of both Flight Directors and the Flight Mode Annunciator and disconnection of both autopilot and autothrust in the climb. After levelling at FL350, significant inertial reference position inconsistencies were observed. A precautionary PAN was declared and the flight was completed. Investigation found that the cause was a momentary abnormal vertical shock load transferred to Inertial Reference System equipment through an overextended nose gear shock absorber by a sharp jolt during takeoff caused by a runway patch repair. Sensitivity of the particular inertial reference system installed on the aircraft was noted. On 1 June 2019, a Boeing 787-8 lost all cabin air conditioning after both packs failed less than an hour from its destination, Narita. When the Cabin Altitude reached 10,000 feet, the descent already commenced was completed as an emergency descent and the flight thereafter was without further event. The Investigation found that although an amended non normal procedure restricting pack resets to a maximum altitude of 35000 feet had been issued almost two months earlier, it was still “under review” at the operator which has since amended their procedures for assessing manufacturer communications which have operational safety implications. On 29 September 2017, the crew of an Airbus A320 detected a smell of burning plastic and simultaneously observed black smoke entering the flight deck near the right side rudder pedals. Completion of appropriate response procedures reduced the smoke and a diversion to Athens with a MAYDAY declared was without further event. The origin of the smoke and fumes was traced to the failure of the static inverter which was part of a batch which had been previously notified as faulty but not identified as such by the aircraft operator’s maintenance organisation which has since modified its relevant procedures. On 7 December 2016, the crew of an ATR 42-500 lost control after airworthiness-related complications followed shutdown of the left engine whilst in the cruise and high speed terrain impact followed. The Investigation concluded that three pre-existing faults with the left engine and its propeller control mechanism had led to a loss of power which had