with significant wing drop after continuing a prescribed Stall Protection System (SPS) test below the appropriate speed and then failing to follow the correct stall recovery procedure. Failure of the attempted SPS test was subsequently attributed to both AOA vanes having become contaminated with water during earlier aircraft repainting at a specialist contractor and consequently being constrained in a constant position whilst the SPS test was being conducted at well above the prevailing freezing level. E170, en-route, southwest of Birmingham UK, 2021On 7 June 2021 an Embraer ERJ170 had just commenced its descent towards destination when both primary and secondary pitch trim systems failed resulting in excessive nose-down pitch control forces and an inoperative autopilot. The flight was completed without further event with the Pilot Flying using both hands on the control yoke to control pitch attitude manually. During the landing roll the nosewhweel steering system also failed. The pitch trim failure was attributed to probable jamming of the trim actuator due to water, possibly condensation, freezing within it. The steering system fault was attributed to a completely unrelated sensor failure. CRJ7, Denver CO USA, 2017On 2 July 2017, the left engine of a Bombarier CRJ 700A exiting the runway after landing at Denver caught fire and continued burning after the aircraft had been stopped on the taxiway and the engine shut down. The Investigation found that the fuel supply to the fuel-operated engine performance valve had failed and the quantity of fuel which then leaked had overwhelmed the engine cowl drain capacity and ignited. A history of similar failures was found and this one resulted in the introduction of additional mandatory in-serviced checks pending the replacement of the valve concerned with an improved design. CL60, Calgary Canada, 2020On 23 February 2020, a Bombardier Challenger 605 making a flapless landing after a system failure during descent briefly lost control when reverse thrust selection after a normal touchdown was followed by the aircraft becoming airborne before stick push activation was followed by a hard second touchdown. Structural and abrasion fuselage damage was caused. The Investigation attributed the flap failure to corrosion within the specified maintenance inspection interval and the brief loss of control during landing to a combination of inadequate crew preparation for the landing and the fact that simulator replication of aircraft handling did not correspond to reality. DHC2, manoeuvring, Jerusalem Bay north of Sydney Australia, 2017On 31 December 2017, a de Havilland DHC2 floatplane being manoeuvred at low level over Jerusalem Bay shortly after takeoff was observed to enter a steeply banked turn from which it appeared to depart controlled flight and impact the water surface below almost vertically. The Investigation concluded that the aircraft had stalled despite the exemplary proficiency record of the pilot and that in the absence of any other plausible explanation found that the loss of control was likely to have been the effect of an elevated exposure to carbon monoxide found during post mortem toxicology testing. DH8C, Darwin NT Australia, 2019On 11 November 2019,