is always functional in support of crew subjective judgement. On 12 March 2014, an Airbus A319 left engine stopped without any apparent cause on approach to Paris CDG. The crew then started the APU which also stopped. The Investigation found that the cause was engine and APU fuel starvation caused by non-identification of a recurring intermittent malfunction in the fuel quantity indicating system because of a combination of factors including crew failure to record fuel status in line with clear instructions and an inadequate maintenance troubleshooting manual. An inadequately-written abnormal crew drill and the crew’s inadequate fuel system knowledge then resulted in the fuel crossfeed valve not being opened. On 5 April 2019, a Boeing 737-500 crew declared an emergency shortly after departing Madrid Barajas after problems maintaining normal lateral, vertical or airspeed control of their aircraft in IMC. After two failed attempts at ILS approaches in unexceptional weather conditions, the flight was successfully landed at a nearby military airbase. The Investigation found that a malfunction which probably prevented use of the Captain’s autopilot found before departure was not documented until after the flight but could not find a technical explanation for inability to control the aircraft manually given that dispatch without either autopilot working is permitted. On 16 April 2012, a Virgin Atlantic A330-300 made an air turnback to London Gatwick after repetitive hold smoke detector warnings began to occur during the climb. Continuing uncertainty about whether the warnings, which continued after landing, were false led to the decision to order an emergency evacuation on the runway. Subsequent investigation found that the smoke warnings had all been false and had mainly come from one faulty detector. It also found that aspects of the way the evacuation had taken place had indicated where there were opportunities to try and improve passenger behaviour. B788, London Heathrow UK, 2021On 18 June 2021, a Boeing 787-8 being operated by British Airways was being loaded for a cargo flight at Heathrow whilst line engineering carried out checks required to permit despatch with a deferred minor defect for later rectification. The check required cycling the landing gear with locking pins inserted so that only the bay doors cycled but when this was done, the nose gear retracted and the front of aircraft dropped to the ground causing significant damage to the airframe and minor injuries to two people. The nose gear downlock pin had inadvertently been inserted into the wrong hole. B38M, Singapore Changi Singapore, 2021On 3 December 2021, a Boeing 737MAX-8 released to service with antiskid and autobrake systems inoperative in accordance with Minimum Equipment List procedures then operated two sectors. On the return to Singapore, both left main landing gear tyres were sufficiently damaged during landing to cause the bursting of one and deflation of the other. The cause of this was failure to deploy the speedbrakes manually as required. A similar error on the previous sector did not have the same outcome because the relatively more positive touchdown enabled automatic speedbrake deployment