flight deck when smoke in the cabin was followed by smoke in the flight deck. A MAYDAY was declared to ATC reporting “fire on board” and their suggested diversion to Turku was accepted. The situation initially improved but worsened after landing prompting a precautionary emergency evacuation. The Investigation subsequently attributed the smoke to a malfunctioning air cycle machine. Issues with inaccessible cabin crew smoke hoods and with the conduct and aftermath of the evacuation were also identified. B735, vicinity Madrid Barajas Spain, 2019On 5 April 2019, a Boeing 737-500 crew declared an emergency shortly after departing Madrid Barajas after problems maintaining normal lateral, vertical or airspeed control of their aircraft in IMC. After two failed attempts at ILS approaches in unexceptional weather conditions, the flight was successfully landed at a nearby military airbase. The Investigation found that a malfunction which probably prevented use of the Captain’s autopilot found before departure was not documented until after the flight but could not find a technical explanation for inability to control the aircraft manually given that dispatch without either autopilot working is permitted. B735, en-route, north northwest of Jakarta Indonesia, 2021On 9 January 2021, a Boeing 737-500 was climbing though 10,700 feet less than five minutes after departing Jakarta in daylight when it began to descend at an increasing rate from which no recovery occurred and 23 seconds later was destroyed by sea surface impact killing all 62 occupants. The Investigation concluded that the departure from controlled flight was unintentional and the result of the pilots’ inattention to their primary flight instruments when, during a turn with the autopilot engaged, an autothrottle malfunction created apparently unrecognised thrust asymmetry which culminated in a wing drop and a consequent loss of control. RJ1H, vicinity Zurich Switzerland, 2011On 20 July 2011, the flight crew of a Swiss European Avro RJ-100 on a positioning flight from Nuremburg to Zurich responded inappropriately to an unexpected ‘bank angle’ alert in IMC. Near loss of control followed during which a PAN was eventually declared. The situation was resolved by a belated actioning of the QRH checklist applicable to the failure symptoms experienced. The subsequent investigation attributed the event to inappropriate crew response to a failure of a single IRU and poor manual flying skill whilst the situation was resolved. A319, Munich Germany, 2017On 3 July 2017, an Airbus A319 sustained significant landing gear damage during the First Officer’s manual landing at Munich which recorded a vertical acceleration exceeding the threshold for a mandatory airworthiness inspection. That inspection found damage to nose and one main landing gear legs and, following Airbus advice, all three were replaced before release to service. The Investigation was unable to explain why neither pilot detected the incorrect pitch attitude and excessive rate of descent in time to take corrective action and noted that a reversion to manual flight during intermediate approach had been due to a technical malfunction. E190, en-route, southwest Vermont USA, 2016On 25 May 2016, an Embraer ERJ 190 experienced a major electrical system