An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The accident airport, Northolt, is unusual in that it operated by the Royal Air Force for both military and non scheduled civilian traffic. It was noted that the accident aircraft did not have - and was not required to have - a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) fitted and that the crew had not received - and were not required to receive training in Crew Resource Management. It was found that the aircraft had been serviceable prior to the accident. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF and that a PAR approach had been flown in VMC but with the PF remaining on instruments until the designated Decision Height in order to gain maximum training value from what was a rare opportunity for a civilian flight crew to receive PAR service. The authority gradient in the flight deck was identified as considerable and in addition the First Officer had limited competence in the English language, a factor made worse by his unfamiliarity with both UK military ATC R/T and in particular the R/T especially used for a PAR. It was noted that the aircraft commander did not appreciate at the time that having crossed the runway threshold slightly high and fast, the touchdown point was much further down the runway than was desirable. With only 952 metres of runway remaining, this, plus he fact that he then forgot to deploy the spoilers, was found to have made the overrun inevitable, with the minimum landing distance actually required having been estimated subsequently at 1411 metres. The First Officer had not monitored the landing, instead being more concerned with the likely taxi route of the aircraft after landing. The aircraft was estimated to have left the end of the runway at a speed of about 70 knots and after colliding with three approach lights, it then passed through the perimeter fence and demolished several of its concrete posts before hitting a van travelling along the main road just beyond and coming to a stop on this road with the van embedded in the right hand side of the fuselage. It was noted that the proximity of a main road to the end of the accident runway had contributed to the severity of the accident and that the overrun distance would have been reduced by a gravel arrester bed. Causal Factors identified by the Investigation, quoted verbatim, were: The commander landed the aircraft at a speed of 158 (+/- 10) knots and at a point on the runway such that there was approximately 3125 feet of landing runway remaining.. The commander did not deploy the spoilers after touchdown.. The First Officer did not observe that the spoilers had not been deployed after touchdown.. At a speed of 158 (+/- 10) knots with spoilers retracted and given the aircraft weight and atmospheric conditions prevailing, there was insufficient landing distance remaining from the point of touchdown within which to bring the aircraft to a