standstill.. The commander allowed himself to become overloaded during the approach and landing. The safeguards derived from a two-man crew operation were diminished by the First Officer’s lack of involvement with the final approach.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 3 July 1997 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: Aircraft Accident Report 3/97 Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation, one whilst it was in progress and the remainder at publication of the Final Report and are reproduced below as published: The Ministry of Defence should take note of the CAA follow up actions on Recommendation 94-15 with a view to assessing their applicability to those Government Aerodromes having a significant number of movements by civil aircraft and military aircraft with similar characteristics which are adjacent to public areas such as major roads or railways. (96-67 made on 2 October 1996). Safety Recommendation 94-15 was made as a result of a similar overrun accident by an executive jet onto a main road at Southampton in 1993: C550, Southampton UK, 1993 (RE HF WX FIRE) - “The CAA should review all licensed UK airfields to identify potential safety hazards beyond current Runway End Safety Areas (RESAs) and identify the need for, and practicality of installing, ground arrester systems” The Ministry of Defence should consider harmonising its ATC procedures with those laid down in the Manual of Air Traffic Services Part 1 as published by the CAA. This should be done to avoid the use of non-ICAO phraseology and procedures when controlling civilian air traffic at RAF airfields. (97-8). The Ministry of Defence, in the light of the total number of movements at the airfield and its close proximity to densely populated areas, should give further consideration to the installation of an ILS/DME system at RAF Northolt. (97-9). The Spanish Dirección General de Aviación Civil should begin to implement the planned requirements for CRM training, in accordance with ICAO guidance, as soon as possible and in advance of the adoption of the CRM training requirements of JAR OPS (97-10).