An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the DFDR but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. Data from the DFDR was used to confirm that touchdown had occurred at a rate of descent exceeding 600 fpm, which is the [[Aircraft Maintenance Manual|AMM] threshold for an examination of aircraft continued airworthiness. Following arrival in Madrid, damage to the aircraft found after maintenance were notified of the earlier hard landing by means of the Captain's entry in the Technical Log estimating a hard landing (location unspecified) with a vertical speed of "between 400 and 600 fpm" was documented as: slightly bent front panels (above the wing). a collapsed orifice support tube on the left MLG. a fractured anti-rotation sleeve on the right MLG. a distortion (bending) of the No. 1 wheel.. After Bombardier had been supplied with a copy of the DFDR data and the damage report and had compared the two, they concluded that "the shock struts in both legs had been subjected to loads above their design limits" and "recommended disassembling the shock strut, the shimmy dampers and side stay assemblies, and disassembling and inspecting the four wheels on both main gear legs". Replacement components were installed as required to return the aircraft to an airworthy condition. The dual concerns of the Investigation were to establish the facts of and context for the hard landing and to focus on the continued operation of an un-airworthy aircraft thereafter. The 38 year-old Captain was a Spanish national who had accumulated a total of 4,249 flying hours which included 475 hours on the type variant involved. He had been a Captain on the CRJ for five years and had gained most of his CRJ experience on the CRJ 200. The 46 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the flight, was a German national who had accumulated a total of 4,038 flying hours which included 448 hours on the type variant involved. The aircraft flight path [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was established that the flight had initially been cleared for an ILS approach to runway 22, but since the crew "had the runway in sight and the wind conditions allowed them to do so, they decided to make a visual approach to runway 04". A descending 360º turn to reduce altitude to one that would allow them to begin the 04 approach was necessary. Once this turn was complete, the aircraft was configured for landing. According to the statement made to the Investigation, the PF "varied the aircraft’s flight path slightly to the left to avoid some hills along the approach route and thus avoid activating the EGPWS". He also reported that he "did not follow the PAPI reference reading" because to do so would have prevented the achievement of "the stabilisation parameters shown by the NOTAM in the Operational Flight Plan". As a consequence of this decision,