the approach "was conducted with all four PAPI lights showing red". The Investigation considered that because "environmental requirements" had "forced" the 04 PAPI to be calibrated to an abnormally steep angle of 4.75º (and so-notified in the AIP) the crew decision to make the approach with four red lights "was correct". DFDR data confirmed crew accounts that there had been a tailwind component during much of the approach but did not support claims by the crew that the approach had been stabilised. In fact, the data showed that "the descent rate was very high during the final approach" and had mainly been in excess of 1000 fpm both before and after the 500 ft stabilisation gate - at 537 feet, it was 1168 fpm, at 502 feet it was 1072 fpm and had thereafter increased to a maximum of 1296 fpm at 214 feet agl. However, the recorded airspeed during the approach showed that this was maintained as required and was at the correct Vref at 50 feet agl. According to the accounts of the crew "during the flare, starting at a height above the runway of 50 feet, the aircraft moved sharply downward, causing the two main gear legs to touch down hard". This account was corroborated by DFDR data showing an 848 fpm rate of descent at 11 feet agl. In response to this suddenly increased rate of descent, the crew stated that "the Captain had asked the First Officer to raise their pitch angle, which reached 7º, but the First Officer did not want to raise the nose any further, fearing a tail strike."' They also stated that they "did not consider increasing thrust since the engines were at idle and they did not think they would respond in time". However, "during the flare and initial contact, the values of N1 exhibited values that differed from approach idle (35% versus 26%)" and it was found that setting the thrust levers to idle after the initial contact had led to spoiler deployment, "resulting in a second hard landing" after an initial bounce. It was considered that "in keeping with the instructions in the FCOM, the crew should have gone around after bouncing or when they realised they had to apply thrust to make the landing". It was also noted that the FCOM "recommends flaring at 20 to 30 ft agl and not exceeding a 5º pitch angle". Weather conditions around the time the approach under investigation was flown were CAVOK with no cloud below the MSA and the destination METAR recorded a very light and somewhat variable northerly breeze with a mean speed of 3/4 knots. Upon being cleared to land, TWR gave a spot wind check of 010º/4 knots followed soon afterwards by updates of 020º/4 knots and 010º/8 knots. The crew reported having been "surprised" when the tailwind conditions indicated by the FMS had not matched the surface wind velocities reported by the TWR. However, it was considered that "this disparity […] should have forewarned them