to the possibility of wind shear at some point during the approach, meaning the most prudent decision would have been to go around and do a visual circuit (or a full instrument approach) for runway 22" - which was an option given the reported mean wind velocity of 360º at 4 knots. It was noted that San Sebastian was classified as a Category 'C' aerodrome by the Operator based on an AIP requirement for this "due to the lack of [Runway End Safety Area|RESAs]] and to the limited length of the runway strip". This required that special operating procedures should be adopted and that corresponding pilot training must be provided. The Investigation noted that the Captain was approved to act as PF for an approach and landing at San Sebastian but was unable to find any evidence that the First Officer, who had never attempted to land a CRJ900 at San Sebastian before, was similarly approved or had received any relevant training. It was confirmed that although the CRJ900 is a Category 'D' aircraft, in order to achieve regulatory approval to operate as if it were a Category 'C' aircraft, which was a requirement for its operations into San Sebastian, the Operator had obtained a Certificate which "permanently changed the aircraft's category by reducing its maximum landing weight". The Investigation considered whether the required appropriate approach briefing had been conducted and, despite the absence of a CVR recording to provide hard evidence on the matter, considered that although "it is likely that the crew held a briefing on the approach to runway 22, since they had been cleared for this manoeuvre, which was the usual approach, the fact that they had to do a 360º turn to lose some of their excess altitude indicates that the approach manoeuvre to runway 04 was not expected". It was therefore concluded it that was "unlikely that they (revised) the briefing after deciding to make a visual approach to (that) runway". Company procedures were found to include Stabilised Approach criteria requiring that the rate of descent should not exceed 1000 fpm at 500 feet agl on a visual approach and that a go around must be executed if it did so. DFDR evidence confirmed that neither requirement had been met. The Cause of the event was formally stated as "the performance of a non-stabilised approach manoeuvre with a high sink rate in the final segment that resulted in the aircraft making a hard landing". Four Contributing Factors were identified as: The presence of a southerly wind (tailwind) during the approach, which probably sped up the approach and forced the crew to increase the sink rate.. By not holding a briefing on the manoeuvre they were going to execute, the crew did not prepare adequately for the approach.. The crew did not do a go around, as required by the Operations Manual for a non-stabilised approach.. The First Officer’s lack of experience at that airfield and on that aircraft in particular.. Safety Action taken by