illumination such as a full moon. In the absence of visual cues and with power available, flying low over the water on various headings can help determine the best ditching direction. In general, the heading which achieves a combination of the lowest ground speed and the smoothest touchdown and does not run into the face of the swell will be the best ditching course.. Lighting: At night, prudent use of both internal and external lights is critical. Minimising flight deck lighting will be important to maximise external night vision. Landing and taxi lights can in some circumstances actually make the situation worse by creating visual illusions and interfering with night vision.. Buoyancy. Specified action to close all valves below the likely initial waterline after a successful ditching should be followed. Some aircraft have a 'Ditching Push Button' which closes all such valves to minimise water ingress to a fuselage which remains intact. Emergency Generator: On aircraft equipped with a Ram Air Turbine (RAT), the RAT should have automatically deployed if all engines have failed. Depending upon the aircraft type, this will provide electrical power or hydraulic power for both the flight controls and for the emergency generator subject to the aircraft maintaining a nominated minimum airspeed, typically around 140 knots. The implications for aircraft control of going below whatever this speed is in an aircraft without any other power source should be carefully considered. Where the cause of an all-engines failure is not fuel exhaustion or starvation, the APU generator will usually be of the same capacity as a single engine generator.. EGPWS: Consider de-activating the EGPWS (and possibly other audio warnings), by about 2000 feet asl since it will otherwise constitute a potential low height distraction due to retracted landing gear.. High Wing Aircraft Escape Hatches Aircraft such as the BAe146 / Avro RJ or ATR42 will settle lower in the water after ditching than a low wing aircraft so that more of the fuselage will be submerged and evacuation potentially more difficult. Although some checklists call for the removal of roof escape hatches prior to a forced landing because impact forces may distort the aircraft frame and make them difficult to open, this should not be done prior to a ditching to preclude the risk of additional water ingress.. Final Approach Rate of Descent: If power is available, use it to set up the minimum possible descent rate to your touchdown point (200 fpm or less). If power is not available, establish best glide speed (best lift over drag speed) and accept the resulting rate of descent. In both cases, just above the water, flare to the manufacturer's recommended touchdown attitude and hold that attitude to (and during) the touchdown. Remember that the flare height will be slightly lower than for a normal landing because the gear is retracted. It is imperative that the aircraft be flown onto the water and NOT stalled. Select power off on touchdown unless manufacturer guidance indicates otherwise but achieving a gentle touchdown