be given especially the most accurate position information possible.. Direction of Ditching. Determine the best direction for ditching. In a confined space such as a river, there will be no choice other than the axis of the river; the direction with the higher headwind component should be chosen unless there is a compelling reason otherwise. In open water, the determination of optimum ditching heading becomes more complex. sea state is of critical importance since unless it is calm, the chances are that the direction of the wind will differ from that of the swell. In ideal conditions (smooth water or very long swells) land into the wind. This will ensure the minimum possible touchdown speed and help minimise impact damage. Where the swell is more marked, it may be advisable to ditch along the swell accepting a crosswind component and the higher touchdown speed, thus minimising the potential for nosing into the face of the rising swell. Considerable drift correction may be necessary to maintain a track along the swell in a strong crosswind. The best touchdown point is on the top of the swell with the second best on the back of the swell. Aim to remain well clear of the advancing face of the swell. In extremely strong winds, a compromise may well be required. In this case landing somewhat across the swell and into the wind to the extent possible is the best option. Touchdown on the receding face of the swell is the preferable choice. At night, judging sea state is likely to be extremely difficult unless there is good overall illumination such as a full moon. In the absence of visual cues and with power available, flying low over the water on various headings can help determine the best ditching direction. In general, the heading which achieves a combination of the lowest ground speed and the smoothest touchdown and does not run into the face of the swell will be the best ditching course.. In ideal conditions (smooth water or very long swells) land into the wind. This will ensure the minimum possible touchdown speed and help minimise impact damage.. Where the swell is more marked, it may be advisable to ditch along the swell accepting a crosswind component and the higher touchdown speed, thus minimising the potential for nosing into the face of the rising swell. Considerable drift correction may be necessary to maintain a track along the swell in a strong crosswind. The best touchdown point is on the top of the swell with the second best on the back of the swell. Aim to remain well clear of the advancing face of the swell.. In extremely strong winds, a compromise may well be required. In this case landing somewhat across the swell and into the wind to the extent possible is the best option. Touchdown on the receding face of the swell is the preferable choice.. At night, judging sea state is likely to be extremely difficult unless there is good overall