Ramp Resource Management (RRM) training is team-related training to make effective use of all available resources – people, equipment and information – to optimise personal and flight safety, and the efficiency of the aircraft turnaround. RRM can be seen as a subpart of the general human factors-domain. Since the concept of Crew Resource Management (CRM) was first used in the late 1970’s, it has developed significantly. From initially focusing on communication and attitudes in a classroom-based learning environment, CRM today is an integrated part of safety management in aviation, shipping and the Oil & Gas Industry. There is also a growing understanding of the requirement for organisational support (e.g. investments in training, safety culture improvements) in order to make CRM an efficient safety tool in daily operations and there is a clear tendency in the development of CRM towards training of specific behaviours. The Threat and Error Management (TEM) approach to CRM is in line with this development. RRM extends the CRM principles to the ground handling environment and these principles provide the contents for the RRM training syllabus developed by the European Commercial Aviation Safety Team (ECAST) Ground Safety Working Group (GSWG). Whereas CRM training mostly addresses teams of 2 or 3 members, RRM training also addresses larger teams, similar as Team Resource Management (TRM) training provided to air traffic controllers in the Air Traffic Management domain. The RRM training syllabus aims to provide best practices in conducting team-related training to improve safety, communication, effectiveness and efficiency in aircraft ground handling. The production of the RRM syllabus is the end of a cycle that started with studying the subject of ‘Aircraft ground handling and human factors’ on behalf of the ECAST GSWG. The RRM training syllabus has been developed for airports and Ground Service Providers (GSP), primarily to be used in training for ramp personnel involved in aircraft handling, including supervisors. After initial implementation of RRM training, the target group may be extended to include planners, managers, etc. in order to increase their awareness of the influence of their decisions on the actual aircraft handling during the turnaround.