was that either during taxi-out or on the runway at a low speed at Entebbe, the bolt was picked up by the left-hand outboard tyre and then came loose from it due to centrifugal force as the wheel speed increased and was ingested by the left-hand engine whilst it was running at a high rotational speed. The Investigation noted that on the day of the event, a large airside construction project was in progress involving the extension and strengthening of both the main (17-35) and secondary (12/30) runways and their associated taxiways F, G and H. However, despite making several requests, the Investigation had not been provided with any information on the Entebbe Airport Authority’s FOD prevention programme and runway inspection regime. A similar request made to the Kigali Airport Authorities was noted to have yielded only two handwritten runway inspection sheets which indicated that “some 20 runway inspections per day were carried out in an irregular pattern”. Current guidance on the inspection of manoeuvring area surfaces aimed at addressing the risk of FOD including that contained in ICAO Doc 9137 Part 8 Airport Operational Services (First Edition 1983) and the 4th Edition (2010) of the ACI Airside Safety Handbook was reviewed and forthcoming updates to ICAO guidance and to intended EASA Regulatory action relevant to the FOD risk were also noted. It was considered on the basis of any evidence to the contrary that both Entebbe and Kigali airports “should make an effort to develop and implement both a comprehensive FOD prevention programme and criteria for their runway inspection regime” with such a programme and criteria being “clearly documented in their respective Airport Operations Manuals”. In addition, it was particularly considered that the fact that the extensive airside works at Entebbe were likely to continue for “years to come” meant that an early evaluation of the opportunities to mitigate the construction FOD risk there was essential. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Kigali and Entebbe Airport Authorities develop, document and implement policies and procedures for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) prevention.. that the Kigali and Entebbe Airport Authorities develop, document and implement policies and procedures for runway inspections.. that the Kigali and Entebbe Airport Authorities, when establishing their FOD prevention programme, to take into account the proactive FOD prevention guidelines as proposed in EASA amendment 2018-14 that will be adopted by ICAO by the end of 2020.. that the Entebbe Airport Authorities, in view of the continuing extensive works on the manoeuvring area, evaluate and intensify where needed their efforts to control FOD, both proactively and reactively, without delay.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 29 July 2019 and subsequently made available online.