A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Accident Investigation Division (AAID) of the Rwanda Ministry of Infrastructure in accordance with the principles of ICAO Annex 13. It was established that the flight into Kigali was the fourth sector of a return flight from Kigali to Nairobi via Entebbe in both directions with the same flight crew accompanied by an aircraft maintenance technician as a crew member. External checks of the aircraft with no findings were performed prior to the departures from Nairobi and Entebbe and again after arrival back at Kigali. These Checks were performed at night in Nairobi and thereafter in daylight. During landing on the 3279 metre-long runway 28 at Kigali, it was noted that, as recommended in applicable operational procedures, idle reverse was likely to have been selected thus no significant reverse thrust would have been used. It was also noted that between a runway inspection carried out at Kigali which had recorded nothing abnormal and the landing of the Entebbe flight approximately an hour later, there had been two takeoffs and one other landing on the same runway with no FOD reports. There were also no abnormal findings from the next runway inspection after the landing. Following the initial post-flight finding of damage to all left-hand engine fan blades, further investigation led to the discovery of a metal bolt “stuck in the acoustic lining of the upper part of the fan intake” (see below). Subsequent examination of the engine at the overhaul facility found that there was no damage to the engine other than that first seen to the fan section upon visual inspection. Photos of the recovered bolt were sent to Boeing and then to the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) who “concluded unambiguously that the bolt did not originate from the engine itself” and further observed that all the damaged fan blades “look like they experienced hard impact damage, consistent with impact from the bolt that was found lodged in the inlet”. As to the potential non-engine origin of the bolt, the NTSB noted that it would be very hard to determine this since “it could have come from a number of non-aviation sources (such as) fuel trucks, baggage carts and air stairs”. It was noted that the same post flight inspection which had found the fan blade damage also found previously undetected damage to the left main landing gear outboard tyre in the form of a single “punch-type” tread depression (see the illustration below). It was considered that direct ingestion of a bolt such as the one recovered from the engine was unlikely given the relatively high position of the tail-mounted engines but that this tail-mounted position meant that a small object released from a main gear wheel rotating at high speed was capable of being directed towards the engine inlet. Overall, it was considered that although it “could not be demonstrated unambiguously due to lack of available data”, the available evidence all indicated that the most likely scenario