company documents in feet. […] The use of metres, when specifying the runway distance available in the NOTAM and the ATIS broadcast, conformed to standard international practice. […] Hearing the distance in metres failed to raise the same question in their minds that might have occurred had they heard the figures in feet. In the Conduct of the Flight section, the Report states: […] The co-pilot believed the work was in the threshold area of Runway 06L; this was reinforced by his mistaken belief that ATC were instructing them to line up at an entry point part way up the runway. The commander stated he believed the work was at the far end of the runway in an area outside that affecting their takeoff performance. Runway 06L/24R slopes up from both ends towards the middle creating a slight hill effect, sufficient for the crews of B737 sized aircraft to be unable to see beyond the highest point until they are some way down the runway. Thus, the vehicles on the runway were not visible to the crew as they lined up, denying them a final opportunity to become aware of the actual situation concerning the work-in-progress. [The] initial taxi clearance from ATC did not specify the clearance limit, stating only that they were cleared to the “holding points” for Runway 06L. At that time, there was no requirement to specify a clearance limit; this is now a requirement and has been incorporated in to MATS [UK Manual of Air Traffic Services] Part 1. As a result of the original clearance, when ATC had asked if they could accept a departure off “THE REDUCED RUN AVAILABLE ON RUNWAY 06L” followed by the crew’s reply of “YEAH FROM ALPHA GOLF”, it is likely that the omission of the clearance limit meant that ATC believed the aircraft would be taxiing for holding point A1, whilst the crew believed they were expected to taxi to holding point AG. On handover to the tower controller, the clearance was ambiguous in that the crew were merely cleared to “LINE UP AND WAIT ZERO SIX LEFT”. The tone of the co-pilot’s reply of “WE’RE TAKING IT FROM ALPHA GOLF” indicated that the crew had some doubts as to their runway entry point clearance, but this response was interpreted by the controller as a statement of intent rather than a question. However, it seems apparent that ATC were also concerned, as the flight crew seemed prepared to commit to a takeoff on a reduced length runway, but effectively made shorter by entering at holding point AG. As a result, when ATC replied with….”IF YOU’RE HAPPY WITH THAT THAT GIVES YOU ER SIXTEEN SEVENTY METRES” the crew were provided with another opportunity to become aware of the reduced takeoff run on Runway 06L. This information, which applied to a takeoff on the reduced length runway from holding point AG, was either missed by the crew or the ambiguity of the exchanges led them to mis‑interpret this as the takeoff