would have been possible to return to CAT 3 traffic separation “with relatively little effort” since it would only have involved keeping the departing RJ85 at the intermediate CAT 2/3 holding point where it was waiting for takeoff clearance. The TWR controller involved stated that as the attempt was made to get flight operations back on schedule after the delays which had built up in the earlier period of CAT 2/3 LVP, he “had been under a high workload” due to mixed mode use of the runway which had involved him accommodating an increased departure rate achieved at times by making full use of CAT 1 SOPs which allowed the separation between departing and approaching aircraft to be not less than “one runway length”. The fact that there were no international regulations covering what was accepted as the routine conduct of autoland in conditions less than those required for the implementation of LVPs (particularly the lack of protection of the ILS LLZ signal) was highlighted as a matter of concern. In this respect, the Investigation came to the conclusion that “if an airport does not operate on LVP, it should become a global standard to inform air traffic control in good time about an intended autoland landing”. The Causes of the Serious Incident were formally documented as follows: Immediate Causes: The crew decided to conduct an automatic landing even though the conditions on the ground for a safe conduct were not given.. Shortly before touch-down the airplane was deviated to the left of its flight direction by the disturbed LLZ signal. An Avro RJ85 taking off a short distance ahead of the Boeing 777 caused the interference.. The two pilots could not keep the aircraft on the runway after touch-down because the autopilot was still engaged.. The crew was confused by the behaviour of the aircraft. They had not noticed that the go-around mode had already been deactivated by the initial touchdown of the left main landing gear.. Systemic Causes: The recommendation concerning the conduct of autoland landings under CAT I conditions published in the aircraft operator’s FCOM allowed these to take place without having to consider the required conditions on the ground.. Safety Action taken by Singapore Airlines in response to the occurrence and known to the Investigation was recorded as having included: Additional guidelines to flight crew on the successful conduct of go-around procedures after touch-down.. Improved recurrent simulator training for flight crew and re-training on go-around procedures after the aircraft has switched to ground mode.. Improved simulator training for flight crew on ILS LLZ deviations during the flare to land below 50 feet agl.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 17 December 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.