a turn though about 40° before re-entering the runway just before the taxiway B6 intersection about 1,566 metres beyond the threshold. It continued across the runway on a heading of about 120° with the airspeed still around 70 KCAS before departing from the southern runway edge onto grass before then turning left about 40° and coming to a stop parallel to the runway about 35 seconds after touchdown. The Captain decided that there was no need to evacuate and after about two minutes, airport RFFS vehicles arrived at the scene. Although FDR data showed no indication that a go around had been initiated, as the aircraft had touched down, the CVR recorded the Captain as saying “okay flaps 20” and several concurrent sounds which indicated the clicking of the TO/GA buttons on the thrust levers and movement of the speed brake handle. This corresponded to the time when the Captain reported trying to command a go around using the TO/GA buttons and retracting the speed brakes which had been automatically deployed on touchdown. It was quickly noted that an automatic go around initiated by pressing the thrust lever TO/GA buttons is no longer possible once at least one of the aircraft MLGs has touched down because the automatic go around mode is deactivated at that point. A rejected landing after touchdown on the 777 requires the thrust levers to be manually advanced to the TO/GA position in order to set the thrust. However, deactivation of the go around mode does not also disconnect the AP since for a CAT 3 approach the cues it receives from the LLZ signal in rollout mode are used to ensure that rudder and nosewheel inputs keep the aircraft on the centreline once it has landed. It required rudder inputs at the pressure which would accompany a runway exit at taxi speed once the automatically-controlled landing roll was complete. These two features of the aircraft automation explained why the intended go around could not be attempted and why directional control once on the ground was problematic. The cause of the unexpected left bank during the flare which had begun the sequence was found by examination of surface movement radar to have been a transient obstruction of the LLZ signal by a departing Avro RJ85 which became airborne near to the end of the same runway just as the 777 was in the flare. This aircraft had begun its takeoff from an intermediate intersection and having just become airborne was climbing at a relatively slow rate. Exclusively CAT 2/3 operations had been maintained until about 70 minutes prior to the 777 touching down but, at the time of the approach and for at least the previous 45 minutes, both the cloud base and the prevailing visibility for 08R met the criteria for CAT 1 operations. This meant that special procedures to prevent transient LLZ signal interference were no longer required and ATC had therefore returned to CAT 1 traffic separation procedures in order to recover the