An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Accident Investigation (BFU). The SSFDR and SSCVR were both removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded and some relevant CMC data were also extracted. Recorded ATC communications and radar data were also obtained. It was noted that the 45 year-old Line Training Captain in command had accumulated a total of 12,416 flying hours which included 4,712 hours on type and had been employed by the airline since 1992. The 35 year-old First Officer was recorded as having a total of 3,681 flying hours, all of it on type and had been employed by the airline since 2002. Both pilots held Singaporean ATPLs. The excursion occurred on the second sector of a two sector flight duty for the crew who had earlier operated from Munich to Manchester after a 48 hour rest period following their operation of a flight from Singapore to Munich. The flight to Manchester occurred without incident. On the subsequent return flight to Munich, the First Officer initially acted as PF but on hearing the latest Munich weather which included a 300 feet cloud base and 2,000 metres visibility, the Captain decided to take over as PF in accordance with Company SOPs. Earlier, Munich had been in fog with visibilities between 600 and 900 metres with LVPs in force to protect ILS CAT 3 approaches which were available on all runways, but with the lifting of the fog, ATC had ceased LVP and returned to Cat 1 traffic separation in an effort to catch up. The crew were aware of this but the Captain briefed for an ILS CAT 3 automatic approach to runway 08R followed by an autoland. After working Munich APP, the flight was transferred to Munich Director where they received clearance for an ILS approach to runway 08R. Transfer to Munich TWR was accompanied by an instruction to reduce speed to 170 knots. Munich TWR cleared the flight to land and gave the spot wind as from 130° at 7 knots. With the aircraft 50 feet agl and in the flare to land, it slowly began to bank left up to 3.5°. Touchdown on the left MLG first occurred approximately 420 metres past the threshold at 132 KCAS and was followed by the right MLG three seconds later. At the point the first MLG runway contact occurred, the Auto Flight System (AFS) switched, as per design, to rollout mode. The AP remained engaged as the aircraft moved towards the north side of the runway and continued onto the grass near the taxiway B4 intersection after which it followed a slightly curved right hand turn for about 400 metres and reaching a maximum deviation from the runway when it was about 1,240 metres beyond the threshold and at a recorded speed of 109 KCAS. The AP disconnected as a result of crew inputs to the rudder pedals to achieve the continuation of the right turn back towards the runway and the aircraft completed