backlog in movements which had resulted from the earlier period of LVP. The airline’s FCTM was found to include reference to the risk of ILS LLZ signal interference if automatic approaches and landings were conducted under CAT 1 conditions. It also included the following text: “Flight crews must remember that the ILS critical areas are not protected when the weather is above 800 foot ceiling and /or 2 mile visibility. As a result, ILS beam bends may occur because of vehicle or aircraft interference. Sudden and unexpected flight control movements may occur at a very low altitude or during the landing and rollout when the autopilot attempts to follow the beam bends. At ILS facilities where critical areas are not protected, flight crews should be alert for this possibility and guard the flight controls (control wheel, rudder pedals and thrust levers) throughout automatic approaches and landings. Be prepared to disengage the autopilot and manually land or go-around". In addition the airline’s FCOM was found to “recommend an autoland where the cloud base is 500 feet aal or less, or visibility is 2000 metres or less, or at any time RVRs are being given”. Since the FDR and CVR sonogram data indicated that the thrust lever TO/GA button had been pressed at the same time as initial main gear ground contact had occurred, it was concluded that the crew had expected that this action would cause the go-around mode to initiate an automatic go around. Such an expectation was contrary to the system logic since the go around mode was no longer active. Had the Captain, as required, pushed the thrust levers forward to set TO/GA thrust, automatically deployed ground spoilers would have been automatically retracted and the autobrake function would have been de-activated. It was noted that the Captain had realised that the ground spoilers had already been deployed automatically and had retracted them manually which would not have been necessary had the initially intended go-around been correctly initiated. The Investigation considered that both pilots, the Captain as a Training Captain and the First Officer having significant flying experience on type, had been “sufficiently familiar with the (correct) go-around procedure” which was in any case “sufficiently described in the FCTM and had been sufficiently trained in the simulator in accordance with regulatory requirements”. It was found that the airline made use of two different manufacturer’s full flight simulators for training. Both of these simulator types were found to meet all Boeing requirements and both used the same system logic to activate on-ground sensing as in the aircraft, although there was a very slight difference in exactly when ‘on-ground’ was sensed after either of the main gear assemblies made ground contact. Although LVPs were no longer in force and traffic separation had reverted to CAT 1 requirements, at the time of the approach and landing under investigation, other CAT 2/3 provisions had not yet been suspended. It was observed that had the crew advised the controller about their planned autoland, it