had turned about 150° to the left and taken up a constant track back towards and then across peninsula Malaysia - see the illustration below. As it approached the peninsula, it was picked up and tracked continuously on military radar and also picked up intermittently on civil radar. It arrived just south of Penang and turned about 45° to the right and to begin tracking approximately west northwest on RNAV route N571. This kept it clear of Indonesian airspace and after 200 nm, the primary radar return was lost over the Andaman Sea north of the Indonesian island of Sumatra one hour after it had ceased contact and begun deviating from its flight plan route. It was found subsequently that whilst the aircraft was in the vicinity of Penang, a mobile phone communications mast there had picked up a signal ‘hit’ from the First Officer’s mobile phone but this did not record any communication except to confirm that the phone was switched on at that time. Attempts to establish whether this could have allowed the determination of the aircraft’s maximum attitude were inconclusive. Subsequently, some complex analysis of a series of signals automatically transmitted by the aircraft’s satellite communications terminal to Inmarsat’s Indian Ocean Region satellite indicated that soon after being lost to radar, the aircraft had turned onto and maintained a southerly track. Based on these signals and the known fuel endurance, it was concluded that the flight had ended over the southern part of the Indian Ocean some time after the aircraft had been airborne for 7 hours 38 minutes. Whilst the aircraft was eventually determined to be missing, this reconstruction of the aircraft’s track was not immediately available and the initial search and rescue effort was directed towards the South China Sea on the assumption that the aircraft had been following its flight track. There was particular concern also that ATC had not raised the alarm more quickly when contact was lost. Despite an unprecedented sea surface and then subsea search effort coordinated by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), and reported separately in the 2017 ATSB Report ‘The Operational Search for MH370’, no trace of the wreckage of the aircraft has been found. Subsequently, however, several pieces of debris identified as from the missing aircraft have been washed ashore along the east African coast and islands to the east of it, which oceanographers confirmed based on the surface water circulation characteristics of the Indian Ocean were likely to have been transported from the area where the sea search for wreckage had been focussed. In the first half of 2018, by agreement the Malaysian Government and a specialist US Company, a further 90 day subsea search utilising the most advance underwater search technology currently available was carried out in an area that was considered, in the light of the lack of success in other areas, the most likely location for the wreckage. This search ended on 29 May 2018 without success. The Investigation determined that based on