the available evidence, eight factors justified its primary focus. These were: The deviation from the Flight Plan Route.. Aspects of Air Traffic Services Operations.. The profile of the Flight Crew.. Airworthiness & Maintenance and Aircraft Systems.. Satellite Communications.. Available Wreckage and Impact Information.. The relevant organisation and management of the Malaysian Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) and of the aircraft operator, Malaysian Airlines (MAS).. The Aircraft Cargo items on board.. A number of other factors were examined by the Investigation and it was concluded that they were not relevant. These included: The weight and balance of the aircraft.. The amount and quality of fuel on-board.. The prevailing meteorological conditions.. The evidence indicated that the aircraft remained airborne for more than 7 hours. This was considered to be indicative of the autopilot probably continuing to function, at least in its basic modes. This in turn made it likely that the air and inertial data were probably available to the autopilot system and/or the crew. The inter-dependency of operation of the various aircraft systems made it also likely that significant parts of the aircraft electrical power system continued to function throughout the flight. It was also considered, after analysis of the relevant aircraft systems and taking into account the route followed by the aircraft and the height at which it flew constrained by its performance and range capability, that it was unlikely that there was any mechanical problem with the aircraft airframe, control systems, fuel or engines. The failure to locate the aircraft and recover its flight recorders means that it was impossible at this time to determine with any certainty the reasons that the aircraft diverted from its flight planned route. However, it is considered that the change in flight track “likely resulted from manual inputs”. It has not been possible to “identify any plausible aircraft or systems failure mode that would lead to the observed systems deactivation, diversion from the filed flight plan route and the subsequent flight path taken by the aircraft”. However, the lack of sufficient evidence also precluded the elimination of this possibility and “the possibility of intervention by a third party” cannot be excluded either. It is considered that the disappearance of the aircraft and the search effort made to find it have been “unprecedented in commercial aviation history” and that action is needed to ensure that this type of event “is identified as soon as possible and mechanisms are in place to track an aircraft that is not following its filed flight plan for any reason”. It is further considered that “the international aviation community needs to provide assurance to the travelling public that the location of current-generation commercial aircraft is always known”. Finally, “in conclusion, the Investigation Team is unable to determine the real cause for the disappearance of MH370”. A series of Safety Recommendations have been made as a direct result of issues highlighted by the Investigation. The Preliminary Report of the Investigation included one Recommendation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation