An Investigation led by the Malaysian Air Accident Investigation Bureau according to ICAO Annex 13 principles was opened and has conducted a comprehensive investigation of all aspects of the flight. Considerable assistance has been rendered to the Investigation Team by some of the Accredited Representatives of other States and their advisers. These Representatives were from: The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB). The Singapore Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). The French BEA. The Chinese Civil Aviation Administration (CAAC). The US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). The Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC). Progress with the Investigation was published in a Preliminary Report on 9 April 2014, a Factual Information Report on 8 March 2015 and in Interim Statements published on 8 March 2015, 8 March 2016, 8 March 2017 and 8 March 2018. Note that the Preliminary Report uses a mixture of UTC and Malaysian Local time (MYT) without necessarily identifying which is being used correctly, which affects whether the associated calendar date for the flight is 8 March or 9 March. The 53 year-old Training Captain in command of the flight was supervising a 27 year-old First Officer undergoing route training as the final stage of type conversion, with his Final Line Check scheduled for his next flight. It was established that the Captain had decided that the First Officer would act as PF for the flight to Beijing. Both pilots were Malaysian nationals who had begun flying as cadet pilots with the airline and remained with it thereafter. The Captain had a total of 18,423 flying hours of which 8,659 hours were on type. He had gained his first command on the Fokker 50 in 1990 and after flying the Boeing 737-400 and the Airbus A330 had joined the Boeing 777 fleet in 1998 and been appointed as a Training Captain in 2007. The First Officer had a total of 2,813 flying hours of which 39 hours were on type. The flight to Beijing was expected to take around 5½ hours and the fuel loaded prior to departure resulted in a fuel endurance of around 7½ hours which was a normal margin. The initial progress of the aircraft up to the point where it turned onto and thereafter maintained a southerly track was established from recorded ATC data including primary and secondary radar. The aircraft climbed on its flight planned route track after departure and the crew reported having reached the initial cruise level of FL350 some 20 minutes after takeoff. Just under 20 minutes after this, as the aircraft approached the ACC boundary with Vietnamese airspace at waypoint IGARI, it was instructed by Kuala Lumpur ATCC to change to Ho Chi Minh ATCC. The acknowledgment of this instruction was the last R/T call received from the aircraft which did not then check in on the Vietnamese frequency. Almost immediately after this last transmission from the aircraft, the secondary radar signal from the aircraft ceased and primary radar returns showed that it