An Investigation was carried out by the Danish AIB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the SSFDR, SSCVR and Quick Access Recorder. The Investigation undertook an extensive investigation of the pre-crash airworthiness and loading of the aircraft and concluded that neither had played any part in the accident. Although experienced on the DE HAVILLAND CANADA DHC-6 and FOKKER F50, the aircraft commander was on his fourth day in command on the aircraft type and had just 44 hours experience on it, almost all of this during conversion or on line training under supervision, none of which had involved flying into Nuuk. The First Officer had 1130 hours on type as well as other experience. It was noted that the forecast conditions for the ETA at Nuuk prior to departure from Reykjavik had been sufficiently poor to require the nomination of two destination alternates. It was also noted that the actual weather conditions subsequently encountered both en route and at Nuuk had been in line with those forecast. It was established that departure on the 2 hour flight from Kulusuk to Nuuk had been delayed by the crew to await an improvement in the weather at Nuuk. The aircraft commander was PF. En route, about 40 minutes from landing, the Nuuk weather was passed as 160°/33-48 knots with visibility 3000 metres in snow with fog patches, low drifting snow, cloud BKN at 2800 feet and temperature -0° C. A runway 23 approach was briefed, based on the LOC/DME procedure for that runway (see the plate used by the crew for this procedure below) until visual. However, because of the prevailing wind conditions at Nuuk, the crew decided that the landing flap setting would be 15° rather than the usual 35° and that the final approach would be flown with the airspeed “on the high side” and to the right of the LOC and the runway extended centreline once visible as well as above the normal vertical profile. The aim would be to regain the extended runway centreline "not too close to the runway end". The approach was flown essentially as briefed, although at approximately 700 feet, the flaps were set to 35° for landing. A deviation to the right of the LOC was made approximately 2 minutes prior to touchdown when leaving 2000 feet. The AP was disconnected at this point and by 1400 feet, the landing checklist had been completed. The track flown was at an angle of between 25 and 35 degrees to the runway extended centreline measured from the runway threshold. The expected turbulence on the approach was continuous but generally moderate rather than severe. As the runway was approached, the aircraft was still offset from the extended centreline and the corrective turn to the right was an abrupt manoeuvre made below 50 feet and over the runway. Touchdown occurred to the left of the centreline and approximately 200 metres beyond the threshold at 7 knots below the applicable Reference Speed (Vref) of 95 KIAS.