However, as it occurred, the aircraft was moving sideways and banking to the right such that right MLG made a hard contact with the runway ahead of the left and immediately collapsed due to overload - FDR data indicated an instantaneous vertical loading of 3.9g. The right wing and right engine propeller hit the runway and the outer third of all four right propeller blades was sheared off. The aircraft then veered briefly right and then left before departing the runway to the right into rocks which led to the NLG being destroyed and the aft fuselage substantially damaged. Once the aircraft had come to a stop, it became clear that the passenger cabin and flight deck were intact and there had been no injuries to the occupants who had all been secured. It was judged that with no sign of fire and with unpleasant weather outside, there was no need to order an immediate evacuation. Eventually, passengers were disembarked through the forward right service door having put on their overcoats inside the cabin. Rescue and Fire Fighting Services personnel then guided the passengers across the runway to the terminal building which was a few hundred metres away. The Investigation considered that throughout the approach, a combination of strong winds and "moderate to severe orographic turbulence" due to the surrounding mountainous terrain had increased the pilots' workload. It was evident from the available recorded data that the Operator's stabilised approach parameters had not been met and that no flight crew call outs on divergence from the operator’s stabilised approach policy had been made. Once below 500 feet agl, turbulence and pilot work load had increased considerably and it was considered that at this point, the pilots "most likely suffered from task saturation and information overload" to the extent that the go around option was mentally excluded. It was noted that in the final stages of the approach, deviations from "important low altitude stabilised approach parameters like airspeed, bank angle and runway alignment were not sufficiently corrected". The result was that as the runway was reached, the aircraft had not been in a position to make a safe landing. Overall, the view was taken that "optimum crew resource management was not present". It was also noted that, given the wind velocity given by Nuuk AFIS before landing - a mean of 180° variable between 140°and 220° at a mean speed of 17 knots and a maximum of 42 knots, the crew had been prohibited from attempting a landing under the guidance contained in the Operator’s Aerodrome and Procedure briefing for Nuuk. The Conclusions of the Investigation were formally summarised as follows: "Adverse wind and turbulence conditions at BGGH led to flight crew task saturation on final approach and a breakdown of optimum cockpit resource management (Crew Resource Management) resulting in a divergence from the operator’s stabilized approach policy. The divergence from the operator’s stabilized approach policy caused an unstabilised approach and a hard landing leading to an excess load of the