RFFS personnel were in attendance for the arrival of the flight at its assigned gate and six minutes later, the requested ambulance arrived and an “extensive discussion” began about how to remove the injured cabin crew member from the aircraft, complicated by the fact that the ambulance stretcher was too wide to use in the aircraft aisle. When RFFS personnel suggested using a scissor lift or catering truck appliance and asked the ground service supervisor to assist, this person responded that “no scissor lift was available” and declined the use of the catering truck. “Considerably more deliberation” then followed before the injured cabin crew member themselves suggested that the ambulance officers could use a slide sheet to drag them along the aisle to the front of the aircraft for transfer to a stretcher. This was then done but by the time the ambulance was ready to leave the airport, it was over an hour since it had arrived at the aircraft side. Whilst it was clear that the upset had been only the indirect result of a windshear encounter, it was noted that it had occurred in airspace where the flight crew were aware that moderate CAT had been forecast and that such awareness in this case should have resulted in a corresponding pre-departure briefing for the SCCM and an early selection of the seat belts to on during the descent. The Captain’s view that this was unnecessary appears to have been based on the smooth flying conditions experienced, the absence of any reports of turbulence from other aircraft and, inexplicably, given that it was CAT which had been forecast, the fact that the flight had remained clear of cloud and there had been no weather radar returns. Had these findings derived from the forecast been recognised, it was considered that the flight crew might have decided that a high speed descent was not appropriate and informed ATC accordingly. In respect of the response to the risk of overspeed, it was noted that neither pilot had deployed the speed brakes as an initial response to the speed increase as recommended in guidance provided in the Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) for their use in such situations. It was also clear from the sudden and highly inappropriate reaction of the experienced Captain to a risk of overspeed that it could be associated with an extreme aversion to any such exceedance combined with a lack of any discussion on how the PF could avoid one. Earlier in the descent, the CVR data showed that “when the First Officer mentioned the threat of exceedances, the Captain made a strong informal interjection saying ‘don’t exceed anything…’ (and) the crew did not discuss these threats any further, nor did they discuss a management strategy”. The fact that the Captain’s sudden intervention as overspeed looked likely had been both extreme and involved a takeover of control without the required announcement was assessed as indicative of great concern about an overspeed in the absence of any prior