applicable at the time and trained by the operator and was attributed by the Captain to ‘startle’. The second involved a Qantas aircraft descending towards Canberra in which two cabin crew were injured when the Captain responded to an overspeed risk as trained by making a control column pitch input which led to an unexpectedly abrupt AP disconnect. This occurred because the AP had recently been modified in a way that made the operator’s trained and routinely practised but undocumented response to overspeed risk no longer appropriate. The Investigation formally documented four Contributory Factors as follows: During a high-speed descent, a sudden decrease in tailwind associated with windshear caused airspeed to approach and exceed the aircraft maximum operating speed (VMO). The flight crew did not apply speed brakes to arrest the speed increase. In response to the airspeed rapidly increasing towards VMO, the Captain (Pilot Monitoring) perceived a need to immediately intervene, and made pitch control inputs without following the normal take-over procedure and alerting the First Officer (Pilot Flying).. The magnitude of the Captain's control input was probably greater than intended. This was influenced by a perception that the autopilot was not controlling the aircraft so an urgent intervention was required. The magnitude of the control input caused sudden pitch changes, resulting in the injuries to the cabin crew.. Although the flight crew identified the risk of overspeed during the high-speed descent into Adelaide, they did not consider steps for mitigating that risk, or how they would manage an overspeed during the descent. This reduced the likelihood of the crew effectively responding to the unexpected increase in airspeed.. Two Other Findings were also formally identified: Although the weather forecast included moderate clear air turbulence and the aircraft was making a high-speed descent, the pilots perceived that flying conditions were smooth and elected not to activate the fasten seat belt sign. The cabin crew briefings did not mention the forecast clear air turbulence. The cabin crew were not secured prior to the sudden pitch changes, which increased the likelihood of injuries.. The Ground Handling Supervisor assessed there was a significant fall from height risk associated with the unsecured use of the catering truck. For that reason, the ground handling supervisor did not agree to the emergency services request to use that equipment to remove the injured cabin crew.. Safety Action taken by Virgin Australia as a result of the investigated event whilst the Investigation was in progress was recorded as having included, but not been limited to, the following: The Flight Crew Information Manual was updated to include a section on ‘Managing VMO/MMO Exceedances’. This new section stated that aircraft have been tested beyond VMO/MMO, and that these speeds included a margin below the speeds that require maintenance action or threaten the structure of the aircraft. The manual also stated that it is acceptable to refuse an ATC instruction to perform a high-speed descent and identified that disengaging the autopilot to respond to an overspeed may result in abrupt pitch