and a peak vertical acceleration of 2.3g and caused the AP to disconnect. They then “abruptly released” the control column, which led to a minimum vertical acceleration of 0.9g, before making a second slightly less forceful nose up control input which led to a second vertical acceleration peak of 1.95g about 4 seconds later. The maximum recorded airspeed during the episode was subsequently found to have been 1 knot above VMO. The First Officer noted the AP disconnect audible alert and the Captain’s control column inputs and recognised that they had taken over control and after about 8 seconds, the Captain prompted the First Officer to resume duties as PF and a normal transfer of control was made. Both pilots reported having perceived that they had encountered “severe atmospheric turbulence” and the Captain said “better put the belts on” which the First Officer then did, whilst continuing to fly the aircraft manually for around 30 seconds, making several nose-down inputs at up to a 15 kg force before re-engaging the AP and settling the airspeed at around 280 KIAS. Soon after the AP had been re-engaged, the cabin crew called the flight deck on the interphone to report that one of them had fallen during the sudden upset and had broken their leg. Whilst the Captain was talking to the cabin crew, the First Officer advised ATC that the flight would not now be able to comply with the next SID height requirement “due to encountering turbulence” and ATC responded by cancelling all further height requirements and advising that they could reduce their speed. ATC subsequently contacted the flight to confirm their report of severe turbulence and the Captain did so, adding that the turbulence event had been “associated with some cloud”. This reference to cloud was subsequently clarified to the Investigation by the First Officer as "thin wispy cloud” and by the Captain as “light cirriform-type cloud” rather than the full cloud cover which had been entered later in the descent as forecast. The two injured cabin crew were standing in the rear galley at the time of the unexpected upset, which they had perceived as “sudden and without warning”. One of them was thrown up towards the ceiling before then falling to the floor and on impact reported having felt their leg snap and thereafter been unable to move. The other reported having struck their jaw on the galley surface and sustained other minor injuries to their body and face which they subsequently reported to the Investigation as having caused “muscular skeletal injuries (for which they) had sought out chiropractic care”. Once normal flying conditions had returned, the leg injury cabin crew was given oxygen from a portable on-board cylinder and the flight crew were informed that they would be unable to be moved to a seat for landing and would stay on the galley floor. They were also told that an ambulance would be required airside on arrival at Adelaide and arrangements were then made accordingly. Airport