An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded and the aircraft operator also provided a copy of the parallel QAR recording. It was noted that the Captain had joined Virgin Australia as a 737 First Officer in 2003 and had been promoted to Captain on type in 2012. They had a total of around 18,000 hours flying experience which included approximately 10,000 hours on type of which in excess of 4000 hours were as Captain. The First Officer had joined Virgin Australia as a Boeing 777 Second Officer in 2010 and qualified as a 737 First Officer two years later. They had a total of around 8,500 hours flying experience which included around 3,500 hours on type. Both pilots were Melbourne-based and the accident flight was the third of four rostered for their days flying duty period and their second operating together. It was established that the First Officer had been designated as PF for the accident flight, which had climbed to FL360 for the cruise. Prior to departure, the Captain had briefed the cabin crew that the flight would take just over an hour and that the en route weather would be the same as that at Melbourne which the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) “perceived as cloudy”. In fact, the applicable significant weather forecast chart provided to the crew was found to have shown that the descent to Adelaide would pass though airspace where moderate CAT was expected. Flight conditions in the cruise and the initial stages of the descent were smooth and clear of cloud. Approaching the top of descent, ATC gave the flight a STAR which would position it for an approach to runway 23 and clearance to descend when ready to FL 250. They then instructed the crew to maintain maximum speed on the descent and the First Officer indicated that he would select 320 KIAS whilst observing that “this might be too fast” to which the Captain responded with “she’ll be right, don’t overspeed”. After initially descending uneventfully with 310 KIAS selected, this was increased to 320 KIAS passing FL 250. After maintaining this speed for a few minutes, the question of when to switch on the seatbelt belt signs was briefly discussed and the First Officer, having raised the subject, was content with the Captain’s view that current conditions “were good” and did not yet require the signs on. About six minutes into the descent, just after the First Officer had reduced the selected speed back to 310 KIAS, the indicated speed began to increase, at first gradually, then more rapidly as VMO (340 knots) was approached as the aircraft was descending through approximately 17,000 feet. The CVR recorded both pilots expressing “statements of concern and alarm” followed by the Captain calling ‘pull-up’ whilst simultaneously making an abrupt nose-up input through their control column, which registered a force of about 22 kg