contemplation of appropriate threat management and possibly also to ‘startle’ and/or a perception that “the AP was not controlling the aircraft”. The Investigation also noted that “the Captain indicated not being aware that there was a margin between VMO and the requirement for a maintenance inspection at 359 knots, or that there was a margin between VMO and the structural limitations of the aircraft”. FDR data was used to derive estimates of the instantaneous local wind speeds during the part of the descent during which the overspeed had occurred. This work showed that immediately prior to the AP disconnect caused by the Captain’s abrupt control column actions, the wind component relative to the aircraft flight track had changed quickly from a negligible headwind component to an approximately 25 knot tailwind component. This was then maintained for about 10 seconds before halving in two seconds immediately prior to the overspeed as a result of a combination of decreased wind speed and a change in wind direction. These conclusions from a relatively simplified approach were similar to those from a more refined analysis carried out by Boeing. A comparison of the calculated headwind component changes and the computed airspeed during the two minute period when the AP disconnect occurred. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In respect of the immediate flight crew performance, it was concluded as follows: “Overall, this was a lost opportunity for the flight crew to effectively manage the risk of overspeed. The pilots were in a position where they had time and space to think about a potential overspeed as a crew. At the top of descent, the pilots could consider the tolerances of the aircraft to airspeed exceedances, and how they could respond safely given the high-energy state of the aircraft. However, as the aircraft continued the descent and operated close to VMO, the time available to the flight crew reduced. When the Captain saw the airspeed suddenly increase, the Captain perceived the crew were in a position where there was no time to discuss the situation with the First Officer, to think about the implications of the overspeed, or to consider the consequences of the pullback control action. In this way, the absence of planning at an earlier stage in the descent affected how the Captain managed the risk of overspeed during the occurrence, and increased the risk of unsafe intervention.” It was noted two other high speed descent events which had occurred earlier in 2017 had also involved Boeing 737-800 aircraft and had also then been the subject of independent investigations. The first of these involved a Ryanair aircraft inbound to Manchester UK with the same AP modification as the Virgin Australia aircraft in which one of the unsecured cabin crew was seriously injured after the Captain responded to a windshear-caused overspeed risk by disengaging the AP and manually applying an excessive nose-up pitch input reportedly without recognising at the time that it had been excessive. This response was contrary to the FCTM overspeed response guidance