Vestibular illusions are most likely to contribute to accidents during a go-around. This is because when flaps and gear are retracted and full thrust is applied at landing weight, the aircraft accelerates quite quickly, in fact much faster than it would during a normal takeoff at maximum takeoff weight from the runway. If the pitch-up illusion is experienced, pilots can be led to believe that they are actually at a much greater angle than they really are and will feel as if the aircraft might stall. The instinctive human reaction to this is to push the nose down, ignoring indications from instruments. The reactions of many people when in a state of confusion tend to be quite illogical. Therefore, while pilots think they are reducing pitch to a “normal” climb angle, the aircraft may actually be level or in a nose-down attitude. By the time they realize what has happened at a low altitude, it may be too late to recover. Similarly, the nose-low illusion due to deceleration just after touchdown can cause the pilot to pull up, resulting in excessive pitch and a tail strike. Physical forces Linear acceleration. As explained previously and illustrated in Figure 1, forward acceleration shifts the gravito-inertial resultant vector (GIA vector) away from the vertical centerline of the torso resulting in a misperception of attitude. There is a time lag associated with this illusion, so visual cues are very important. Apart from changing the angle of the GIA vector, linear acceleration also increases its magnitude, which further increases the illusion of climbing because the pilot experiences the G-excess effect (FG >1 G). Angle of bank. The angle of bank increases the resultant GIA force vector. It does so even more so when the vertical velocity is increasing, which contributes to the G-excess effect (Guedry et al., 1972) and the increased pitch sensation. There is a time lag in both the onset and offset of the effect. Rate of climb. The climb rate, especially after a go-around, adds a vertical acceleration component that further increases the magnitude of the GIA and the effects described above. True pitch changes. Angular acceleration due to changes in pitch can affect a vestibular illusion when the angular acceleration acts in the same direction as the illusion. A strong linear acceleration can block the effects of this angular displacement if the two forces oppose each other (McGrath, 1990). Despite the strong physical forces acting on the body that can cause illusions, it is still possible to maintain control and disregard false sensations if the crew observes and monitors reliable sources of information such as the instruments. Monitoring the instruments, however, can be difficult due to a variety of factors: Direct crew factors Tunneling of attention, where the crew fixates on things that should take second priority. Automatic behaviors that are performed without awareness or intent. Confusion to a point that crewmembers are uncertain how to perform a task.. Background, environment and situation factors Task saturation/excessive workload. Distractions that divert attention