The semicircular canals rising out of the utricular sac are filled with viscous endolymph fluid and are characterized by high potassium content and low sodium content. The internal diameter of each canal is very small (approximately 0.3 mm, 0.01 in). Both the semicircular canals and the otolith organs rely on a common type of receptor cell, the hair cell. The activity of the sensory cells is determined by the bending of the hair. Each hair cell contains approximately 50-70 small cilia and one large cilium arranged along one surface of the hair cell. Each cilium membrane contains several hundred mechanically sensitive channels for conducting positive sodium ions. Figure 3 shows the structure of the inner ear. The three semicircular canals have swellings called ampullae, and within each ampulla is a sense organ, called the crista. In the cristae, the hair cells are embedded in a gelatinous mass, called the cupula, which extends across the ampulla and is considered a “watertight swing door.” Semicircular canals only encode dynamic changes in head movement. When the head begins to rotate, experiencing angular acceleration, the semicircular canal in the plane of the acceleration rotates with the head while the endolymph within the canal remains stationary. The viscosity and inertial force generated by the endolymph act against the cupula, forcing it to bow in the direction opposite to that of the rotation. This deflection bends the cilia of the hair cells and generates the efferent nerve signal. However, if the head continues to rotate at continued constant angular rotation (i.e., zero acceleration), the endolymph will "catch up" with the canal and the cupula will return to a vertical position, creating the sensation that the turn has ceased. Therefore, a prolonged constant-rate turn results in the false sensation of not turning at all. With the cessation of angular rotation, the moving fluid pushes against the cupula. The cupula is deflected in the opposite direction, which creates the sensation of a turn in the opposite direction. Each of the otolith organs contains a small sensory area known as the macula that is approximately 2mm (0.08 in) in diameter. Each macula contains several thousand vestibular hair cells. The cilia that emerge from these hair cells are covered by a gelatinous mass called the otolithic membrane that contains small masses of calcium carbonate crystals, called otoliths. As the head or body moves, the movement of the membrane against the sensory hairs registers gravity. This force causes the cilia to bend. When experiencing constant velocity, the otoliths reach a state of equilibrium, and a person no longer perceives motion. The utricle’s macula is located in the horizontal plane so as to be sensitive primarily to horizontal linear accelerations, and the saccule’s macula is positioned vertically to be maximally sensitive to vertically directed linear accelerations, including gravity. Under normal resting conditions, the afferent nerve fibers leaving the hair cells transmit continuous nerve impulses at a rate of approximately 100 impulses per second. When the cilia are bent in one direction, the