by changes in linear accelerations and decelerations, or a change in gravity (G) forces. These illusions include: The inversion illusion The head-up illusion The head-down illusion. The inversion illusion. The head-up illusion. The head-down illusion. The most common vestibular illusion is the leans and the most dangerous is the Coriolis illusion. The leans corresponds to a false sensation of roll attitude. Several situations can lead to the leans, but the most common is a recovery from a coordinated turn to level flight when flying by instruments. Spatial disorientation can occur when movement is below the sensory threshold for the semicircular canal (0.2-8.0 degrees per second), especially during slow rotational movement. A pilot will feel as if the aircraft is in a wings-level attitude while, in fact, it is banked. If recovery from the turn is made abruptly, the semicircular canal in the plane of the rotation is stimulated. Thus, the pilot may feel that the aircraft is flying one wing low when the attitude display indicates the wings are level. These perceptions may lead a pilot to align his or her body with the apparent vertical. Alternatively, a pilot may roll the aircraft into an incorrect attitude to neutralise the false sensation of bank. The leans disappear as soon as the pilot has a strong visual reference to the horizon or ground. The graveyard spiral is a high-speed, tight, descending turn. Since any rate of roll of less than two degrees per second is not perceived, the wing can drop and the aircraft may begin a turn without the pilot realizing it. As the aircraft spirals downward and its rate of descent accelerates, the pilot senses the descent but not the turn. With the bank angle having gradually increased, any control input only tightens the turn and increases the descent rate. The graveyard spin occurs when a pilot enters a spin and initially has a sensation of spinning in the same direction as the aircraft since the flow of the endolymph bends the hair cells accordingly. If the pilot applies opposite rudder and stops the spin, the endolymph will abruptly flow in the opposite direction. That will bend the hair cells in the opposite direction, which gives the pilot the illusion of a spin when in reality the aircraft is flying straight and level. If the pilot applies the rudder to correct this perceived spin, the pilot will unknowingly re-enter the original spin. If the pilot believes the body sensations instead of trusting the instruments, the spin will continue. The Coriolis illusion generally occurs when a pilot is in a turn and bends the head downward or backward (e.g., to look at a chart or the overhead panel). This angular motion of the head and of the aircraft on two different planes can cause problems. The turn activates one semicircular canal and the head movement activates another. The simultaneous stimulation of two semicircular canals produces an almost unbearable sensation that the aircraft is rolling, pitching and yawing all at the