experiencing constant velocity, the otoliths reach a state of equilibrium, and a person no longer perceives motion. The utricle’s macula is located in the horizontal plane so as to be sensitive primarily to horizontal linear accelerations, and the saccule’s macula is positioned vertically to be maximally sensitive to vertically directed linear accelerations, including gravity. Under normal resting conditions, the afferent nerve fibers leaving the hair cells transmit continuous nerve impulses at a rate of approximately 100 impulses per second. When the cilia are bent in one direction, the impulse rate may increase to several hundred impulses per second. When the cilia are bent in the opposite direction, the impulse rate decreases, often stopping completely. The hair cell uses this bending, or lack of it, to create an electrical signal that the nervous system can understand and use. The vestibular-occular reflex is involved in the stabilization of eye movements during natural movement of the head when a person walks, runs or is exposed to vibration. The vestibular system exercises control over the eye muscles to stabilize an image of an object on the retina as the head moves. If the eyes moved directly with the head, the image of an object fixed in space would be degraded. The vestibular-occular reflex has an angular velocity approximately equal to but in the opposite direction of the movement of the head, which helps to stabilize the image on the retina. When angular movement of the head is prolonged, the vestibular nystagmus is generated. The eyes, after their initial compensatory movements, quickly flicker in the direction of the turn and then start compensatory movements. The vestibulospinal reflex allows input from the vestibular organs to be used for posture and stability in a gravity environment. The projections from the vestibular system travel to muscles for coordinated movements that help to maintain posture. Changes in linear acceleration, angular acceleration and gravity are detected by the vestibular system and the proprioceptive receptors and then compared with visual information. A major role of the saccule and utricle is to keep the body vertically oriented with respect to gravity. If the head and body start to tilt, the vestibular system will automatically compensate with the correct postural adjustments (e.g., head-righting reflex). Postural stability is maintained through vestibular reflexes acting on the neck and limbs. The vestibular apparatus signals the angular movement and attitude of the head with respect to the gravitational vertical. These reflexes are key to successful motion synchronization. In general, vestibular illusions occur under conditions in which a pilot is unable to see a clear horizontal reference. The risk is increased at night, in clouds or in bad weather. A number of vestibular-related spatial disorientation illusions have been well-described in the literature. Among the more common are: Somatogyral illusions - caused by angular accelerations or decelerations sensed by the semicircular canals. These include: The leans Graveyard spin and spiral The Coriolis illusion. The leans. Graveyard spin and spiral. The Coriolis illusion. Somatogravic illusions - (pitch-up illusions), are caused