Humans sense position and motion in three-dimensional space through the interaction of a variety of body proprioceptors, including muscles, tendons, joints, vision, touch, pressure, hearing, and the vestibular system. Feedback from these systems is interpreted by the brain as position and motion data. The vestibular system enables a person to determine body orientation, sense the direction and speed of movement and maintain balance. When there is limited visual input, as is common in many flight situations, the vestibular sense becomes important for gathering information. However, the vestibular system is designed to work on the ground in a 1G environment and therefore during some flight maneuvers can provide flight crews with erroneous or disorienting information. The vestibular system is believed to play a role in the onset of motion sickness and simulator sickness. Other sensations and illusions are generated during turns and maneuvers involving linear or angular acceleration. Such illusions are so compelling they can be extremely dangerous. Reacting to them in the wrong way or by reflex can lead to disaster. Many pilots experience unusual sensations or illusions at one point or another in their flying careers but are afraid to talk about them for fear of losing medical clearance. In most cases, these are well-known sensations caused by external factors and are not a problem. Such illusions are the product of an otherwise well-functioning vestibular system that is not naturally adapted for flight. In order to maintain control of the body (balance) during everyday tasks, the brain must combine signals from: The brain then uses this information to: The vestibular system’s primary function is to detect rotational and translational movements of the head and generate a corresponding response signal. These signals contribute to perceptions of motion and orientation, the effective coordination of eye movements, posture and balance (Figure 1). Illusions can be characterized as: In many real-life cases, accidents occurred due to a combination of vestibular illusions and poor visibility. When the body is subjected to certain forces that cause a vestibular illusion, vision is often the only thing that can contradict these false perceptions (e.g., seeing the horizon through the window). However, in darkness or other poor visibility conditions, it is much easier to be deceived by an illusion and to ignore information from instruments. The illusions may be false, but they are very compelling. The inner ear has a hearing (auditory) component, the cochlea, and a balance (vestibular) component, the vestibular apparatus. The vestibular apparatus consists of three semicircular canals and a utricle and saccule (Figure 2). The anterior, posterier, and horizontal semicircular canals are sensitive to angular accelerations of the head. Positioned at 90 degrees to one another, the three semicircular canals detect changes referred to in aviation as pitch (nose up/down), roll (rotation about the longitudinal axis), and yaw (nose right/left). The utricle and saccule sense dynamic changes in linear motion and acceleration of the head. Such linear accelerations are experienced, for example, when an aircraft is picking up speed on the runway for takeoff.