An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were removed and their data successfully downloaded as were data from the QAR, which also recorded some parameters not recorded by the FDR including some that allowed the Investigation to determine the status of the left engine before the failure and the performance of the aircraft during the rejected takeoff. It was noted that the 63 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF had joined the Operator in 1973 and had obtained an ATPL for the first time in 1997. He had accumulated approximately 30,000 total flying hours including approximately 12,000 hours on type. The 30 year-old First Officer had had joined the Operator in 2006 and had accumulated approximately 6,400 total flying hours including approximately 3,100 hours on type. The operating crew also included a 45 year-old First Officer designated as Relief Pilot who was, in accordance with the Operator’s procedures, occupying supernumerary seat in the flight deck for the accident takeoff. He had joined the Operator in 1997 and his licence medical certificate was endorsed to require him to fly as or with a co-pilot. He had accumulated approximately 14,000 hours total flying time of which 10,000 hours were on type. It was established that the takeoff had commenced from the taxiway A8 intersection with runway 07L which was just over 800 metres from the runway threshold and left 3,500 metres of runway ahead. Nine seconds after the takeoff roll started, the CVR recorded a loud ‘bang’ at 77 knots and the aircraft had veered to the left. Over the next two seconds there was a sound indicative of an engine spooling down followed by the EICAS aural annunciation ‘engine fail’ and the Captain's ‘Stop’ callout. The thrust levers were moved to idle immediately and one second later the aircraft began decelerating from about 77 knots, which was the maximum airspeed achieved. As the A/T had not been disconnected before the thrust levers were retarded and this action was initiated below 80 knots, the thrust levers automatically began to move forward towards takeoff thrust and when the First Officer noticed this as wheel braking began, he realised what was happening and immediately disconnected the A/T. Just over six seconds after the ‘bang’ was recorded, the aural fire warning occurred and the FDR showed that a left engine fire warning had illuminated. The Captain instructed the First Officer to tell ATC they were stopping (which was done) and called for the engine fire checklist (which was not acknowledged or commenced). The aircraft came to a stop 15½ seconds after the CVR recorded the ‘bang’. The Captain reported that he had not used maximum braking during the rejected takeoff because he had initially suspected that the noise heard was a tyre bursting and the First Officer stated that he had not selected reverse thrust or the ground spoilers (both PM responsibilities) because he had been "distracted by the thrust lever increasing". Immediately the aircraft stopped,