the Captain made a second request for the engine fire checklist to be run and it was commenced immediately by the First Officer and the Relief Pilot asked the Captain if he should make a passenger PA which was agreed with the instruction that passengers “should stay where they were”. The Captain then declared a MAYDAY to TWR and requested the fire service to attend. The Relief Pilot entered the cabin and immediately recognised that although the engine fire warning had gone out, external fire and smoke were visible. He returned to the flight deck and soon afterwards, the Captain made a PA ordering an emergency evacuation and the First Officer advised this to TWR. The evacuate order was given just over half a minute after the ‘bang’ had been heard but before the Evacuation Checklist had been run. The Captain’s attempt to do this from memory led to the inadvertent omission of the second item which was to confirm that both engines were shut down. The First Officer was simultaneously performing items on the same Checklist including unsuccessfully attempting to ensure that the pressurisation outflow valves were set to allow the aircraft to depressurise and did not shut down the right engine until the Relief Pilot queried whether this had been done. This meant that the right (serviceable) engine continued to run for 43 seconds after the Captain had ordered the evacuation which was about 2 minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop. At about the same time as the right engine was shut down, a forward cargo bay fire warning had been annunciated and the Captain armed the cargo fire switch and discharged three of the five cargo fire extinguisher bottles. All occupants evacuated the aircraft using only 3 of the 8 exits, those at doors 1L, 1R, and 4L, although only five passengers had used door 1L before it had to be blocked due to the fire outside. Video evidence showed that the evacuation was complete around 2½ minutes after the Captain's initial order to commence it. Other exits were not used because either their slides deployed and inflated correctly but did not end up in a useable attitude (doors 3R and 4R) or because of the external fire hazard (doors 2L, 2R and 3L). The three available ARFF vehicles were dispatched to the scene after the Captain requested the fire services and video evidence showed that the first one arrived from the nearby (650 metres distant) fire station about 2 minutes later midway through the evacuation and began discharging fire retardant in the area of the left wing. After half a minute the second one arrived and, having positioned ahead of the aircraft and taken up a position to the right of the aircraft "to protect passengers exiting from both sides of the aircraft", began discharging fire retardant from its high-reach extendable turret in the general direction of the fire. This initially only reached the area around the 1R door and led directly to