occurred indicated that low cycle fatigue crack growth (the process of progressive and permanent local structural deterioration occurring in a material subject to cyclic variations in stress and strain of sufficient magnitude and number of repetitions which will eventually produce a detectable crack) had occurred. Previous GE assessments of worst-case conditions for low-cycle fatigue cracking in this part of the engine had estimated that the initiation phase (i.e. the period before a detectable crack appears) would last almost 30,000 cycles. The HPC stage 8-10 spool involved had accumulated 11,459 total cycles and the low-cycle fatigue crack was calculated to have propagated over approximately 5,400 of those cycles so that the balance was the number of cycles for crack initiation - approximately 6,000 cycles and about 20% of the GE-predicted time. During metallurgical examination of the failed HPC stage 8-10 spool, it was found that part of the surface of the stage 8 disk outer web had lower-than-expected shot peen coverage and examination of other similar spools by GE found similarly-reduced shot peen coverage in the same place. However, although shot peening is carried out to make surfaces more resilient, GE estimates of low-cycle fatigue life do not take this benefit into consideration and so it was considered by them that the lower-than-expected shot peen coverage found could not account for the fatigue crack initiation and eventual fracture of the spool. Rather, the evidence indicated that the crack had been initiated by the sustained-peak low-cycle fatigue failure mode. Cracking under the operational conditions to which the stage 8 disk web was subjected had not been seen prior to this failure and since the disk web was not subject to routine inspections, the crack on the accident had gone undetected. However, when the HPC involved was removed from the engine and routinely disassembled, exposing the stage 8-10 spool, it was estimated that the surface crack would have been about 0.05 inches long and in theory detectable by NDT techniques which are considered capable of identifying cracks as short as 0.03 inches. So if inspection of the disk web had been required at that point, the crack should have been detectable. By 2014, when the HPC had been removed from the engine but not disassembled, it was estimated that the length of the crack would have been 0.19 inches. As a result of these findings, GE began implementing enhanced inspection requirements to detect disk web cracks. The engine fire warning occurred whilst the take off was being rejected and the Captain called for the ‘Engine Fire’ Checklist as the aircraft stopped. The third item on the checklist was to set the affected engine fuel control switch to the cutoff position, which shuts down the respective engine by terminating its fuel flow. FDR data showed that about 28 seconds elapsed between the beginning of the engine failure and the time the fuel flow to it was terminated. Boeing estimated that during this time, about 97 gallons of fuel would have spilled onto the runway.