the only serious injury sustained during evacuation. This was to the senior member of the 10-person cabin crew who fell upon reaching the end of the 1R slide because it was wet and slippery after being contaminated with the extinguishing agent. She broke her left forearm and suffered a compression fracture of the first lumbar vertebra in her back. The third ARFF vehicle arrived near the 1L door/slide and the aircraft nose 15 seconds after the second and assisted in extinguishing the fire which was achieved 2½ minutes after the first vehicle arrived on scene which was almost a minute after the evacuation had been completed and 5½ minutes after ARFF attendance was requested. A group debrief of the cabin crew found that although some passengers had taken their cabin baggage with them, this had not impeded the evacuation as most passengers who retrieved baggage did so after the aircraft came to a stop and before the evacuation order was given after which the cabin crew’s assertive commands had limited further retrieval. The cabin crew manning the two exits used by almost all occupants (doors 1R and 4L) recalled seeing very little cabin baggage at their exits, and neither cited cabin baggage as a problem. However, the Investigation noted that accident aircraft was only 55% full and so whilst not a factor in this evacuation, the NTSB “remains concerned about the safety issues resulting from passengers evacuating with carry-on baggage, which could potentially slow the egress of passengers and block an exit during an emergency”. Significant explosive and/or thermal damage was caused to parts of the failed engine remaining in situ and some of the explosive debris was ejected. However, none of this debris penetrated either the fuselage or the wing and much of the interior of the engine was not materially affected at all. The left inner wing was fire-damaged and the left side fuselage skin was superficially damaged from just aft of the 2L door to just aft of the wing leading edge and the skin in the centre of this was buckled and cracked. The longest cracks were about 12 inches and coincided with the area of most severe thermal damage to the wall panels in the cabin interior. This area also had 13 thermally-crazed cabin windows (see below). The wing-to-body and wing/fuselage fairings on the left side of the aircraft were delaminated and blistered to varying degrees. The wing-to-body fairing panels on the right hand side of the aircraft were also fire-damaged with some delamination but to a lesser extent than on the left hand side. Near the wing/fuselage join, buckling had of the aluminium skin had occurred and the windows above this area were thermally crazed. It was found that the uncontained failure had been caused by a fatigue crack in the High Pressure Compressor (HPC) stage 8 disk. This crack started on the aft face of the disk web and progressed through the web in a circumferential direction. The area where the crack had