a surface wind of 160째 at 24-35 knots and about 5 minutes prior to landing that it was currently 160째 at 27 knots. The crew requested further wind checks two minutes before landing and just prior to touchdown and were respectively given (spot) winds of 170째 at 25 knots and 170째 at 23 knots. The DHC6 AFM was noted to include the "demonstrated crosswind" of 25 knots which was "not considered limiting" on a dry runway but it was found that the Operator's policy was "to consider 25 knots, including gusts, as a limit". The Investigation noted that given the 500 foot cloudbase at Tiree Airport, there had been "no viable approach to a more into-wind runway than a VOR/DME approach to Runway 23". The crew "considered that the aircraft response during the approach and landing was as they would expect for a crosswind of around 25 knots and they described the landing as normal" whereas the recorded meteorological data showed that the surface wind at the airport "was gusting to approximately 32 knots". A sudden gust from the left would be consistent with the aircraft weathercocking into wind as the controls temporarily lost their authority. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "Given the information they received, the crew believed the wind was within their limitations for landing. However, it is highly likely that the aircraft was affected by a strong gust of wind from the left during the landing roll. The event was sudden and briefly overcame the controls, which were reduced in effectiveness due to the low airspeed. As a result, the aircraft veered sharply left and departed the paved surface. There were no injuries and no damage to the aircraft or the airfield infrastructure." It was note that "Tiree Airport has a policy of increasing the RFFS readiness state in marginal weather conditions (and) with the low cloudbase, strong crosswind and poor visibility they had done so for this incident flight". The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 10 August 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.