airspeed had remained around 250 KCAS but also established that at some point during it, one of the passengers had fallen and sustained a complex leg fracture. The Investigation noted that the fluctuations in aircraft pitch which had characterised the upset “were typical in an aircraft piloted manually at high altitudes” where small control inputs cause a significant change in the pitch. In accordance with normal procedures and the prevailing smooth flying conditions, the seatbelt signs were not on although the cabin crew subsequently stated that they had been expecting this to be done as a matter of routine “within the next few minutes”. They reported having “felt a series of violent shakes, which they initially identified as turbulence (and that) in all their experience as cabin crew, they had never experienced such a sudden movement in an aircraft”. The sudden upset “caused all four cabin crew to fall to the floor” and a passenger who had a child approximately 5 years old in his arms and was exiting the right-hand toilet compartment was seen to “turn his body to the left to try to shield the child, which forced his legs into an unnatural position” so that when he fell, it appeared that he had broken his leg. The child being carried hit the back of their head which “caused some bruising” but no one else was injured. A doctor on board advised that in view of the injury, the passenger involved should not be moved. One of the cabin crew advised the flight crew what had happened using the operator’s standard form of communication, the “PAA” format - Problem / Action taken / Additional information and advised that medical assistance would be needed on arrival. This medical assistance request was relayed to ATC who passed the request on to Fuerteventura TWR who were recorded as logging a request for a nurse. The aircraft landed about 35 minutes after the flight crew request had been made but once the aircraft had parked, there was no medical assistance and the ramp agent said they were unaware of any such need. They then called the airport nurse who arrived five minutes later and determined that the emergency ambulance was required get the injured passenger to hospital. The telephone operator taking the ambulance request call “instructed the nurse not to move the patient until the ambulance arrived” which did not occur until at least an hour after the aircraft had arrived on stand. The cabin crew made the return flight to Edinburgh the same day although subsequently stating that they “had been affected by the event” and were concerned about “a lack of communication and CRM with the flight crew, since after the event they received no information about what had happened”. They also remarked that “even after landing, the flight crew did not go see the injured individuals or ask about the condition of the passengers or the crew”. The Investigation examined the Fuerteventura airport operator’s “guidelines for requesting emergency assistance