at the airport” and found that there was no evidence that they had been followed. In particular, there was no record of the outcome of the required pre-arrival assessment on whether the island’s only emergency ambulance (which was not based near the airport) should be called out. It was concluded that the airport’s guidelines had been ineffective in responding to the pre landing request from the flight and should be improved and incorporated into the Airport Emergency Plan. However, the Investigation also found that AESA, the State aviation safety regulator was of the opinion that the accident being investigated “was an individual medical emergency and as such should be outside the Aerodrome Emergency Plan”. It was considered that this opinion was contrary to the definition of accident contained in Regulation (EU) No. 996/2010 (and derived from ICAO Annex 13), which defines an ‘Accident’ as including events where serious injuries occur as a result of being on board an in-service aircraft. It was therefore considered that the procedural response to an accident such as the one under investigation should be included in an Aerodrome Emergency Plan as recommended by EASA in its applicable guidance material. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally documented as "the execution by the crew of a sudden manual manoeuvre to maintain the specified flight level”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as “the decision to disengage the autopilot in order to carry out the manoeuvre manually, which contributed to the abrupt nature of the manoeuvre”. Two Safety Recommendations both in respect of airport medical response were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Fuerteventura Airport Operator reviews its procedure to provide medical assistance at the airport, in case of medical emergency and clearly identifies and assigns tasks so that this procedure can be performed as part of the airport’s Emergency Plan. [REC 50/18]. that the AESA (the Spanish State Aviation Safety Agency) reviews the Emergency Plans of certified aerodromes in order to ensure that they contain a procedure for providing proper medical assistance, particularly in the case of an aircraft accident, clearly identifying responsibilities and (those) responsible for the actions necessary. [REC 51/18]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 30 October 2018 and subsequently published in English translation in May 2019.