99% which are normally used.. The handling of internal short circuit test by GS Yuasa during the development phase of the battery was inappropriate in that it did not simulate actual on-board configuration and because of that, the test did not develop into a thermal. The applicable FAA Li-ion battery airworthiness standard in TSO-179a based on RTCA/DO-311does not stipulate test procedures which will properly simulate an internal short circuit in an on-board environment and should be amended.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the event was that “the internal short circuit of a cell developed into cell heat generation, thermal propagation to other cells and consequently damaged the whole battery". The possible Contributing Factors to the thermal propagation were identified as: the test conducted during the developmental phase did not appropriately simulate the on-board configuration. the effects of internal short circuit were underestimated.. Safety Action since the investigated event was noted as having been taken by: Boeing with FAA approval - elimination of potential cell failure causes, measures against cell-to-cell propagation and measures against battery venting. The FAA and endorsed by the Japan Civil Aviation Bureau (JCAB) - determination of battery system modifications necessary to return 787s to service.. The JCAB - the issue of an AD based on FAA AD 2013-08-12 and requesting that Japanese airlines "take utmost measures for equipment inspection and maintenance and pilot training while releasing safety information to customers".. It was also noted that on 14 January 14 2014, a mechanic who had been on board a Japan Airlines 787 parked at Narita International Airport to prepare it for the next flight "saw smoke flowing outboard and confirmed a message of failed main battery and battery charger unit on the EICAS screen" and that investigation had found that "cell 5 had vented and the remaining seven cells were still producing a normal voltage (approximately 4 volts)". However, in this case, following the 2013 modifications to all 787 aircraft in which the main and APU batteries were re-installed inside metal enclosures ducted to the outside of the airplane, the enclosure box prevented any electrolyte from escaping into the cabin and expelled it overboard. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA should provide instruction to airplane manufacturers and equipment manufacturers to perform equipment tests simulating actual flight operations.. that the FAA should review the technical standards for Lithium Ion Batteries to ensure that the electric environment is appropriately simulated and, if necessary, amend the standards.. that the FAA should review the Lithium Ion Battery failure rate estimated during the 787 type certification and, if necessary based on its result, review the safety assessment of the battery.. that the FAA should review the (787) Type Certificate (in respect of) its appropriateness on heat propagation risk.. that the FAA should assess the impact of (battery) contactor opening after a cell vents on flight operations and take appropriate action if necessary.. that the FAA should supervise Boeing to continue