battery which had originated in one of the main battery cells during the flight. It was not possible to determine unequivocally what the origin of the cell failure was, but the most likely cause was considered to be an internal short circuit. It was noted that the likely reason for the detected burning smell was that although the smoke from the failing battery would have been "extracted overboard through the override valve and forward outflow valve…part of it was (then) sucked in from the cabin air compression inlet" thereby entering the air conditioning system. Since the smoke ventilation system had started to function after the main battery voltage began to drop, it was considered "highly probable that the system operated as designed". It was noted that "although the probabilities of cell venting under the condition of multiple failures of power sources are very remote", the main battery is the primary source of electrical power if multiple failures of electrical power sources on the aircraft become inoperative. It was therefore concluded that "it would be a grave situation if that actually happened" and that "in light of three similar battery events, consideration should be given to the risk assessment of this issue". The summary of the Findings of the Investigation included the following: The battery cell which initiated the event was very likely cell 6.. A possible origin of heat generated within the battery is, among other things, an internal short circuit. Three possible candidates for such a short circuit were identified: lithium metal deposition in the cell metal piece contamination a damaged separator.. lithium metal deposition in the cell. metal piece contamination. a damaged separator.. However, no mechanism of internal short circuit was conclusively identified so we are unable to exclude the possible involvement of other factors associated with design and manufacturing. We cannot disregard the fact that all battery incidents (the serious incident inclusive) occurred in winter. Therefore, at present low temperature environment was the possible contributing factor to the battery failure.. We note that safety problems associated with lithium-ion batteries during the type certification process included overcharging, over-discharging and flammability of cell components and consider that the FAA "probably underestimated the risk of internal short circuit during the Special Conditions Study" which informed the decision to issue a Type Certificate.. At the time of the serious incident, the global 787 fleet had accumulated flight time of approximately 50,000 hours. This meant that the actual statistical probability for the occurrence of a “battery vent and/or smoke (without fire)” was 4 x 10-5 per flight hour, well above the estimated 1 x 10-7 per flight hour.. The probability of cell failure was based on the cell failure record of industrial Li-ion batteries, which have different cells to those used in the 787 batteries. It also appears that a lower than usual measure of statistical confidence (60%) as stipulated in Japanese Industrial Standards C 5003 may have been applied to the data used compare to the confidence levels of 95% or