An Investigation was carried out by the Japan TSB with awareness of the apparently similar event to an out of service aircraft of the same type at Boston US, nine days earlier. FAA action later on 16 January in issuing an AD prohibiting any further flight by US-registered 787 aircraft until corrective action to be determined had been notified and complied with was noted. Further FAA action on 26 April 2013, the issue of AD 2013-08-12 detailing the required battery system modifications to be actioned prior to further flight by grounded 787s, was also noted. It was established that the first sign of an electrical problem in flight had been the EICAS annunciation of "ELEC MAIN BATTERY" as the aircraft passed FL320 in the climb to its intended cruise altitude sixteen minutes after take off. This annunciation was accompanied by an electrical smell and an indication of a slight drop in indicated battery output voltage from 31 volts. Within a few seconds, the indicated battery output voltage had dropped to 11 volts and the EICAS annunciation of "EMER LIGHTS" had occurred. Shortly after that, the EICAS annunciation "SMOKE EQUP CLG FWD" was also annunciated. An emergency was declared due to smoke and a diversion to Takamatsu was initiated using an initially high rate of descent. After a visual approach to a landing on runway 26, the aircraft cleared the runway and, upon ATC approval of a crew request, was stopped on a taxiway. With "SMOKE" annunciations still occurring, ATC then advised that smoke could be seen coming from the aircraft and the commander shut down the engines and ordered an emergency evacuation. Slide function at all seven doors used for the evacuation was normal but the time taken to accomplish it was reported to have been "3 to 4 minutes". The four minor injuries to passengers were sustained on arrival at the bottom of the evacuation slides used. After the occupants had been led to the airport terminal building, the aircraft was towed to a parking stand. The main battery and all its eight cells were later found to have been severely heat damaged and the battery case ground wire was found to be fused open. The cables connecting the battery with the Battery Diode Module and with the Battery Charging Unit (BCU) were intact and the battery case had no discoloration or puncture caused by arcing. There was no sign of fire near the main battery, but molten material was found to have covered the top of the battery cells and seeped out of the battery case through a gap between the case and the lid created by distortion of the lid during the failure and been deposited on the battery tray after running down the walls of the battery case. Also there was "soot-like material on the BCU case and nearby battery rack side walls and upper wall". Evidence, including that drawn from extensive testing and simulation, was found to point to a thermal runaway within the failed