Eleven recommendations were made as a result of the investigation. Below is a summary of the recommendations: The Boeing Commercial Airplane Company (BCAC) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) should issue advice to pilots that whenever a series of apparently unrelated electrical/electronic system failures occur within a short period of time, they should consider a fire or smoke situation with following declaration of emergency and diversion to the nearest airport. Such situations may not be accompanied by warning indications on the flight deck. In general, circuit breakers which have tripped should be reset only, after a suitable cooling period, but only if considered essential to the safe operation of the aircraft.. The FAA should require immediate inspection for damage, metallic debris and moisture in a specific area of the E&E bay. BCAC should emphasise in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) that the appropriate handling equipment is used whenever a galley chiller is replaced within the E&E bay and include a specific warning for potentially critical wiring damage, in addition to a requirement for inspection after such unit installation. BCAC company should introduce as soon as possible additional protection of the wiring looms to prevent such damage.. The FAA should require the installation of smoke or heat detectors within the E&E bays of Boeing 767 aircraft and other modern jet transport types. Manufacturers and Airworthiness Authorities should investigate the feasibility of installing smoke and/or heat detectors within remote areas of high wiring and equipment density. These institutions should ensure that during maintenance activities which are likely to produce conductive debris, wiring looms and electrical equipment are provided with temporary protection against such contamination. Follow-up inspection should confirm the lack of such debris.. Aircraft manufacturers should devise simple additional methods for the physical protection of all wiring looms in areas of high maintenance activities, with the ultimate aim of protecting them from insulation damage from conductive debris, maintenance activities and collateral damage from adjacent loom failures.. Boeing and other major manufacturers should conduct an assessment of the technology which may be available, to provide enhanced computer management/monitoring of electrical/electronic systems. The aim of the assessment would be to improve upon present protection against arcing/fire occurrence and to provide timely warning systems for associated overheat/fire situations.. The FAA, in conjunction with the manufacturer, should require operators of the Boeing 767 aircraft, equipped with off-wing slide systems, to visually inspect the slide door latches for signs of wear. The BCAC should expedite action to improve the functional reliability of these latches..