the north and the VFR PA28 was in contact with TWR with both aircraft in Class ‘E’ airspace. After responding to an instruction from the TWR ‘VFR Pick-Up’ controller to proceed towards waypoint OSCAR (see the annotated chart below) and being asked whether he would like to land on the paved runway, the pilot responded that he “was going to fly directly to the runway 24 final approach” to which the controller issued a corrective response and told him to remain north of the CTZ which is Class ‘D’ airspace extending up to 4,500 feet (the boundary is shown on the chart). Meanwhile, the F50 had been cleared by APP radar to descend to 4,000 ft QNH and given a radar heading of 150°. At approximately the same time, the PA28 was reaching the final approach area of runway and at a range of approximately 12 nm from its threshold between 3,700 and 3,800 feet QNH having been re-cleared by the TWR ‘VFR Pick Up’ controller to proceed to final approach via the ILS 24 FAF at an ILS DME range of 8.9nm (this position is within the CTZ). The PA28 had by this time been transferred to the TWR ‘PL-Main’ frequency and on checking in advised his position as ‘on long final’ for runway 24. The PL-Main controller responded by instructing the PA28 to “turn right in the direction of the waypoint ‘OSCAR’ and to remain outside the CTZ” which was correctly read back and the subsequent turn was clearly indicated on the radar recording with the aircraft at approximately 3,900 feet QNH. Although there was a radar display in the TWR, there had been no coordination with the APP radar controller by either of the TWR controllers. Six seconds after this turn had been initiated (see the annotated chart below) an STCA alert was activated between the two aircraft. Recorded data superimposed on the chart below shows the tracks of the two aircraft involved around the time of their convergence. In response to the STCA alert, the APP radar controller transmitted to the F50 “there is....VFR traffic on your uh one o'clock three and a half miles at 3900 feet coming opposite now, confirm you have him in sight?”. They responded to the controller that they did not have visual contact with the reported traffic and the controller then transmitted “turn right uh disregard the traffic is now crossing right to left one mile in front same altitude“. The APP controller then observed on his radar display the F50 turning right and the PA28 turning left then back to right and “determined that neither a reliable heading instruction nor a descent clearance were possible” as the aircraft was already flying at the 4000 feet MVA. The F50 crew later stated that prior to the near collision, they had seen the PA traffic at the same altitude on their TCAS traffic display and had been awaiting further instructions when a TCAS TA was triggered leading them to expect an