imminent TCAS RA but this had not occurred. They also stated that although VMC prevailed, “visibility from the flight deck had been degraded due to glare resulting from the (relative) position of the sun”. It was subsequently established that in the absence of a TCAS RA, and without ever being able to establish visual contact with the PA28, the F50 Captain had “decided to initiate an avoidance manoeuvre and had turned the aircraft 90° to the right". The F50 crew subsequently reported having observed a relative vertical separation value of +100 feet on their TCAS display during the turn. At approximately the same time as the F50 was turning right, the TWR PL-Main controller transmitted to the PA28 “traffic is a Fokker 50 on, eh, being established on the ILS a moment ahead of you” and a few seconds later received the response that the pilot had visual contact with that traffic. The F50 Captain subsequently informed the APP controller he had carried out an avoidance manoeuvre and, whilst doing so, had “seen a single engine low wing aircraft which appeared to have been on a collision course with the minimum distance between the two aircraft estimated to have been between 300 and 500 metres”. Both aircraft subsequently continued to a landing without further event and after completing the flight, the F50 Captain contacted the VLM OCC by telephone and “requested the safeguarding of the CVR so that the event could be investigated” but it was subsequently established that this request had not been met. The main concern of the Investigation was the ‘operating concept’ on the basis of which the special ATS arrangements made for the busy traffic consequent upon the annual trade fair were based. It was noted that visual approaches to the paved runway 24 “are carried out via the mandatory reporting waypoint OSCAR, north of the airport, with a recommendation to follow the approach corridor at an altitude no higher than 4,000 feet QNH” and that this involves VFR traffic approaching from the south-east crossing the runway 06/24 extended centreline. It was considered that the absence of an altitude limit in the area of the flight corridor as well as outside the CTZ, “an increased concentration of mixed traffic north-east of the airport is to be expected when IFR approaches via a right-hand base for runway 24 take place simultaneously” as in the investigated event. It was noted that during normal (non trade fair) operations, provision exists to geographically segregate VFR and IFR traffic and observed that the prevailing management of airspace around Friedrichshafen Airport has the effect of “complicating and/or precluding the rapid implementation of a practical procedure” for the busy period associated with the annual trade fair. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was formally attributed to “a dangerous convergence of two aircraft flying on a converging course in Class ‘E’ airspace during an aviation exhibition, during which time a commercial aircraft flying under instrument flight rules was in contact with approach control