An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB) after notification of the event by the Belgian AAIU and delegation of the investigation responsibility by Germany on the basis that the event occurred in airspace for which the Swiss ANSP Skyguide was, by agreement, responsible for providing ATS. It was noted that the management of the airspace over the region of Friedrichshafen is shared by three ANSPs. The German DFS has delegated ATS over German territory around the Friedrichshafen CTZ to the Swiss ANSP Skyguide but the Austrian ANSP Austro Control provides ATS within the CTZ. The German Federal Air Traffic Controlling Office (BAF) is responsible for “the supervision of these civil ANSPs”. Relevant data recorded on both the FDR and CVR installed on the F50 were overwritten but relevant QAR from the aircraft were available. It was noted that immediately after the F50 had completed its flight to Friedrichshafen, its Captain had telephoned the VLM OCC to request that the CVR should be “safeguarded for a possible investigation” but the accountable person for the technical division in VLM Flight Operations had refused saying that provision of a replacement device would have delayed further scheduled service by the aircraft that afternoon. This same person was apparently “of the opinion that the CVR had not recorded radiotelephony communications anyway”. The Investigation noted that “as a consequence, the recordings of the conversations between the pilots as well as the sounds emitted by the TCAS on the flight deck were not available, resulting in the loss of a detailed evidence base”. It was also noted that the applicable MEL permitted up to 8 subsequent flights within the following 72 hours without a CVR provided the FDR was functioning normally during this time. Special ATS arrangements were in place because of the expected significantly higher than normal air traffic expected in connection with an annually held trade fair. These procedures were fully notified to pilots and all controllers involved received special training prior to their implementation. They included a requirement for all aircraft wanting to use the airport except those operating scheduled services to obtain prior permission to do so. It was noted that the F50 Captain, born in 1976, had 7,000 hours total flying experience which included 6,500 hours on type and that the F50 First Officer, born in 1987, had 750 hours total flying experience which included 550 hours on type. The PA28 pilot had 831 hours total flying experience including 47 hours on type. The APP radar controller had been qualified to operate that position since February 2015 and had one previous experience of working during the annual trade fair which always involved special ATC procedures. Both TWR controllers had over 15 years ‘experience including duties during the periods of special ATC procedures used during the annual trade fair. It was established that with VMC prevailing, runway 24 was in use at Friedrichshafen. The F50 was being vectored by APP radar onto the runway 24 ILS from