Unfortunately, flight crew do not always receive up to date information on whether a runway is contaminated or not. This may arise from three causes: In addition, when snow or ice contamination exists, different types of friction measuring devices measure different friction values when used on the same surface. None of the friction measuring devices are reliable on all types of contaminations. This adds another level of uncertainty to the data about runway surface condition. If contamination by liquid water is suspected, a review with ATC of the incidence of recent precipitation is advisable to help decide whether to delay an approach or continue as originally intended. Alternatively, another runway may be available. Any pilot reports or observations made directly by ATC and therefore qualified by the prefix ‘unofficial’ may provide useful information. However, these need to be used carefully if conditions are likely to be changing rapidly, due to varying rates and intensities of precipitation. Where contaminated runway conditions appear likely to be relatively slow-changing, the full detail available on the ATIS in terms of runway condition codes (RCC) as given by the Global Reporting Format (GRF), from the METAR runway state group, or a SNOWTAM should be carefully assessed before an approach begins. Note that since the introduction of the GRF no friction values are reported anymore but runway condition codes (RCC) only. The airmanship conclusion, which may be drawn from the above, is that even though it is believed or reported that the runway is not contaminated, it may be found on touch down that the surface is contaminated, at least in part, and especially by liquid (standing or running) water. Therefore the issues relevant to an intended contaminated runway landing and subsequent taxi-off the runway will have to be considered when preparing to land in bad weather in order to reduce the risk of runway excursions due to loss of control on low friction surfaces. Accidents and Incidents