An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were located and recovered and data from both were successfully downloaded and of assistance to the Investigation. Part of the overrun was also recorded on two off-airport security cameras. The 56 year-old Captain was recorded as having accumulated a total of 14,761 flying hours experience which included 11,811 hours in command, most of the later being acquired whilst working for another Alaska regional airline which had ceased operations two years earlier. However, only 131 of these hours had been flying the Saab 2000, on which he had completed conversion training and been authorised to operate in command three months prior to the accident. Since completing his line training, he had operated into Unalaska four times in command having previously done so five times under supervision. The 39 year-old First Officer had a total of 1447 flying hours experience which had been mostly obtained in light aircraft prior to being employed by PenAir five months prior to the accident and beginning to accumulate experience as a professional co-pilot on a multi engine aircraft. By the time of the accident, this totalled 138 hours including supervised type conversion training time - his final line check having been completed a little over two months prior to the accident. Since release to line flying, he had made 13 flights to Unalaska prior to the accident flight including one the day prior to the accident with the same Captain. Post accident interviews with both pilots indicated that they considered that they had been working together effectively. There was no indication that fatigue had contributed to the accident in any way. With the Captain acting as PF, the flight departed Anchorage in mid afternoon for a flight expected to take a little over two hours to the uncontrolled destination airport. En-route, the Captain gave a destination brief on the RNAV instrument approach procedure applicable to both ends of the single available runway based on a visual transitioning to runway 13 with the proviso that if the surface wind velocity changed such that runway 31 was more appropriate, then that runway would be used instead. The RNAV procedure MDA was 2000 feet and its termination point was northwest of the airport such that the (“front door”) transition to a 13 final approach was the shortest and required a left turn onto final approach whereas the (“back door”) transition to runway 31 required an initial left turn followed by later right turns onto final approach (see the illustration below). Both ends of the 30 metre-wide runway at Unalaska had a displaced landing threshold which left an LDA of 1180 metres with the Captain recorded prior to the approach as stating that the unfactored landing distance required was (equivalent to) 932 metres. The Unalaska runway showing the “front door” and “back door” runway visual approaches. [Reproduced from the Official Report] During descent, the Captain noted that the AWOS wind was being given as 310°/6