It was not established whether the Saab crew picked up this exchange but on completion of the before landing checks, they requested a wind check and were told the midfield wind was 300°/24 knots following which both pilots expressed concerned surprise. The First Officer asked if the Captain wanted to break off and try again but the Captain responded with “keep talking to weather....last try” and continued positioning for runway 13. As the aircraft descended through about 350 feet agl, it began the turn onto the runway 13 extended centreline, becoming established on it at around 100 feet as an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert was activated with the rate of descent peaking at almost 1,300 fpm. The Captain began reducing the rate of descent from 90 feet agl with the airspeed close to the 136 knot VREF but with the recorded groundspeed representing the presence of a 14 knot tailwind component .Passing 60 feet agl, the EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert was briefly activated again. Main gear touchdown on the reportedly dry runway was normal at 335 metres past the displaced runway threshold (see the annotated reconstruction of the landing roll below) with reverse propeller pitch selected once the nose gear was on the ground and the first few seconds of braking and resultant deceleration as normal. However, what appeared to be a puff of smoke recorded on a passenger video from close to the left main landing about 5 to 6 seconds after touchdown was found to have coincided with the bursting of the left outboard tyre and a sudden decrease in deceleration despite full brake pressure being maintained by the Captain and confirmed by the First Officer. As the First Officer called “80 knots” (with the ground speed around 100 knots), the Master Caution occurred accompanied by an antiskid inboard fault annunciation. The aircraft deviated to the right as it exited the end of the runway, crossed the 90 metre-long RESA and the adjacent blast pad before continuing through the metre-high chain-link perimeter fence leaving evidence of left propeller contact. It then successively crossed a ditch, hit a large rock and crossed a public road before coming to a stop on the shoreline. In the vicinity of the road, the aircraft left wing or left propeller struck a 4 to 5 feet high post and the left propeller struck a 2.5 metre high yellow diamond shaped road sign. There were also strike marks consistent with the right engine propeller tips contacting the ground near where the aircraft stopped. The Captain then shut down both engines and made a PA to order an emergency evacuation from the right side of the aircraft after both pilots had seen a fire warning illuminated for the left engine as it was being shut down. He then called airport operations on the radio to advise that the aircraft was off the runway and request crash fire and rescue assistance. The sole staff member present then immediately donned protective gear and drove the RFFS vehicle