overhaul (which) caused the antiskid system not to function as intended, resulting in the failure of the left outboard tyre and a significant loss of the aircraft’s braking ability which led to the runway overrun”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as: Saab’s design of the wheel speed transducer wire harnesses, which did not consider and protect against human error during maintenance;. the Federal Aviation Administration’s lack of consideration of the runway safety area dimensions at Unalaska Airport during the authorisation process that allowed the Saab 2000 to operate at the airport;. the flight crew’s inappropriate decision, due to their plan continuation bias, to land on a runway with a reported tailwind that exceeded the aircraft manufacturer’s limit.. It was also concluded that “the safety margin was further reduced because of PenAir’s failure to correctly apply its company-designated pilot-in-command Airport qualification policy” which had allowed the accident Captain to operate the Saab 2000 aircraft at one of the most challenging airports in their route system with limited experience of both the airport and the aircraft type. A total of 10 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration identify all currently certificated transport-category airplanes for which system safety assessments for landing gear systems did not consider human error that could lead to cross-wiring of antiskid brake system components, including the wheel speed transducers, and require manufacturers of transport-category airplanes without such assessments to perform the assessments and then implement mitigations to prevent cross-wiring of antiskid brake system components. [A-21-46]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require the submission and consideration of system safety assessments addressing the landing gear antiskid system for the certification of future transport-category airplane designs. The certification should ensure that the system safety assessments are consistent with the intent of Advisory Circular 25.1309, System Design and Analysis, and that the assessments evaluate and mitigate the potential for human error that can lead to a cross-wiring error. [A-21-47]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require organisations that design, manufacture and maintain aircraft to establish a safety management system. [A-21-48]. that the Federal Aviation Administration notify Principal Operations Inspectors and frontline managers about the circumstances of this accident and emphasise the importance of existing Federal Aviation Administration guidance for detecting and mitigating the safety risks that can result when [aircraft operator] certificate holders experience significant organisational change, such as high personnel turnover, a reduction to route structures or flight schedules, bankruptcy, acquisition and merger. [A-21-49]. that the Federal Aviation Administration revise Order 8900.1, Flight Standards Information Management System to include a formalised transition procedure to be used during a changeover of [an aircraft operator’s] certificate management team personnel responsible for overseeing a certificate holder that is undergoing significant organisational change (for a reason described in volume 6, chapter 2, section 18 of the Order) to ensure that incoming personnel are fully aware of potential [operational] safety risks. [A-21-50]. that the Federal Aviation Administration include the runway design code for runways of intended