to the scene, arriving just over a minute later and began to assist with the evacuation. It was noted that the aircraft operator’s procedures specified that in the event of a an “unplanned emergency situation”, the cabin crew should “not wait for a signal from the Captain to evacuate”. Damage to the aircraft fuselage included a hole and impact damage to the left forward fuselage just forward of the propeller plane in the vicinity of seat 4A where virtually the complete length of one of the two detached left side propeller blades which had hit the fuselage had penetrated it completely and hit the passenger seated in 4A resulting in an immediately fatal injury. Internal damage to the passenger cabin was limited to the left side between rows 3 and 6 where the overhead stowage had become partially detached with associated debris hanging down into the seats or lying on the floor. Overall, the immediate response to the accident was judged by the Investigation to have been “timely and effective”. Left side fuselage damage showing where one propeller blade entered the passenger cabin and another became embedded externally. [Reproduced from the Official Report] An internal view forward from row 6 with the propeller blade which entered the cabin visible. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation sought to establish both the reason for the apparent lack of the expected response to applied braking after touchdown and the extent to which the handling of the final stages of the flight may have contributed to the accident outcome. It was established that the correctly inflated left outboard main gear tyre had deflated non-explosively shortly after touchdown as the direct result of the wheel skidding on the essentially dry runway surface. The adjacent inner wheel tyre was not similarly affected. No evidence that the deflation had originated from contact with runway debris was found, the deflation was solely attributable to the abrasion caused by the absence of rotation which was itself a direct result of the lack of anti skid system alleviation of the initial skid. It was noted that although it was not of direct significance to the tyre failure, the site of the skid-caused site of the tyre failure corresponded to a flat spot identified during the First Officer’s pre flight external inspection of the aircraft prior to departure from Anchorage which was then confirmed by the Captain as allowable for despatch as permitted by the aircraft operator since “no cord was showing”. It was also found that the electrical wiring harnesses for the left MLG wheel speed transducer had been incorrectly routed in a way which resulted in the antiskid system responding to skidding of the left outboard tyre after it deflated by completely releasing the brake pressure to both the left and right MLG inboard wheels. Because the antiskid system could not therefore respond as intended to the left MLG outboard tyre skid, the tyre was subsequently subject to sufficient abrasion to cause it to deflate which resulted in