knots. Half an hour later, he noted that it was now being given as 310° / 11 knots and observed that “startin’ to favour the back door (i.e. runway 31) a little more”. Nine minutes later, and still with about 25 minutes to run, the First Officer contacted the airport weather observer and was told that the surface wind was 210° / 6 knots gusting to 14 knots. The Captain then remarked “pretty much a direct crosswind there” and the First Officer obtained clearance for the runway 13 approach from the Anchorage ACC controller. The Captain subsequently stated that if there were any major changes in the wind, “we’ll just call the controller back”. CVR data indicated that five minutes after receiving the approach clearance, the crew would have been able to hear the pilot of a Beech 200 also inbound to Unalaska requesting a weather check from the observer there and being given 180°/7 knots with showers in the vicinity of the airport. By the time the approach was in progress, some 12 minutes later, the First Officer obtained a wind of 270°/10 knots. The landing checklist was then completed following which there was a brief discussion on which runway should now be used which concluded with the Captain deciding to continue for runway 13. As the aircraft passed the procedure MAP located 4.7nm from the runway with the aircraft already below 950 feet agl and descending, the Captain called runway in sight and stated that if there was too much wind shear, the First Officer should just call a go around and “we’ll go out the back door”. Half a minute later, in response to the Captain’s “whad’ya think?”, the First Officer replied “go around” and this was commenced with the Captain asking the First Officer to announce that the aircraft was “coming around for a visual” which he did. As the aircraft was positioning visually for a second approach, the observer reported that the wind was now 290°/16 knots gusting to 30 knots but this did not prompt any immediate discussion on the flight deck. However, about a minute later, after a further wind check of 300°/24 knots was received, there was a short discussion as to whether to continue with another approach to 13 or change to the “back door” approach to runway 31 which the Captain was clearly considering but when the First Officer appeared to favour a second approach onto runway 13, the Captain was recorded as saying “oh okay…sure…we’ll try again”. When the First Officer then asked the Captain if he was “okay” with a landing on runway 13, he responded “I was thinking about going the other way...shear” but did not change the plan. A Beech 200 pilot was then recorded asking the observer about weather conditions for a landing on runway 31 and was told “there’s showers just moving through…right at the moment it is perfect for three one but I’m thinking that it might switch back…once this shower moves through”.