a further loss of MLG wheel braking. This combined loss of both left and right inboard and left outboard MLG wheel braking made it impossible for the aircraft to be stopped on the runway. It was found that the CMM covering the wheel speed transducer system contained an error conducive to incorrect installation, although no direct link between this and the error made was established. Of considerable importance, however, was the result of a detailed aircraft runway performance study. This concluded that whilst the aircraft as it had landed on the runway in the prevailing conditions could have then been stopped on the runway in the event of the complete failure of two out of the four available MLG brake units or the tyre failure alone, the combination of the two which resulted in only one functional brake unit remaining had both made this impossible and contributed to difficulty in maintaining the runway centreline prior to the overrun. It was noted that incorrect wiring of the antiskid system as found did not in itself generate a fault. For such a maintenance error to be potentially detectable, it was concluded that based on the logic of the antiskid system’s operation, a significant skid event would have to occur for more than two seconds without being relieved before a fault message, which might (although would not automatically) prompt maintenance personnel to investigate further, would be generated. It was also noted that not only would the origin of the potential fault message be ambiguous, there were no documented troubleshooting procedures for it. It was found that as a consequence of the aircraft operator’s various existential problems over a two year period prior to the accident, the accident aircraft had not returned to revenue service following an overhaul of the left MLG by the OEM in January 2017. Only in June 2019, just four months prior to the accident, had PenAir operated its first revenue flight. With no relevant subsequent maintenance having been carried out since, the cross wiring error could therefore be confidently assumed to have occurred during this overhaul. The OEM was noted as having accepted that the harness cross wiring could have occurred during their overhaul work and with unclear harness part numbers and failure to follow the applicable installation procedure correctly both having been potentially contributory. A review of the handling of the aircraft prior to touchdown during the accident overrun concluded that the crew were aware that their decision to continue both approaches to runway 13 given the prevailing wind velocity conditions and their tailwind component implications was inappropriate but had been subject to plan continuation bias. The same motivation was considered to have led to the continuation of the unstable second approach which immediately preceded the overrun. The particular challenges of low aircraft type experience on the part of both pilots and the minimal public transport flying experience of the First Officer were assessed to have both been indirectly contributory to the flawed decision making which had occurred.