very inexperienced co-pilot. However, although this may have contributed to a series of flight preparation errors which would have increased the commander’s workload leading up to and during take off an initial climb, it was not suggested that this had had any direct bearing on the “inadequate situation analysis” made following the fault annunciation and prior to AP disconnection. After careful inspection of the pitch trim system, it was concluded that some form of stabiliser trim signalling malfunction, for which a fault code was recorded in the FGC Non Volatile Memory, had been transient in nature. No clear evidence of any hard fault, either transient or permanent, could be identified and, after laboratory tests on grease removed from the horizontal stabiliser trim actuator jackscrew, this was also eliminated as a possible cause of the indicated trim malfunction. In respect of crew response to the system caution annunciations, the Investigation concluded that overall, the whole flight had been characterised by “shortcomings in the manner the flight crew performed checks as well as in crew cooperation” both before and after departure. It was considered that the effect of this had been that “immediately after the takeoff the pilots were already overloaded to the point that when the trim fault appeared they postponed taking action until a point in time when the aircraft had already reached a high airspeed” which in itself exacerbated the effect of their intervention. It was noted that the reason why AP disconnection had led to the initiation of a pitch upset was that at that point, the signalling fault which had produced the EICAS annunciation of a stabiliser trim failure meant that the horizontal stabiliser was not being trimmed for the climb being made as confirmed by the periodic EICAS annunciations of ‘AP HOLDING NOSE DOWN’. However, it was apparent that crew understanding of the way stabilisation trim functioned with and without the AP engaged in the context of the associated artificial pitch feel was poor. The Investigation formally identified the Probable Cause of the investigated Accident as: the pilot overcorrecting the aircraft’s pitch angle immediately after the autopilot was disengaged - had the control column been held prior to AP disengagement, the accident would have been prevented.. It was additionally found that Contributing Factors were: the pilots’ unfamiliarity with the operating principle of the aircraft’s artificial pitch feel system - had they correctly held on to the control column prior to AP disengagement the accident would have been prevented.. the pilots’ inadequate situation analysis after the trim fault occurred - this also contributed to the degree of the passengers’ injuries because the persons on board were not told to sit down and fasten their seat belts.. the lack of adequate guidance in the applicable QRH drill on action to be taken prior to AP disengagement to minimise its effects .. despite the nature of a line training flight, shortcomings in the performance of routine checks and in crew cooperation both before and during the flight so that