After advising the Interstate Aviation Committee responsible for aviation accident investigation in Russia as the State of Occurrence, an Investigation was carried out by the Finnish SIB on behalf of the State of the Operator. It was noted that “the investigation was hindered by the fact that the (two hour) CVR recording had been overwritten". It was established that immediately following AP engagement after take off, the EICAS annunciation ‘AP STAB TRIM FAIL’ had appeared. No immediate action was taken and during the continued climb, several EICAS cautions ‘AP HOLDING NOSE DOWN’, which indicated that the AP was having to keep commanding nose down elevator inputs, had occurred. The Fasten Seat Belts sign was turned off and the co-pilot began to consult the relevant Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill. As the crew initiated the actions listed in the QRH ‘AP HOLDING NOSE DOWN’ checklist passing FL 127 at 280 KIAS (and some 6 minutes after the caution had first appeared), the aircraft commander reported taking a firm grip of the control column before disengaging the AP and, when the out of balance forces in the flight control system resulted in the control column moving backwards, he reported reacting by pushing the nose down. This action led to an approximately 7 second-long period of ‘pilot induced oscillation’, during which normal acceleration varied from +3.6 g to -1.7 g, before pitch control was regained, after which the climb was continued under manual control. Once the AP had been disconnected, the trim system lockout, which had been preventing FGC trim signals reaching the Horizontal Stabiliser ECU, was reset and there was no recurrence or any fault for the remainder of the flight, which was uneventful - and occurred with the aircraft controlled manually in line with the QRH instruction not to re-engage the AP after the fault which had been encountered. As a result of the upset occurring whilst the passengers were unrestrained, all three were injured, although only one seriously, and some damage was sustained to the cabin interior trim due to impact by the unrestrained passengers during the upset. Initially, the commander’s intention was to continue the flight as planned but after being advised of the situation in the cabin, he decided on an air turnback. An emergency was not declared to ATC because the commander “did not deem the accident to be an emergency or distress situation because he had insufficient information regarding the severity of the passengers’ injuries”. It was noted that the “service hostess” accompanying the passengers had responsibility and training only for that function and was not designated as cabin crew or concerned in any respect with proactive or reactive cabin safety. It was noted that although passenger injuries occurred because they had not been told by the crew to sit down and fasten their seat belts, this action did not appear in the QRH checklist available to the flight crew. It was noted that the flight was being used as a line training sector for the