An Investigation was carried out by the AAIB of the Singapore Ministry of Transport. It was established that a planned 5 minute closure of runway 20R for a daily inspection using three vehicles was also to be used for a fourth vehicle to undertake a surface friction test. The driver of the vehicle to be used was briefed by the Airside Safety Inspection Team (ASIT) supervisor to be ready to begin the task when the runway was closed but had been late departing base. On the way to the runway, the driver reported attempting to contact the TWR for clearance to enter but receiving only distorted unintelligible replies. At one point, he contacted the team leader by mobile phone to see if the latter had heard the TWR replying to his calls but the reason for and significance of the call was not appreciated by the team leader who simply responded that he had “not heard anything”. Although it was noted by the Investigation that the driver could have asked the team leader to relay his clearance request to the TWR or even called the TWR direct using the same mobile phone, he did neither. Instead, despite not having received the necessary clearance, the friction testing vehicle was driven onto the runway anyway and began the planned test run from the upwind end rather later than had been expected. Once on the runway, the friction test vehicle passed two of the inspection vehicles, continuing northbound. Whilst the friction test vehicle was still about 1000 metres from the runway threshold, the ASIT leader reported to TWR that his vehicles were clear of the runway and it was reopened, the TWR controller not having noticed any vehicle on the runway visually or – given the good weather conditions observed it on the Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System display. Shortly afterwards, TWR cleared an aircraft to land on runway and at about the same time, one of the runway inspection vehicles called the ASIT leader to advise that the friction test vehicle was still on the runway. The leader was unable to transmit on the TWR frequency because it was busy, but by this time the TWR controller had spotted the vehicle anyway. However, the approaching aircraft, now about 3nm from touchdown, was not notified of the situation and instead the TWR controller made multiple unsuccessful attempts to make contact with the vehicle over a period of 43 seconds before the landing clearance was cancelled and a go around instructed with the aircraft recorded as being just 0.89nm from touchdown. After further unsuccessful attempts to contact the friction tester vehicle, it reached the end of the runway and vacated. About a minute later, TWR received a call from the vehicle for the first time. It was established that reception of transmissions on the friction test vehicle radio whilst the testing equipment was in use was problematic even with maximum volume set due to the high background noise level created coupled with