planned duration of the closure.. the single manning of the friction test vehicle where, when on the runway, the driver has to drive at a constant speed in a straight line whilst monitoring the pressure of the water supply tank whilst at the same time looking out for other traffic on the runway and monitoring the radio communication leaves little capacity to respond to any unexpected situations without abandoning the test.. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were that: The runway incursion was a result of (the friction test vehicle) entering the runway without Changi Tower’s authorisation. He received distorted radio transmissions from an unidentified source but somehow interpreted them as an authorisation to enter the runway.. The radio set in (the friction test vehicle) was most likely set to the Seletar Tower frequency of 122.9 MHz instead of the Changi Tower frequency of 121.9 MHZ. The driver was apparently not aware of the frequency setting and thus was not able to communicate with Changi Tower despite his attempts.. A number of Safety Actions were noted as having been taken as a result of the investigated event including: the decision to acquire an additional friction test vehicle so that both Changi and Seletar have a dedicated test vehicle fitted with a radio which is pre-selected to the correct TWR frequency.. the adoption of a new operating procedure whereby all runway maintenance works such as sweeping, friction testing or edge grass cutting will be scheduled in a 15-minute inspection slot rather than a 5 minute one.. a new requirement for all vehicles permitted to enter the manoeuvring area to be fitted with a Mode-S transponder to enable TWR awareness of their position with more certainty.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Regulatory Authority consider making it a standard procedure for the Changi Tower to check the A-SMGCS after every runway inspection to ensure that the runway is clear of traffic prior to a landing or take-off, regardless of the visibility conditions.. The Final Report was published on 17 December 2013