There was a history of SID-busting in the London area where low initial stop altitudes existed and the consequences of this were potentially high risk because of regularly used tracks only 1000 ft above.. “Had the revised ICAO (SID R/T phraseology) procedures been adopted by the UK, it is likely that this incident would have been prevented because (the Cessna) would have levelled off at 3000 ft regardless of its cleared altitude.”. It was concluded by the Investigation that the arguments for and against implementation of the revised ICAO (SID R/T phraseology) procedures by the UK were “… beyond the scope of this report and, since ICAO is already working to resolve the situation, no recommendations are made on this topic beyond endorsing the need for urgency in reaching a resolution.” A total of five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: It is recommended that NATS demonstrates to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) that appropriate mitigation has been put in place to reduce significantly the risk of an accident resulting from a level bust by an aircraft departing London City Airport or on the base leg turn positioning to land at Heathrow Airport. (2010-056). It is recommended that London City Airport amends all Standard Instrument Departures (SIDs) so that they terminate at an altitude of 3000 ft. (2010-057). It is recommended that London City Airport removes Step Climb procedures from its Standard Instrument Departures (SIDs). (2010-058). It is recommended that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation of Turkey ensures Turkish Airlines TCAS training complies with the Airborne Collision Avoidance System Training Guidelines contained in ‘ICAO PANS-OPS (Doc 8168)’. (2010-059). It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority considers whether the carriage of TCAS II should be mandated for aircraft operating in those parts of the London TMA where London City Airport SIDs interact with traffic positioning to land at Heathrow Airport. (2010-060). The Final AAIB Report was published on 9 September 2010 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: AAIB Bulletin: 9/2010 EW/C2009/07/07