Amendments to several Annexes to the Chicago Convention applicable since November 2009 introduced harmonised requirements for the implementation of Safety Management Systems (SMS) by aviation service providers. Aircraft operators and other aviation service provider organisations should establish and apply a formal risk management process within the framework of the organisational SMS. Risk management shall ensure that risks are systematically analysed (in terms of probability of occurrence and severity of hazard effects), assessed (in terms of tolerability) and controlled to an acceptable level (by implementation of mitigation measures). Aircraft operators and aviation service providers shall also define those levels of management with authority to make decisions regarding safety risks tolerability. Risk Assessment is the second step in the risk management process. Once hazards and their effects have been determined during the first step by means of hazard identification, an analysis is required to assess the probability of the hazard effects occurring and the severity of these effects on aircraft operation. ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual highlights the importance of distinguishing between hazards (the potential to cause harm) and risk (the likelihood of that harm being realised during a specified amount of risk exposure). Risk assessment is based on the evaluation of the following criteria: the severity of a hazard, the probability (frequency) of its occurrence and tolerability of its effects. The ultimate criterion used to assess the severity of hazards is the impact on the safety of an aircraft and its occupants and other persons who may be directly affected. Elements to be considered in the severity assessment would include a number of indicators, such as crew workload, exposure time to the hazard, aggravating factors etc. Another group factors to be taken into account are the means of mitigation that are considered acceptable by the safety regulator, for example the effective use of Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) as mitigation means for mid-air collision hazard. The severity of hazards will be determined by the credible effects on the safety of aircraft, when the outcome of all the weaknesses, potential failures and safeguards (barriers) which may exist in the relevant operational environment have been taken into consideration. For example, the most severe effect (consequence) will only be chosen in such cases when the total system has exhausted its possibilities to affect what continues to happen and only chance determines the outcome, for example the ingestion by aircraft engines of birds greater than they are designed and certificated to withstand and continue functioning where this occurs simultaneously to more than one engine. A credible assessment of the severity of hazard effects requires detailed knowledge of the environment of operations and the services (functions) to be performed. An example of hazard severity classification matrix is provided in the related article on hazard identification. The estimation of the probability of a hazard occurring (or in other words the interval of exposure in which a hazard effect may manifest itself) is usually achieved by means of structured review using a standard classification scheme. In