the instructed frequency change to Santiago APP was being actioned, a ‘FUEL L WING TK LO LVL’ Alert was annunciated followed after a further six minutes by a ‘FUEL L+R WING TK LO LVL’ Alert. ' After a further seven minutes, the crew declared a ‘MAYDAY FUEL’ to Santiago APP on calculating that it was likely that they would land with less than ‘Final Reserve Fuel’ on board. After making a VOR approach to runway 35 at Santiago, a landing was made and after shutting down the engines after arrival on stand, they recorded 940 kg of fuel remaining, 49 kg less than the ‘Final Reserve’ figure. It was noted that weather conditions at both Vigo and Santiago de Compostela were at or near CAVOK with light winds as forecast. It was noted that the weather information available to the crew did not indicate a RVR in the first third of the runway in excess of 300 m during the time that the crew were holding at or during the approach to Porto. However, the approach was nevertheless continued to the Cat II minimum height before it was discontinued. In this respect the Part ‘A’ of the TAP Portugal Operations Manual was found to clearly state that if the applicable (first third) RVR on a Cat II approach was last notified as less than 300 metres, then if an approaching aircraft reaches 1000 feet aal, the approach must be abandoned. It was noted that TWR had passed the final (still below minima) RVRs as the aircraft was passing 1,326 feet aal. In respect of the crew communications with ATC about their fuel status, it was noted that the procedures specified in ICAO Annex 6 on the successive declaration of ‘MINIMUM FUEL’ and ‘MAYDAY FUEL’ under specified fuel endurance conditions were replicated in Part ‘A’ of the TAP Portugal OM but had not been followed. This had deprived ATC of a full appreciation of the aircraft fuel endurance relative to possible diversions. The Investigation also examined in some detail the formal procedures relating to arrangements for communication of limitations on the acceptance of diversions at Vigo and the various related exchanges which had taken place on the day. It was noted that the flight under investigation was the first to be refused a diversion to Vigo and that arrangements to accept the last aircraft accepted by Vigo after diversion from Porto were made six minutes before the TAP A319 left the Porto holding pattern to begin its approach. This meant that a more timely notification to Porto from Vigo that they were at full capacity would have allowed the A319 to be “diverted to its second alternate without incurring fuel problems”. It was also found that “the LoA between Porto APP and Santiago ACC did not include any procedures for managing use of airports as alternates". The Cause of the event was formally stated as “the improper management of the capacity at the alternate airports by the stations involved during adverse