weather conditions and by the failure of the crew to issue a MINIMUM FUEL declaration, as specified in the operator’s Operations Manual, which would have allowed the Vigo Airport to adopt temporary extraordinary measures to receive the incident aircraft”. One Contributory Factor was identified as: the lack of anticipation at the Vigo Airport Operations Coordination Centre in reporting the saturated condition on the apron, which prevented Air Traffic Control from promptly informing the crew involved.. Safety Action by the Spanish ANSP ENAIRE as a result of the event and known to the Investigation was noted as including the following: Their internal occurrence investigation had recommended that "if a controller monitoring another frequency became aware of another traffic calling, they should request that the message be repeated to avoid misunderstanding or mistakes". Confirmation of implementation of the recommendation and the means of implementation was not recorded.. In respect of the alerting of controllers to the fact that a runway is closed, it was decided that an additional strip would be placed on the wind velocity indicator whenever a runway is occupied so that "when a controller clears an aircraft to take off/land, they would look at the wind reading and see that the runway is closed".. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that TAP Portugal provides specific training to its crews on the use of MINIMUM FUEL and MAYDAY FUEL declarations and their implications, based on the current EASA and ICAO recommendations. [REC 66/17]. that ENAIRE (the Spanish ANSP) establish a co-ordination procedure between the Santiago ATCC and Porto APP Units that provides information on the availability of potential alternate airports in the event of severe adverse meteorological conditions. [REC 67/17]. that NAV Portugal (Portuguese ANSP) establish a co-ordination procedure between the Santiago ATCC and Porto APP Units that provides information on the availability of potential alternate airports in the event of severe adverse meteorological conditions. [REC 68/17]. The Final Report was approved on 27 September 2017 and subsequently made available in English translation.