The event was not notified to the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) until 11 days after it had occurred, at which point relevant recorded data from both the CVR and FDR were no longer available. However, TAP supplied a file of relevant data from the QAR which was equivalent to that which would have been recorded on the FDR together with the corresponding parameter data frame file. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain had accumulated a total of 7,905 flying hours which included 3,890 on type and the 29 year-old First Officer had accumulated a total of 4,000 flying hours which included 2,500 hours on type. It was established that the pre-flight briefing materials provided by flight despatch personnel to the flight crew prior to their departure from Madeira had not mentioned that LVP were already in place at Porto and had been for over 4 hours and provided only a 24 hour TAF issued 6 hours prior to departure, which made no mention of fog and only a PROB40 of cloud as low as 300 feet. However, since the METAR provided indicated that this forecast did not fully reflect actual conditions, the crew loaded sufficient additional fuel to be able to hold for 30 minutes and taxied with 1,191 kg more fuel on board than was required by their OFP. The cruise was made at FL380 as per the OFP and on approaching their destination, ATC instructed the flight to take up the hold as there were delays due to the weather. The ATIS copied by the crew gave the wind calm, landing runway RVRs as 275 metres, 325 metres and 275 metres, and the ‘Vertical Visibility’ as 100 feet. The hold was maintained for almost half an hour during which time the crew confirmed that the weather at their first alternate, Vigo, was favourable. Porto APP then cleared the flight to begin an ILS Cat II approach to runway 17 and they were informed by the crew that in the event that they were unable to land, they would want to proceed to Vigo. On transfer to TWR, a landing clearance was given and the RVRs were advised as 200 metres, 325 metres and 350 metres. The crew repeated their previous message that they would be diverting to Vigo in the event of a go-around. A go around was subsequently flown from when the required visual reference was not available at the 100 foot Cat II DA with the minimum recorded height of 65 feet agl recorded. On advising their go around to TWR, the crew reiterated their request to proceed to Vigo. They were transferred back to APP and were cleared to climb to FL 120 heading north. However, a few minutes later, the APP controller notified them that Santiago ACC had advised that Vigo Airport had no more parking space and so they would have to continue to Santiago de Compostela. Less than a minute later as