to Airservices Australia - response not accepted]. Although the air traffic services provider has been working on the issue for several years, there was still no automated air traffic conflict detection system available for conflictions involving aircraft that were not subject to radar or ADS-B surveillance services. [Safety issue-AO-2012-012-SI-03 -response accepted]. Safety Action taken during the Investigation was notified to the ATSB by both Airservices Australia and Tiger Airways. Airservices Australia reported having made changes to its FRMS to effect improved work scheduling by introducing “a new rostering tool to limit cumulative fatigue and further mitigate fatigue related risk”. This tool had embedded in it a “Fatigue Assessment and Control Tool (FACT)” - a decision support tool to assist managers and supervisors in the effective management of changes to work schedules through means, including the identification of the most suitable individual for a roster variation, the assessment of situational factors that may affect potential fatigue related risk and the identification of risk controls to mitigate potential fatigue related risk.” Tiger Airways reported reminding their crews of actions that could be taken in the event of a loss of communications with ATC and the need to report all loss of communications events to the operator so that acceptable mitigation procedures could be ensure that “normalisation of non-normal events” did not occur. Because of the unacceptable response to two of the identified Safety Issues, two corresponding Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that Airservices Australia takes safety action to address the limited formal guidance regarding how to determine appropriate consolidation periods for en route controllers on one sector before they were transitioned to commence training on another sector. [AO-2012-012-SR-01]. that Airservices Australia takes safety action to address the limited formal guidance to controllers and pilots regarding the conditions in which it was safe and appropriate to use block levels. [AO-2012-012-SR-02]. The Final Report was released on 18 October 2013.