An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) based on the fact that ATS in the oceanic area concerned was provided by the Australian ANSP. The area involved was within the Indian (IND) Sector of Airservices Australia’s West Procedural Airspace Group located at Melbourne. As there was no radar or Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B) coverage in the sector, both aircraft were under procedural control, where planned separation depended on crew position reports and estimates or on automatic updating of position using ADS-C. Routine communication with aircraft utilised a combination of methods including HF and CPDLC. Aircraft positions were shown on an Air Situation Display (ASD) which was dependent on controllers receiving and inputting position reports and estimates. The prescribed separation in the airspace involved was 1000 feet vertically or 15 minutes laterally when transiting the same position. It was established that some 13 minutes after receiving coordination from Jakarta ACC that the southbound A320 at FL350 would be overhead waypoint LAMOB, to the north of TANEM, the IND Controller issued a block level clearance to the A340 which was tracking northwest to operate between FL340 and FL360 and also advised that the primary method of communication would be changing from VHF to ADS-C and instructed the crew to monitor the Brisbane HF channel. The tracks of the two aircraft were self evidently going to cross at TANEM (see the chart extract below) with potentially conflicting altitude clearances although the A340 had not planned (and was not required to plan) TANEM as a waypoint just because their filed route overflew it. Thirty minutes later, some eight minutes after the A320 estimate for LAMOB had passed, the same IND controller asked Brisbane HF to contact the aircraft. With the outcome of this request still pending, two minutes later, the controller began a handover of the position to enable a rest break. Both the A340 and the A320 were mentioned but neither controller noticed the potential conflict and the handover was completed in three minutes. At that time, the two aircraft were both tracking towards TANEM and three minutes later, the loss of separation occurred with the distance between the two aircraft closing with less than 1000 feet separation and less than 15 minutes apart. Ten minutes after that, the Brisbane HF operator received a delayed position report from the A320 that it had passed LAMOB three minutes after the earlier Jakarta ACC estimate and was estimating overhead TANEM in five minutes, two minutes after the likely time of the A340 over the same waypoint. At about this time, the first controller returned from his break to take over the position and during the handover, the imminent conflict due to lack of vertical separation was identified by the off-going controller who immediately initiated a data link (ADS-C) message to the A340 to descend to FL340 and the applicable 1000 feet separation was re-established one minute later, some 13 minutes after it had been lost. However, it was found