that the rapid restoration of separation was not the result of the ATC instruction but of proactive descent by the A340 crew who subsequently reported having observed the potential conflict with the opposite direction A320 on their TCAS display prior to the activation of any Advisory and were already descending from FL345 to FL340 when the ADS-C message was received. The first controller had low experience of the task to which he was assigned to the extent that, when he had initially qualified ab-initio from en route basic training, it had been decided that he should work on an over-land radar control sector before moving to the procedurally controlled sectors of the West Procedural Group. The second controller was experienced on task and an OJTI. The Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) system was not available on the IND Sector since it required that conflicting aircraft be under either radar or ADS-B surveillance. The Investigation noted that despite the lack of separation the actual potential for collision in this case was limited because the aircraft were on crossing tracks and the A340 crew had elected to fly at an altitude 500 ft lower than the A320. However, following an in depth review of the circumstances which led to the incident, the Investigation “identified several ATM factors that can lead to such traffic conflictions not being detected and effectively managed”. It was noted that in respect of the delayed HF position report, Tiger Airways had advised the Investigation that “often flight crews were not provided with an HF frequency before VHF communications were lost”. It was concluded that the conflict had arisen because of four Contributory Factors, two of which were identified as Safety Issues requiring resolution: The traffic confliction between the two aircraft existed for about 50 minutes but was not identified by either of the controllers on duty on the relevant sectors during this period.. Both controllers were experiencing a high workload due to a range of factors, including traffic levels, weather diversions and the airspace configuration.. The air traffic services provider’s processes for monitoring and managing controller workloads did not ensure that newly-endorsed controllers had sufficient skills and techniques to manage the high workload situations to which they were exposed. [Safety issue-AO-2011-144-SI-01 to ANSP Airservices Australia - response accepted]. Controller 1 had limited opportunity to consolidate their training and skills before being rostered onto more complex sectors and situations.. The air traffic services provider had limited formal guidance regarding how to determine appropriate consolidation periods for en route controllers on one sector before they were transitioned to commence training on another sector. [Safety issue-AO-2012-012-SI-01 to Airservices Australia - response not accepted]. It was also found that there were two other factors that had increased the risk which had been created, both of which were identified as Safety Issues requiring resolution: The air traffic services provider had limited formal guidance to controllers and pilots regarding the conditions in which it was safe and appropriate to use block levels. [Safety issue-AO-2012-012-SI-02