and crosschecking functions. However, at other times this may no longer be optimal in terms of error prevention and the allocation of tasks at these times must be clearly delineated in the procedures. SOPs and pilot training must have clear direction as to which pilot is to make selections which will affect the aircraft trajectory at specified phases of flight. In manual flight the pilot flying should command all selections and the other pilot should perform them. In automatic flight it is more appropriate for the pilot flying to command selections at lower altitudes (generally below 10,000 feet) or at times of high workload but to make selections themselves in cruise and low workload periods. In all cases the output of any selection must be confirmed by both pilots reading from the flight mode annunciations or the display screens as appropriate. The range of variables in some parameters affecting aircraft performance data can be so great that it would not be possible for pilots to know precisely what to expect in every circumstance. However, it is possible to develop ‘rules of thumb’ and gross error checks for many of the values that are input to and output by the FMS on a given aircraft type. Rigorous application of these checks offers an additional opportunity to identify errors which may have slipped through the procedural defences. Knowing roughly what to expect from a calculation before it is executed, or what performance parameters an aircraft is likely to exhibit will help pilots to recognize potential data anomalies. A professional will accept that in almost all situations the most assured route to the desired outcome is to follow the correct and entire procedure, without short cuts, omissions or ‘workarounds’ and professionalism is a reflection of this acceptance. The control and management of FMS data entry errors requires the utmost professionalism from all those involved, adhering to procedures and being alert to threats. The culture within an organization must support and promote professionalism amongst all safety critical staff. Mutual mistrust is a condition in which individuals harbor a healthy degree of doubt with regard to the actions of their colleagues. A professionally questioning approach that does not automatically accept information, actions and decisions as correct can help to manage threats and to identify errors. The same would be true with regard to an individual’s own activities, never accepting that the right action has been taken without verifying the outcome and eliminating any doubt. Pilots regularly demonstrate a degree of mutual mistrust when cross-checking each other’s actions in accordance with their SOPs. Error management strategies rely upon robust and comprehensive training to instill and encourage behaviors which are known to help avoid, identify and manage data entry errors. It is vital that the training accurately reflects the operational reality and helps pilots to understand the threats they face at work. Training must focus on producing consistent and standardized pilot behaviors across the fleet. There are some functions which machines perform rather better than humans, including