to reject takeoff based on an erroneous V1 no longer guarantees safety margins,. On cockpit display screens of the PFD-type (Primary Flight Display), the marker representing Rotation Speed (Vr) is not displayed at low speed. Further, it can be difficult to distinguish it from the marker representing V1, especially when the two values are similar.. In several cases, crews perceived abnormal airplane behaviour during takeoff. Some took off “normally”, i.e. no abnormal behaviour counter strategy was applied. Others were able to adopt different strategies: stopping takeoff, increasing thrust, delayed rotation.. The IATA study analyses the impact of risk factors on the seven flight stages: Planning - errors in the data that pilots take onto the flight-deck with them, and ultimately enter into the FMS, can begin well before they board the aircraft. Mass & Balance - if incorrect, these data will ultimately affect ZFW and ZFW centre of gravity entered in the FMS. Flight Plan - may include erroneous information for take-off weight, fuel burn, route, winds and cost index. Load and Trim Sheet - improper loading may introduce errors to data required for the FMS. Navigation Database - there may be errors in the navigation database.. Mass & Balance - if incorrect, these data will ultimately affect ZFW and ZFW centre of gravity entered in the FMS.. Flight Plan - may include erroneous information for take-off weight, fuel burn, route, winds and cost index.. Load and Trim Sheet - improper loading may introduce errors to data required for the FMS.. Navigation Database - there may be errors in the navigation database.. Pre-flight - much of the critical data are calculated and most are entered into the FMS during this phase which is also one of the busiest, with conflicting demands on the pilots’ time. FMS Limitations - some FMS do not incorporate internal automated cross-checks of data values. Data Calculation - time pressure can cause calculation errors, omission of essential checks and the failure to identify erroneous data. Data Transcription - time pressure can contribute to e.g. entering incorrect values or correct values in incorrect fields. Cross-checking - checking of routinely accurate data can lead to omissions, oversights and complacency. Time-pressure may lead to short cuts, omissions, errors and oversights in the calculation, entry and cross-checking of FMS data. Distractions - a lot of people compete for the flight crew attention (e.g. cabin crew, ATC, ground staff, etc.).. FMS Limitations - some FMS do not incorporate internal automated cross-checks of data values.. Data Calculation - time pressure can cause calculation errors, omission of essential checks and the failure to identify erroneous data.. Data Transcription - time pressure can contribute to e.g. entering incorrect values or correct values in incorrect fields.. Cross-checking - checking of routinely accurate data can lead to omissions, oversights and complacency.. Time-pressure may lead to short cuts, omissions, errors and oversights in the calculation, entry and cross-checking of FMS data.. Distractions - a lot of people compete for the flight crew attention (e.g. cabin crew, ATC,