ground staff, etc.).. Start Up & Taxi - the pilots must develop and maintain situational awareness in order to avoid conflictions, collisions and incursions but at the same time changes in the weather or ATC instructions may require the recalculation and re-entry of FMS data. Weather - significant changes may require the FMS data to be revised. Runway - late changes to the runway in use may require the data to be amended. Departure - a change of the ATC clearance may require additional FMS input. Conflicting Demands - during the taxi phase, attention to the FMS may lead to e.g. errors in the taxi route and vice versa.. Weather - significant changes may require the FMS data to be revised.. Runway - late changes to the runway in use may require the data to be amended.. Departure - a change of the ATC clearance may require additional FMS input.. Conflicting Demands - during the taxi phase, attention to the FMS may lead to e.g. errors in the taxi route and vice versa.. Take-off and Initial Climb - many of the most serious implications of data entry errors will become apparent during this phase. Weight - if the actual take-off weight differs significantly from the one used for calculations, then much of the data will be incorrect (e.g. thrust setting, V-speeds, etc.). Balance - incorrect data could result in an inappropriate horizontal stabiliser or trim setting, creating control problems at rotation. Thrust - insufficient thrust will erode accelerate/stop distance margins and may lead to runway overrun. Speeds - incorrect V-speeds may contribute to aircraft control difficulties, runway excursion, tailstrike or inappropriate stop/go decision making. Configuration - wrong flap/slats selection may adversely affect aircraft performance during rotation, lift-off and initial climb. Departure Route errors may cause loss of separation, airspace infringement or unsafe terrain proximity after take-off.. Weight - if the actual take-off weight differs significantly from the one used for calculations, then much of the data will be incorrect (e.g. thrust setting, V-speeds, etc.).. Balance - incorrect data could result in an inappropriate horizontal stabiliser or trim setting, creating control problems at rotation.. Thrust - insufficient thrust will erode accelerate/stop distance margins and may lead to runway overrun.. Speeds - incorrect V-speeds may contribute to aircraft control difficulties, runway excursion, tailstrike or inappropriate stop/go decision making.. Configuration - wrong flap/slats selection may adversely affect aircraft performance during rotation, lift-off and initial climb.. Departure Route errors may cause loss of separation, airspace infringement or unsafe terrain proximity after take-off.. Climb and Cruise - once airborne navigational data in the FMS becomes as important as aircraft performance data and errors in FMS entries can be critical. Route - errors can cause wrong predictions of flight time and fuel as well as e.g. airspace infringement. Weight - incorrect values will affect FMS predictions and the calculation of maximum and optimum altitudes. Environmental Data - inaccurate winds and temperatures leads to wrong predictions and calculations.. Route - errors can cause wrong predictions of flight