ends. If runway crossing cannot be avoided then minimise the potential for runway entry at an unintended location by providing only essential entrances. It is important to have a consistent design of runway entrances and exits with the same ICAO compliant format for visual aids at each taxiway to ease navigation on the ground. Multiple taxiway entrances at one location, e.g. y-shaped connectors present opportunities for ground navigation errors such as runway incursions and for aircraft vacating one runway to enter a wrong taxiway or a different runway. Limiting the options available to pilots on each entrance or exit helps to avoid runway confusion. Exit Rapid exit taxiways (RET) are designed to be runway exits only. The geometry of the taxiway/runway intersection of a rapid exit taxiway does not allow the crew to see the runway is clear of conflicting or other traffic in both directions. "No Entry" signs should be used to avoid aircraft entering the runway via a rapid exit taxiway. Where possible, do not mix high speed (RET) and taxi speed runway exits. if RETs are provided, have a series of RETs without interruption by other taxiway, entrances or exits. Avoid a crossing runway in between exit taxiways. RETs should be of sufficient length to be effective in allowing the aircraft to slow to an appropriate taxi speed and should terminate onto a parallel taxiway. RETs should not terminate directly on to a parallel runway. Runway/taxiway separations must be sufficient to permit space for effective RETs. Exit taxiways should be long enough to assure an aircraft has adequately vacated the runway according to the category of operations and is clear of the ILS. Other The use of runways as taxiways should be avoided. if necessary, design out runway incursion hot spots. When practicable, permanently disused taxiways and roadways should be removed to prevent ground navigation error. If left in place, the taxiway must be closed with ICAO compliant markings, signs and lighting and correctly shown and identified for navigation purposes on the aerodrome map/chart. The air traffic Control tower should be located such that it has good visibility of surface movements of aircraft and vehicles, without any visual restrictions. Avoid designs that lead to backtrack operations for aircraft prior to take-off or after landing. Taxiways that are parallel to the runway minimize the time aircraft (and also vehicles) stay on the runway, so are a key element for safety and efficiency.