An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Board of Accident Investigation (SHK). The DFDR, QAR and 30 minute CVR were recovered from the wreckage and most of their data were successfully downloaded. ATC recordings were available and could be synchronised with the CVR data. The 44 year-old Captain had accumulated a total of 8,020 total flying hours which included 590 hours on type. He had completed type conversion 16 months prior to the accident after 6 years as a Fokker F27 pilot. The 34 year-old First Officer had accumulated a total of 3,015 total flying hours which included 76 hours on type. He had completed type conversion a year prior to the accident and almost all hours on type had been flown in the 90 days prior to it. During the flight, a positioning 47 year-old SAS MD80 series Captain with 920 hours on type was able to assist the operating crew. It was established that the aircraft had been operating the first flight of the day after overnight parking outside in air temperatures which were around 0°C. The aircraft had arrived at Arlanda the previous evening with approximately two thirds of the fuel required for the next morning's departure already on board. As the aircraft departure time approached, there was intermittent light snow and the air temperature, which had thus far been just above zero, fell very slightly to -0 °C. The Captain relied on SAS Line Maintenance personnel to inspect the airframe and as a result the ground de icing treatment with heated Type 1 fluid specifically included the underside of the wings where frost had been seen. Prior to de icing, the upper wing surface had been inspected by an engineer who found some slush there but no ice. There was no discussion between the Captain and the engineers about clear ice either before or after de icing. The aircraft took about 2½ minutes to taxi to the departure runway and with take-off clearance given, a rolling take-off was performed with the Captain as PF and the A/T engaged. The Captain subsequently reported that as he had rotated the aircraft, he had heard an abnormal noise which he could not identify. This was recorded on the CVR as a "low hum" and coincided with three passengers' reports of seeing ice coming off the upper wing surface. After about 25 seconds, as the aircraft was climbing in cloud through a recorded 1,124 feet QNH with the AP not yet engaged, "bangs, vibrations and jerks were perceived inside the aircraft", the latter being described as "like heavy braking". The pilots recognised that the source was the right engine and suspected a compressor stall and reported that the vibrations had made it difficult to read the EFIS screen presentation of the engine instrument. Passing approximately 2,000 feet QNH, a slight (10%) reduction in right engine thrust was made but the vibrations persisted. DFDR/QAR data showed by the time this change was made, throttle control had changed to an automatic