technically responsible do not take off with clear ice on their wings.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, seek the introduction of a means of de-activating Automatic Thrust Restoration (ATR).. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, seek the inclusion in the emergency / malfunction checklist of initial actions in case of engine surging as (memory) items, to be regularly practised in the simulator.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, seek the addition to the emergency / malfunction checklist of instructions for emergency landing in the case of loss of thrust from both engines.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, seek to make it possible for cabin crew members to reach their emergency checklists from their emergency positions.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, consider increasing the stringency of the requirements for the fixing of loose galley equipment.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series, consider the need (for) a prohibition on the cockpit door being open during take-off and landing.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should ensure that SAS possesses a well-functioning system of quality assurance.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should seek, in international cooperation between civil aviation authorities, the supplementation of current design regulations with regard to the risk of FOD damage to rear-mounted engines caused by ice forming on the aircraft.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should seek, in international cooperation between civil aviation authorities, a limitation of the possibilities of certifying new versions of older aircraft models without new type certification.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should seek, in international cooperation between civil aviation authorities, to achieve the application of new safety requirements earlier in the production run.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should seek to ensure that safety information in aircraft operated in international traffic by Scandinavian airline companies is also given in one of the Scandinavian languages.. That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should seek the development of better routines for making passenger lists available in the event of accidents.. That the Swedish National Rescue Services Board should ensure that the planning for rescue operations following air accidents in the vicinity of major airports be improved and encourage regular practical training for such operations.. That the National Police Board improve methods and training concerning the registration of persons in the event of major accidents.. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 20 October 1993.