relevant FAA regulations of the risk of FOD damage to rear-mounted engines from airframe ice.. The Grandfather Rights which had enabled MD80 series aircraft certification in 1980 to rely on the original 1965 type certification was considered to be inherently undesirable since the substantially re-designed MD80 series aircraft did not need to automatically comply with airworthiness regulations which had been introduced between 1965 and 1980.. Cabin safety concerns included the inability of cabin crew seated at their respective stations to reach their emergency instructions without leaving their seats, the requirements for securing loose galley equipment and the central location of one of the rear cabin crew seats which, whilst enabling a view forward along the aisle, also obstructed the rear emergency exit when in use.. Various "shortcomings" were identified in respect of the rescue operation, most of which it was considered could be attributed "almost exclusively" to the fact that personnel from the various participating agencies had not undertaken sufficient joint training.. The Investigation found that there had been a very similar occurrence on the same day as the investigated accident which had fortuitously not prevented another MD81 from safely completing its flight from Stockholm Arlanda to Oslo. This aircraft had taken off 18 minutes after the accident aircraft also after overnight parking outside and de icing by the same personnel. It was established that "after landing in Oslo, a passenger informed the Captain that he (had) heard abnormal noises on take-off and observed clear ice on the wings". When the wings had then been inspected, it was found that "about 20% of the left wing and 30% of the right wing were covered with clear ice, starting approximately 1.5 metres from the fuselage". After the engine air intakes had been inspected and the airframe de-iced, the aircraft was flown back to Stockholm Arlanda where, when the engines were properly inspected, five of the ten fan blades on the left engine were found to be damaged and required replacement prior to further flight. The formally-documented statement of Cause was as follows: "The accident was caused by SAS' instructions and routines being inadequate to ensure that clear ice was removed from the wings of the aircraft prior to take-off. Hence the aircraft took off with clear ice on the wings. In connection with lift-off, the clear ice was loosened and was ingested by the engines. The ice caused damage to the engine fan stages, which led to engine surges. The surges destroyed the engines." Two Contributory Factors were also identified as: The pilots were not trained to identify and eliminate engine surging.. Automatic Thrust Restoration (ATR) - which was unknown within SAS - was activated and increased engine thrust without the pilots' knowledge.. A total of 15 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: That the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should, in respect of aircraft of the DC-9-80 series arrange that airline companies have instructions and procedures to ensure that the aircraft for which they are