but not only by not requiring a check both before and after a de icing treatment. This meant that since the engineer who had inspected the wings before de icing started and failed to detect any clear ice on the upper wing "had no reason […] to check this again after de icing". It was noted that the risk of clear ice formation on the upper surface of the wing near the wing root on MD80 series aircraft was greater than on their DC-9 predecessors in that the centre fuel tank, from which fuel is used first, was extended into the wing root with the consequence that the innermost parts of the wing tanks, which with dihedral wings will almost always contain cold unused fuel, were thereby aligned with the intakes of the rear-mounted engines. This meant that clear ice could readily form on this part of the upper wing surface due to fuel in contact with that surface when such contact and any resulting clear ice would normally only be found on the lower wing surface. It was also noted that an effective inspection of the upper wing for the presence of clear ice before or after de icing would have required the person carrying out such an inspection "to have gone out onto the wing, which was slippery". The Investigation found a number of other areas of concern including: In respect of the survival of all occupants, it was noted that this must be attributed not only to the way in which the forced landing was accomplished but also to a series of "fortunate circumstances". The presence on emergence from cloud of a possible landing site in a generally forested area, the opportunities for escape from the wreckage provided by the breakup of the fuselage into three parts which more than made up for the fact that not all of the emergency exits were useable and most crucial of all the absence of a post crash fire despite the large quantity of fuel spread over the crash site were cited. It was calculated that occupants in the front part of the aircraft would have experienced "stresses (which) were near the limit beyond which serious injury is inevitable".. Whilst the overhead stowage bins in the passenger cabin met certification requirements and were not overloaded, many fell from their mountings and the doors of many others opened allowing baggage to fall out. This was considered to indicate that certification requirements were inadequate.. There were significant concerns about two aspects of aircraft type certification: No account was taken in the relevant FAA regulations of the risk of FOD damage to rear-mounted engines from airframe ice. The Grandfather Rights which had enabled MD80 series aircraft certification in 1980 to rely on the original 1965 type certification was considered to be inherently undesirable since the substantially re-designed MD80 series aircraft did not need to automatically comply with airworthiness regulations which had been introduced between 1965 and 1980.. No account was taken in the