surging and prevent the rapid destruction of both engines was attributed to two things: The Investigation found that at the time of the accident, "there was no knowledge of ATR within SAS" and their MD80 pilots were therefore not trained on it nor was there any reference to it in their Operations Manual. Yet the system was covered in both the AFM and the McDonnell Douglas FCOM which it was considered were "manuals which every operator is obliged to know". Had the pilots been aware of the ATR system, they would have been more likely to recognise the automatic increase in engine thrust that accelerated the destruction of both engines and nullified the Captain's attempt to reduce thrust on the right hand engine. It was concluded that this failure by SAS represented "a serious deficiency in flight safety".. Despite the fact that the Emergency Checklist procedure for Engine Surging could end in engine shutdown, no part of it was identified in the Checklist as a memory recall procedure.. The accident aircraft had been parked in the open overnight prior to the accident flight in air temperatures around 0°C with 2,550kg of cold-soaked fuel in each wing tank which represented 60 % of tank capacity. The Captain, aware of the potential effect of this on the lower wing surfaces, had taken steps to satisfy himself that they were ice-free but had shown no similar concern in respect of the most vulnerable part of the wing upper surfaces. The risk of clear ice ingestion by rear-mounted engines was already recognised prior to the accident and there was a history of related incidents which included SAS-operated aircraft and others in northern Europe - a 1985 report on the subject by Finnair who also had a large fleet of aircraft with rear-mounted engines was noted by the Investigation as having "described undiscovered, un-removed clear ice as the most difficult systemic threat to flight safety today". Two months prior to the accident, SAS had distributed their usual pre-winter season Bulletin to pilots reminding them that it was the aircraft commander's responsibility to check the aircraft for any ice or snow which may affect aircraft performance. This Bulletin explicitly highlighted the clear ice risk, remarking that "although awareness within line maintenance is mostly good", the aircraft commander was responsible for ensuring that "the aircraft is physically checked by means of a hands-on check on the upper side of the wing" and that "a visual check from a ladder or when standing on the ground is not enough". However, it was noted that the accident aircraft crew did not follow this guidance and line maintenance did not use the directed technique on the crew's behalf. It was noted that neither the MD80 Pilot Study Guide, self-administered CBT or the instructions in the Operations Manual on the pre-flight external inspection included any information on "the clear ice problem". Guidance for Line Maintenance personnel extant at the time of the accident was found to be similarly deficient, in particular