failed had been other than fully functional as the flight began take-off. A detailed examination of recorded flight data, what remained of the subsequently removed engines and around 500 engine parts which had been ejected as the engines failed was made. It was found that the engine damage caused by the aerodynamic and mechanical stresses created by the ice-induced surging had begun with failure of the stage 1 stators and debris from them had then moved aft causing further damage and additional debris which circulated within the engines or was ejected. Much of the ground engine debris was found below the position where FDR data showed that engine failure had occurred. It was noted by the Investigation that "normally, repeated surges cease if the power setting is reduced sufficiently" and also that "engine surging entails very great thermal and mechanical strains" which can cause significant engine damage. It also noted that the surge margins on the engines fitted to MD 80 series aircraft were little changed from those on the earlier DC9 from which the MD80 series had been developed. FDR data showed that the Automatic Thrust Restoration (ATR) system, which is automatically armed once the height after take-off exceeds 350 feet agl unless engine thrust is already at 'Go Around', had activated automatically when the right engine began surging 25 seconds after lift off. After 10 seconds, the ATR activated as per system design which cancelled the A/T take-off setting and increased both engine thrust settings to 'Go Around'. This would have moved both thrust levers forward and provided confirmation of this through changed indications on both the FMA (from CLMP to EPR G/A) and on the EPR selector Panel (from T/O to GA). This increase had "contributed to the fact that the surging continued and intensified" until the engine finally broke up after 51 seconds of surging. The increased thrust led to surging beginning in the left engine 12 seconds before the right engine failed and because thrust was now higher, this engine failed after just 14 seconds of surging. It was noted that there was no evidence that either engine had any other damage when surging started other than limited damage that had occurred to the fan stages when the aircraft lifted off. It was considered that this damage "was probably not so extensive as to prevent surging in the right engine from stopping if power had been reduced sufficiently" and it could then have been used at reduced thrust. It was further considered that surging would probably not have occurred at all in the left engine had take-off thrust not been automatically increased by activation of the ATR system. On that basis, it was concluded that "with sufficiently reduced thrust on the right engine and maintained thrust on the left, the engines would probably not have failed (and) the aircraft would then have been able to return (to Arlanda) for a landing". The fact that the crew did not reduce thrust so as to stop the