mode unknown to the pilots (Automatic Thrust Restoration - ATR, see further on this later) in which thrust had already been increased by about 7% above take-off thrust on both engines without the pilots noticing. About 40 seconds after the right engine had begun to malfunction, recorded data showed a first surge on the left engine which had gone unnoticed by the pilots. The right engine failed approximately ten seconds later followed by the left engine two seconds later with the aircraft at 3,206 feet QNH and after continuing to climb just over 100 feet more, a descent began. As the engines failed, the EFIS screens blanked and the Captain continued by reference to the SBY electro-mechanical ADI. The First Officer noticed that the engine temperatures had remained high after their failure and when the left engine fire warning was annunciated, he operated the corresponding fire extinguisher and the warning ceased after 26 seconds. A uniformed SAS Captain seated near the front of the cabin realised that the crew were having problems and went forward to ask if he could be of any help. In response, "the First Officer gave him the Emergency / Malfunction Checklist and the Captain instructed him to start the APU". The assisting Captain's voice was subsequently recorded several times urging the Captain to "look straight ahead". The Captain maintained a shallow descent in cloud onto a northerly heading whilst the First Officer declared an emergency to ATC who in response to his request cleared the aircraft to turn back and land. The Captain announced several times "prepare for on ground emergency" and on being advised by the assisting Captain, the senior cabin crew made a corresponding announcement on the PA. With the aircraft still in cloud on a northerly heading and descending through 1,380 feet QNH, the assisting Captain began progressively extending the flaps, completing this in 30 seconds as the aircraft passed 980 feet QNH. About this time, the aircraft emerged from cloud and flight by visual reference to the terrain below became possible. The captain selected a field in the direction of travel for an emergency landing attempt, making a small heading change to avoid some houses. The First Officer asked if the gear should be selected down and, on being so instructed by the assisting Captain, did so. ATC were advised of imminent terrain impact and approximately 4 minutes after take-off, trees were struck and most of the right wing detached causing a bank to the right. The aircraft hit gently downward-sloping frozen ground tail first and the fuselage broke in two places but slid as one object for about 110 metres before stopping. There was no fire and all but four of the occupants were able to exit the wreckage unaided, about half of them via the openings caused by the break up of the fuselage. An annotated reconstruction of the flight path was made during the Investigation and is reproduced below. No evidence was found that the two engines which