An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). Flight Data Recorder (FDR)/QAR data was available for both aircraft but Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was available only for the Air France aircraft after no attempt was made to prevent overwriting of the Easyjet aircraft CVR. It was established that with procedural ATC service being provided due to radar unserviceability, the Air France A319, with the aircraft commander as PF had been cleared by the trainee APP controller to climb on the LUMEL 5T SID to FL 110, a generally westerly track. Approximately a minute later, the same trainee controller also cleared the inbound (Easyjet Switzerland) A319, being flown by a Training Captain as PF in the right hand seat supervising a trainee Captain occupying the left seat and flying a generally northerly track to the west of the airport, to descend to the same level. The OJTI did not notice the error until he noticed, on a radar display not available for use because of the promulgated unserviceability of the system, that the Air France aircraft was passing FL 100 and immediately alerted the trainee controller accordingly. Shortly after the outbound (Air France) aircraft had had a request for a slight left turn for weather avoidance (there were convective cells in the area) approved and was approaching FL110 at 3000 fpm (a rate which was contrary to both Airbus recommendations and Air France requirements), coordinated TAs occurred simultaneously in both aircraft. Three seconds later, about the same time as the OJTI had noticed and pointed out the conflict, an Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) visual activation occurred at the APP controller’s workstation. The trainee controller responded to the alerting by his OJTI by instructing the Air France aircraft, as it was passing FL106 for its cleared level FL110, to descend to FL100. Then, 10 seconds after the TAs, co-ordinated RAs occurred - a preventive ‘MONITOR VERTICAL SPEED’ for the Easyjet aircraft which was level at FL110 and a (nominally) corrective ‘MAINTAIN VERTICAL SPEED, CROSSING MAINTAIN’ for the Air France aircraft. In response to their initial preventive RA, the Training Captain in command of the Easyjet aircraft and occupying the right hand seat as PF, immediately disconnected the AP and A/T, pitched up and increased thrust. After a 50 feet gain in altitude, the thrust levers were moved to Idle. Nine seconds after the initial RA, ‘DESCEND CROSSING DESCEND’ was annunciated for just two seconds and was followed immediately by a ‘CLIMB’ RA. The PF applied a sharp nose up input, taking the pitch attitude from -5.6° to +13.8° whilst at the same time turning the aircraft 26°to the left. As the aircraft reached a minimum altitude of 10870 feet, an ‘INCREASE CLIMB’ RA was annunciated and the thrust levers were moved from Idle to TO/GA with the vertical load factor reaching 2.04 G. An unspecified RA was advised to ATC. In response to their initial RA, the crew of the Air France aircraft, who had