given prior to the triggering of the TCAS RA «maintain vertical speed, crossing maintain», inviting the crew on the contrary to maintain a constant rate of climb; brief nose-up input by the PF of flight DS1058 when the AP was disengaged after the TCAS RA «monitor vertical speed» inviting the crew not to climb was issued.. the tendency to decrease the rate of climb of AF7343 further to an instruction from the trainee controller asking the crew to maintain FL100, given prior to the triggering of the TCAS RA «maintain vertical speed, crossing maintain», inviting the crew on the contrary to maintain a constant rate of climb;. brief nose-up input by the PF of flight DS1058 when the AP was disengaged after the TCAS RA «monitor vertical speed» inviting the crew not to climb was issued.. The minor injury to a cabin crew member of flight DS1058 was due to the abrupt manoeuvres by the PF, at the time subject to increasing levels of stress in response to the successive TCAS RAs.. The malfunctions of the radar display system were due to the mismatch between the equipment as it was configured and the traffic liable to be taken into account. Inadequate coordination between the services and the time constraints did not facilitate the detection of this anomaly during the safety studies carried out for changes made prior in the incident.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ICAO study the inclusion of resolution automation when autopilot is engaged as an ACAS standard. Such a study should specifically consider the direct and indirect effects of automation on the ability of crew members to remain aware of the situation and fly manually when necessary. [FRAN 2013 058]. that ICAO study the impact on safety of classifying all resolution advisories (RA) of the preventive type as traffic advisories (TA) only. [FRAN 2013 059]. that the DSNA [The French State ANSP] define a clear instruction on the use of radar imagery when it is uncertain and when procedural control is in use. [FRAN 2013 060]. that EASA study setting a standard for aeroplanes’ smooth vertical flight paths when approaching a level selected by the crew. [FRAN 2013 061]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published in English on 12 May 2014.