in command of the Easyjet aircraft had a total of five years command experience with the Company, two of those as a Training Captain. The trainee Captain he was with had over 3000 hours on type but no previous multi crew command experience. The Air France crew had substantial experience in general and on type in proportion to their rank. The trainee controller was “in training for their first controller qualification” and the OJTI had been unit qualified for 9 years and had acquired an instructor endorsement. The radar unserviceability which had been the cause of the procedural service which had prevailed when the incident had occurred was found to be a long running issue which had been subject to NOTAM and was especially well known to crews based at Base-Mulhouse such as the Easyjet Switzerland crew involved. However, despite a recent history of prolonged area radar outage at the Unit, it was found that neither the OJTI nor the trainee controller had controlled operationally using procedural service prior to the beginning of the shift cycle in which the incident occurred. It was also noted that “nothing restricts instruction being undertaken in a procedural control situation”. It was considered that the selective activation of the monitors and the viewing on them of “an uncertain radar image” which was occurring at the time of the incident and which was not the subject of any procedure, “may have helped create confusion about the positions of the aircraft”. Workload on the APP frequency at the time was low. In the hour prior to the conclusion of the incident, just ten inbound and four outbound aircraft had been worked with a maximum of four on being on the frequency at the same time just twice during the hour. When the Air France aircraft was cleared to climb to FL110, there were two other aircraft on frequency. The Investigation “sought to identify the different types of RA leading to erroneous crew inputs, in particular ‘monitor vertical speed’”. However, it was found that neither operator used flight data algorithms which would enable the detection of contradictory corrections for this particular RA. Interviews with the controllers and pilots involved led to the following findings: The trainee controller said that he “had cleared the crew of AF7343 to climb to FL110 thinking he had said FL100” and “did not pay attention to the crew read back as he was thinking about the strategy to adopt for a second incoming aeroplane that was descending to FL120”.. The Training Captain in command of the Easyjet aircraft said, in relation to his response to the RA sequence, that: he did not intentionally make a nose-up input from level flight when the first (preventive) RA, ‘monitor vertical speed’, which required no alteration to the flight path, occurred. He felt that the occurrence of an RA of whatever type may provoke in him a need for a reaction due to the implicit risk of collision and anxiety generated by the aural and visual