just begun to respond to the ATC ‘descend’ instruction received as they passed FL106 by reducing pitch attitude, recommenced the climb. The RA was announced by the First Officer incorrectly to ATC as a “TCAS Climb”. Eleven seconds later, at the same time as the other aircraft received its ‘Climb’, the Air France aircraft received a DESCEND RA. The necessary pitch down was made, ATC were advised correctly of a TCAS Descent with the aircraft reaching a maximum of 11,040 feet before commencing the descent. The tracks and altitude changes in above two illustrations are annotated with numbers which identify equivalent points on both. In effect, the initially applied TCAS logic was to resolve the imminent loss of separation by keeping the Air France aircraft climbing - if necessary beyond its cleared level of FL110 and ensuring that the Easyjet aircraft, already level at FL110, stayed there. In line with the TCAS RA process, this resolution assumed no changes of track. But what happened was that, with a rate of climb that was abnormally high when so close to a cleared level, the Air France aircraft took more time to reverse its climb than would otherwise have been the case and at the same time, the Easyjet aircraft was put into a descent towards it. This resulted in both aircraft getting further RAs to reverse their respective climb and descent to which both responded and the Easyjet aircraft was additionally turned approximately 30°to the left of its previous track. Shortly afterwards, both aircraft received RA’s to adjust their vertical speed and the “Clear of Conflict” messages came 36 seconds after the first RAs. The Investigation calculated that “the minimum angular separation in the sequence…corresponded to a separation of 0.29 nm horizontally and 1760 feet vertically”. It was also found that “the two aircraft were at the same flight level for the second time at a horizontal distance of 2.2 nm, i.e. (for) a flight time of about 16 seconds with a closing speed of approximately 500 knots”. By the conclusion of their respective descent/climb, the Air France aircraft had reached FL105 and the Easyjet aircraft almost FL126. The effect of the turn made by the Easyjet aircraft during the RA sequence was analysed and it was noted that it had resulted in the aircraft passing in front of the Air France aircraft instead of behind it which it would have done if it had maintained its track and it “did not increase the separation”. The TCAS RA response procedure was reviewed. It was found that the Airbus procedure, adopted in full by Easyjet, required no action until an RA occurred when, for all RAs, both preventive and corrective, the AP and both FDs should be disconnected. In the case of Air France, their procedure at the time required that the FD be switch off as soon as any TA occurred. The Easyjet procedure was not properly followed but the Air France one was. The Investigation noted that the Training Captain