hand, and on the interval between the TA and RA on the other but it was not the cause of the reversal of the RA.. When the first RAs occurred, both the decrease in vertical speed of AF7343 in accordance with the instruction from the controller (maintain FL100) and the increase in vertical speed of DS1058 due to the inappropriate nose-up input of the PF “were contrary to the initial resolution logic of the TCAS” and “although they were short, they may have played a part in reaching the thresholds at which a reversal became necessary”.. The left turn made by the Easyjet PF during the RA sequence was at variance with the principle of vertical separation on constant tracks on which TCAS is founded.. Given that the Easyjet Training Captain had “received the training required to carry out his duties as a Captain and an Instructor” and “was experienced and competent in terms of the checks he had performed” it was considered that “the incident shows that these criteria do not guarantee a consistently high level of performance, especially when the pilot is subject to stress”.. It is likely that simulator-based TCAS training does not realistically reflect operational situations such as those encountered during this event.. The formally-recorded Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The loss of separation that characterised this serious incident was due to an error in speech by the trainee controller, who cleared AF7343 to climb to FL110, a flight level to which he planned to clear the crew of DS1058 to descend and to which he actually cleared them shortly thereafter, and the non-detection of that error by the instructor controller.. The following may have contributed to the error in speech and to the fact it was not detected: the safety study and rapid implementation of CPUs that were unserviceable at the time of the serious incident; the unusual situation for each of the two controllers, combining conventional control procedures, the use of a radar declared inoperative and weather avoidance requests; the contact role undertaken by the instructor controller between the trainee controller and the coordinator controller was not conducive to the supervision of the trainee controller.. the safety study and rapid implementation of CPUs that were unserviceable at the time of the serious incident;. the unusual situation for each of the two controllers, combining conventional control procedures, the use of a radar declared inoperative and weather avoidance requests;. the contact role undertaken by the instructor controller between the trainee controller and the coordinator controller was not conducive to the supervision of the trainee controller.. It is possible that the vertical speed of AF7343 played a role in the sequence in which the TA and then the RA occurred.. The worsening of the loss of separation, evidenced by the reversal of the TCAS RAs, was due to the conjunction of: the tendency to decrease the rate of climb of AF7343 further to an instruction from the trainee controller asking the crew to maintain FL100,