alarms. due to the speed of the sequence and his state of stress, he disabled the AP but did not, as required, disable the FDs or ask the PNF to disable them. For this reason, being aware that the FDs were still engaged and the possible consequence on the management of thrust on the A/T, he decided to disable it and operate the thrust levers manually during the various resolution manoeuvres. Being aware of the position of the conflict on his right, he “voluntarily made a left turn in order to increase the separation”. He reported having seen AF7343 during the turn. He feared a collision during the incident. He “did not think about safeguarding the CVR” after landing at Basle.. he did not intentionally make a nose-up input from level flight when the first (preventive) RA, ‘monitor vertical speed’, which required no alteration to the flight path, occurred.. He felt that the occurrence of an RA of whatever type may provoke in him a need for a reaction due to the implicit risk of collision and anxiety generated by the aural and visual alarms.. due to the speed of the sequence and his state of stress, he disabled the AP but did not, as required, disable the FDs or ask the PNF to disable them. For this reason, being aware that the FDs were still engaged and the possible consequence on the management of thrust on the A/T, he decided to disable it and operate the thrust levers manually during the various resolution manoeuvres.. Being aware of the position of the conflict on his right, he “voluntarily made a left turn in order to increase the separation”. He reported having seen AF7343 during the turn.. He feared a collision during the incident.. He “did not think about safeguarding the CVR” after landing at Basle.. The trainee Captain on the Easyjet aircraft said that: The series of powerful vertical accelerations, including the negative acceleration, made him lose sight of the instruments. He considered that he had been influenced by the situation and was surprised by various factors such as the reversal of the RA or the left turn made by the PF. In retrospect, he wondered whether he ought to have intervened, in particular to moderate the extent of the manoeuvres.. The series of powerful vertical accelerations, including the negative acceleration, made him lose sight of the instruments.. He considered that he had been influenced by the situation and was surprised by various factors such as the reversal of the RA or the left turn made by the PF.. In retrospect, he wondered whether he ought to have intervened, in particular to moderate the extent of the manoeuvres.. Analysis of all the available evidence led to a number of observations in respect of the TCAS RA sequence and the reversal which occurred in particular: The excessive rate of climb as the Air France aircraft neared FL110 may have had an influence on the occurrence of the TA on the one