times. The ILS approach was completed to a normal landing on runway 27 as planned and although the distraction of flashing warning lights and aural callouts continued throughout, the flight controls, flaps and gear were unaffected. On landing, “numerous aircraft systems failed including the autobrakes, half the exterior lights and the airspeed indications on the Captain’s Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator (EADI)". When the aircraft reached its allocated parking position, it was found that it was impossible to connect ground power. Although the flaps had been retracted, the flap indicator still showed them as deployed. The cargo door, cargo bay and multiple items on the flight deck remained without power. The crew briefed the ground engineers and completed the Aircraft Technical Log before continuing to Aberdeen with a replacement aircraft. Engineers later discovered that the Generator Control Unit (GCU) for the no. 2 generator, which was located in the flight deck behind the right pilot’s seat, was not correctly fitted in its housing. Both pilots had considerable experience of the 737 Classic and were familiar with operations with an inoperative engine-driven generator in accordance with the MEL. The Captain was on his first week of flying after completing company-required flight training and operational checks. It was noted that none of the available Checklists matched the flight deck indications which had occurred with the closest being ‘Loss of all Engine Driven Generators’ which was not used by the crew because “they did not believe they had lost all engine generators”. It was accepted that there had been “no other checklist that would have provided any assistance”. It was recognised that given the prevailing good weather conditions, the point in the flight when the failure occurred and the availability of a long runway at East Midlands, it had a been relatively straightforward matter to safely complete the flight. However, had the aircraft been in cloud and/or there had been poor weather conditions on the ground, doing so with little automation available and with the First Officer unable to effectively monitor the aircraft flight path it could easily have been “challenging”. West Atlantic UK was a specialist cargo operator with a large Boeing 737 fleet which mainly operated overnight network services for major clients. During the eighteen months prior to the investigated event, their fleet had increased from 11 to 17 aircraft and had continued to increase whilst the Investigation was in progress. During this time it had also moved its main operating base from Coventry to East Midlands as well as relocating “its AOC administration and Part ‘M’ responsibilities to a nearby business park”. It was noted that a group internal audit carried out in the spring of 2018 had identified concerns with the level of competence personnel manning Line Maintenance Control and as a result, a new post of LMC Manager had been established to take over line maintenance management functions from the Operations Manager and LMC had been placed under the Part ‘M’ organisation. Revisions to LMC procedures and additional staff