investigation, the fault in the No 1 generation system was eventually traced to an open phase on one of the three power feeder cables that run from Generator 1 to its CB because one of the three pins in the connector at the wing / pylon disconnect was burnt. The extent of the damage made it impossible to determine the cause although Boeing commented that previous such occurrences “had usually been caused either by the connector having not been correctly torqued or because its wire spacer was missing”. They stated that this was “a known problem” and advised that a Service Letter had been issued to operators with suggested ways to achieve the best possible linking of these pins to the connectors. The finding after the flight that the No 2 GCU had been out of place in its rack was found to have meant that the contacts at the rear of the unit had disengaged from the contacts in the equipment rack. It was found that the unit locking device was serviceable and in the locked position with “no visible damage to the electrical shelf, tray or its connectors”. The correct re-racking of the unit was all that was required. It was found that although there was no record in the aircraft Technical Log or on worksheets for the previous 12 days of any intentional disturbance to the No 2 GCU, “messages on the company’s online maintenance tracking system stated that it had been disconnected on three occasions during this period as part of the attempt to clear the ADD on the left engine generator”. Boeing commented that “there had been no reports during the previous four years of electrical units having been incorrectly racked (and that) there was no model-wide or Boeing 737 fleet trend of units separating from the racks during flight”. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: This Serious Incident was caused by the incorrect racking of GCU 2 which moved forward in flight initially causing an intermittent and then total disconnection of the electrical connector. The aircraft was not designed to operate with the GCU disconnected and the crew were presented with an unusual situation that was not covered in the QRH. The activities surrounding the management of the faults on G-JMCR during the previous 12 days, and the actions of the crew in handling the emergency, indicates a weakness in the operator’s policies and procedures for the management of risk. Engineers were not always given sufficient time to investigate the faults, with the result that fault finding was often repeated and not finished. Work at a number of locations was not recorded as having been carried out in the aircraft documentation. The aircraft was dispatched from its main operation base with an ADD and flew through a number of locations where it could have been cleared, which was contrary to the procedures in the Operations Manual. Communication between LMC, the commander and the Part 145 organisation at Amsterdam was ineffective