training were ongoing at the time of the investigated event. It was noted that the OM made a series of statements about the use of the MEL which included the following: The aircraft may depart on the flight or series of flights for the purpose of returning directly to a base where the repairs or replacements can be made. The aircraft may continue the flight or series of flights but shall not depart an airport where repairs or replacements can be made. This statement is intended to allow the aircraft to be flown using the most direct route, to the nearest maintenance base where arrangements for repairs or replacements can be made. Once the aircraft lands at the maintenance base, the aircraft shall not be dispatched until the defect has been rectified. It was also noted that in the event that an ADD cannot be cleared within the stated MEL time limits, a facility existed for one-time issue of a ‘Rectification Interval Extension’ (RIE) which “should only be used in exceptional circumstances (and) must only be approved when it was not reasonably practical for the repairs to be made” where ‘reasonably practical’ was defined as meaning “the availability of spares, time and personal”. It was noted that the day before the investigated event had occurred, an RIE had been approved to the MEL limit for the inoperative No 1 generator with the reason given as “extensive wiring checks and component replacements have been carried out to isolate the fault on generator 1 system which is tripping TRU 1 CB when selected (and) the fault finding so far has not managed to isolate the root cause, further trouble shooting required”. It was noted that the ADD had originally been raised when the aircraft was undergoing scheduled maintenance at the main operating base and that prior to the issue of the RIE when the aircraft was in Oslo, it had been back at the East Midlands main operating base on three further occasions. During this period, troubleshooting with a view to rectification had also commenced when the aircraft was at a number of other bases but in each case it “could not be completed before the aircraft was dispatched”. Overall, the Investigation found considerable evidence that the operator had not appeared to be using the MEL “in the spirit of EASA’s Acceptable Means of Compliance or its own procedures”. It seemed that rather than using the MEL to allow an aircraft to return to its main operating base for faults to be rectified, it was instead being used “to enable the aircraft to meet operational commitments” with a number of instances where the aircraft had been dispatched from a place where, given enough time, rectification could have been achieved. It was specifically considered that the RIE issued to allow the aircraft to operate out of Oslo had not been issued in the required “exceptional circumstances”; rather it had been a way for “the operator to meet operational commitments”. After the flight under