in highlighting the underling technical problems on the aircraft. The engineer was unaware of the full history of the faults and the concerns that LMC conveyed to the commander that there was a “serious electrical fault on the aircraft”. The engineer was tasked with resetting the generators and spent less than 30 minutes at the aircraft. Despite the ongoing concerns with the electrical systems previously raised by a number of engineers and crews, and the unusual set of failures that occurred during the landing at Amsterdam, LMC did not carry out any form of risk assessment or ensure a deeper investigation was carried out before the aircraft departed Amsterdam. While the commander had the ultimate decision on accepting the aircraft, he was new to the company and may have relied on the advice of the engineers without being aware that the engineer had only been tasked with resetting the generators. The operator had previously identified that there was a need to restructure LMC, introduce the post of Defect Controller and provide staff with further training to improve their competency. A total of 6 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that West Atlantic UK revises its policy and procedures for approving and clearing Minimum Equipment List entries and Rectification Interval Extensions to ensure that it conforms with the guidance contained within the European Aviation Safety Agency Acceptable Means of Compliance. [2019-004]. that West Atlantic UK ensures that all work undertaken on its aircraft is documented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1321/2014 (regarding continuing airworthiness). [2019-005]. that West Atlantic UK revises its policy and procedures to ensure effective management of defects, and the undertaking of dynamic risk assessments of the airworthiness of aircraft during all hours of operation. [2019-006]. that West Atlantic UK revises its policy and procedures for the tasking of maintenance activities by Line Maintenance Control and the sharing of relevant aircraft technical history to ensure that maintenance organisations undertaking work have access to all appropriate information. [2019-007]. that West Atlantic UK revises its Safety Management System to meet the requirements of the scale and nature of their operation. [2019-008]. that the Civil Aviation Authority assess West Atlantic UK’s Safety Management System to ensure it meets the requirements of the scale and nature of their operation. [2019-009]. The Final Report was published on 5 September 2019.