A Field Investigation was carried by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded but although the 30 minute CVR provided data from about 5 minutes before the beginning of the descent to East Midlands, data from the FDR, whilst complete, did not include that relevant to the functioning of electrical system components. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain, who had recently joined the operator, had accumulated a total of 8,418 flying hours which included 6,314 hours on type. The First Officer was acting as PF for the departure. It was established that on taking over the aircraft on its arrival at Leipzig, the crew had met and briefly discussed with the off-going crew the fact that the aircraft had been released to service with an Acceptable Deferred Defect (ADD) for an inoperative No. 1 (left engine-powered) generator under an MEL item which permitted this provided that the APU and the APU generator were running during each flight so that the No 1 electrical system could be powered by the APU generator. The flight from Leipzig to Amsterdam was uneventful until landing at Amsterdam when the First Officer’s flight instrument displays intermittently blanked and a number of warning lights on the overhead electrical system panel were intermittently lit. It was not clear to the crew what the cause of this was but they suspected a No 2 generator fault so they attempted to link the APU generator to the No. 2 electrical system but were unsuccessful and the aircraft was taxied to its allocated parking position and shut down. The crew then contacted the operator’s Line Maintenance Control (LMC) who arranged for a local engineer in Amsterdam to attend the aircraft. On arrival, he examined Generator 2 and the relevant flight deck circuit breakers and reset one of them. To ensure this had solved the problem, he asked the crew to do an engine ground run which was done and appeared to show that the No 2 electrical system was working normally. The engineer then cleared the defect entry and signed the release to service. The crew reported that before leaving Amsterdam, they had discussed what they might do if the no 2 engine generator did fail. The flight was uneventful until it was about 60 nm from destination when soon after the decent had begun, an uncommanded AP disconnect occurred and the First Officer’s EFIS screens blanked and his remaining instruments failed. The Captain took over control manually and disconnected the A/T. It was reported that “numerous lights on the overhead panel and on system annunciation panels illuminated and flashed and multiple aural TAWS warnings occurred". As both pilots had the runway in sight, the Captain instructed the First Officer to make a PAN call and ask for vectors direct to the ILS at East Midlands. For the remainder of the flight, the First Officer’s flight instruments continued to cycle on and off “numerous”