In-flight turbulence is the leading cause of injuries to passengers and flight attendants. There have been several accidents and incidents over the years involving clear air turbulence that highlight the importance of keeping loose objects restrained and safety belts fastened throughout a flight. In January 2012, Transport Canada (TC) issued Advisory Circular (AC) 605-004, Issue No. 1 – Use of Safety Belts, in order to emphasize the importance of using the proper restraints during all phases of flight, as sudden, moderate-to- severe turbulence can be the cause of injuries to all on board. It also states that lap-held infants remain subject to injury if not secured during periods of turbulence. In 1995, after several serious and unexpected events of turbulence, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a public advisory to airlines urging the use of seatbelts at all times when passengers are seated. Most airlines now comply, but the requirement does not apply to children younger than 2 years because they are not required to be restrained at any time during the flight. Following several occurrences involving fatalities and/or injuries during moderate-to-severe turbulence in flight, the FAA issued an Advisory Circular (AC 120-88A) in 2007 addressing the subject of Preventing Injuries Caused by Turbulence. The AC provided information and practices that were known to be effective in preventing injuries caused by turbulence, which includes prompt and clear communication between flight crew and flight attendants, and with passengers on staying seated with seatbelts fastened. It also stressed the importance for flight attendants to secure the cabin equipment so that loose objects will not be thrown about the cabin. The AC also suggested that air carriers develop and implement practices to encourage the use of an approved CRS to secure an infant or a small child that is appropriate for that child’s size and weight; regulations on CRS, however, have not changed. The AC states: Parents and guardians should be encouraged to have children under 2 occupy an approved CRS any time the fasten seatbelt sign is illuminated. Flight attendants are encouraged to verify that the CRS is secured properly in a forward facing seat and that the child appears to be properly secured in the CRS. On 17 September 2010, the FAA issued Advisory Circular AC 120-87B – Use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) on Aircraft. The AC was intended to be a resource for the development, implementation and revision of air carriers’ standard operating procedures and training programs regarding the use of CRS. Although this AC provided considerable information regarding CRS for children over the age of 2, it did not address children under the age of 2. The AC indicated that children under the age of 2 may be held in an adult’s lap during takeoff, landing or movement on the surface. This AC has now been replaced by AC 120-87C {September 2015) The issue of child safety restraints was recently raised by ICAO member states. ICAO was asked to lead the states on how to best approach