The rapid increase in use of and range of PEDs has led regulators to re-assess their policies on PED use on board aircraft used for commercial air transport. Although there was never any documented evidence of risk to flight safety, for many years, the “Precautionary Principle” was applied and the use of all PEDs was banned during critical phases of flight (takeoff / initial climb and approach and landing), this being usually defined by the illumination of the seat belt signs during those flight phases. Following the issue of revised guidance, airlines regulated by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) are able to permit passenger use of PEDs operating in non-transmitting mode in all phases of flight as detailed: Federal Aviation Administration European Union Aviation Safety Agency It is expected that other regulatory agencies will follow with similar guidance to their commercial air transport operators. Under the guidance issued by FAA and EASA, any PED which is capable of transmitting and receiving - termed a T-PED - must still be selected to ‘Flight Mode’ or ‘Airplane Mode’ before take off and remain so until after landing so that their transmitting and receiving capability is disabled. Any T-PED without such a capability must remain off throughout the flight. The guidance on extended use of PEDs is permissive rather than mandatory and it is therefore at the discretion of each airline whether its provisions are used. Before allowing more extensive use of PEDs on board, operators are expected to carry out a risk assessment exercise to ensure that any identified hazards are appropriately managed. The FAA has provided detailed guidance on how it is expected that this will be done: Supplement to FAA InFO 13010 “Aid to Operators for the Expanded Use of Passenger PEDS”. Each airline which chooses to relax their PED use policy is required to inform their safety regulatory authority of such action and confirm that appropriate risk management is in place. It should be noted that, whilst the use of T-PEDs will still be prohibited once the engines have been started prior to taxi out and whilst airborne, EASA has now joined the FAA and Transport Canada in permitting airlines to allow their use during the taxi in after landing. The following table provides a general summary of permitted PED use with activated / deactivated ‘Flight Mode’ during the different flight phases (note that the policies of individual airlines may be more restrictive).