An Investigation is being carried out by the Air Accident Investigation Commission of the Interstate Aviation Committee (MAK). Both the FDR and the 2 hour CVR were recovered from the wreckage with the former having sustained "substantial damage" due to the high temperatures in the fire but the data from both was successfully downloaded. Recorded data from ATC and airport ground-based facilities including surveillance cameras was also available. It was noted that the 42 year-old Captain who was PF for the accident landing, had a total of 6,800 total flying hours of which 1,570 hours were on type with 1,428 of the those on-type hours having been recorded when in command. Prior to joining Aeroflot in 2016, he had been employed as a pilot by Transaero on the Boeing 737 for five years after leaving Russian government employment as a pilot in 2011 where he had mainly flown the IL76. The 36 year-old First Officer had a total of 765 flying hours of which 615 hours were on type and achieved after joining Aeroflot in 2018 following 150 hours of initial pilot training at flight school which had been completed in 2016. It has been established that the flight had departed from Sheremetyevo runway 24C on a KN 24E SID. The crew realised as they continued to climb on the SID track that there was significant convective weather ahead and the CVR recorded the Captain saying “we’re going to get shaken" to which the First Officer responded with “damn it" and the Captain replied "nothing to worry about". Soon after this, as the turn to track inbound track to the KN (Kostino) NDB began five minutes after takeoff (see the illustration below) with the aircraft about to pass FL090 at 250 KCAS, it entered an area of significant convective activity. As the crew were acknowledging a re-clearance to FL110 and continuous engine ignition was being selected on, the aircraft was reported by the crew to have received a lightning strike. They responded by replacing ‘CLIMB’ mode with ‘VS’ mode and setting a 3280 fpm rate of climb but almost immediately an uncommanded disconnect of the AP and an audio alert of AFCS reversion to ‘DIRECT MODE’ occurred. The A/T remained engaged. Ground-based doppler weather radar confirmed that at this time, the aircraft had been flying through the centre of an active thunderstorm area which was moving north-east at a little over 20 knots. A few seconds after the reversion, “the Captain switched to manual control”. His first control input was to reduce the bank angle and lower the nose. FDR data then showed further side stick control inputs “of an abrupt and intermittent character” in both roll and pitch channels and as the aircraft initially continued to climb on the SID track, the A/T was disengaged by thrust lever movement. After a short discussion with the First Officer, the Captain decided to return to Sheremetyevo and instructed the First Officer to declare a PAN. When several attempts to make contact