which led to fuel spillage. As the aircraft continued along the runway resting on the engine nacelles and the rear fuselage, an “aft cargo compartment fire" event was recorded as the ground speed reduced through around 100 knots (although given the nature of the sensors involved, this was considered to have indicated the presence of smoke rather than fire). Approximately 130 metres beyond the position of this final touchdown, an intense fuel-fed fire was observed to begin. The TWR controller called for "Emergency Services to the runway" and as the aircraft continued to slow down, members of the cabin crew were recorded reporting fire. With the aircraft ground speed down to around 25 knots, an APU Fire event was recorded and the aircraft was observed to turn left towards a nose into wind orientation, finally coming to a stop off the side of the runway some 38 seconds after the first touchdown. A flight crew PA of "Attention crew! On station” was made twice after which the Captain “called for the Emergency Evacuation Checklist" although there was no subsequent CVR record of it being completed. Eleven seconds after the flight deck “on station” PA to the cabin crew, a cabin crew PA of "undo the seatbelts, leave everything, evacuate” was recorded and the Captain called out "evacuation". The Investigation has already carried out preliminary comparative analysis of manually flown approaches previously made by the Captain with the flight control system in ‘NORMAL’ mode with the approach made prior to the accident landing. The accident flight approach was found to be characterised by side stick movements of a significantly wider amplitude and degree of oscillation than flights in ‘NORMAL’ mode with these causing “significant changes of longitudinal motion parameters”. An examination of a series of manually flown approaches in ‘DIRECT’ mode which had been made by other Aeroflot pilots in the same aircraft type showed that side stick inputs were similar and “reasons for these peculiarities are being analysed”. The aircraft designer has been requested by the Investigation to perform mathematical modelling of the accident flight in order to confirm that the aircraft performed in accordance with its type certification and to make an assessment of the possible influence of external disturbances on the performance. The Investigation also intends to conduct experiments in a full flight simulator to assess crew performance during the accident flight. The damage consequent upon a total of 16 previously recorded lightning strikes to the aircraft type has been examined and it was found that nine of these events had resulted in the aircraft electrical systems being compromised or reversion of the flight control system to ‘DIRECT’ mode for any other reason. Eight previous reversions of RRJ-95 flight control systems to ‘DIRECT’ mode during the four years prior to the accident under investigation have been identified, as have 6 hard landings, none of which were as severe as the one which led to the accident. It was noted that certification of the aircraft type for severity of