thrust. This in turn increased the airspeed which reached 164 KCAS as the runway threshold was crossed at 40 feet agl and continued to increase to 170 KCAS - although this speed was still less than the FCOM maximum of Vapp+20 required to remain within stabilised landing approach criteria. Once past the runway threshold, the rate of descent was decreased and at 17 feet agl, the auto callout "RETARD. RETARD" prompted the crew to set the thrust to Idle during the flare. The Captain began to flare the aircraft only after setting the thrust levers to Idle and thereafter his side stick inputs began to oscillate between the maximum pitch up and maximum pitch down positions “with a relatively long holding period in both maximum positions”. The first touchdown on the 3700 metre long 60 metre-wide runway 24L occurred approximately 890 metres beyond its threshold at Vapp +3 and at a pitch attitude close to zero with all three landing gear legs making near-simultaneous runway contact. At touchdown, recorded as at 2.55 g, the side stick was in the maximum pitch up position but within 0.4 seconds, this had changed to maximum pitch down. It was noted that in ‘DIRECT MODE’, automatic ground spoiler deployment does not occur and FDR data showed that the manual deployment did not occur. After this first touchdown, the aircraft bounced no more than 6 feet but contrary to the required response for this relatively modest bounce, the side stick was held at the maximum pitch down position which resulted in a nose down attitude and a recorded increase in the rate of descent to over 600 fpm. A nose-gear-first second touchdown approximately 1070 metres beyond the runway threshold occurred just 2.2 seconds after the first at a similar forward speed. The side stick was returned to the fully nose up position immediately before the 5.85 g touchdown after which the aircraft became airborne again. This impact resulted in the main gear collapsing rearwards in accordance with the significant exceedance of the design limits for vertical acceleration at touchdown. Although the Captain had selected maximum reverse during the first bounce, this initially had no effect since the required main gear weight-on-wheel (WOW) sensors were not active again until the second bounce occurred which delayed the associated engine thrust increase. After the second bounce during which the aircraft reached the height of between 15 and 18 feet it was found that the thrust levers had been briefly set to "Takeoff" and the side stick position moved to maximum pitch up. It was considered by the Investigation that these actions may be interpreted as an attempt to commence a go-around. Three seconds after the second touchdown at 140 KCAS, a third touchdown occurred at approximately 1360 metres beyond the runway threshold at a minimum of 5 g with the right wing low. Runway markings confirmed that by this time, both main gear legs had already collapsed so that the final touchdown caused structural disintegration of the airframe