with the controller using COM 1 failed, the transponder squawk was set to 7600 to indicate a loss of radio communication before contact was re-established on 121.5 MHz using COM 2. Contact with the Moscow APP controller was then made advising the request to return. An initial descent to FL 080 from the maximum altitude reached (FL 106) maintaining present heading was given and acknowledged and further descent and radar vectors towards the ILS for runway 24L followed. The Captain advised the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) that the aircraft was returning but emphasised “no emergency, we are simply going back". The controller asked the crew if any assistance was required and received the response “No, so far everything is normal, standard” but the crew then responded to the controller’s request for further clarification by saying that they were having problems with the radio communication and that the automatic flight control system had been lost. The First Officer began reading out the QRH drill for ‘F/CTL DIRECT MODE’. The first attempt to make the ILS approach as cleared resulted in the Captain deciding that he was not yet ready to complete it and ten minutes after the lightning strike had occurred, at 2600 feet QNH (790 metres, which was equivalent to 600 metres on the Sheremetyevo QFE), a right hand orbit at that altitude was requested and approved. FDR data showed that during this orbit, the Captain was not able to maintain the target altitude accurately. Whilst it was continuing, the First Officer read out the QRH drill for an overweight landing (the ELW was about 1600 kg above the 41,000 kg MLW). This included switching off the engine bleed air supply to the air conditioning and pressurisation system and ensuring that the rate of descent for touchdown must not exceed 360 fpm which was still in excess of the FCOM-recommended 150-200 fpm for normal operations. After completing the orbit, the aircraft was established on the localiser at more than 11 nm. Descent on the ILS GS began at 1800 feet QFE and was flown mainly at or slightly above the calculated Vapp of 155 KIAS and consistently slightly below the GS but, with one brief exception, within half scale deviation. FDR data recorded a predictive wind shear warning as the aircraft descended through 1600 feet QFE (1100 feet agl) which lasted for 11 seconds but was ignored without crew discussion. When the aircraft auto callout of 1000 feet agl occurred whilst the warning (which could be disregarded if the crew assessed that it was safe to do) was still active, the Captain responded with “proceed” and the First Officer replied “check”. The approach thereafter was normal until immediately after the auto call at the DH of 270 feet (82 metres) when a rapid increase in the rate of descent increased the ILS GS deviation beyond half scale. This triggered a TAWS "GLIDESLOPE" alert which continued for 4 seconds to which the Captain responded with “Advisory" whilst he simultaneously increased