A Field Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. The 2 hour CVR and the FDR were removed from the aircraft and their respective data were successfully downloaded. ATC recorded data was also available. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain had a total of 6,623 hours flying experience of which 1,321 hours were on type with 266 of the hours on type in command. The First Officer had a total of 17,772 hours flying experience of which 2,987 hours were on type. An ‘International Relief Officer’ (IRO) was occupying the centre supernumerary crew seat on the flight deck. All three pilots were interviewed by investigators. It was established that during the takeoff roll on the 3,199 metre-long runway 24, the Captain heard an unusual noise which, as it was increasing in volume, led him to take control from the First Officer and reject the takeoff from a high speed. Both operating crew stated that they believed the maximum speed had been around 100 knots which was well below the applicable V1 of 146 KIAS. On instructions from the TWR controller, the aircraft was taxied onto taxiway ‘A’ to carry out checks and calculate the required brake cooling time before another takeoff could be attempted. They subsequently advised ATC that they would need to wait 35-40 minutes and were then directed to taxi to hold on Taxiway C. Whilst there, the IRO contacted the company Maintenance Department, who advised that the aircraft should return to stand so that inspections could be carried out and permission for this was requested and received from ATC. As this relocation began the Captain remarked that the aircraft was “pulling to the left” and as a result intended to taxi slowly. A rumbling noise was audible on the CVR at this time and prompted a brief crew discussion about the possibility of a deflated tyre. Due to extensive taxiway closures, the route back to the stand involved re-entering and routing along the runway and whilst this was in progress, the controller advised that smoke could be seen coming from the aircraft left main landing gear. The flight crew requested a service vehicle to assist and on arriving at the aircraft, the airport duty officer driving it informed ATC that the left main landing gear was on fire. The TWR controller immediately informed the crew and requested that they initiate an emergency evacuation from the right hand side of the aircraft and dispatched the AFRS to the scene. The 152 passengers and cabin crew were quickly evacuated using escape slides and ATC were advised that the fire had been extinguished and that the flight crew were also about to leave. Fire Damage to Left Main Landing Gear (looking rearwards)[reproduced from official report] A review of the CVR data found that there had been no V1 call prior to a reject call three knots above it at 149 KCAS. FDR data showed that the actual maximum speed had been 160 KCAS after the thrust levers