had been retarded and maximum auto brake selected at 152 KCAS. An increasingly loud wind noise can be heard on the CVR following the 80 knot call and 10 seconds after that call, the First Officer says “window OK?” but, although this is not acknowledged by the Captain, after a further 7 seconds, the Captain calls “reject”. Conversation between the pilots after the rejected takeoff included their combined suspicion that the most likely cause of the noise would have been a window not closed, although the IRO appeared to say that he had observed a ‘locked’ (i.e. ‘closed’) indication. Boeing were invited to review the FDR data and provide an analysis of the wheel and brake system performance and concluded that brake pressure had in general been symmetrical with the peak pressures less than half the maximum and in all respects normal. They considered that the longitudinal deceleration during the reject had been consistent with that expected for the aircraft weight, configuration and device use. No evidence was found during the post-reject taxiing of the left yaw that would have been expected had a brake unit been dragging or a brake locked. The wheel and brake units were remove from the left main bogie and sent to the USA-based OEM where they were examined in the presence of an FAA representative but no specific source of the brake fire could be identified. The associated hydraulic lines were similarly inspected at the corresponding OEM and no ignition source could be identified there either. It was noted that the Boeing FCTM advises that an open flight deck window does not in itself warrant a high speed rejected takeoff but also notes that the noise from an open window may interfere with crew communications. The Omni Air FCOM was found to state that a rejected take-off should only be performed above 80 knots and prior to V1 if the aircraft is “unsafe or unable to fly’" In this instance, the Captain decided to reject the takeoff because of the unidentified and (significantly) the increasing level of noise. As alluded to in the Boeing FCTM, the noise itself prevented effective communications between the First Officer and the Captain and it was therefore considered likely that the Captain did not hear the First Officer querying the status of the left sliding window. On the same subject, it was found that the Boeing FCOM ‘Before Start Procedure’ specifies that two checks should be made to confirm that a flight deck sliding window is closed and locked - the lock lever must be in the forward position and the ‘window not closed’ decal located under the window must not be visible. In addition to this normal procedure, the Captain stated the window indicators above each window were checked. However, Boeing advised that this window indicator only identifies the position of the window latch cam and is a secondary method of verifying that the window is latched after the two FCOM checks have been completed. Finally, it was