The Commitment to safety principle typically includes a statement about the commitment of the organisation’s senior management to ensure that all aspects of service provision meet the safety performance targets. Safety is declared the highest priority of the organisation. These goals are achieved through further commitment of the organisation to provide the necessary resources for the effective management of safety. The Safety responsibility principle requires that all staff of the organisation have individual responsibility for their own actions in respect to safety, and that management is responsible for the safety performance of the organisation. Planning for safety is an important prerequisite for proactive SMS implementation. It enables the setting of organisation’s safety performance targets and identification of strategies, approaches and concrete plans for achievement of acceptable level of safety of services provided. The Safety management principle confirms the commitment to an explicit and proactive approach to safety by means of a formal SMS implementation. It includes the organisational aspects of SMS and requires that a safety management structure with associated roles and responsibilities is established within the organisation. The Safety standards principle ensures the compliance with the applicable safety regulatory requirements and the organisation’s aspiration to adopt internationally recognised safety standards and best practices in safety management. The Safety achievement principle requires that means, processes, procedures and resources are used by the organisation (e.g. risk assessment, occurrence reporting and investigation, etc.) to satisfy the high level safety objective and safety performance targets. Safety assurance includes means, processes, procedures and resources to demonstrate the compliance with the safety standards and deliver the required evidence about the achieved level of safety (e.g. safety surveys, safety records, etc.) Also, the safety assurance methods used by an organisation shall support the identification of safety issues and establishment of recommendations for safety improvement. The Safety Promotion principle ensures that safety lessons and key messages are disseminated throughout the organisation, communication of safety issues is encouraged and changes are systematically made to improve safety. The Safety Policy is typically written and documented under the authority of the highest level of management of the organisation, approved by the State’s regulator and communicated to all staff of the organisation. The properly communicated Safety Policy is a prerequisite for the creation and development of positive safety culture within the aviation operator/service provider.