With the autopilot engaged, the PF ‘flies’ the aircraft using the MCP – whereby the MCP selections command the autopilot. With the auto-pilot not engaged (i.e. when ‘hand flying’ the aircraft) PF flies the aircraft using the control column (or side stick if fitted) and must, through both necessity and SOP, place his hands on the control column and the throttle levers at all times. When hand flying the aircraft, selections must still be made on the MCP, again through both necessity and SOP, to ensure that the FD is engaged in the appropriate modes, that the target value for those modes is set correctly and that the associated ‘bugs’ on the primary flying instruments are set correctly. As the PF must have his hands on the controls when hand flying the aircraft, it is SOP for the PM to make all MCP selections when the aircraft is being hand flown. The workload for the PM therefore increases when the aircraft is being hand flown. The workload for the PF also increases when the aircraft is being hand flown as a great deal of concentration and brain processing power is used in physically controlling the aircraft and scanning the instruments, as opposed to the simpler task of making selections for the auto-pilot and monitoring the instruments to ensure that those selections are achieved by the auto-pilot. When the aircraft is being hand flown the workload as a crew (i.e. for both pilots) is increased significantly and will therefore have a major affect on their ability to maintain situational awareness, multi-task and even single-task depending on the circumstances and task in question. It is worthy of note and worthy of observation during fam flights that the case of hand flying the aircraft is one where the SOPs will actually increase the workload for the flight crew (in addition to the points described above). This is due to the associated increase in SOP verbal calls as follows: With the autopilot engaged, PF makes the MCP selection and then calls any changes to the FMA. Depending on SOPs, this may or may not require a response from the PM. The process therefore requires one action and one or two verbal calls. In the case of the MCP selection being made due to a transmission from ATC e.g. due to a heading, speed or altitude instruction, as it is the PM’s duty to make radio transmissions, the PF can accomplish the MCP selection(s) at the same time as the radio transmission is being received and responded to by the PM. When hand flying the aircraft, the SOP sequence of events will often be that: Note that a single flight path change may require 2 verbal calls from the PF in order for the PM to select both the target value and the appropriate mode on the MCP. As the PM must physically use his hand to transmit a reply to any ATC instructions (i.e. to press the transmit switch) and also that, in order