operation” and following “an extended ramp inspection” at the Isle of Man. It was noted that AESA had advised the Investigation that it: had no knowledge of the ‘Owner’, which was a commercial company and therefore not within its regulatory remit. was unaware of the connection between the ‘Ticket Seller’ and the ‘Owner’. was unaware that two former Eurocontinental Air pilots had moved with the aircraft to the ‘Operator’. was unaware of the remote Operation of the Metro III aircraft following their addition to the Operator’s AOC during 2010 and that had it known this, it would have taken a greater interest.. The Investigation therefore expressed its concern that “the regulatory authority of the State of the Operator did not identify the Operator’s shortcomings, thereby contributing to the cause of the accident.” It noted that, since the UK and Irish regulators were expressly prohibited by Regulation (EC) 1008/2008 from exercising any regulatory function in respect of the operation of aircraft from other Member States within and between their territories, both were obliged to rely on the oversight of Spain “to ensure compliance in regulatory matters”. It was concluded that in practice “the evidence shows that such oversight was of limited scope and low effectiveness.” In this situation, the only “control” on safety standards was observed to have been the SAFA programme of ramp checks which in this case had not identified the extent of systemic shortcomings. However, it was accepted by the Investigation that “SAFA inspections are limited ….in what can be achieved in the protection of the aviation system”. It was also noted that AESA oversight of the Operation required by Regulation (EC) 1008/2008 required that Member State issuing an AOC must also take responsibility for the corresponding Operating Licence. It was concluded that “there was no evidence of any such oversight (of the Operation ) being conducted by Spain”, although noted that “the Regulation makes no provision nor provides procedures of how oversight should be conducted, in particular where operations are carried out from a base outside a Member State” (in this case the Isle of Man). Finally, the Investigation noted the involvement of the EU Air Safety Committee in relation to the Accident Operator in the months following the investigated accident and considered that the scope of its remit might usefully be widened “as part of the EU aviation safety net”. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was “loss of control during an attempted go-around below Decision Height in Instrument Meteorological Conditions”. Nine Contributory Causes, not listed in any order of priority, were also identified: Continuation of approach beyond the outer marker equivalent position without the required minima.. Continuation of descent below Decision Height without adequate visual reference.. Uncoordinated operation of the power levers and the flight controls.. In-flight operation of the power levers below Flight Idle.. A torque split between the engines that became significant when the power levers were operated below Flight Idle.. Tiredness and fatigue on the part of the