although not mandatory, Aircraft Maintenance Manual procedure for a functional check relating to power lever matching had not been used. The residual mismatch was attributed to a faulty sensor which would have led to slightly more fuel flow - and therefore slightly more engine torque - being delivered to the right engine than to the left at the same power lever angle. Operating procedures were examined and it was found that the OM Part ‘A’ prescribed that an ILS Cat 1 Monitored Approach must be flown with the Captain acting as PM until the required visual reference for a landing had been acquired whenever the reported visibility was less than 1200 metres. It was noted that there was no reference to this requirement in the OM Part ‘B’ and the Investigation was told by the Chief Instructor of the Operator that whilst the procedure was trained on the EMB 120, this did not occur on the Metro II/III fleet. It was also found that, contrary to widespread practice elsewhere, there was no limit on the number of consecutive approaches which could be made where there had been no significant improvement in the prevailing weather conditions. There was also no limit on pairing of pilots new to their respective roles, which had allowed a new Captain to operate the accident flight with a relatively inexperienced Co-Pilot. The Investigation found that the requirements of the Flight Time Limitation (FTL) Scheme had been routinely breached and considered that the monitoring of the implementation of that scheme by the ‘Operator’ “was of dubious quality”. It was found that neither of the accident flight pilots had achieved the prescribed rest period prior to commencing their flying duty on the day of the accident and considered that this, in conjunction with the flying of multiple manual approaches at Cork without a Flight Director, had led to a significant risk of fatigue. It was also found that crew rostering was carried out by the Operations Manager of the ‘Owner’ based in the offices of the ‘Ticket Seller’ in the Isle of Man rather than by the ‘Operator’ as AOC holder. One effect of this was that the ‘Operator’, as was the case with the accident flight, did not necessarily know the identity of the operating crew on their aircraft. It was also noted that some crew duty procedures were available only in Spanish and that there was no evidence that the accident flight Co-Pilot, who had accepted a roster change which included the accident flight, had any competency in that language. The issue of regulatory oversight of AOC operations by Spain was considered. The Investigation was informed by EASA that following a “Combined Standardisation Inspection carried out in respect of Spain in September 2010, the identified “areas of concern” had included: Initial certification (issuance of AOCs).. Continued oversight of AOC holders.. Resolution of safety concerns.. As a result, a “Corrective Action Plan” had been prepared and implemented, but European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) was of the opinion