more aircraft to depart (neither reported sighting any debris) before attempting unsuccessfully to contact the Airport Facility Readiness section by radio to advise of the pilot report. When he got no reply, he contacted the ARFF and asked them to “check for the existence of the reported object” and they despatched a vehicle accordingly. When this vehicle requested clearance to enter the runway to carry out the requested inspection, the TWR controller instructed them to hold position until three more aircraft had landed. Thereafter, another Boeing 737-900ER landed and reported to TWR that there were objects on the centreline of the runway just before the taxiway N5 intersection which “consisted of drilling equipment with long cable”. Almost immediately, TWR cleared an Airbus A320 to depart and there was no subsequent report from its flight crew of any object on the runway. Next in the landing sequence was an ATR 72-600 which was cleared to land and exit the runway via taxiway N5, the intersection where the two previous landing aircraft had reported seeing equipment. During the aircraft’s landing roll, 13 seconds after the Captain had taken over control as the groundspeed reduced, its flight crew heard impact noises as they hit something on the runway centreline in the vicinity of the N5 intersection. They subsequently informed the TWR controller that they had seen “drilling equipment and cable near the runway centreline” but were able to continue taxiing in. Two minutes later, a CRJ 1000 landed and the crew reported to TWR that there were some “big pieces of metal on the runway centreline near taxiway N5”. One minute after this, a Boeing 737-800NG landed after which the TWR controller finally decided to close the runway to allow the ARFF inspection to proceed. Once on the runway, they found a compressor hose approximately 10 metres in length, a pneumatic drill and a 4.5kg chisel on the runway located as indicated below. Damage to the aircraft lower fuselage was not discovered until it had arrived at its parking stand on the apron where eight holes ranging in size from 26cm x 14cm to 53cm x 34cm were discovered. The Investigation conducted a comprehensive examination to establish the extent of airport and ATC procedures which would be expected to eliminate the risk of equipment being left on a runway then opened for traffic and those which would minimise the risk to aircraft safety in the event that such items were reported by runway users. It was found that the Aerodrome Manual lacked any record of its status or updating and did not contain any procedures covering the procurement of external contractors for airside work or any requirement for hazard identification and risk management prior to such runway maintenance activity. There were also no documented procedures for runway inspection following runway maintenance or other construction work on the movement area. Other deficiencies identified in respect of the airport operation by the responsible body, the Surabaya (Juanda) Branch Office of PT Angkasa Pura 1 included: