a mismatch between the actual airport opening hours and those which were promulgated. the reliance on runway inspections conducted by RFFS personnel, none of whom had received training for that task which was designated as the responsibility of the Airport Operation and Readiness section. the failure of the Airport Operation and Readiness section to ensure they were contactable when on duty.. It was concluded that the actions of the TWR controller once they began to receive reports of objects on the runway were inappropriate and noted that they had failed to follow the intent of the applicable AC170-02. This included the handling of an obstructed runway which required that “appropriate action”, defined as cancelling further takeoff clearances and instructing any aircraft on final approach to go around, must be taken in the event that a controller “becomes aware of [...] the existence of any obstruction on or in close proximity to the runway likely to impair the safety of an aircraft taking off or landing”. It was noted that the absence of any reports of objects on the runway by departing aircraft was likely to be attributable to their becoming airborne prior to the N5 intersection. The Investigation formally identified two Contributory Factors in respect of the occurrence as follows: The runway inspection that was performed while the runway maintenance had not been finished resulted in objects which were of a dark colour and left on a dark surface not being found before the runway was opened.. Insufficient information regarding the objects and their location might have led to improper assessment of the consequences for runway operation and delayed removal of the objects.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that PT. Angkasa Pura 1 Branch Office Juanda International Airport develop a procedure for hazard identification and risk assessment if assigning a company that does not have experience of performing airside tasks. [04.B-2018-14.1]. that the PT. Angkasa Pura 1 Branch Office Juanda International Airport develop a procedure for inspection following runway maintenance or construction work on movement area. [04.B-2018-14.2]. that the PT. Angkasa Pura 1 Branch Office Juanda International Airport ensure that personnel of each department involved in the operation of the airport shall be available when it is in operation. [04.B-2018-14.3]. that the PT. Angkasa Pura 1 Branch Office Juanda International Airport include the identification number and revision status of their Aerodrome Manual. [04.B-2018-14.4]. that the PT. Angkasa Pura 1 Branch Office Juanda International Airport update their Operations Manual in accordance with the current operational status. [04.B-2018-14.5]. that the Airnav Indonesia Branch Office Juanda develop a procedure for action to be taken by a controller after receiving information about the existence of any obstruction likely to impair the safety of aircraft operations. [04.A-2018-14.6]. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 17 October 2018.