An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). CVR and FDR data from the damaged aircraft were both downloaded but it was subsequently concluded that the latter would not be relevant. ATC TWR recordings were also obtained. It was noted that the 25 year-old Captain had 3,506 flying hours experience on type and that the 26 year-old First Officer had 2,221 flying hours experience on type. The total flying experience was not recorded for either pilot. The First Officer was PF for the flight involved but the Captain had taken control as the aircraft decelerated after touchdown and before the FOD was hit in accordance with the standard procedure to address the lack of a steering tiller at the right hand pilot position. No information was given about the TWR controller involved. It was established that the runway at Surabaya had been notified as closed between 0100 and 0500 LT in order for repairs to be made to the surface by a team of 8 external contractor personnel led by two airport operator employees from the Airport Facility Readiness Team. Their tasks required the use of four vehicles and a range of equipment which included, but was not limited to, one or more pneumatic compressors, pneumatic drills, chisels, high air pressure hoses, asphalt mixers, small containers for asphalt mixture and debris sweepers. At 0405 LT, ARFF personnel began their routine vehicle serviceability check which included driving one of the vehicles along the runway during which, although their personnel had not been trained in runway inspection, included conducting such an inspection. At about the same time, personnel from the Airport Facility Readiness Team, who were trained in runway inspection which was one of their designated responsibilities, also carried out such an inspection. Subsequent to both of these inspections, the runway maintenance team reported to the TWR controller that the runway repair work had finished and that “the runway maintenance team had left the runway”. However, no runway inspection was then performed by anyone nor requested by the TWR controller and 10 minutes later, whilst it was still dark, the 3000 metre-long 45 metre-wide runway was opened to traffic using the 10 direction. At 0510 LT, an Airbus A320 landed and following this, 11 aircraft departed up to 0606 LT. None of these aircraft reported seeing any objects on the runway. At 0520 LT, nine minutes before official daylight began, a sweeper vehicle requested permission to “cross the runway” at an unrecorded position and its driver also did not report any objects on the runway. Then, at 0609 LT, a Boeing 737-900ER landed and its crew made the first report of several objects which looked like cable and drilling equipment seen at the intersection of the runway with taxiway N5 (see the runway diagram below). This report was acknowledged by the TWR controller who, after advising other pilots to “pay attention when passing exit taxiway N5” nevertheless then cleared two