The event was investigated by the Swiss Air Accident Investigation Bureau. Radar recordings were used as the primary source of data. Close proximity of both aircraft to the ground was found to have inhibited generation of Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) RAs but it was established that both aircraft had received a TA. The conflict was noted to have occurred between two IFR aircraft in Class 'D' airspace. It was noted that the runway 05 ILS had been out of service with the ATIS offering a VOR/DME approach. The inbound BBJ had accepted a visual approach when aircraft was just over 20 nm from the runway at FL 155 and descending at approximately 270 KIAS, at which point manual control of the aircraft had been taken. By the time the APP controller asked the aircraft to reduce speed to 200 KIAS, it was at approximately 300 KIAS which then increased to over 320 KIAS when 5nm from touchdown. This high speed was not only contrary to the ATC instruction given but also well above the maximum permitted speed below FL100 of 250 KIAS. At 5nm from touchdown, the aircraft was almost 2000 feet higher than a 3° glideslope would require but the go around decision was not taken until it was just 1.5 nm from touchdown and at approximately 250 KIAS. The BBJ crew stated that they had "constantly maintained" visual contact with the departing 737. The Investigation concluded that "from the time the pilot accepted a visual approach, he lost situational awareness as well as the overall control of (the visual approach)" and considered that it was "surprising that, faced with the evidence of an unstabilised approach, the pilot not flying did not intervene with his colleague at an opportune moment". It was found that the inbound BBJ had declared and commenced a go around one minute after the 737 had been given take off clearance. This had occurred within less than a minute of two way contact between TWR and the BBJ being established. "A succession of failings" by ATC was considered to have "led to a dangerous convergence of the two aircraft involved": TWR (being operated by a trainee and an OJTI) "could have noted on their radar monitor" that the high speed of the inbound aircraft "compromised the alignment and take-off" of the departing 737. Although aware of the high speed and attempted steep descent of the inbound BBJ, the APP controller "had not judged it necessary" to inform the TWR controller of this when transferring the aircraft to TWR. Recognising the potential for conflict when the BBJ declared a go around, TWR " tried, unsuccessfully, to resolve the problem by requesting the (BBJ) to reduce its speed immediately and by requesting the (departing 737) to begin its take off without delay because of landing traffic at 4nm.. Avoiding action given by TWR to the 737 to "turn left onto heading 010° and. to continue climbing at a reduced rate" to its cleared level, FL 090,