The following is a list of generally accepted considerations and techniques for ditching that should be applicable to virtually any fixed wing aircraft type. Position. Transmit location coordinates repeatedly on the final descent. If fitted and possible, consider activating ELTs during the descent to ensure they are transmitting prior to impact. Ensure Transponder code is set (mode S or A/C as available.). Shipping. Survival post ditching will depend on how quickly you are picked up. Locate shipping, visually or using the radar, and try to ditch close to a ship. If there is a ship in the vicinity, touching down beside and slightly ahead is your best option as large vessels can take a considerable distance to slow down and are not manoeuvrable enough to take immediate avoiding action should you touch down right in front.. Aircraft. Other aircraft may be able to follow the ditching aircraft in the descent and maintain visual contact with the ditched aircraft and radio contact with controlling authorities and other aircraft until the limit of endurance is reached.. Power On. If there is a choice in the matter, power on is preferable to power off for ditching. Use of power allows more control of both the rate of descent and point at which touchdown is made.. Reduce Aircraft Weight. Again, if there is a choice, a lighter aircraft allows a lower approach speed and will probably remain afloat higher in the water and for longer thus facilitating occupant evacuation. Burning off or dumping fuel also has the advantage of increasing buoyancy in some aircraft types by creating a larger air mass held within the fuel tanks.. Configuration - Gear. Gear up is the optimum configuration for ditching.. Configuration - Flap. Most manufacturers recommend the maximum deployment of available slats/flaps is desirable to minimise approach speed. However, judgement is required in this respect since an intermediate flap setting is likely to improve forward visibility and reduce the amount of rotation required to flare in return for some increase in airspeed. Without some or all engines functioning, there may be limited hydraulic power.. Propeller Driven Aircraft - Protection of Passengers. Where possible, consider moving passengers away from seat rows in line with the propellers. If a “power on” approach is available the propellers may break up on touchdown and debris could penetrate the fuselage.. Flight Envelope Protection With all engines off, as well as in many other major failure scenarios, Fly-By-Wire aircraft may revert to control laws with degraded or non existent flight envelop protection so that it becomes particularly important to control accurately the intentionally low airspeed on final approach.. MAYDAY. Distress calls should be made on all appropriate frequencies - if in a radar environment, a MAYDAY on the ATC frequency in use should suffice. The emergency code should be selected on the transponder if powered. In a non radar environment distress calls should be made on 121.5, on the applicable HF frequencies or via data link. As much relevant information as possible should