is usually more important than worrying about engine management.. "Brace Brace". A call on the cabin/public address system should be made, typically at 200 feet, to warn crew and passengers of imminent impact with the surface and to about the "Brace" position. Although a flight crew function, the cabin crew must be prepared to give this call as circumstances dictate. Some manufacturers suggest the crew give a cabin PA call of “Take up ditching positions” or words to that effect at 1000’ to alert cabin crew who may be carrying out duties in the cabin, to return to their seats and strap in.. Touchdown: The optimum attitude for touchdown in most aircraft types is approximately 10 degrees nose up. The AFM or Operations Manual will usually quote an ideal pitch angle to rotate to in the flare and it may not be the one normally used for a landing even at an equivalent flap/slat setting. Wings Level. Ensure that the wings are as level as possible at touchdown. Failure to do so could well result in digging in a wing and cartwheeling. Anticipate that there will probably be more than one touchdown, generally the second will be more violent than the first.. Shutdown: At touchdown, shut down the engines and, when the aircraft comes to a stop, activate the Engine and APU Fire suppression systems.. In the time available: All loose items should be secured, particularly in the flight deck - at impact, loose items may fly around causing injuries and once water enters the fuselage, loose items may float and impede occupant evacuation.. Any available clothing items should be worn to improve chances of survival in the water.. A briefing should be given to passengers, especially in respect of usable / unusable exits, to the extent that available time permits. Life jackets should be donned by all, but not inflated until outside the aircraft - a reminder in respect of the latter is important.. If life rafts are carried, follow applicable procedures; re-brief procedures for detachable escape slides at exits for use as floatation devices.. Once the aircraft has come to a complete stop, initiate the evacuation. The expected attitude of the aircraft in the water is almost always "nose up" so that the rear doors will not be usable for evacuation. Ensure all available survival gear is taken from the aircraft. Whenever possible, link all of the rafts together to maximize the visual target for the search parties.