Although the helicopter operator sent a Mandatory Occurrence Report (MOR) to the UK CAA as Regulatory Authority the same day, the AAIB was unaware of the event until media reports about it appeared during the morning of 5 January 2017 and after obtaining and reviewing a copy of the MOR, a Field Investigation was commenced. It was found that the operator of the Helideck involved was unaware that they were also, along with the helicopter operator, responsible for reporting such an event directly to the AAIB. Relevant recorded data were obtained from the Multi-Purpose Flight Recorder (MPFR) fitted to the helicopter and from the Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) installed to meet the EASA requirements for Vibration Health Monitoring (VHM). CCV recordings from both helidecks were also used to corroborate witness evidence. A ‘Special Bulletin’ was published on 11 January 2017 to provide preliminary information. The 58 year-old Captain had been employed by the Operator for 11 years and had previously flown AS332 and EC 225 helicopters in the UK Offshore sector of the North Sea. He had accumulated 8,785 total flying hours of which 243 hours were on type. The 37 year-old First Officer had been employed by the Operator for 2½ years and had accumulated 4,490 total flying hours of which 1,400 hours were on type. Both had experience of flying to the Elgin and West Franklin Platforms. It was established that the accident flight was the second in a four-sector sequence from Aberdeen to the Elgin-Franklin Offshore Field and that the commander had been PF both the first and second sectors. The first flight from Aberdeen to the Elgin PUQ platform was uneventful but as the helicopter initially lifted from the Elgin PUQ helideck for the five minute transit to the West Franklin Wellhead platform, it yawed to the right through 45° without command and in response full left yaw pedal had been used to check the rotation before landing back onto the helideck. The flight crew reported having then discussed the situation encountered and, after concluding that it could be attributed to local turbulence or wind effects created by the platform structures, decided to continue with the flight to the West Franklin situated 3.3 nm to the south. During the subsequent lift off into the hover, normal response to an application of left yaw pedal was reported to have been obtained and after verifying that all control responses were normal, the transit was made at 500 feet. In respect of the unexpected yaw experienced during the first attempt at departure from the Elgin PUQ platform, it was noted anecdotally that similar consequences of low level mechanical turbulence in the vicinity of some offshore platform structures were "not uncommon" in the case of this particular helideck. The flight was uneventful until it reached the destination but then, about 4 feet above the helideck with touchdown imminent, the helicopter yawed rapidly to the right. The crew responded by landing the helicopter expeditiously, but heavily, on the deck