the initiating cause since it was clear that the lubrication of the bearing broke down rapidly during the bearing failure sequence. It was also not possible to reproduce the bearing failure which “leads to the conclusion that the failure was because of undetermined factors which occurred within this particular bearing assembly”. The key finding, however, is that had the HUMS evidence that an exceedance had been generated by the TRPCS bearing the previous day been recognised, then the bearing would have been replaced before the helicopter was released to service. This would have been more likely if the engineer tasked with overnight download and review of the HUMS data had not suffered from “prospective memory failure” in forgetting his mental note to report his uncertainty to his supervisor. More generally, it was considered that there was room for improvement in the VHM process in respect of both the acquisition of data and the timeliness of and ease of access to any alerts it might generate. It was also considered that such access should ideally bring pilots directly into the audience for VHM alerts given that the concept of a pilot-HUMS interface has already been demonstrated on the Airbus Helicopters EC225. It was noted, too, that the HUMS process applied to some UK military helicopter fleets appears to be more proactive than in most civil operations. The Investigation reviewed the uncommanded yaw which the crew had experienced on their initial lift from the Elgin Platform. The Captain’s intuitive response when the first attempt at takeoff was unsuccessful, was to try again so when the helicopter responded normally to his control inputs, both he and the First Officer were reassured and neither pilot considered that there was anything mechanically wrong. However, it was extremely likely that the already degraded state of the bearing which led to the subsequent failure of the TRPCS was already capable of having an effect on the response to control inputs. Retrospective analysis of yaw pedal positions by Sikorsky “showed that the use of full left yaw pedal could provide an indicator of advanced bearing degradation for flight crews” but since the flight crew did not know this, they tried to find a reasonable explanation for the yaw and concluded that local wind conditions and associated turbulence were responsible. The Captain’s expectation was that the helicopter could be more awkward to handle in a left crosswind and the First Officer’s expectation was that the Elgin Platform could be “tricky due to the other installations and the position of the helideck and superstructure creating a wind rolling up onto the deck or coming round from behind”. Both expectations may have influenced their acceptance of wind effect as an explanation for the unusual yaw. It was also considered that the crew’s continuing discussion about the yaw event as they departed the second time suggested that they had not yet reached a satisfactory explanation for it and was evidence of ‘plan continuation bias’ - the unconscious tendency to stick with the