whilst it continued to rotate to the right, reaching a maximum rate of 30 degrees per second and also rolling 20° to the left. The left main landing gear contacted the deck first and the turn to the right then continued on the left main and nose wheels before the right main wheels contacted the surface. The First Officer closed the throttles and the helicopter came to a stop on a north easterly heading having spun through just over 180° from its initial into-wind heading. The Investigation found that one of the flights made by the same helicopter on the day before the accident had produced recorded vibration data in the Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) which included a series of exceedances associated with the Tail Rotor Pitch Change Shaft (TRPCS) bearing. This was discovered when a routine 50 hour maintenance check and a download and preliminary analysis of the HUMS data was carried out. However, whilst an anomaly relating to Tail Rotor Gearbox (TGB) bearing energy was detected, the related exceedances were not identified partly because of the way they were presented in the analysis tool. The engineer primarily involved reported having intended to draw the attention of his supervisor to the anomaly before completing the release to service but forgot to do this and finished work and went home. The helicopter had therefore been released to service without further investigation. The technical investigation soon became focused on the tail rotor assembly and once the necessary panels were removed, it was immediately apparent that the tail rotor servo piston was damaged. When this component was removed, it was found that the double row angular contact bearing of the Tail Rotor Pitch Change Shaft (TRPCS) was "in a severely distressed condition" - see the illustration below. Further inspection found evidence of severe overheating having occurred with extreme wear on both the inner and outer thrust races and the barrel shaped rollers of the bearing and that the roller bearings had seized to the inner member. The outer race roller was found to have enough axial play to allow the tail rotor driveshaft to impart a torsional load to the tail rotor servo and it was concluded that this load had caused the primary piston rod to fracture inside the servo. It was further concluded that because of the failure of this rod, the secondary piston sleeve had separated axially from the primary piston adjacent to the link fitting which led to the complete loss of control of the tail rotor. Forensic analysis at Sikorsky subsequently indicated that the failure of the TRPCS bearing progressed quite quickly over a flight time of only 4½ hours between the first recorded HUMS exceedance the previous day and the point of failure. It was not possible to identify the initiating cause of the bearing failure because the damage to it destroyed the evidence needed for this. Such evidence may conceivably have been able to show that loss of lubrication to the bearing was