original plan despite changing conditions - being a factor in their decision to make the transit to West Franklin. There was no Rotary Flight Manual (RFM) procedure to deal specifically with the consequences of a Tail Rotor caused by the mode of failure encountered, but the Operator’s Emergency Checklist did include a response for both ‘Tail rotor control failure in the hover’ and ‘Tail rotor drive failure’. The former stated that “uncontrolled yaw” would require an immediate landing whilst the latter specifically referenced “uncontrollable yaw to the right” with checklist actions which would also have resulted in an immediate landing and shutdown. However, since the crew did not consider the possibility of a technical malfunction on their first lift from the Elgin Platform, they did not review any emergency checklist procedures. Had they done so, it was considered unlikely that they would have continued with the flight. However, it was concluded that whilst the crew had subsequently “reacted expeditiously to an uncontrollable yaw” whilst landing at West Franklin, “if the loss of yaw control had occurred at an earlier stage of the flight, the helicopter would most likely have made an uncontrolled descent into the North Sea”. The Investigation formally identified two Causal factors in respect of the loss of yaw control: The Tail Rotor Pitch Change Shaft (TRPCS) bearing failed for an undetermined reason.. The TRPCS bearing failure precipitated damage to the tail rotor pitch control servo.. Two Contributory factors were also identified: Impending failure of the TRPCS bearing was detected by the Health and Usage Monitoring System (HUMS) but was not identified during routine maintenance due to human performance limitations and the design of the HUMS Ground Station Human Machine Interface.. The HUMS Ground Station software in use at the time had a previously-unidentified and undocumented anomaly in the way that data could be viewed by maintenance personnel. The method for viewing data recommended in the manufacturer’s User Guide was not always used by maintenance personnel.. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident and known to the Investigation was noted as including but not limited to the following: CHC Scotia made a number of changes to improve the chances of detecting impending bearing degradation using HUMS.. Sikorsky issued ASB 92-64-011 on 10 January 2017 requiring a once-only inspection of the TRPCS and its bearing assembly for ratcheting, binding, or rough turning to be accomplished prior to the next flight from a maintenance facility with three flight hours allowed in order to return directly to such a facility. Compliance with this ASB was mandated by FAA AD 2017-02-51 issued on 13 January 2017 which added a requirement to carry out a 10-hourly borescope inspection of the subject bearing in situ until further notice.. Sikorsky published an amendment to the AMM on 10 January 2017 which required operators to use S-92A HUMS ground station software to review Tail Rotor Gearbox energy analysis Condition Indicators (CIs) for alert conditions on a reduced flight hour interval with CIs in excess