In minor cases throughout the UK, the decision to bring a criminal charge is made by the investigating agency - the Police or the Civil Aviation Authority. In England and Wales, the consideration of evidence and the exclusive authority for deciding whether a Criminal Prosecution should be brought, except for matters which can be dealt with in Summary Courts, is vested in the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) led by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). In determining whether a prosecution should be brought. The CPS assesses the evidence assembled in a case against two criteria which are contained and described in more detail in a published ‘Code of Practice’ : Is there sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of a conviction?. If so, is it in the Public Interest to bring a prosecution?. Prosecutions for minor offences brought by Police or the Civil Aviation Authority in Magistrates Courts are expected to follow the same Code of Practice. Equivalent process exists in Scotland and Northern Ireland. The selection of a charge or charges by the Prosecutor where discretion exists should, under the Code of Practice, meet the following criteria: Reflect the seriousness and extent of he offending.. Give the Court adequate powers to sentence and impose appropriate post-conviction orders.. Enable the case to be presented in a clear and simple way.. The Code observes that in following the above guidance, "...Prosecutors may not always choose or continue with the most serious charge where there is a choice". Prosecutors are obliged to consider alternatives to prosecution which may include a simple or conditional caution. The latter is intended to be used where it is considered that the Public Interest justifies a prosecution but the interests of the suspect, victim(s) or community would be better served without one. Many criminal charges have to be brought within six months of the alleged offence being committed but more serious charges such as manslaughter/homicide have no limit.