RESA was different to that in the AIP.. Regulations require the airport operator to conduct runway friction checks to a regular schedule but the last runway friction check was performed in 2009.. The absence of runway friction level information for aircraft operators might reduce the accuracy of the landing distance calculation, either for dispatch planning or for the pilot in flight prior to landing.. The Airport Operator had not carried out any hazard identification, risk assessment or risk mitigation in respect of the runway surface condition awareness.. The DGCA Airport Certification renewal process had not recorded a finding in respect of runway inspections including the required period runway friction check.. The DGCA had issued an exemption for the absence of a RESA for runway 27 by referring to the mitigations performed by airport operator.. The Investigation could not find any Directorate General of Civil Aviation approval certificate for the Yogyakarta ANSP.. Two Contributory Factors were formally identified as follows: The absence of a landing distance calculation following aircraft reconfiguration for landing and the excessive approach speed with no reminder callout might have resulted in the pilots deciding not to continue with the landing.. The conditions which led to the aircraft floating and eventually touching down at the end of the touchdown zone 13 knots above Vref with an average 6 knot tailwind followed by low brake pressure for 305 metres and then the disconnection of the autobrakes and removal of the thrust reverser application at a higher than recommended speed along with medium braking action extended the landing distance.. A further Safety Issue was also identified as "the external factors such as runway condition which might have contributed to the reduction in the rate of deceleration whilst brake pressure and thrust reversers were (still) close to maximum." Safety Action by Batik Air as a result of this event and known to the Investigation at the time of completion of the Investigation included the following: issue of a series of 'Notices to PiIots' requiring strict adherence to existing SOPs and the addition of both new ones and the introduction of new 'recommended practices'. The latter included the use of flap 40 for Boeing 737 landings on any runway with an LDA of less than 2500 metres regardless of whether it is wet or dry.. issue of a caution in respect of the beginning of runway 27 at Yogyakarta being "slippery when wet" accompanied by an instruction that in such conditions, auto brakes should not be disengaged or thrust reversers stowed until the aircraft is at taxi speed.. request to Jeppesen to check discrepancies in the information on stopway, clearway and RESA at Yogyakarta compared to the AIP.. enhancement of pilot simulator training in respect of evacuation procedures and introduction of joint CRM training for flight crew and cabin crew in order to improve crew coordination during an emergency.. Eighteen Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Batik Air should improve crew member emergency training to