to inform the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Station. Two seconds after FDR data showed that the aircraft had come to a stop, the First Officer transmitted "attention, attention crew on station" and the Captain transmitted "BRACE, BRACE, BRACE". Two and a half seconds after that, the First Officer said "Captain, Shutdown Captain" and after a further 10 seconds the Captain again transmitted "BRACE, BRACE, BRACE". Subsequently, the Captain asked the Cabin Crew to check outside for any signs of fire and the First Officer asked the TWR the same. No such signs were reported. Contrary to the QRH Checklist for evacuation, the APU was then started and approximately three and a half minutes after the aircraft had stopped, the Evacuation Checklist was reviewed. The CVR record showed that the evacuation was initially envisaged as taking place without use of the escape slides but it was then decided that they should be used. This evacuation, began approximately nine minutes after the aircraft stopped using only the four doors and was completed in approximately eight minutes. It was noted that "the decision to land or go around basically rests on an assessment by the pilot in command of the possibility of a critical condition on landing". It was considered that "the CRM principle requires the PM to call out any deviation and to take any action if there is no acknowledgement from the PF" whereas in this particular approach, there had been "no discussion between the pilots concerning the landing distance following the change of the landing configuration to use flaps 30 for the existing condition and no call out from the PM when the speed was 13 knots above the approach speed". The speed being maintained was considered to be "an indication that one of the specified elements of a stabilised approach had not been achieved and that a go around was therefore required". It was considered that notwithstanding the failure to use braking and the thrust reversers to best effect when attempting to stop the aircraft, "external factors contributed to the reduction in the deceleration rate" and that these included the effect of runway condition on braking action. In this connection, discrepancies in the procedures for friction testing between the Aerodrome Manual and the specified Runway Friction Test SOP were noted as was the absence of any documentation of daily runway inspections for the last month prior to the accident and particularly therefore any observations of standing water. It was evident that the prescribed emergency procedures for evacuation following the overrun had not been performed appropriately by the crew. Specifically: there had been an unacceptably slow response following the aircraft coming to a stop - the Captain had to be prompted to commence engine shutdown, the use of the Evacuation Checklist was not prioritised and an evacuation was not commenced until nine minutes after the aircraft stopped.. the 'BRACE BRACE BRACE' instruction must be given in advance of the risk not after the aircraft has stopped as in