this case.. starting the APU was contrary to explicit instructions in the QRH Evacuation Checklist which directs that if it is running, it should be shut down when the engines are shut down since running it may increase the risk of fire since there is a possibility of system damage.. The Findings of the Investigation included the following in respect of the performance of the flight crew: A combination of the absence of both an updated landing distance calculation when the landing configuration was changed to flap 30 and callouts of speed above the Vref might have resulted in lack of pilot awareness of the landing distance required prior to and after touchdown and to the decision to continue landing.. Had the aircraft been on the proper landing profile and achieved touchdown in the touchdown zone (TDZ), it would have been able to stop on the runway with braking action good or medium.. The fact that the speed at touchdown was 13 knots above the applicable Vref and touchdown occurred late resulted in the available runway not being sufficient for the aircraft to stop with medium braking action. With good braking action the runway available would have been sufficient albeit with a relatively small margin which might have been exceeded by the improper application of brakes and thrust reversers.. Four conditions which affected the landing distance were: the aircraft floated for about 6 seconds and touched down at the end of the touchdown zone, 427 metres beyond the aiming point after bouncing once; the airspeed at touchdown was 13 knots above Vref and there was an average tailwind component of 6 knots; the thrust reversers were stowed at a higher than recommended speed and there was little braking for about 305 metres after the autobrakes were disconnected; the wet runway conditions resulted in a reduction in deceleration.. the aircraft floated for about 6 seconds and touched down at the end of the touchdown zone, 427 metres beyond the aiming point after bouncing once;. the airspeed at touchdown was 13 knots above Vref and there was an average tailwind component of 6 knots;. the thrust reversers were stowed at a higher than recommended speed and there was little braking for about 305 metres after the autobrakes were disconnected;. the wet runway conditions resulted in a reduction in deceleration.. The actions of the Captain following the overrun were contrary to those prescribed by the Aircraft Operator in a number of respects and indicated the inadequacy of crew evacuation training.. Other Findings included the following: Weather data for the Airport was provided by the Air Force Meteorological Unit using an AWOS but the only sight of the AWOS monitor display available to ATC was via a CCTV link which was not always of useable quality so that the TWR controller then had to call the Met Unit to obtain the latest AWOS information.. The information in the Jeppesen publication available to the crew in relation to the provision of runway Stopway, Clearway and