An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC/KNKT). Data from the FDR and 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded. The FDR providing data on 1,265 parameters over approximately 53 hours of aircraft operation which included 31 flights including the accident flight. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident approach, had a total of 3,628 flying hours which included 2,661 hours on type. The 22 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,787 flying hours of which all except 191 hours were on type. It was established that the flight proceeded uneventfully until it was on final approach. Reference Speed (Vref) for the ELW of 63,900kg was 141KIAS. On the basis of the ATIS weather report, the Captain decided that the landing on runway 09 (LDA 2,200 metres) would be with flaps 40 and auto brake 3 but after subsequently observing magenta returns on the weather radar over the airport, he decided to use Flap 30 instead as recommended in the FCOM for situations where wind shear may occur. The aircraft was positioned on the ILS approach to runway 09 and soon after transfer to the TWR frequency, the controller advised that the runway was wet and so it was decided to change the autobrake setting from 3 to Maximum. Landing clearance was accompanied by advice that the surface wind was calm. FDR data showed that the AP and A/T had been disconnected at approximately 700 feet agl and the speedbrake armed at 500 feet agl. Stabilised approach criteria specified by the Operator were not met at 500 feet agl or thereafter. Passing 381 feet agl, the speed was Vref + 16 and from 200 feet to 10 feet, there was a 6 knot tail wind component. 50 feet agl was passed at Vref + 12 and the aircraft subsequently floated above the runway at 10 feet agl for 6 seconds before touching down 730 metres beyond the threshold at 154 knots (Vref + 13). TWR "provided the landing time and instructed the aircraft to exit the runway via taxiway N3 and proceed to parking stand number 2". During the landing roll, maximum auto brake was disconnected with the aim of increasing deceleration using manual braking but the applied pressure was much reduced from that applied with autobrake maximum and as a consequence the rate of deceleration decreased. Despite developing concern at the length of runway remaining, the thrust reversers, which had already been reduced from maximum passing 91 knots, had been stowed at 76 knots compared with the recommended <60 knots and this too reduced the rate of deceleration at a time when the length of runway remaining was evidently problematic. Shortly after the aircraft deviated left near the end of the paved surface and crossed onto grass (see below). The nose gear then collapsed and soon afterwards the aircraft came to a stop. The controller "noticed that the aircraft had overrun and pushed the crash bell