the period of roll oscillation and rapid descent the first officer transmitted a “Pan” call and altered the transponder to emergency code of 7700. He also switched the airframe de-icing to ON. […] The crew reported that at no time during the incident were they aware of a warning from the pre-stall warning (PSW) system. Full control of the aircraft was regained at FL120. At this altitude, and clear of icing conditions, the flight continued uneventfully. The characteristics of the stall are described in the report. They are derived from data retrieved from FDR and sent for additional assessment. The following assessment on the nature of the stall is made by the Defence Research Agency (DRA) and is included in the report: “At approximately 250 seconds the aircraft entered the stall. However, this stall was gentle and insidious. […] it occurred without triggering the stall warning system and well above the normal stall speed. The aircraft was under autopilot control which further masked its effects. Perhaps the only real clue was the severe vibration (presumably post-stall buffet) which was experienced throughout the duration of the stall, but which the crew attributed to propeller icing. Overall it is not surprising that the crew did not recognise the stall’s abnormally benign longitudinal characteristics”. The Report identifies the following factors as causes of the incident: The rapid accumulation of glaze ice, which was not evident to the crew, but which produced significant aerodynamic degradation.. The difficulty of assessing visually the thickness of ice on the wing leading edges from the flight deck.. The BMA standard procedure to use a maximum ITT of 720°C in the climb discouraged the commander from applying power to counteract the loss of performance.. Use of autopilot in the pitch mode during climb which hampered recovery from the subsequent loss of control.. The propeller vibration which disguised the onset of the stall.. The Report's 14 Safety Recommendations, beginning on page 41 of the Report, also address institutional and organisational issues (see Further Reading).