This is an extract from the Report (4/92) the serious incident investigation published by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) UK on 16 September 1992: The commander set the propeller revolutions per minute (rpm) to 85% after take-off and to 82% on passing FL80 in the climb to the assigned level of FL160. He controlled the ITT [intermediate turbine temperature] to a maximum of 720°C throughout the climb. The aircraft entered cloud just below FL130 at 160 kts and a rate of climb around 500 ft/min. […] when the aircraft was at approximately FL150, over a two minute period, the indicated airspeed (IAS) reduced to 142kt and rate of climb fell at times to zero. During the period that the aircraft was in cloud the crew observed sleet and rain. At FL154 the commander requested Air Traffic Control (ATC) for reduction in his cleared cruise flight level to FL140 but the controller was unable to approve the lower level immediately because it had been allocated to another aircraft. In the event the maximum level achieved by the Advanced Turbo Prop (ATP) was FL156. The engine and propeller ice protection systems had remained switched on from take-off and both pilots had been looking for signs of airframe ice, in order to determine if operation of the airframe de-icing boots was necessary. The only indication was a thin line of what they described as rime ice on the leading edges of the wings and three eights of an inch of rime ice on the windscreen wiper arm. The outside air temperature (OAT) was between -2°C and -5°C and the total air temperature (TAT) was calculated to have fallen to -2°C. The aircraft was being flown by autopilot in the heading mode with the attitude being controlled by the autopilot pitch wheel. […] When the aircraft was at FL156, it began to experience vibration which rapidly increased in severity. The vibration was thought by the cabin attendants to be more severe in the rear of the aircraft than at the front. Both pilots had experienced propeller icing and associated vibration on an ATP before but on this occasion they thought it to be more extreme. The commander said that while the severe vibration lasted, the upper half of the attitude display on the electronic Primary Flight Display (PFD) showed intermittent blank bands and he was unable to read the alphanumeric characters on the Electronic Flight Instrument System (EFIS) displays. Shortly after the onset of the vibration the left wing dropped and the aircraft began to descend. The aircraft initially pitched down approximately 15° and began a rolling oscillation. The commander said that at the point of initial wing drop he disengaged the autopilot and flew the aircraft manually. He felt that the aircraft was slow to respond to aileron control inputs and large bank angles were reached, particularly to the left, where a single peak of 68° of bank was recorded. He described the aircraft as wallowing with light aileron control forces. During