personnel and with careful attention to specific instructions and established procedures.. Aircraft tyres are designed to be operated up to or at rated inflation pressure. Exceeding these pressures may cause the aircraft wheel or tyre to explode, which can result in serious or fatal injury.. Pressure regulators should always be used to help prevent injury or death caused by overpressurization of the tyre assembly. Maintenance and use of pressure regulators should be performed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. The safety practices for mounting and demounting aircraft tyres referenced in the aircraft and wheel manufacturer’s maintenance manuals should be followed.. Newly assembled tyres and wheels should be inflated in safety cages using dry nitrogen.. Specific instructions on modern wheels are contained in maintenance manuals available from the aircraft manufacturer or directly from the wheel manufacturer. Aircraft tyres should not be mounted or dismounted without the specific information contained in these manuals.. Tyres should be inflated to rated pressure. After a 12-hour stretch period they should be reinflated to rated pressure.. Before placing assembly into service, 24 hour pressure-retention check should be performed to ensure that the assembly is holding pressure properly.. Two types of demounting equipment are mostly used: “full-circle” and partial-circle bead breakers. With both types of bead breakers, the desired procedures are a combination of pressing against the tyre sidewalls close to the edge of the wheel flanges and controlling the lateral movement of the bead breaker rings after contacting the tyre sidewalls. This procedure assures the maximum lateral force against the tyre to demount it without internal tyre damage or kinking the tyre beads. A tyre/wheel assembly that has been damaged in service should be allowed to cool for a minimum of three (3) hours before the tyre is deflated. The internal temperature and pressure are unknown. Extremely high temperatures reduce the strength of the plies which could result in an explosion causing serious or fatal injury.. Prior to demounting the tyre from the wheel, it should be completely deflated with a deflation cap.. After all the pressure has been relieved, remove the valve core. Remember that valve cores still under pressure can be ejected like a bullet. If wheel or tyre damage is suspected, approach the tyre from the front or rear, not from the side (facing the wheel).. Leave the wheel tyre bolts tight until after unseating the tyre beads. If the bolts are loosened or removed before unseating the tyre beads, the wheel mating surfaces may be damaged.. Radial tyres should be dismounted with full circle bead breaking equipment. Bias tyres can be dismounted with full circle bead breaking equipment..