Check inflation pressure daily or before first flight when tyres are cool. Tyre pressures should always be checked with the tyre at ambient temperatures as they can rise in excess of 93°C above ambient during operation. A temperature change of 3°C produces approximately 1% pressure change. It can take up to 3 hours or more after a flight for tyre temperatures to return to ambient. A tyre/wheel assembly can lose as much as five percent (5%) of the inflation pressure in a 24-hour period and still be considered normal. Tyre pressures change on a daily basis.. When tyres are going to be subjected to ambient temperature differences between two locations in excess of 27°C, inflation pressures should be adjusted to the colder temperature prior to takeoff. This also applies when checking pressure in a heated hangar in the winter.. Nitrogen should be used for tyre inflation as it will not sustain combustion and will reduce degradation of the liner material, casing plies and wheel due to oxidation. Appropriate regulatory agency requirements for nitrogen inflation should be followed.. It must be determined if “loaded” or “unloaded” pressure has been specified by the aircraft manufacturer. When a tyre is under load, the gas chamber volume is reduced due to tyre deflection. Therefore, if unloaded pressure has been specified, that number should be increased by 4% to obtain the equivalent loaded inflation pressure. The opposite is true as well: if loaded pressure has been specified, that number should be reduced by 4% if the tyre is being inflated while unloaded.. Excess inflation pressure should never be bled off from hot tyres. All adjustments to inflation pressure should be performed on tyres cooled to ambient temperature.. To prevent one tyre on a gear from carrying extra load, all tyres on a single gear should be inflated equally. The mate tyre(s) will share the load, allowing individual tyres to run underinflated or overloaded if pressures are unequal, because all tyres on the gear will deflect identically.. Inaccurate gauges are a major source of improper inflation pressures. Gauges should be checked periodically and recalibrated as necessary.. Tyres that have been subjected to unusually high service braking or operating conditions such as high energy rejected takeoffs or high energy overspeed landings should be removed and scrapped. Even though visual inspection may show no apparent damage, tyres may have sustained internal structural damage.. Tyres that have deflated due to a fuse plug release should be removed and scrapped. If this has occurred in dynamic (rolling) conditions, the mate tyres have been subjected to high stress conditions and should also be removed. If this has occurred in a static (not rolling) condition, the mate tyre does not have to be removed unless it fails to pass relevant manufacturer's service or inspection criteria.. Systematic inspection of mounted tyres is strongly recommended for safety and tyre economy. The frequency of the inspection should be determined by the use and normal tyre wear of the particular aircraft involved. With some aircraft, tyre