inspection after every landing or at every turnaround is required. With all aircraft, a thorough inspection is advisable after a hard landing. Treadwear - inspect treads visually and check remaining tread. tyres should be removed when tread has worn to the base of any groove at any spot, or up to 1/8 of the tyre circumference.. Uneven Wear - if tread wear is excessive on one side, the tyre can be demounted and turned around, provided there is no exposed fabric. Gear misalignment causing this condition should be corrected.. Tread Cuts - inspect tread for cuts and other foreign object damage and mark with crayon or chalk. Manufacturer's removal criteria should be followed.. Sidewall Damage - remove tyre from service if weatherchecking, cracking, cuts and snags extend down to the casing ply in the sidewall and bead areas.. Bulges - in any part of tyre tread, sidewall or bead area these may indicate a separation or damaged tyre. Mark with crayon and remove from service immediately.. Fabric Fraying/Groove Cracking - tyres should be removed from service if groove cracking exposes fabric or if cracking undercuts tread ribs.. Flat Spots - tyres generally need not be removed because of flat spots due to touchdown and braking or hydroplaning skids unless fabric is exposed. If objectionable vibration results, however, the assembly should be rebalanced or the tyre should be removed from service.. Casing Flat Spotting - loaded tyres that are left stationary for any length of time can develop temporary flat spots. The degree of this flat spotting depends upon the load, tyre deflection and temperature. Flat spotting is more severe and more difficult to work out during cold weather. Under normal conditions, a flat spot will disappear by the end of the taxi run.. Radial Tyre Sidewall Indentation - if sidewall indentation is 3mm deep or greater the tyre should be removed from service.. Beads - bead areas next to wheel flanges should be inspected for damage due to excessive heat, especially if brake drag or severe braking has been reported during taxi, take-off or landing. If damaged, the tyre should be removed from service.. Tyre Clearance - tyres, gear, and in wheel wells should be examined for marks that might indicate rubbing due to inadequate clearance.. Wheels - wheels should be checked for damage. Wheels that are cracked or damaged should be taken out of service for repair or replacement in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.. Rim Slip - after installation, several aircraft cycles may be necessary before a tyre reaches its final position on the wheel. Tyres that move in excess of 20 degrees should be demounted and evaluated for appropriate action..