had reverted to an alternate mode. The investigation was advised by the aircraft commander that the non declaration of either ‘PAN’ or ‘MAYDAY’ status was attributable to a concern that “there might be a communication issue with ATC” and took into account that it had been possible to complete the approach in daylight and whilst remaining clear of cloud. The investigation found that the visible accumulation of water in the forward galley had occurred because of an overflowing drain caused by the blockage of a drain line to overboard by ice that had formed a ‘plug’ in this line at the external drain mast during the flight due to an inoperative drain line heater. The water had then flowed forward and through a decompression panel into the main equipment bay before leaking past ineffective drip shields onto three of the four unsealed generator control units in significant quantity causing them to malfunction and shut down. At the time the aircraft became dependent on battery power, it was noted by the Investigation that it would have been clear to the crew at the time that the aircraft was within 15 minutes of a first-time landing and so the 30 minute minimum availability had not been an issue. However, the extremely serious circumstances which could have arisen if the electrical systems failure which prevailed had occurred more than 30 minutes flying time from the nearest suitable airport or if there had been a delay prior to landing were noted. Whilst the aircraft engines, hydraulic systems and pneumatic systems were largely unaffected by the electrical failures due to their independent design and there was thus no serious impediment to the flight characteristics of the aircraft, it was noted that many other systems had become inoperative or degraded including: communications systems, including radios, interphones, passenger address system, and transponders. primary flight displays and standby attitude indicator. warning and caution systems, including those relating to ground proximity, traffic and fire. instrument illumination. navigation systems. engine instrumentation.. It was noted that in the ‘more than 30 minutes case’: “The loss of these systems would have placed the aircraft at considerable risk, as the flight crew would have been flying by hand with only visual and tactile references, a standby airspeed indicator, a standby magnetic compass and a standby altimeter with degraded reliability to guide them. Communications would have been limited to the use of personal mobile telephones, if available. Additionally, the risk of spatial disorientation would have been particularly acute in IMC” In respect of aircraft certification requirements, it was noted that: “The investigation found that there was no detailed regulatory mechanism by which internal liquid hazards to electrical systems units could be considered or monitored throughout the design, operation and maintenance of the aircraft. The United States (US) Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR), and associated design advice provided by relevant Advisory Circulars, specifically addressed the protection of wiring between electrical systems units but not the units themselves. As a result, there was an increased risk of