With the consent of the State of Occurrence, an investigation into this Serious Incident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that earlier in the descent, the cabin crew had advised of a significant water leak in the forward galley area. The aircraft had been radar vectored via the BKK VOR onto a left hand downwind leg towards landing on Runway 01R. This tracking is shown on the plan below. Shortly after passing FL110 and the selection of Flap 1 just prior to the turn downwind, AC1 went offline and the auto thrust disconnected. Further loss of AC power, un-commanded autopilot disconnect and loss of various electrically powered systems occurred until, by 4200 ft, and still tracking downwind under radar control, AC1, AC2 and AC3 bus bars were all offline and batteries were discharging. Additional indicated system faults included: non operation of some fuel pumps. an inoperative weather radar. failure of the automatic control of cabin air conditioning and pressurisation. blank right hand side EFIS displays. Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) lower display blank.. It was reported that between three and five pages of messages had been generated on the EICAS upper display and the cabin crew had advised that the cabin lighting had failed. The crew had believed the status of AC4 to be normal, but noted main battery and APU battery discharge messages on the EICAS. The Flight Crew Operations Manual (FCOM) did not specify any response to the battery discharge messages which were classified as ‘advisories’. In addition, the QRH did not provide the flight crew with information about the remaining battery life, nor any recommended crew actions to restore services. The crew reported that, after initially attempting to action all the EICAS fault messages as per the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH), they soon decided to discontinue this because of the constant action required in response to the continuous scrolling of EICAS messages. They reported that the following instruments and systems had been available: the left hand side PFD[1] in degraded mode but with attitude, airspeed, altitude, vertical speed and ILS indications. the left hand side ND[2] in degraded mode. the left hand side CDU[3]. the upper EICAS display including landing gear indication. all standby instruments, which indicated attitude, airspeed, altitude and the magnetic compass. EPR[4] readings for the No 4 engine only. Indications of flap position for the right wing only.. a single COM system with less than usual signal strength.. During the 10 nm final approach flown manually by the aircraft commander by reference to the Instrument Landing System (ILS) with the runway in sight, there had been automatic height callouts because the radio altimeter had been inoperative. The landing gear extended normally and after touchdown, thrust reversers, spoilers and auto brakes all deployed as expected in the absence of any related system fault indications. Only partial reverse thrust was used to avoid a risk of over-boosting the engines because of awareness that the electronic engine controls