The Investigation concluded that there had been four ‘Contributory Safety Factors’ to the event: Electrical power to the aircraft‘s alternating and direct current buses 1, 2, and 3 and associated electrical equipment was lost during the flight after generator control units 1, 2, and 3 malfunctioned as a result of past and present waste water ingress.. Waste water leaked through a decompression panel in the cabin floor, then through drip shields and into electrical equipment after the forward drain line was blocked with ice that formed due to an inoperable drain line heater.. Maintenance processes did not identify or correct the: deterioration of the drip shield [Significant safety issue] corrosion in the generator control units [Minor safety issue] inoperability of the forward drain line heater. [Significant safety issue]. deterioration of the drip shield [Significant safety issue]. corrosion in the generator control units [Minor safety issue]. inoperability of the forward drain line heater. [Significant safety issue]. The location of the decompression panel and absence of cabin floor sealing above the main equipment centre increased the risk of liquid ingress into the aircraft‘s electrical systems. [Significant safety issue]. Ten 'Other Safety Factors' were also identified during the course of the Investigation: The galley drain operation and maintenance processes did not adequately prevent blockage and overflow of the aircraft‘s drain lines. [Minor safety issue]. The aircraft operator‘s forward drain mast modification increased the risk of a blockage in the aircraft‘s forward drain lines.. The floor sealing around the forward galley was not of sufficient extent to prevent liquids from passing through to the under floor area. [Minor safety issue]. Maintenance processes did not identify or correct the deterioration of the galley floor sealing. [Minor safety issue]. The aircraft operator‘s documented design objectives did not explicitly require the protection of non-structural systems from liquid contact or ingress. [Minor safety issue]. The United States Federal Aviation Administration regulations and associated guidance material did not fully address the potential harm to flight safety posed by liquid contamination of electrical system units in transport category aircraft. [Significant safety issue]. The priority level of the battery discharge messages that were provided by the engine indicating and crew alerting system did not accurately reflect the risk presented by the battery discharge status. [Significant safety issue]. The flight crew quick reference handbook did not include sufficient information for the flight crew to appropriately manage operations on standby power. [Significant safety issue]. The flight crew did not declare the aircraft‘s situation to air traffic control or to the cabin crew, which would have enabled them to more effectively prepare for and manage any adverse change in the aircraft‘s situation.. The flight crew did not review the aircraft status prior to taxiing to the terminal..