An Investigation was carried out by the Japanese Aircraft and Railway Accidents Investigation Commission. It was established that the First Officer had been PF for the approach and that the Instrument Landing System (ILS) flown had been normal and made into a strong but somewhat gusty headwind with fairly constant direction and unexceptional speed fluctuation between 20 and 40 knots until below 100 feet agl. The Autopilot had been disconnected at 500 feet agl. It was noted that although both predictive and reactive wind shear detection was active on the aircraft, only a reactive alert had been generated by the wind shear encountered. Examination of DFDR data showed that when the aircraft was below 100 feet agl, there was a lull in the wind speed and CAS dropped by around 36 knots during a period of seven seconds to reach its minimum value prior to fuselage ground impact of around 117 knots with a rate of descent of around 1220 ft/min. Following the reactive wind shear alert which occurred as a consequence, the Captain, although still PNF, operated his side stick simultaneously with the First Officer without first operating the take-over button on his side stick or announcing that he was taking control. As a result of these combined control inputs, aircraft pitch attitude briefly reached 15.5° at a time when α Floor Protection, which is designed so that an pitch-up initiates the advance of the thrust levers to takeoff position automatically was likely to be inoperative because the flight crew response to the wind shear alert occurred below 100 feet agl. With the rate of descent still approximately 1220 fpm, the aircraft rear fuselage struck the ground with a 1.9g impact and a pitch angle of 11.2 degrees. Ground contact of both main landing gears followed and then, after a short period of simultaneous and conflicting pitch inputs on the two side sticks, a go around climb was established and the Captain formally took control for an uneventful circuit back to final approach from which a normal landing was accomplished. It was considered by the Investigation that although the flight crew could not have anticipated the wind shear encounter before onset, the presence of strong winds with significant speed variations just before the accident should have acted as a general warning of the risk. The Investigation noted that Operations Manual guidance on thrust setting whenever wind shear encounter was ‘a possibility’ was not fully followed by the First Officer and that as a consequence the energy management of the aircraft had not been optimum immediately prior to the wind shear encounter. It also reviewed the Operator procedure for use of ‘SELECTED SPEED’ mode on approach rather than the Airbus-recommended ‘MANAGED SPEED’ Mode. It was considered that, from the point of view of preventing recurrence of this type of accident, the advantages of the latter over the former included: The automatic on-board computer calculation of final approach speed.. That even if airspeed increases, there should not be an excessive reduction