of thrust to maintain a fixed ground speed during approach and landing.. It was found from flight simulator tests assuming similar conditions to those which prevailed that wind shear recovery from the condition actually encountered would have been possible and that use of ‘MANAGED SPEED” mode would have been effective. The minor injuries sustained by three of the cabin crew were considered to have been related to the much reduced thickness of the seat base padding of cabin crew jump seats as compared to passenger seats. The overall conclusion was that although recovery actions were taken when the aircraft encountered severe wind shear at approximately 100 feet agl, a sufficient rate of climb was not attained in time to prevent the lower surface of the aft fuselage striking the runway, resulting in damage to rear frames and the aft pressure bulkhead. It was considered that the following factors had contributed to the accident outcome: A delay in engine thrust response to the thrust levers being advanced to recover from the wind shear, combined with a reduced approach speed, meant that an increase in speed could not be obtained immediately (so that a) sufficient rate of ascent could not be attained in time to prevent the tail strike.. A reduced approach speed resulted from the fact that the First officer, acting as PF, had selected a slightly low value for the final approach speed, and that he reduced thrust in response to an increase in headwind.. The reduction of engine thrust in response to the increase in headwind occurred because the pilot was operating the thrust levers manually in “SELECTED SPEED” mode and was attempting to maintain a constant CAS, and because the flight crew had not adequately anticipated an increasing then decreasing wind speed.. The selection of a slightly low value for final approach speed occurred because appropriate consideration was not given to wind speed and because there were concerns over touch down attitude related to high approach speeds.. The lack of sufficient consideration of wind speed by the First Officer resulted from the use of a simple calculation formula that did not separately consider the additional airspeed margins to take account of wind speed changes and the head wind component, but that treated these together.. The concerns over aircraft touch down attitude at high approach speeds arose because the measures described in the operator’s AOM for dealing with a nose-down attitude assumed only the case of full flap landings and the First Officer considered that it would be difficult to land an aircraft with this relatively nose-down attitude.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 26 September 2003 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf. No Safety Recommendations were made.