the opinion that the damage to the propeller mechanism occurred by means of the friction in the blades' retention bearings becoming too high and that the force of the hydraulic actuator caused the damages (and that) the magnitude of the friction increase results in high actuator pitch change forces applied to the blade trunnion pins and actuator plates". It was noted that the assessment of the investigated event as one in which "there was a high probability that an accident would occur" (i.e. a Serious Incident) was based on "damages (that) were of such a nature that they could have developed into structural damages in the engine installation" and that "the fact that the incident occurred under visual weather conditions has likely allowed for control of the aircraft to be maintained despite the pilots' difficulties reading the instruments". The formal statement of Findings from the Investigation included the following: There was no specific procedure for handling engine vibrations.. The sequence starting with the vibrations and ending in the feathering of the propeller lasted just over a minute.. Six similar incidents have occurred, two of which are under investigation by foreign safety investigation authorities.. The mechanisms that caused the propeller damage could not be established.. Information on the situations in which similar incidents can occur and how they should be handled has been communicated to the concerned operators.. The Investigation was unable to establish the cause of the Serious Incident. Whilst it was accepted that the aircraft manufacturer's interim procedure to deal with the issue pending resolution of the underlying cause was accepted, evidence assembled during the Investigation meant that the SHK "did not share the propeller type certificate holder's opinion on what caused the incident". It is therefore unlikely that their current response will address the outstanding airworthiness risk. The Investigation "has established that both the aircraft type and propeller type have undergone a number of small changes since their original certification" and that whilst "there is nothing to suggest that any particular change has constituted the cause of the (incident), it would however be valuable to investigate in greater detail whether the combined effect of the changes which have been made are such that they have a negative impact on the aircraft type's properties". Accordingly, the Investigation was "unable to establish the Cause of the Serious Incident". It was concluded that "additional extensive engineering initiatives are necessary in order to find the cause of the incident and that such initiatives should be the responsibility of the aircraft and propeller type certificate holders, under supervision of the certifying authorities" and noted that it has become clear that "incidents of a similar nature have taken place under similar circumstances". In the light of this conclusion, the following Safety Recommendation was issued: that the EASA should consider introducing temporary limitations in the manoeuvring envelope, or limitations of the power ranges within the latter, until the problem is resolved and rectified. [RL 2016:07 R1]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on