An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK). FDR and CVR data relevant to the event were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain had accumulated 7,074 total flying hours which included 2,920 hours on type and was acting as PF for the flight during which the incident occurred. The 36 year-old First Officer had accumulated 2,381 flying hours which included 2,162 hours on type. It was established that the flight had been uneventful until the power was reduced to flight idle for the descent when it was reported that small vibrations were felt as the aircraft passed approximately 7,000 feet some 16 nm from Visby whilst descending at 3,200 fpm and 250 KIAS with the power levers set to flight idle. Based on his previous experience of such vibration, the Captain reported that he had moved each power lever a little forward of the idle position in turn to no effect. He then stated that the vibrations had increased in intensity and Propeller Electronic Control (PEC) fault had been annunciated. The rate of descent had been reduced to 2,500 fpm but "the vibrations were so severe that the cabin crew had difficulties moving in the cabin and that there were difficulties reading the instruments in cockpit". The Captain stated that in response, he had then feathered the right propeller and then shut the engine down after which the vibrations "subsided". He noted that he had been unable to move the lever from the feather position to the fuel shut-off position on the first attempt but after taking the lever out of the feather position, a second attempt at feather and fuel cut-off was successful. In the absence of any evidence of any relevant malfunction, the initial difficulty was attributed to the lever movement release trigger "unintentionally being in its upper position as the control reached the feather position" which would have prevented continued movement to the fuel shut-off position. FDR data showed that there had been an 80 second interval between the setting of the power levers to flight idle and the onset of severe vibrations and that airspeed had remained in the range 241-254 KCAS. Although not reported by the Captain, FDR data also showed that prior to the reported action to feather the right propeller and shut that engine down, "the left propeller was first feathered momentarily". It was also found from the CVR data that during the period of vibration "communication between the pilots did not include confirmation of which engine’s power levers were manoeuvred" and that "a number of warning signals activated […] were not reset during the acute phase of the event". Once the right engine had been shut down, the flight continued to destination without any further problems with the left engine in operation. An emergency was declared to ATC and the Cabin Crew were kept informed. The landing was accomplished without use of reverse pitch on the remaining engine. The Captain stated that "the landing,