which was performed using visual references, was prioritised over reading through the checklists for abnormal procedures”. The Investigation concluded that "clearer communication between the pilots, in terms of which power lever were manoeuvred, would likely have contributed to solving the task even quicker". It was specifically noted that the annunciation of a PEC fault, which would have indicated which side the vibrations had originated from, was not used as the basis for the crew response. Damage to the aircraft right propeller assembly and engine as a result of the event was recorded at initial inspection as follows: The eccentric trunnion pin on blade no. 2 was broken.. The front actuator plate was severely bent on all six positions.. The engine mounts had received damage from contact with metal.. The engine's compressor housing was cracked along half of its circumference.. The shaft of the AC generator was ruptured.. Subsequent examination of the propeller assembly after disassembly using non-destructive testing methods disclosed cracking on both sides of five other trunnion pins. The already-identified broken trunnion pin was found to be showing evidence of "multiple bilateral overloads" and play in the bearings for all six trunnion pins was found to be in the range 0.4-0.8 mm. Examination of the ball bearings and their separators from the blade retentions were found to be in an airworthy condition. The crack in the engine compressor housing "was found to have occurred as a result of the overloads produced by the propeller during the event". The Investigation concluded that all damage found to the engine and the engine mounts had been a consequence of the high level of vibrations that occurred during the incident. It was found that six other similar incidents involving the same aircraft type have been recorded in the period 2007-2014 of which two remain under investigation by other safety investigation authorities (BEA France and NTSC Indonesia). The others were found not to have been independently investigated by any safety investigation authority although they had been "addressed" by the aircraft and propeller type certificate holders. It was noted that BEA France had directed four Safety Recommendations to the EASA arising from their findings and that the EASA had subsequently published a Safety Information Bulletin (SIB) on the subject which had since been revised and re-issued as SIB 2015-3R1. It was noted that as an interim measure, ATR had issued an Operations Engineering Bulletin (OEB) on the subject to provide a recommended operator response to the occurrence of sudden and severe vibrations on the engine installation originating from mechanical damage to the propellers. This states that all known events have occurred to No. 2 (right hand) engines during descent at speeds close to 250 KIAS when the power levers were reduced to flight idle. The bulletin contains a procedure for identifying and shutting down the affected engine and it is considered that this will allow pilots to systematically "identify and rectify severe propeller vibrations". It was found that the propeller type certificate holder "is of