sight and that he had switched off the engine anti-icing system, adding that “he could also have left it on as the temperature was 0°C”. The approach was stabilised and at 250 feet aal, at an airspeed of 100 KIAS, the AP was disengaged. Almost immediately, the Captain called that the aircraft was above the GS. Five seconds after descending through 50 feet agl and over the beginning of the paved runway surface, the airspeed decreased from VREF -3 to VREF -7 and the recorded AoA increased from 10° to 28°. The aeroplane abruptly sank as the rate of descent increased from 700 fpm to almost 1000 fpm and roll instability occurred. The Captain called that he was taking control and attempted to begin a go-around but the stall warning activated, the aircraft stalled and made a very hard right-wing-low touchdown 10 metres beyond the displaced threshold. The right main and the nose gear collapsed and the former punctured the fuel tank which led to a fire breaking out under the fuselage near the wing roots as the aircraft slid along the runway for just over 1000 metres before veering of the left side of the runway. It then pivoted around its yaw axis and finally stopped on a heading of approximately 160°. The airport RFFS was rapidly on the scene and extinguished the fire. Both pilots and the only passenger were able to evacuate the aircraft uninjured. The annotated illustration below shows the sequence once the aircraft had begun its slide along the runway. The runway slide and final stopped position with the location of detached parts. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Conclusive evidence that airframe icing had led to the loss of control was evident for sometime after the accident had occurred as photographs of the wing and elevator leading edge taken three hours later and reproduced below show. The left photo shows icing on the leading edge of the left wing (the white on the upper surface of the wing is residue from the fire extinguishant used) and the right photo shows ice on the leading edge of the elevator. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was found that this aircraft type could be fitted with one of two alternative avionics suites and that the one installed on the accident aircraft did not automatically have an ice detector installed and although an optional modification to add one was available, it had not been installed on the accident aircraft as was the case for around 90% of the affected fleet. It was found that use of the AP during flight in severe icing conditions was prohibited and that the airframe de icing system must be activated whenever flight occurs in the presence of visible moisture if the Outside Air Temperature (OAT) is below 5°C even if there are no signs of ice accretion. Embraer also emphasises that whenever flying in icing conditions less than severe, “it is preferable to disconnect the autopilot in order to feel any possible