An Accident Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, using relevant downloaded data from both the CVR and the FDR. Both recorders stopped recording as the aircraft contacted the runway which was suspected to have been due to activation of a cut out switch designed to be triggered by a 5g vertical acceleration. Recorded ATC data, airport video surveillance recordings and various statements were also referenced. The 40 year-old Captain had a total of “around” 3,625 hours flying experience of which 2,961 hours were on type. The 25 year-old First Officer had a total of “approximately” 625 hours flying experience of which all but 200 hours were on type. For both pilots, the investigated event occurred on their first flight of the day. Both pilots held commercial pilot licences (CPLs) and had obtained their EMB 500 type ratings at an Approved Training Organisation (ATO) in Finland. According to the operator's Training Manager, this type conversion training had included specific ‘Training Areas of Special Emphasis’ (TASE) on operations in icing conditions and on the relationship between the airframe de-icing system and the Stall Warning and Protection System (SWPS) which had been validated by its safety regulator. The First Officer acted as PF for the flight for what was about a two hour flight to Paris. En-route at FL 340, the pilots discussed the forecast destination weather and the possibility of snow and/or runway contamination. The aircraft anti-icing system was tested and confirmed to be functioning normally and V speeds for an approach and landing in non-icing conditions were obtained from the AFM - VFS 121, VAC 102 and VREF 97. The destination weather was then obtained from the ATIS and it was noted that this especially included mention of “severe icing between 3,000 feet and 5,000 feet”. The Captain remarked that contrary to what the pre-fight forecast had indicated, “there was not going to be any snow” at Le Bourget and added in respect of the severe icing that “this was a common phenomenon at Le Bourget”. The approach briefing was then completed for an ILS approach to runway 27 with flaps in the “FULL” configuration and the AP engaged. Once into the descent, cloud was entered at or before reaching 5000 feet QNH and the engine anti-icing and the windshield demisting/de-ice system were activated. Further clearance to 3000 feet followed and level at that altitude, the flight established on 27 ILS LOC as cleared with about 14 nm to go. The Captain then activated the airframe de-icing system and “confirmed he could see accreted ice breaking up” before deactivating it 21 seconds later whilst still in cloud. The ILS GS was intercepted at around 8.5 nm and on transfer to Le Bourget TWR, landing clearance was given with a spot wind of 350°/ 4 knots. With the aircraft configured for landing, the landing checks were completed and the sub zero temperature cloud was exited. The Captain announced that he had runway 27 in