consequences of ice build-up on the controls on the behaviour of the aircraft” and notes that use of trim in such conditions can preclude such awareness. The existence of an Embraer information video about flying in icing conditions aimed at EMB-500 Phenom 100 pilots was noted. Embraer also pointed out that the activation threshold for the SWPS differs according to whether the airframe de-icing system is in use or not. With the system on, activation occurs at angles of attack of 9.5° (warning) and 15.5° (stick pusher) whereas with it off, the activation thresholds are respectively 21° and 28.4°. Based on FDR data, Embraer found by simulation that “the aural stall warning would have been activated twice, firstly at an altitude of between 1,000 and 850 feet and then just after 150 feet” with the stick pusher activated “shortly after flying through the radio-altimeter height of 50 feet”. FDR data from just before just before impact showed that the aircraft as configured was “manoeuvring in speed and angle-of-attack envelopes where it was likely to stall in the event of ice contamination”. An examination of landing performance also found that a landing on either runway 25 or runway 27 at Le Bourget would not have been possible since the increased airspeed would have led to the LDA being less than that required. This fact was observed to be a result of abnormally significant operational constraints on landing performance in icing conditions on this aircraft type. The Investigation noted that an accident to another EMB 500 Phenom100 at Berlin Schönefeld in 2013 had also been caused by improper operation in icing conditions. Three Contributory Factors which may have led the crew to continue the approach without the activation of the airframe de-ice system rather than divert were identified: The operator's choice to use an aeroplane type for flights to destinations where icing conditions on approach are not unlikely, when the performance of this aeroplane type is degraded in icing conditions and becomes incompatible with the runway landing distances available, even though these runway landing distances provide substantial margins in the absence of icing conditions.. The degraded landing performance of the Embraer EMB-500 Phenom 100 in icing conditions compared to performance in non-icing conditions. Crews thus frequently encounter situations where the destination airport is accessible with comfortable safety margins in non-icing conditions but becomes inaccessible in icing conditions.. A deviation in the application of the de-ice/anti-icing system activation procedure, due to the landing performance penalties in icing conditions on this aircraft type, which does not appear to be limited to this crew or this operator. Instead of activating the wing and horizontal stabiliser de-ice system as soon as the temperature drops below 5°C in the presence of visible moisture, this system is only activated by the crews when they visually observe ice on the leading edges of the wing. It is then deactivated as soon as these crews note the absence of ice on the leading edges of the wings and consider that