side carbon element was believed to be caused by exudation of salt and oxidation from the airside carbon element, processes aggravate by high operating temperatures and humid environments.. Pratt and Whitney Canada were aware that the No. 3 bearing carbon seal in the PW150 engine was likely to fracture earlier than its first scheduled overhaul as the earliest reported failure case was about 8,500 hours. At the time of the investigated event, the seal had been in use for 9,218 hours and had not reached the time for its first engine overhaul shop visit. The recorded life of the failed seal was 718 hours more than the known minimum failure life.. Service bulletin SB35341, issued by Pratt and Whitney Canada on the conditions for replacement of No. 3 bearing carbon seal did not include the wear trend of the component they had determined as a relevant consideration for its replacement.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that Pratt & Whitney Canada ensure the operators of aircraft fitted with the engine PW150A which have the No.3 bearing carbon seal, PN: 3053630-01, are fully aware of the sudden failure trend of the seal and that the earliest probable fracture time can be earlier (as early as about 8,500 hours) than its first overhaul shop visit. [21-R01/20-2001]. that Sunstate Airlines ensure that its flight and cabin crews are fully aware of the relevant information relating to unusual odours that can be indications of potential sources of smoke/fumes in the cabin and the applicable company procedures in place, to timely and adequately identify, report and react to such conditions, facilitating the adequate administration of the in-flight operation. [21-R02/21-2001]. that ANSP NiuSky Pacific should ensure that effective and appropriate communication and coordination is maintained with aircraft in an emergency or urgency situation. [21-R03/21-2001]. Safety Action in accordance with the above Safety Recommendations and advised to the AIC prior to the completion of the Investigation Report was noted to have been taken as follows: Pratt & Whitney Canada have confirmed that aircraft operators have been informed as recommended in [21-R01/20-2001]. Sunstate Airlines have advised that they will include in the next cycle of crew recurrent training enhanced awareness of the fact that the nature of unusual odours detected in the cabin can indicate potential sources of smoke/fumes.. NiuSky Pacific intend to update refresher training to ensure that all their Air Traffic Services operational staff fully understand the nature of these types of incidents to ensure that inappropriate questions are not asked of crew of emergency-status aircraft in future.. The Final Report was approved on 21 September 2021 and subsequently published. Related Articles Cabin Fumes from Non-Fire Sources. Bleed Air System. Emergency and Abnormal Checklist. Standard Operating Procedures. Service Bulletin.