if the smoke was coming from there but this allowed smoke to enter the compartment from the cabin which activated the photosensitive aural smoke alarm in the compartment. This alarm simultaneously triggered flashing lights on the passenger compartment ceiling and a single audible warning chime on the PA system. The remainder of the approach and the landing were without further event but when ATC requested the crew intentions after the aircraft had cleared the landing runway, the Captain advised that they intended to carry out a precautionary rapid disembarkation at that position because of smoke in the cabin. Once the engines had been shut down, this was accomplished and with the RFFS remaining present, the passengers and their luggage were eventually taken to the terminal by bus and the aircraft towed to the parking area. The Cabin Crew stated that none of the passengers appeared to have been physically affected by the in-flight fumes and smoke. The origin of the smoke/fumes was found by means of a borescope inspection to be an oil leak in the right engine. It was removed and a subsequent disassembly and detailed examination found that the No.3 bearing carbon seal had fractured into multiple pieces on the air side - see the illustration below. Once the air side carbon element had begun to disintegrate, oil was able to leak from the No.3 bearing cavity and into the gas path and eventually, as in this case, into contact with hot surfaces inside the engine causing fumes/smoke which then contaminated the bleed air used by the air conditioning system. The No.3 Bearing Carbon Seal removed from the right engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The seal which failed was subject to a ‘soft’ in service life of 10,000 hours since new or since the last engine overhaul (such a limit is one chosen by an operator to be done at a specific interval but may be adjusted to fit their maintenance schedule). Engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney Canada (P& WC) stated that such carbon seals were not assigned a specific ‘wear-out’ life, and that the intention was that they could remain in place as long as no significant wear was detected at the required normal engine inspection intervals. Any evidence of minor ‘wear and tear’ found during such inspections would require the replacement of the seal. The view of P&WC was that the high local operating temperature and humidity which the aircraft involved was routinely subject to “meant there was a probability that the seal could experience a rather sudden mode of fracture not necessarily preventable by scheduled inspection”. Such ‘premature’ wear was believed to be caused by “exudation of salt and oxidation of the air side carbon element”. P&WC also stated that similar carbon seal failure events had been reported on PW150A engines in the past at or above 8,500 hours since new and that in order to reduce their prevalence, such seals were already being automatically replaced at every engine shop visit and more recently