The event was reported to the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC) by the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) of Australia later the same day after they had received notification of it from the Operator. Relevant recorded data from both the SSFDR and the SSCVR were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 35 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 7,366 hours flying experience including 2,289 hours on type and the First Officer had a total of 1,614 hours flying experience which included 363 hours on type. Before takeoff, one of the cabin crew detected an abnormal smell in the passenger cabin described as reminiscent of ‘dirty socks’ for which no source was apparent but this was not reported to the flight crew at that time. Early in the climb, the flight crew then noticed a similar smell entering the flight deck but as it “did not appear strong to them at the time” it was initially decided to continue the flight as planned. However, climbing through 10,000 feet, the Captain considered that the smell had begun to intensify and after consulting the cabin crew and learning of the presence of a similar smell there, he responded by instructing them to standby whilst the situation was assessed and to anticipate a return to Port Moresby. Both pilots then donned their oxygen masks, levelled the aircraft at just under 19,000 feet QNH and actioned the initial items on the QRH ‘Fuselage Fire, Smoke or Fumes’ Checklist. Whilst maintaining their outbound track, a ‘PAN’ was declared to Moresby Radar and a priority return requested. The acknowledgement was accompanied by an instruction to turn right and descend to 10,000 feet. At this stage there was no ‘smoke’ in the flight deck. The Captain then briefed the cabin crew about the turnback due to the fumes but advised them to expect a normal approach and landing. He subsequently instructed them to brief the eight passengers about the emergency situation and the intention to return to Port Moresby. Once transferred to the airport radar frequency, the crew requested to complete their descent in the Bayview hold prior to making an RNAV approach to runway 32R and entered this hold at 15,000 feet QNH with clearance to descend to 6000 feet. Whilst descending, further relevant ‘Smoke and Fumes’ checklist items were actioned and, after only partially completing the actions to remove smoke or fumes, the cabin crew reported that ‘smoke’ was entering the cabin. The flight crew then completed the remaining actions on the Smoke and Fumes Checklist but contrary to the procedure switched off bleed air 2 without first restoring bleed air 1. Shortly after descending through 8,000 feet in the hold, the crew advised that they were now turning inbound for the runway 32R approach and subsequently reiterated their request for a priority landing “due to smoke and fumes in the cabin” which was accepted. Shortly afterwards, the SCCM opened the toilet compartment door to see