formally documented as follows: “The aircraft commenced its takeoff roll by using takeoff thrust lower than the thrust required for the aircraft to take off, causing it to take a longer takeoff roll distance to lift off and its lifting off in the vicinity of the end of departure runway resulted in a case equivalent to runway overrun. It is probable that the aircraft commenced its takeoff roll by using takeoff thrust lower than the thrust required for the aircraft to take off because the Captain did not correctly change the FMC settings for the takeoff thrust at the time of takeoff from those previously input for the different runway which the Captain and the First Officer had assumed would be used and they also did not ensure that they verified that the correct takeoff thrust had been set before commencing the takeoff.” Safety Action taken by Polar Air Cargo Worldwide as a result of this event and known to the Investigation was noted as having included but not been limited to the following: Introduction of a new ‘Runway Change Checklist’ summarising relevant normal operating procedures of the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) to ensure strict compliance with SOP in the event of a runway change.. Issue of revised airport information for Narita which added the following information on approved departure runway procedures: ATC may assign runway 16L/34R to departing aircraft between the hours of 2100 and 0300 local time. Runway 16L/34R is usually assigned for flights departing to Intra-Asian destinations. When performance considerations do not permit a takeoff from runway 16L/34R, request runway 16R/34L. ATC may assign runway 16L/34R to departing aircraft between the hours of 2100 and 0300 local time.. Runway 16L/34R is usually assigned for flights departing to Intra-Asian destinations.. When performance considerations do not permit a takeoff from runway 16L/34R, request runway 16R/34L. The Final Report was adopted by the JTSB on 22 February 2019 and published on 28 March 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.