was only instructed to verify that there was no discrepancy of takeoff data between that and the CDU entry and the flight deck performance data which had been provided via ACARS. The required pre-taxi EICAS check of the FMC takeoff thrust was not performed properly and there was no further requirement to check it once taxi had commenced. Both pilots stated that they had thereafter been particularly focused on the unexpected and relatively complicated taxi route to runway 16L which the Captain had briefed. The aircraft was then pushed back in accordance with a corresponding clearance from Narita Ramp Control and after transfer to GND was cleared to commence taxiing for runway 16L following the route shown on the illustration above. Whilst on taxiway ‘G’ in the vicinity of its intersection with taxiway E7, the flight was transferred to TWR. Twelve minutes later, TWR issued a takeoff clearance which was correctly read back and the takeoff was commenced 23 seconds later. After a takeoff roll lasting 50 seconds, the aircraft lifted off just 100 metres before the end of the 2,500 metre-long runway and a height of 16 feet agl was recorded as it passed over the end of the runway. The climb out continued and the flight was transferred to Narita Departure. The Captain subsequently stated that during the takeoff roll, he had “felt that the acceleration of the aircraft was a little slow but not so abnormal, while recognising that they were approaching the end of departure runway”. He had not increased the thrust although he was aware that lift off had occurred “in the vicinity of the end of departure runway” and that the rate of climb was lower than he had expected. It was noted that Company SOP allowed for the use of Rated (TO) or De-rated thrust, the latter with two options, a 10% reduction (TO1) or a 20% reduction (TO2). In addition, it was also possible to use the Assumed Temperature Method (ATM) which de-rates by using a temperature higher than the actual ambient temperature and this method could be used in combination with TO, TO1 and TO2 in which case they are identified as D-TO, D-TO1 and D-TO2. The TLR provided for the investigated departure showed that D-TO2, with an assumed temperature of 40°C and flap 10 had been used for the 16R data calculation and D-TO with an assumed temperature of 38°C and flap 20 had been used for the 16L data calculation. A comparison of the actual takeoff as made using the 16R D-TO2 data as modified by the 2° reduction in assumed temperature and derived from QAR data (red) and what would have been the result of using the (correct) D-TO data for 16L (green) is illustrated below with the feet used as the scale for both axes and the end of runway 16L shown as a broken vertical line. The effect on the initial rate of climb was clearly considerable. The Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was