After an airport security camera recorded images of the departing aircraft flying low over the area just beyond the end of the departure runway, it was found that some of the intrusion warning sensors in that vicinity had been disconnected. An inspection of the aircraft after landing at Shanghai found that it was undamaged so it was concluded that the sensor damage had been a consequence of jet blast rather than contact. The event was classified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). By the time the FDR and CVR could be accessed, data from the flight under investigation had been overwritten so they were not removed. However, relevant data were available from the QAR. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain, who was PF for the takeoff, had a total of 14,896 flying hours including 5,178 hours on type. The 42 year-old First Officer had a total of 13,568 flying hours including 408 hours accumulated after he had completed aircraft type rating and company training requirements three months prior to the investigated event. It was established that during on-stand preparations for departure, the Captain, who had often taken off from runway 16R (4000 metres long) in the past and was aware that the aircraft parking position (spot 207, see the illustration below) was considerably closer to runway 16R than to the much shorter runway 16L, had entered into the FMC using the FMS control display unit (CDU) takeoff performance data based on an expected 16R departure. In accordance with normal procedures, takeoff performance data had been provided for both north and south runways at Narita direct from the dispatchers in Company Operations Control via ACARS. The crew were also provided separately with a copy of the ‘Takeoff and Landing Report’ (TLR) as used by the dispatchers to generate takeoff performance data supplied. By design, this TLR indicated a ‘planned runway’ which could be selected by the dispatchers to take account of the weather and the runway availability and conditions in relation to the aircraft type. In this case, the TLR had shown runway 16R as the ‘planned runway’ but only because the system used this runway as the (passive) default choice despite the fact (of which the crew were not aware) that runway 16L would be automatically assigned by ATC for the slot interval during which the departure was scheduled. It was noted that the SOP applicable to takeoff performance data entry required that both pilots must verify that the correct data is correctly input. On request, Narita Delivery had issued a clearance which included use of runway 16L for takeoff and in response, the Captain advised that he would make the necessary changes to the FMC settings previously input and instructed the First Officer to make the corresponding changes to the departure route and SID also previously input. However, the Captain only changed the assumed temperature and the thrust previously input remained unchanged and the First Officer