a) even in low temperatures, when conditions might entice the pilot to hurry the preflight phase, conduct full preflight inspection b) check for fuel contamination which is very likely to happen when the aircraft was parked warm with half full tanks as this leads to water condensation in tanks. To check for contamination use all installed fuel sumps. c) check for fuel source, use the best fuel available from modern fuelling facilities. If not available – filter the fuel as it goes into the tanks. Use good, commercial filter. d) preheat the engine and cabin to minimise changes in the viscosity of oils, maximize the effectiveness of batteries and avoid situations when instruments stick. e) to make preheating safe follow these precautions: - preheat the aircraft by storing in a heated hangar, - use only heaters in good condition and do not refuel the heater when it is operating, - do not leave the aircraft unattended during the heating process. - keep a fire extinguisher handy (fire extinguisher with CO2 should be fully charged) - do not place heat ducting so it will blow hot air directly on combustible parts of the aircraft - when using a “fire pot”, use a wire mesh in the ducting to prevent flaming pieces of carbon from entering the aircraft or engine compartment. f) remove all frost, ice and snow from all airfoil and control surfaces and around the static system sensing point. g) if an aircraft is parked in an area of blowing snow, put special attention to openings in the aircraft where snow can enter, freeze and then obstruct operations. There openings are: - pitot tubes and static system sensing ports, - fuel vents, - heater intakes, carburettor intakes, - wheel wells, - tail wheel area (check for any frozen snow around the elevator and rudder controls). h) in ski operation check all safety cables and shock cords. i) if you are to fly over big, sparsely populated areas, consider carrying appropriate survival kits and proper clothing. It may save your life in case of forced landing.