The scale separates hurricanes into five different categories based on wind. The U.S. National Hurricane Center classifies hurricanes of Category 3 and above as major hurricanes, and the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWS) classifies typhoons of 150 mph or greater (strong Category 4 and Category 5) as super typhoons (although all tropical cyclones can be very dangerous). Most weather agencies use the definition for sustained winds recommended by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), which specifies measuring winds at a height of 33 ft (10.1 m) for 10 minutes, and then taking the average. By contrast, the U.S. National Weather Service, Central Pacific Hurricane Center and the Joint Typhoon Warning Center define sustained winds as average winds over a period of one minute, measured at the same 33 ft (10.1 m) height, and that is the definition used for this scale. When far out to sea, the winds are estimated using satellite imagery. When closer to land, so-called "hurricane hunter" aircraft provide more accurate estimates. The scale is roughly logarithmic, like the Richter Scale for earthquakes. A typical Category 2 storm could produce 10 times the damage of a typical Category 1 because wind power or force increases exponentially with increases in wind speed and therefore, so does potential damage. The SSHWS only pertains to the maximum wind speeds of a tropical cyclone at a particular time. The original Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale included central pressure and storm surge. Pressure information is now considered superfluous for the public. Storm surge, although related to wind speed, is affected by too many other factors to be a direct relationship. For storms that make land fall, there will be separate predictions and warnings about storm surge and other storm-related threats including rain-produced flooding and tornadoes which are not related at all to storm intensity. Very dangerous winds will produce some damage Category 1 storms usually cause no significant structural damage to most well-constructed permanent structures; however, they can topple unanchored mobile homes, as well as uproot or snap weak trees. Poorly attached roof shingles or tiles can blow off. Power outages are typically widespread to extensive, sometimes lasting several days. Even though it is the least intense type of hurricane, they can still produce widespread damage and can be life-threatening storms. Extremely dangerous winds will cause extensive damage Storms of Category 2 intensity often damage roofing material (sometimes exposing the roof) and inflict damage upon poorly constructed doors and windows. Poorly constructed signs can receive considerable damage and many trees are uprooted or snapped. Mobile homes, whether anchored or not, are typically damaged and sometimes destroyed, and many manufactured homes also suffer structural damage. Small craft in unprotected anchorages may break their moorings. Extensive to near-total power outages and scattered loss of potable water are likely, possibly lasting many days. Devastating damage will occur Tropical cyclones of Category 3 and higher are described as major hurricanes in the Atlantic or Eastern Pacific basins. These storms can cause some structural damage to small residences and utility