Most North American and European carriers prohibit smoking in the aircraft. This, coupled with the use of fire resistant materials, has reduced the likelihood of a seat or trim fire caused by a cigarette. Nevertheless, despite highly publicised criminal charges being made against offenders, a small minority of passengers continue to smoke in the lavatories. Galley fire. Airlines comment that most in-flight and ground fire/smoke events relate to the galley and involve some kind of electrical equipment. Oven fires may occur because of inappropriate items being placed inside the oven or because of overheating of food items, or an electrical malfunction. In addition to ovens, there is a lot of equipment in the galley which could cause a fire (e.g. coffee makers/water heaters, especially if selected on with no or insufficient water, and trash compactors).. Electrical fire. Electrical fires can be quickly controlled by cutting off power to the piece of equipment concerned. However, the source of the smoke and/or fire, and the electrical system concerned, may not always be easily identified, or accessible.. Lavatory fire. Lavatory fires are often caused by burning cigarettes being placed in the waste paper bin, but there is also electrical equipment inside a lavatory which may cause a fire (e.g. toilet flush, lights, etc). Waste container fire. Waste container fires may have many different causes: burning cigarettes, excessive heat due to spilt hot drinks or hot plates, or chemical reactions. Waste container fires are normally easily contained.. Overhead compartment fire. The source of these fires is often to be found in passengers’ hand luggage, e.g. Lithium batteries in Personal Electronic Devices (PEDs).. Seat fire. In flight seat fires are rare because of the fire resistance of materials used in construction and are easy to identify. Increasingly complex entertainment systems and services supplied to individual seats do present the possibility of an electrical fire in a seat.. Passenger PED Fire. PEDs are more likely to be a fire source when in use or being charged than when in an overhead locker..