continued severe turbulence, the AoA was recorded as having "fluctuated rapidly within the range of −11.9° and 3.8°". Shortly after reaching the maximum upward deviation from FL370, FDR data showed that the aircraft had pitched to 11° nose down and rolled 30° to the right. In response, the crew had, for no discernible reason, increased both thrust and the bank to the right with a resultant 63° right bank angle. Severe turbulence continued, and pitch attitude, airspeed and rate of descent all continued to increase, the latter eventually peaking at 9,300 fpm. Right bank increased to 77° due to crew action which, for the second time, was contrary to widely-promoted aircraft upset recovery techniques. As the aircraft descended through FL364, the rate of descent had increased to 7,500 fpm and the pitch angle to 24° nose down with severe turbulence persisting. At this point, the crew applied left roll inputs and the right angle of bank decreased to 26°. Passing FL 355, the level of turbulence began to lessen from severe to moderate and, following a crew-commanded reduction in thrust, aircraft pitch attitude and rate of descent both began to reduce. Airspeed continued to increase to a maximum of M 0.80 until just before the minimum altitude of FL336 was reached some 23 seconds later. With the un-commanded descent finally arrested, the climb back to FL370 began, which took about 3 minutes and during which the level of turbulence reduced to light and icing conditions ceased. During the loss of control, which had lasted for several minutes, ATC had made a number of attempts to re-establish radio contact with the aircraft but had only received a 'stand by' response from the aircraft in a "tone and volume that suggested that something of an urgent nature was occurring". Crew action to increase an initially un-commanded right bank had resulted in a 200°/minute average rate of turn which had changed the aircraft heading from the intended 180° to 240° and on this heading, and still IMC but now back in control of the aircraft, the crew had requested a heading to "exit the weather system". ATC suggested a southbound heading which was followed and "soon afterwards" the aircraft emerged into VMC and the aircraft turned eastward to proceed to its intended destination without further event. The Investigation compared the actual severe weather encountered and the forecast weather for that time and concluded that the former had been essentially as forecast, with cloud tops in the area which penetrated at up to 52,000 feet. It was found that the flight crew had been fully aware of the likely conditions prior to departure including the content of a SIGMET which warned of severe turbulence between FL 330 and FL 390 associated with a cold front lying east-west across the intended route. It also found that the weather radar picture available to the Dispatcher in the ExpressJet Flight Following Unit was generated using just the lowest reflectivity angle and displayed a base reflectivity product aimed