The event was not reported to the Canadian TSB by the aircraft operator or the pilot in command of the aircraft but it was so reported the following day by the Toronto ACC, which had been working the aircraft at the time. Neither the CVR nor FDR were quarantined after the flight and relevant data on the CVR were therefore overwritten. The Investigation was subsequently provided with a download FDR data which included the flight under investigation. It was found that the Captain, who had been PF for the investigated flight, had accumulated approximately 10,000 flying hours which included 7,000 hours on the incident type of which 5,000 had been in command. He had been employed by ExpressJet for 10 years and was a Company Check Pilot. The First Officer had accumulated approximately 3,400 flying hours which included 2,200 hours on the incident type during his 3 years employment with ExpressJet. It was established that the departure of the flight from Grand Rapids had been interrupted during taxi out by a "ground stop" due to thunderstorm activity in the vicinity of the aircraft. After a 45 minute delay during which the flight crew considered if and how to deviate from their flight-planned route to avoid severe weather, the aircraft took off and flew to a position around 50 nm north of Grand Rapids before taking up a generally easterly track which allowed it to fly parallel to a line of thunderstorms in VMC. The aircraft was initially climbed to FL330 and then to FL370, the maximum operating altitude for the aircraft type, and was working with Toronto ACC. Clearance to deviate from track for weather avoidance was obtained. Opportunities to turn south through gaps in the line of storms to the right were observed to be rapidly diminishing and, already experiencing moderate turbulence, 23 minutes after take-off, the crew contacted Company Dispatch by ACARS to request a suitable route through the storms. Based on flight-following weather software designed to inform proactive weather avoidance rather than as a means to select tracks through areas of adverse weather, the Dispatcher suggested turning south on track towards Sarnia which the Captain then initiated into IMC. Thrust was increased and the result was a significant and sustained exceedance of the AFM Recommended Turbulence Penetration Speed of M 0.63 for unexplained reasons. Almost immediately, as turbulence increased rapidly from moderate to severe, there was a transient minor exceedance of Mmo, which the Investigation considered was "consistent with the aircraft encountering horizontal gusts associated with the mature cumulonimbus clouds into which it was flying" (see the Composite Weather Radar picture reproduced below). The AP disconnected as Mmo was exceeded and the aircraft then climbed above FL370 without ATC clearance. The flight crew responded by re-engaging the AP but it almost immediately disconnected as the range of vertical acceleration increased to 0.2g - 1.7g. As the speed decreased through M 0.68, the aircraft continued to climb reaching FL 376 with an un-commanded right bank of 45°. During