at proactive flight planning such as re-routing around an entire area of storms rather than tactical guidance within such an area which would be better informed by the onboard weather radar. It was also noted that FAA regulations on the subject of the aircraft commander's responsibility for the safe operation of an aircraft were unequivocal, whatever advice may be provided by others such as, in this case, flight-following Dispatchers. Whether the Flight Crew had optimised their use of the onboard weather radar could not be assessed since the FDR did not record parameters from the weather radar unit. No evidence was found to suggest that the weather radar was faulty in any relevant respect but it was noted that the equipment required manual rather than automatic control of tilt. It was noted that "the roll inputs by the flight crew during the descent phase of the loss of control were contrary to known aircraft upset-recovery techniques" and by increasing rather than reducing the angle of bank had increased the altitude loss and recovery time. It was also noted that although both pilots had received upset-recovery training, the investigated event was their first exposure to an upset attributable to such severe turbulence. It was considered that both the fidelity limitations inherent in current full flight simulators and the inevitable element of expectation inherent in simulator training scenarios would preclude a realistic replication of a convective weather penetration episode like that encountered. Finally, it was noted that the unintentional exceedance during the upset of both the AFM Maximum Operating Altitude FL 370 by 600 feet and the AFM maximum operating Mach Number M 0.78 by M 0.02 had introduced the risk that flight safety would be compromised "resulting in injury to the occupants or damage to the aircraft". The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The flight crew were aware of the weather conditions and departed, anticipating that they would be able to navigate through an extensive line of thunderstorms. However, as the flight progressed, the line of thunderstorms intensified and, as a result, the flight crew’s intended route became obstructed.. The flight crew operated the aircraft through a mature thunderstorm and, as a result, an aircraft upset and loss of control occurred.. During the loss of control, the flight crew momentarily applied flight control inputs that exacerbated the roll attitude of the aircraft. As a result, altitude loss and recovery time were increased.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If flight crews operate aircraft outside of manufacturer recommendations, the risk of encountering an adverse consequence is increased.. If aircraft are operated outside of manufacturer limitations, there is a risk of compromising flight safety, resulting in injury to the occupants or damage to the aircraft.. If cockpit voice recordings are not available to an investigation, the identification and communication of safety deficiencies to advance transportation safety may be precluded.. Safety Action taken by ExpressJet Airlines as a result of the event was