provided the aircraft has been airborne for at least 6 minutes, reduce the AoA at which the stick shaker operates from 12.1º to 5.9º but would not affect the stick pusher AoA threshold. Had this system - which recognises that an ice-contaminated wing will stall at a lower AoA (and higher airspeed) than a clean one - been active, it would have activated the stall warning at the onset of the first uncommanded roll, some 23 seconds earlier than occurred. However, at the time of the incident, "permission to use the system on Saab 340s had been temporarily withdrawn by EASA".. Although the Investigation found that "No tables were provided for the stall speed in JAR-certified icing conditions" it was noted that "applying the likely 10% increase in IAS from flight trials" the stall speed of the incident aircraft would have been 115.5 KIAS, which was 16 knots below the lowest speed reached when stalled.. More generally, it was noted that "the accepted aeronautical terms for describing icing intensity are ‘trace’, ‘light’, ‘moderate’ and ‘severe’ but there is no internationally recognised definition of icing severity". The UK AIP states that for reporting purposes, "moderate icing exists when the rate of accumulation is such that even short encounters are potentially hazardous" with the use of de-icing/anti-icing equipment and/or a change of flight path may be necessary. The same source describes severe icing as existing "when the rate of accumulation is such that de-icing/anti-icing equipment fails to reduce or control the hazard" necessitating immediate change of flight path. The UK Meteorological Office encourages its forecasters "to consider a number of parameters together, including the type and extent of cloud, as well as its depth, temperature and relative humidity" when forecasting moderate or severe icing. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of the Operator involved in this incident relevant to the aircraft type involved were considered. It was found that: the manufacturer's AFM and AOM were considered to be the definitive guides to aircraft operation unless specific instructions to the contrary appear in the aircraft type specific volume of the Operations Manual (OM).. the aircraft was approved for flight in moderate icing conditions.. a graph of liquid water content is published in the OM which distinguishes between "what is considered to be" the maximum size of Supercooled Water Droplets (SWD) for flight in intermittent (40 microns) and continuous (50 microns) icing conditions, the former linked to flight in cumuliform cloud and the latter to flight in stratiform cloud.. in the case of "substantial build up of ice on the spinner further aft than normally" increased scanning of the wing upper surface aft of the protected zone is seen, immediate disconnection of the AP (if engaged) and immediate exit of such conditions is necessary. The purpose of the black painted rings on the spinner is not explained.. an instruction to disconnect the AP "if there is a significant loss of performance in icing conditions" appears in the AOM but not in the OM.. the OM