An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The FDR and CVR were both recovered and successfully downloaded with the former providing data essential to establishing the circumstances which had prevailed. It was found that the 51 year-old Captain had 9168 hours total flying experience including 6283 hours on type accumulated over 10 years. He was also Line Training Captain for the Operator. The Co-Pilot had 2340 hours total flying experience including 928 hours on type accumulated over 2 years. It was noted that for both pilots, the flight made had been the third of a four sector morning duty which consisted of two return trips from their Aberdeen base and Sumburgh. During the first two sectors, "little cloud and no significant icing had been encountered" and the pilots, familiar with the route, "were not expecting problems with icing on this sector" and "regarded forecasts of icing conditions and mountain wave effect as routine for that area". The incident flight, with the Captain as PF was planned to cruise at FL150 and ATC approved climb to FL130. The forecast available to the crew indicated that a cold front, orientated north-east / south-west was expected to pass through their route during the morning with BKN or OVC AC cloud either side of it between 8000 and 10000 feet which would be associated with moderate icing and moderate turbulence. Ahead of the front, the freezing level was estimated as 9000 feet and behind it 6000 feet or lower. A SIGMET was in force for severe mountain waves between FL40 and FL280 over a large area either side of the front because of a strong south-south-westerly airstream, with a maximum vertical speed of 900 fpm expected at 9000 feet. Turbulence within these mountain waves was forecast to be moderate or occasionally severe. Cloud was entered around FL65 and engine anti-ice and airframe de-ice systems were selected on. Above FL110, the climb rate began to reduce and ice began to accrete on the propeller spinners, prompting the selection of propeller de-icing as the OAT reading reached -5ยบ C. The climb was made with the AP engaged and VS mode selected. Airspeed decreased steadily from "more than 160KIAS, the normal minimum speed for icing" to 145 KIAS, the recommended speed for exiting icing conditions, at which point IAS mode was engaged. Climb Power and the normal 1230 Propeller RPM were maintained and the achieved rate of climb was thereafter very variable, ranging between about 800fpm and "slightly negative". On reaching FL130 and levelling off still in IMC with the OAT reading now -7ยบ C, the aircraft failed to accelerate beyond 164 KIAS when 180KIAS or greater would be the normal expectation. The Captain decided to "climb the aircraft another 100 ft, then descend back to FL130 using VS mode", which he has seen another pilot do although he had not previously tried it himself. He reported believing that "the angle of attack (AOA) and drag would reduce during descent and the aircraft would accelerate"