specified the minimum IAS in icing conditions above MSA according to flap setting and angle of bank. For a clean aircraft en route with wings level, this is 160 KIAS. A lower speed is allowable for the purpose of exiting icing conditions.. both the OM and AOM state that "if experiencing extreme icing conditions and safe speed and/or climb rate can not be maintained" there should be no hesitation before temporarily setting maximum power "if required to escape from the situation". They also state that "extreme icing conditions do not necessarily imply a large amount of ice" and may equally well be evident from "ice accumulation causing a large impact on performance making airspeed decrease towards the minimum safe speed in icing conditions". However, "no other explanation or definition is provided for the term 'extreme icing'”.. the AOM states that Maximum Continuous Power (MCP) is available for two engine operation in 'extreme icing conditions' but is not intended for use during 'normal icing conditions'. The OM uses 'severe icing conditions' in place of 'extreme icing conditions' and notes that MCP (which requires a propeller rpm of 1384, "may be used to ... maintain a safe flying speed". It was noted that the use of MCP at FL130 would have provided approximately 18% more engine power.. the OM warns that with ice on the wing, a stall can occur before or at stick pusher activation and in some adverse cases may even be encountered before the annunciation of a stall warning.. the OM states that buffeting ahead of a stall may occur at a speed of up to 25% above the applicable ice free stall speed but could be mistaken or hidden by the “vibration” caused by the uneven shedding of ice from the propellers.’. the Emergency Checklist states that should unusual vibrations be experienced and there is any doubt as to whether this is pre-stall buffet or an unusual vibration, the response must be a stall recovery.. Much of this was covered in the Operators "Winter Operations Brief 2013/12014" which was no longer current and although a new one had not been published for Winter 204/2015, both pilots stated that they had retained familiarity with the contents of the expired Brief. These contents included reminders that: loss of performance in icing conditions may be indicative of serious airframe icing, even if it is not observable.. that ice accretion on the airframe can lead to a stall at speeds up to 30% above comparable clean speeds and result in a stall occurring before activation of the stall protection system.. the first indication of an impending icing-induced stall may light buffeting and or an un-commanded roll oscillation.. if it is suspected that an icing induced stall has developed or is imminent then the AP must be disconnected, the nose lowered approximately 5 degrees and Maximum Climb Power (MCP) applied.. The Operator noted that although recurrent simulator training covered flight in icing conditions, it "had had not previously been possible to simulate severe