icing or the pre-stall buffet". Previous losses of turboprop aircraft in similar circumstances were noted as including an ATR 72 in the USA in 1994, a Saab 340 in the USA in 2006 and a Saab 340 in Argentina in 2011. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "The aircraft probably encountered both severe icing conditions and mountain wave effect while climbing. The crew reduced the airspeed to VCLEAN+15, for optimum climb performance, but the propeller rpm and power were not increased to MCP. The co-pilot perceived that the command gradient between himself and the commander was too steep for him to feel comfortable advocating such a procedure, even though he believed it appropriate. After levelling-off, airspeed initially increased before reducing back towards VCLEAN+15, a speed that was only intended for use when climbing out of icing conditions, and in combination with MCP. It was apparent that the aircraft’s performance was being impaired by ice and it would have been appropriate to set MCP, as well as disengage the autopilot. Pre-stall buffet was experienced and the recovery was delayed until after the stall warning had activated. Not all the stall recovery vital actions were implemented, although control was regained before a wing drop developed, as had happened in previous Saab 340 stall events." Safety Action initiated as a result of the investigated event of which the Investigation was aware was noted as: The Aircraft Manufacturer is reviewing the guidance in the AFM and AOM relating to flying the Saab 340B in icing conditions which will include crew actions to be taken on identifying specified icing conditions and will use accepted aeronautical terminology compatible with that used in the UK AIP.. The Operator has updated its advice to crews on flying the Saab 340B in icing conditions, introduced improved recurrent training on operation in such conditions and improved access to the AFM and AOM.. The EASA has approved a modification which reinstates the Ice Speed Function so that earlier activation of the SPS can occur in icing conditions.. The Final Report was published on 10 September 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made.