but the speed reduced to 150 KIAS during the short climb and did not increase in the descent back to FL130. Both pilots reported having initially concluded that they were experiencing moderate icing and it was decided to descend to FL110 to increase forward speed. The AP remained engaged and a 1000 fpm descent in VS mode was selected. However, when the aircraft pitch attitude remained at about 5ยบ nose-up, the rate of descent was increased to 2500 fpm. Almost immediately, airframe vibration had begun, followed by activation of the stall warning accompanied by stick shaker operation, which disconnected the AP. The Captain, using "a little more force than usual" pitched the aircraft 2ยบ nose-down and "it then responded normally as the speed increased to greater than 190 KIAS". He reported that the vibration had ceased and the aircraft had "seemed to be in trim, without any pitch trim adjustment" so the AP was re-engaged approximately 9 seconds after it had disconnected. Once at FL110, this was maintained as the cruise level and the remainder of the flight proceeded normally. FDR data showed that after an 11 second descent from FL131 to FL130, the effect of altitude capture mode was to cause pitch attitude to increase and a stall is clearly shown with AoA 8ยบ as the aircraft began the descent from FL130 and buffeting started. Thereafter, whilst the pitch attitude had begun to reduce from its peak of 7/8ยบ, the AoA continued to increase. An aftercast produced by the UK Meteorological Office indicated that the incident had probably occurred "in the air mass just ahead of the cold front, with a particularly moist layer above the freezing level". It also indicated that the severity of the mountain waves likely to have been encountered by the aircraft at FL130 was likely to have been much less than the forecast maximum - of the order of 100 - 150 fpm. It was also calculated that the aircraft would have encountered "an altocumulus cloud layer about 7,500 ft in depth, with tops at FL150, and with conditions conducive to moderate or severe icing". The water droplets in this cloud at FL130 were considered likely to have been of mid to large size i.e. may well have included droplets over 50 microns in diameter, i.e. meeting the description 'Supercooled Large Droplets' (SLD), which are known to be associated with severe icing conditions. Aspects of the aircraft pertinent to the airframe de-icing risk were reviewed by the Investigation: It was noted that the aircraft was not fitted with an ice detector and that after stating that ice build up on the windshield wiper arms gives a visual cue of ice accumulation, the AOM then said that "airframe ice can be present without any build-up on the wiper arms.... (so) accumulation of ice shall be monitored on all visible surfaces".. It was noted that the aircraft had received a modification to the stall warning system which introduced an 'Ice Speed Function' which if selected will,