and the Captain’s increase in the pitch attitude to a recorded 9.2 degrees did not arrest this. Three seconds after the thrust levers had been set to maximum and 18 seconds after the go-around had been initiated, the aircraft rear fuselage hit the runway at a recorded forward speed of 124 KIAS - above the prevailing Vs - approximately 2530 metres from the beginning of the runway and with the landing gear still in transition to the ‘up’ position. The aircraft slid along the runway for approximately 800 metres (see the illustration below) for the next 32 seconds before veering to the right, turning through 120° and stopping with the No. 2 engine/pylon assembly - already on fire - detached from the rest of the aircraft and near the right wingtip. Fire was also evident coming from beneath the No. 1 engine and there was dense smoke coming from the right hand side of the fuselage in the vicinity of the right main landing gear bay. The initial impact point (1) and the ground track to the final stopping position (2). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Once the aircraft had come to a final stop, the Captain immediately made a PA “Cabin Crew to Stations”. One minute after this, during which some passengers had already left their seats, he then ordered an evacuation over the PA and declared a MAYDAY to ATC advising that an evacuation was under way. Shortly afterwards, the first two of a number of ARFFS vehicles arrived and began applying fire extinguishing agent. The First Officer left the aircraft via exit R2 to direct evacuated passengers away from the aircraft. On receipt of the evacuation command, all but one of the 10 passenger cabin emergency exits were initially opened but only 5 of them were ultimately useable. Smoke and fire outside prevented the use of the two over wing exits at L3 and R3 and the slides at three other exits were not used - the L1 slide detached from the aircraft when deployed and the slides at L2 and L4 could not be not used because the wind blew them up against the door. A questionnaire to passengers was subsequently used by the Investigation to map the use of the available exits (see below). Passenger seat occupancy and emergency exit use. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the evacuation proceeded, white smoke already in the centre cabin changed colour to grey and became very dense, dramatically reducing visibility and effectively creating a barrier between the front and rear of the aircraft. Many passengers left the aircraft with their carry-on baggage with the cabin crew judging that to intervene would slow the evacuation. Although the aircraft passenger cabin was only 77% occupied by the 282 passengers on board, these included 4 adults who had required assistance during boarding, 60 children and 7 infants. The evacuation took “approximately 6 minutes and 40 seconds” to complete. Two minutes after this, the centre fuel tank explosion occurred and debris