engine thrust, remained at idle. Consequently, the aircraft’s energy state was insufficient to sustain flight.. The flight crew did not effectively scan and monitor the primary flight instrumentation parameters during the landing and the attempted go-around.. The flight crew were unaware that the autothrottle (A/T) had not responded to move the engine thrust levers to the TO/GA position after the Commander pushed the TO/GA switch at the initiation of the FCOM Go-around and Missed Approach Procedure.. The flight crew did not take corrective action to increase engine thrust because they omitted the engine thrust verification steps of the FCOM Go-around and Missed Approach Procedure.. A total of 11 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The flight crew were unable to land the aircraft within the touchdown zone during the attempted tailwind landing because of an early flare initiation, and increased airspeed due to a shift in wind direction, which took place approximately 650 metres beyond the runway threshold.. When the Commander decided to fly a go-around, his perception was that the aircraft was still airborne. In pushing the TO/GA switch, he expected that the autothrottle (A/T) would respond and automatically manage the engine thrust during the go-around.. Based on the flight crew’s inaccurate situation awareness of the aircraft state, and situational stress related to the increased workload involved in flying the go-around manoeuvre, they were unaware that the aircraft’s main gear had touched down which caused the TO/GA switches to become inhibited. Additionally, the flight crew were unaware that the A/T mode had remained at ‘IDLE’ after the TO/GA switch was pushed.. The flight crew reliance on automation and lack of training in flying go-arounds from close to the runway surface and with the TO/GA switches inhibited, significantly affected the flight crew performance in a critical flight situation which was different to that experienced by them during their simulated training flights.. The flight crew did not monitor the flight mode annunciations (FMA) changes after the TO/GA switch was pushed because: According to the Operator’s procedure, as per FCOM Flight Mode Annunciations (FMA), FMA changes are not required to be announced for landing when the aircraft is below 200 feet. Callouts of FMA changes were not included in the Operator’s FCOM Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedures. Callouts of FMA changes were not included in the Operator’s FCTM Go-Around and Missed Approach training.. According to the Operator’s procedure, as per FCOM Flight Mode Annunciations (FMA), FMA changes are not required to be announced for landing when the aircraft is below 200 feet.. Callouts of FMA changes were not included in the Operator’s FCOM Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedures.. Callouts of FMA changes were not included in the Operator’s FCTM Go-Around and Missed Approach training.. The Operator’s OM-A policy required the use of the A/T for engine thrust management for all phases of flight. This policy did not consider pilot actions that would be necessary during a go-around initiated while the A/T was armed and active and the TO/GA switches were inhibited..