‘immediate’, (TSO-C117a/b) windshear systems. [SR35/2020]. that The FAA perform a safety study in consultation with the aircraft manufacturer, for the purpose of enhancing the Boeing 777 autothrottle system and TO/GA switch inhibit logic to avoid pilot errors due to overreliance on automation. The study should also include improvement in crew procedures and training on the autothrottle system and TO/GA switch inhibit logic, including manual advancing of the thrust levers for a go-around initiated at low altitude or after touchdown. [SR36/2020]. that The FAA require Essex Industries (the manufacturer of the protective breathing equipment ‘PBE’), to evaluate the current design features of the PBE container (stowage compartment) and pouch, and develop modifications to prove compliance with TSOC116a and TSO-C99a regarding easy access. [SR37/2020]. that The FAA review the current Federal Aviation Regulations and relevant guidance material to address inadequate performance of escape slides during evacuations with collapsed landing gear. The review should consider the effect of wind on escape slide performance. [SR38/2020]. that The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) studies the benefit of establishing a global, coordinated and structured data sharing within the industry, which derives the precursors to accidents and serious incidents. This initiative, together with participation of the aircraft manufacturers, should provide clear guidance on how these precursors can be identified through data analysis. [SR39/2020]. that The ICAO defines Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and procedures for air navigation services so that air traffic controllers, except where necessary for safety reasons, are aware as to when it is safe to initiate communication with the flight crew during a go-around. Reference should be made to European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) Safety Information Bulletin (SIB) No. 2014-06. [SR40/2020]. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 20 January 2020 and published on 6 February 2020.