The FCOM Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedure did not contain steps for verbal verification callouts of engine thrust state.. The aircraft systems, as designed, did not alert the flight crew that the TO/GA switches were inhibited at the time when the Commander pushed the TO/GA switch with the A/T armed and active.. The aircraft systems, as designed, did not alert the flight crew to the inconsistency between the aircraft configuration and the thrust setting necessary to perform a successful go-around.. Air traffic control did not pass essential information about windshear reported by a preceding landing flight crew and that two flights performed go-arounds after passing over the runway threshold. The flight crew decision-making process, during the approach and landing, was deprived of this critical information.. The modification of the go-around procedure by air traffic control four seconds after the aircraft became airborne coincided with the landing gear selection to the ‘up’ position. This added to the flight crew workload as they attentively listened and the First Officer responded to the air traffic control instruction which required a change of missed approach altitude from 3,000 ft to 4,000 ft to be set. The flight crews’ concentration on their primary task of flying the aircraft and monitoring was momentarily affected as both the FMA verification and the Flight Director status were missed.. Safety Action taken by Emirates whilst the GCAA Investigation was in progress was noted to have included, but not been limited to, the following: Liaising with IATA to develop industry guidelines on how to stabilise evacuation slides in windy conditions.. Liaising with Dubai ATS to ensure that missed approach procedures are only modified for flight safety reasons meaning that ATC should normally refrain from contacting an aircraft during the initial phases of a go-around and wait for contact to be initiated by the flight crew.. Liaising with the Dubai Airport authorities in order to install a low-level windshear alerting system (LLWAS).. Working with the airport Meteorological Office and ATS to conduct a study of dynamic environmental conditions such as windshear and wind shift, wake and mechanical turbulence and how they affect the airport environment and any technological methodologies for capturing this information such as a digital ‘aircraft to tower’ data link.. Liaising with Boeing to develop engineered defences that will alert the flight crew when a TO/GA switch is pushed at a time when switch function is intentionally inhibited.. Liaising with Boeing and systems manufacturers to develop engineered defences that protect against insufficient aircraft energy states.. Liaising with Boeing regarding modification of the FCOM ‘Go Around and Missed Approach Procedure’ in relation to the verification of engine thrust.. A total of 40 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Emirates disseminate to its pilots knowledge and information about factors affecting landing distance and flare duration, such as aircraft height and airspeed over the threshold, early flare initiation and weather conditions that may affect aircraft performance during the landing. [SR01/2020]. that Emirates enhance the normal