air traffic controller training, the importance of correctly timed, concise and effective communication to flight crew performing a missed approach;. to incorporate appropriate details of the accident described in this report and the lessons learned into air traffic controller training. [SR29/2020]. that The GCAA enhance the Civil Aviation Regulations for the provision of flight information services related to information regarding significant changes (see Note) in the meteorological conditions, in particular the latest information, if any, on windshear and/or turbulence in the final approach area or in the takeoff or climb-out area, to be transmitted to the aircraft without delay, except when it is known that the aircraft already has received the information. Note: - Significant changes in this context include those relating to surface wind direction or speed, visibility, runway visual range or air temperature and (for turbine-engined aircraft), the occurrence of thunderstorm or cumulonimbus, moderate or severe turbulence, windshear, hail, moderate or severe icing, severe squall line, freezing precipitation, severe mountain waves, sandstorm, dust storm, blowing snow, tornado or waterspout. [SR30/2020]. that The GCAA study the benefit of specifying and incorporating changes to the Civil Aviation Regulations, the required meteorological equipment used for detection of low-level windshear and alerts; placement of anemometers along the runways; and receiving current aircraft wind information, that will enhance the accuracy and conciseness of the weather information broadcasted from the aviation meteorological forecasters and air traffic controllers. [SR31/2020]. that The GCAA revise the CAR-OPS so that they are aligned with the requirements of ICAO Annex 2 and ICAO Doc 4444 with regard to submission of the operational flight plan and for the GCAA to specify what information is considered relevant in the flight plan. [SR32/2020]. that The GCAA provide guidance to the air traffic service providers in the United Arab Emirates, aircraft operators and airport operators, so that following an aircraft emergency where the flight crew is not available, there are effective means of obtaining and transmitting to the search and rescue and firefighting services, information related to persons on board and dangerous goods for flights departing and arriving at United Arab Emirates airports within an acceptable time. This should be aligned with recommended practices as stated in ICAO Doc 4444 chapter on Emergency Procedures and in ICAO Doc 9137 ‘Airport Services Manual, Part 7 Airport Emergency Planning’. [SR33/2020]. that The GCAA perform a safety study, which should include a review of the Civil Aviation Regulations, to determine the effectiveness to include the requirement that passenger safety briefings and passenger safety cards have clear instructions and illustrations that carry-on baggage must not be taken during an emergency situation and to leave carry-on baggage during an evacuation. The Investigation recommends that the GCAA refer to ICAO Doc 10086 ‘Manual on Information and Instructions for Passenger Safety’. [SR34/2020]. that The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States (FAA) perform a safety study in consultation with the aircraft manufacturer for the purpose of enhancing the Boeing 777 windshear alerting system. This study should encompass both ‘predictive’ and