was limited because he positioned his vehicle inappropriately.. No dynamic risk assessment was conducted and sideline firefighters were moving very close to fuel tanks where there was a potential explosion hazard. Crew managers did not communicate details of the firefighting actions to the fire commander.. The ARFFS training system did not detect the lack of knowledge, understanding, and experience in aircraft incident command and firefighting tactics. Exercises were limited to simple fire scenarios and no appropriate simulated techniques were developed to challenge the fire commanders, sector commanders, crew managers, and firefighters to assess fire dynamics and develop appropriate tactics.. The most recent pre-accident audit carried out by the GCAA included findings that were not appropriately addressed by the airport management.. The most recent airport emergency exercise, carried out in June 2015, revealed deficiencies that were repeated during the accident response.. Survivability The Captain did not initiate the evacuation until approximately one minute after the aircraft came to rest. Part of this time was used to locate the evacuation checklist amongst the items that had been scattered around the cockpit during the impact.. The airport Passenger Evacuation Management System (PEMS) did not control the evacuated passengers.. The Mobile Incident Command Centre (MICC) was not deployed until sometime after the accident and was not utilised as per procedure.. GCAA Safety Oversight The Civil Aviation Regulations, CAR-OPS 1, did not specify that (pilot) training was required for rejected landing, bounced landing recovery, go-around below 50 feet, go-around after touchdown under normal engine power, or after the loss of an engine.. The GCAA clarified that as the Regulations are not prescriptive in nature, the Inspectors’ Audit Checklist, FOF-CHK-002, contained rejected landing as a check item option.. The GCAA conducted annual audits on the Operator based on progressive audit and the audits were supervised by the Principal Inspector designated for oversight functions, which included the operations, safety, and flight crew training.. A review of the records of the GCAA audits of the Operator for operations, safety and flight crew training over a 6-year period prior to the accident showed that there were no significant findings against the Operator’s B777 go-around training standards, the Online Grading System for pilot review or the Operator’s hazard identification for go-around procedures and training.. The Operator’s OFDM program was the responsibility of the Operator’s Flight Operations post holder rather than the Safety Management System post holder as the GCAA had accepted this as an alternate means of compliance in accordance with AC OPS 1.037.. The Civil Aviation Regulations, CAR Part VIII, Subpart 7- Meteorological Services, does not give guidance with regards to aviation meteorology including the forecasting and reporting of windshear.. GCAA safety oversight related to aviation meteorology is performed by Air Traffic Service Inspectors as there are no trained, qualified and experienced meteorology subject matter experts employed to fill this role.. The Causes of the Accident were formally determined as: During the attempted go-around, except for the last three seconds prior to impact, both engine thrust levers, and therefore