from it led to the death of the attending fire fighter. At this time, only the Captain and the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) were still on board searching the cabin for any remaining passengers. The explosion caused intense smoke to fill the whole aircraft and they both initially tried to evacuate from the flight deck emergency window exits but when they could not locate the evacuation ropes, they both left the aircraft by jumping from the L1 door onto the inflated slide on the ground below. Following the explosion, the fire began to enter the cabin interior and then the under floor hold leading to the complete destruction of the aircraft. The documented Flight Crew SOPs for a go around initiated after touchdown were examined and the following was noted: The Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) states that "an automatic go around cannot be initiated after touchdown". It also states that "as thrust levers are advanced, auto speedbrakes retract and autobrakes disarm. The F/D go-around mode will not be available until go-around is selected after becoming airborne".. The Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) states that the TO/GA switches are inhibited when on the ground and enabled again when in the air for a go around. It then states that the first push of the TO/GA switches once airborne will command the A/T to change from IDLE mode to THRUST mode and set sufficient thrust to establish a minimum 2000 fpm rate of climb.. The FCOM Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedure requires that the PF pushes the TO/GA switch and calls 'FLAPS 20' and then verifies that "rotation to go around attitude" and "thrust increase" occur. The PM sets the requested flap and then "verifies that the thrust is sufficient for the go around". The PM must then, after verification of this on the altimeter, follow with a PM call of 'Positive Climb'. Upon hearing this call, the PF then checks that there is positive climb on their own altimeter and, having done so, calls for 'Gear Up'.. In respect of the operation of the TO/GA switches as the normal way to set thrust for a go around, it was noted that they are inhibited just prior to touchdown once the aircraft descends to less than 2 feet agl for three seconds. They will then remain so for as long as this height is not subsequently reached/exceeded and the weight-on-wheel (WoW) system for at least one main landing gear assembly indicates that the aircraft is in ‘ground’ rather than ‘flight’ mode. If, as is the case during landing in accordance with the prevailing SOPs, the A/T is armed and active with the aircraft less than 2 feet agl, then the thrust levers must be advanced from idle manually. This will result in the A/T disconnecting and a corresponding EICAS message being displayed but there is no EICAS alert if a go around is commenced without concurrent thrust lever movement towards the TO/GA position. A total of 156 Findings from the