Investigation were documented in respect of the accident and its aftermath with the content of many of them reflected in safety recommendations. They were categorised as relevant to ‘the Aircraft’, ‘the Flight Crew’, ‘Flight Operations’, ‘the Operator’, ‘Air Traffic Control’, ‘Airport Weather Information’, ‘Airport Rescue and Firefighting Services’, ‘Medical Aspects’, ‘Survivability’, ‘GCAA Safety Oversight’ and ‘FAA Aircraft Certification Specifications’ They included the following: The Aircraft The EGPWS manufacturer document Product Specification Mode 7 Windshear Alerting was capable of providing a windshear caution alert for aircraft performance increasing due to increasing headwind (or decreasing tailwind) and severe updrafts. However, this feature was not available to the flight crew because it was not enabled on the Aircraft.. During the evacuation, the prevailing wind speed and angle were within the technical standard order (TSO) certification conformity testing criteria (but) due to the aircraft coming to rest on its lower fuselage, the escape slides deployed at an angle of approximately 14 degrees. As per design, the escape slide deployed slope angle range is between 27 to 35 degrees, with the landing gear extended.. The Cabin Crew The cabin crew were not trained in evacuation situations where the escape slides are affected by wind.. The cabin crew managed the passenger evacuation to the highest professional standard, in line with their training.. Flight Operations In the eight minutes prior to the attempted landing of the accident aircraft, two aircraft performed go-arounds from beyond the runway threshold and two aircraft landed uneventfully.. The Captain started to flare the aircraft at approximately 40 feet agl (when) approximately 100 metres beyond the threshold. The FCTM recommends initiation of the flare when the main gear is approximately 20 to 30 ft above the runway surface.. The wind conditions that existed up to 10 feet agl (during landing) did not have a decreasing and/or increasing performance effect on the aircraft (but after) passing 7 feet agl, the aircraft floated over the runway and (by) 2 feet agl, the IAS (had) reached 165 knots. (Concurrently), there was a 12 knot airspeed increase (over) approximately four seconds, during which time the descent rate decreased.. When the Captain initiated the go-around, his perception was that the aircraft was still airborne and had not touched down.. During the attempted go-around, the Captain said that he became focused on the go-around manoeuvre and described his state (of mind) as “tunnel visioned”.. After pushing the left TO/GA switch, the Captain did not recognise that there was no tactile feedback of thrust lever movement.. Neither pilot observed that the FMA modes did not change and that the flight director was not giving pitch guidance. They were (also) unaware that the A/T mode had remained at ‘IDLE’.. Contrary to the FCOM Go-around and Missed Approach Procedure, after the ‘flaps 20’ (call) neither pilot verified the engine thrust and (they subsequently) continued to action the procedure from the ‘positive climb’ item.. The Aircraft Operator The Operator’s OM-A policy required the A/T to be engaged for engine thrust management for all