appropriately highlight, in both the FCOM and FCTM, the significance of the effects on the A/T due to the TO/GA switch inhibit logic. [SR23/2020]. that The Boeing Company include requirements for the pilot flying to give call outs for thrust setting with verbal verifications of thrust increase being made by the pilot monitoring in the Boeing 777 Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedure and amend the FCOM and FCTM accordingly. In addition, emphasis should be given to the importance of guarding the thrust levers. The existing thrust setting callout in the Takeoff Procedure could be referred to. [SR24/2020]. that The Boeing Company study the benefits of adding callouts to Boeing 777 Flight Mode Annunciation (FMA) changes at the initiation of the Go-Around and Missed Approach Procedure, and amend the FCOM and FCTM accordingly. [SR25/2020]. that The Boeing Company conduct a safety study to determine the benefits of developing a common procedure for the Boeing 777 normal go around and missed approach. This procedure should consider manual advancement of the thrust levers at low altitude and after touchdown, and the requirements for go-around after touchdown including flap position, aircraft rotation speed and crew awareness of associated warning/alert messages. [SR26/2020]. that The General Civil Aviation Authority of the United Arab Emirates (GCAA) implement measures that could improve the audit program and checklist used by the inspectors so that the effectiveness of the oversight function related to flight crew training and flight operations is enhanced. [SR27/2020]. that The GCAA establish a position within its organisation and induct a subject matter expert in aviation meteorology who is appropriately trained, qualified and experienced (as an inspector). [SR28/2020]. that The GCAA publish recommendations for air navigation service providers: to implement procedures and guidance that would limit the air traffic controller, to the maximum extent, from issuing instructions to flight crews that would modify the published missed approach procedures in case of go around with the sole exception of transmitting essential instructions to ensure air safety; to emphasise the benefits of consistently applying the published missed approach procedure and the risks associated with modifications to such procedure at a time of high flight crew workload when potential for distraction must be minimised; to emphasise, during all phases of air traffic controller training, the importance of correctly timed, concise and effective communication to flight crew performing a missed approach; to incorporate appropriate details of the accident described in this report and the lessons learned into air traffic controller training. [SR29/2020]. to implement procedures and guidance that would limit the air traffic controller, to the maximum extent, from issuing instructions to flight crews that would modify the published missed approach procedures in case of go around with the sole exception of transmitting essential instructions to ensure air safety;. to emphasise the benefits of consistently applying the published missed approach procedure and the risks associated with modifications to such procedure at a time of high flight crew workload when potential for distraction must be minimised;. to emphasise, during all phases of