discussed by the crew. However when the flight checked in with Dubai APP, no mention was made of the wind shear, although the Captain then mentioned previous experience of “wind shift” at Dubai to the First Officer. The subsequent landing clearance from TWR was accompanied by a spot wind of 340°/11 knots - a change from a small headwind component to a small tailwind component that had been included in the current TAF as likely to occur in the period during which the approach was taking place. The approach flown was stabilised as the aircraft descended through 1000 feet agl and DFDR data showed that the AP had been disengaged shortly afterwards. As per the applicable SOPs, the A/T had remained engaged in SPEED mode until automatically transitioning to IDLE mode at 25 feet agl during the flare to land. The aircraft passed over the runway threshold at the prescribed height but following the flare to land, the aircraft floated just above the runway as the indicated airspeed increased to 14 knots above VREF and it touched down just over 1000 metres past the threshold. After just six seconds with (only) one or both the main landing gear assemblies in ground contact, the Captain, aware that the TDZ had been mostly overflown and suspecting that the difficulty in achieving touchdown had been caused by thermals rather than any windshear, had pressed the TO/GA switches on his control column and called a go-around. A “Long Landing” Alert from the RAAS followed almost immediately. Since the TO/GA switch selection had no effect on the A/T with the aircraft on the ground, the thrust remained at idle as the aircraft was pitched up to approximately 7.5°. The Captain called “Flaps 20” and the aircraft became airborne at VREF + 6.5 knots. The aircraft continued to gain height and as it passed a recorded 47 feet agl, the First Officer called “Positive Climb” by reference to the vertical speed indication on the PFD. The Captain responded by calling “Gear Up” as the aircraft passed 58 feet agl and was reaching its maximum rate of climb of just over 600 fpm. TWR then re-cleared the flight to climb straight ahead to 4000 feet and, after the gear up instruction had been repeated and actioned by the First Officer as the aircraft passed 77 feet agl, he then read back the re-clearance to TWR. Two seconds later, the aircraft, still over the runway, reached its maximum height of 85 feet agl and began to descend. Three seconds after this descent had begun, with the aircraft passing 67 feet agl, the Captain called “Windshear TOGA” and the A/T mode changed from ‘IDLE’ to ‘THR’. One second later, he manually advanced both thrust levers to maximum as an EGPWS Mode 3 ‘Don’t Sink ‘ Alert was annunciated and the First Officer’s “Check Speed” call was followed by an ‘AIRSPEED LOW’ caution at 128 KIAS and a second ‘DON’T’ SINK’ annunciation. The aircraft was now descending at 800 fpm