Safety Agency (EASA) Safety Information Bulletin (SIB) No. 2014-06. [SR14/2020]. that DANS enhance the procedures, and air traffic controllers training, so that whenever windshear warnings are in effect at an aerodrome, essential safety information, such as go-arounds, long/deep landings when reported, wind gust and wind shift, is always transmitted to the flight crew at an appropriate time during the approach. [SR15/2020]. that DANS enhance the procedures and air traffic controller training so that whenever windshear warnings are in effect at an aerodrome, the reason for an aircraft go-around, including wind conditions for aircraft that landed, should be requested by the air traffic controller if the information is not passed by the flight crew when safe to do so. [SR16/2020]. that DANS, as the GCAA-certificated meteorological service provider at Dubai Airports, install the required meteorological equipment necessary for detection and alerting of low level windshear, that will enhance the accuracy and conciseness of the weather information provided by the National Centre of Meteorology (NCM) to aviation meteorological forecasters and air traffic controllers. [SR17/2020]. that DANS implement changes to the procedures so that following an aircraft emergency, there are effective means of obtaining and transmitting to the search and rescue and firefighting services, information related to persons on board and dangerous goods within an acceptable time if the flight crew is not available. This should be aligned with recommended practices as stated in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Doc 4444 chapter on Emergency Procedures and ICAO Doc 9137 Airport Services Manual, Part 7 Airport Emergency Planning. [SR18/2020]. that Dubai Airports enhance training for the Airport rescue and firefighting service (ARFFS) personnel to enable them to identify confined heat sources based on indicators and smoke traces. This training should enable the fire commander to understand the fire dynamic and determine the appropriate tactics, depending on the site circumstances and considering utilisation of the unique capabilities of (particular) fire vehicles. This should be supported by sufficient training in incident command. [SR19/2020]. that Dubai Airports enhance the ARFFS personnel practical training exercises by including new scenarios based on appropriate simulated techniques, that challenge the firefighters, crew managers, and fire commanders to assess fire dynamics and develop tactics. The scenarios should replicate the circumstances of actual accidents, with various aircraft states. Different weather and environmental conditions should also be considered. [SR20/2020]. that Dubai Airports periodically test the Airport passenger evacuation management system (PEMS) using properly-developed exercises, to ensure that the system is effective in providing a high level of safety to the evacuees from the time of evacuation to the time of assembly in the Survivors Reception Centre (SRC). [SR21/2020]. that The Boeing Company enhance the Boeing 777 crew alerting system to include aircraft configuration inconsistency when a go-around manoeuvre is commanded and the engine thrust is insufficient for the manoeuvre. [SR22/2020]. that The Boeing Company enhance the Boeing 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual (FCOM) and the Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) for consistency in TO/GA switch inhibiting information. In addition, it is recommended to