A comprehensive Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. Both the solid-state Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered from the wreckage in a heat-damaged condition but their data were successfully downloaded by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB) and found to be valid up to the point where the post crash explosion had occurred. A Preliminary Report giving some initial findings was issued on 5 September 2016 and the Investigation was subsequently completed and published early in 2020. The two pilots had not previously operated together. It was found that the 34 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated 7,457 total flying hours including 5,123 on type. He had joined the operator as a cadet and begun his operational flying career in 2004 as a co-pilot on the Airbus A330 before transferring to the Airbus A340 as a co-pilot in 2008. In 2009, he had then transferred to the Boeing 777 as a co-pilot, completing his conversion training in 2009. After accumulating 3,950 hours as a co-pilot on Boeing 777, he had been promoted to Captain on the type in 2015 and had since accumulated a total of 1,173 hours in command on type. An examination of his training records whilst on the Boeing 777 did not indicate any cause for concern about his competency and it was noted that “the Operator considered that he was trained to competency and achieved the required acceptable standard”. It was noted that the Operator’s recurrent training programme, which was considerably in excess of minimum regulatory requirements, included practising a go around commenced after touchdown. The Captain had last completed this exercise when still a B777 co-pilot but it had been conducted as planned with the A/T and FDs off, in contrast to the normal situation for go around after a manual landing touchdown where these aids would be routinely active. The 37 year-old First Officer had accumulated a total of 7,957 flying hours of which 1,292 were on type, the latter all obtained after joining the Operator a little under two years prior to the accident and completing his Boeing 777 type rating. His training during his time on the type had not included any simulator sessions that had involved “automatic or manual go-arounds flown from below 50 feet agl or (commenced) after touchdown” or any bounced landing recovery practice. It was noted that his training records contained no adverse remarks in relation to competency. The aircraft track from just before touchdown to the point of impact and final stopping position. [Reproduced from the Final Report] It was established that a briefing for the expected radar vectors for an RNAV/GNSS approach to 3,600 metre-long runway 12L with flap 30 as the final setting and a (correctly calculated) VREF of 147 KIAS noted. The arrival ATIS received during descent gave a light easterly breeze and included a not-unexpected caution of “wind shear all runways”, which was briefly