phases of flight including approach and landing. This policy did not consider pilot actions that would be necessary during a normal go-around initiated while the TO/GA switches were inhibited.. The Operator’s training program for the B777 was based on the aircraft manufacturer and FAA approved training program, which did not include the TO/GA inhibition logic.. The Operator’s procedure, as per FCOM Flight Mode Annunciations (FMA), requires FMA changes to be announced by the PF and checked by the PM except for landing when the aircraft is below 200 feet.. In developing the training for a go-around after touchdown as referenced in the Operator’s B777 Training Manual, scenarios for a go-around in automatic flight and in manual flight with the A/T armed and active were not considered. The TO/GA switch inhibit logic was also not considered, and as a result was not part of the training syllabus.. Full information related to the TO/GA switch inhibit logic was not available either in the FCOM or the FCTM (and) no reference was contained in these manuals as to why the A/T mode will not change when the TO/GA switches become inhibited.. The Operator’s normal go-around training did not contain guidance on how to perform a normal go-around when the TO/GA switches become inhibited prior to and after touchdown.. The Operator’s training and operational systems did not identify hazards associated with normal go-arounds performed (from) close to the runway or after touchdown.. Air Traffic Control Other than for a high speed rejected takeoff, no guidance was included in the MATS to direct air traffic controllers to avoid distracting flight crew with unnecessary radio calls during times of high workload such as go-arounds, especially those initiated at low altitudes, or from the runway.. Various essential information was not communicated to the flight crew including in respect of recent missed approaches, a pilot report of windshear on short final and the wind shift at the runway 12L threshold during which the headwind component was replaced by a tailwind component shortly before landing.. Other than for a high-speed rejected takeoff, no guidance was included in the MATS directing air traffic controllers to avoid distracting the flight crew with unwarranted radio calls during high flight crew workload situations, such as go arounds, especially those initiated at low altitudes, or from the runway.. Airport Weather Information Neither the flight crew nor the Tower was aware that the wind (direction) shift along runway 12L was after the runway aiming point and before the end of the runway touchdown zone.. Airport Rescue and Firefighting Services (ARFFS) The response time of the first responding fire vehicles was within the regulatory requirements, however, the first two responding Major Foam Vehicles (MFV) were positioned behind the trailing edge of the right wing and obstructed the escape paths of the evacuating passengers.. The fire commander did not correctly establish incident sectors and did not cover the area that extended from the right wing leading edge to the aircraft nose. His view of the accident site