flying over the runway”. At an estimated 800 metres past the landing threshold, the nose gear made contact with the runway but the first main gear contact, the left side only, did not occur until an estimated 1600 metres from the threshold. Complete main gear touchdown then occurred 120 metres further on, a position over halfway along the full runway length of 2660 metres. However, the aircraft came to a full stop 1520 metres from the beginning of the runway, taking a stopping distance similar to the 800 metre LDR which would have applied if following a correctly flown approach. Because of the prolonged prior nosewheel runway contact, the four main wheels locked on touchdown and began to skid before quickly blowing out with the resultant sparks, frictional heat, melted rubber and hydraulic fluid leaks resulting in the fire seen in the left main gear assembly when the aircraft stopped. The reversers were deployed during the landing skid with the corresponding EPR recorded as reaching up to 1.9. It was noted by the Investigation that the Operator’s SOPs for the flying of an approach, including those relating to the configuration of the aircraft and the requirement for a stabilised approach, had been comprehensively disregarded. There was also no evidence that the PM had made any of the standard calls or that either pilot responded in any way to any of the many GPWS activations Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: That Spanair establish a monitoring program specifically intended to check the real extent of compliance by its crews with the MD-80 operating procedures, with specific focus on evaluating the approach and landing phases. (REC 10/11). That Spanair provide additional training to its crews to reinforce the concepts of:. − Stabilised approach − Standard operating procedures (SOPs) − Crew resource management. (REC 11/11) That Spain’s Aviation Safety Agency (AESA) reinforce its supervision program for Spanair in the following:. − Aspects concerning the real extent of compliance by its crews with the MD-80 operating procedures, with specific focus on evaluating the approach and landing phases. − The training provided by the company in concepts such as stabilised approach, standard operating procedures (SOPs) and Crew Resource Management. (REC 12/11) The Final Report of the Investigation REPORT IN-001/2006 was approved on 9 June 2011