An Investigation was carried out by the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC) with successful replay of both the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and the DFDR. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the approach. Both pilots had several years aircraft type experience; in the First Officer’s case, this aircraft type had provided the majority of his total recorded experience. Damage to the aircraft occurred to both main gear assemblies and to their tyres, rims and brake units which on the left leg had also been affected by the fire. Friction and impact damage also caused hydraulic lines in the left main gear assembly to rupture. The fire also caused damage to the left-side wing flap, some skin panels and the landing gear bay doors and the lower part of the tail cone was damaged and cracked after ejection as part of the normal deployment the rear slide. A reconstruction of the flight found that it had been uneventful until shortly before the start of the initial approach, with the aircraft on a heading of 150° and at a relatively high altitude in relation to distance to go. ATC reminded the crew of the noise abatement restriction not to descend below 5,000 ft before crossing the coastline - the position of this is shown on the diagram included later in this summary and taken from the Official Report. CVR evidence indicated that the aircraft commander decided that, despite the altitude, he would cut the track miles by planning to intercept the ILS LLZ at the FAF, located at just under 9nm from the landing runway threshold. The First Officer noted that if they had to maintain 5000 feet until the coastline, they would be high, since at that point, they should be at 3000 feet. The AP was disconnected as the runway centreline was acquired at the FAF at 3700 feet aal and at a speed of 250 KIAS. This speed was well inside the AFM maximum speed for extension of the landing gear, but this had not been done until 1.5 minutes later and the air brakes had not been used either. Since the aircraft remained above the ILS GS for most of the final approach, the descent was very steep, averaging around 2500 fpm, and although the aircraft eventually established on the GS, the airspeed remained very high and engine thrust was set to flight idle during the entire approach. Between approximately 900 feet aal and just below 200 feet aal, there were repeated GPWS/TAWS ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ alerts as well as several ‘PULL UP’ Hard Warnings none of which elicited any pilot response. Flap selection to the landing position 40° was made just before the runway threshold was crossed at an altitude of 30 feet, and a speed of 190 KCAS, the latter being 66 knots above the applicable Vref of 124 KIAS. Landing configuration was finally achieved “a few seconds before touchdown and while