GE in 2010 following in-service problems with the high-pressure turbine (HPT) stage 1 shrouds on some GE90 engines. The engine which failed had been identified as one of the suspect engines listed in this SB and therefore subject to repetitive borescope inspections (BSI). The origin of the problem with these shrouds was already suspected - and had subsequently been confirmed - to be a result of a particular feature of the manufacturing process in which their cooling holes had been drilled with a newly introduced high-intensity laser which “had produced a variation in the shape of the cooling holes in the shrouds, which accelerated the deterioration of the shrouds and reduced their structural integrity”. It was found during teardown inspection of the failed engine that specific features of the normal gas flow in the area of shroud number 33 had led to a more rapid deterioration than anticipated. Substantial damage to this shroud and to its corresponding hanger was found, as well as damage to both number 26 and number 27 shrouds. It was concluded that “the extent of the damage suggests that it was likely present but misevaluated or overlooked during the previous BSI”. GE determined that the origin of initial shroud distress on engines with similar failures had been shroud 33 and suspected that “as the hole in (this) shroud reaches a critical size, the fuel-air mixture is ingested behind the shroud and is introduced to a larger volume of air, thus creating a super-heated zone that leads to rapid distress of the stage 1 shroud hanger and stage 2 nozzle outer band” with release of the stage 2 outer band causing downstream damage. The Investigation found as follows in respect of Causes and Contributing Factors During shroud production, a change to a higher-intensity laser resulted in a variation in the shape and size of the shroud cooling holes. Over a period of time in service, these cooling holes eroded, which resulted in both degraded shroud cooling and a super-heated zone. This, in turn, increased the rate of erosion until the shroud integrity was reduced to the point of failure.. Damage to high-pressure turbine shrouds and hangers, which was likely present during the last borescope inspection, went undetected prior to the occurrence. As a result, the engine was not removed from service.. The number 2 engine shut down during the initial climb-out due to a failure of the high-pressure turbine stage 1 shroud.. Safety Action taken in response to the ongoing Investigation was notified as follows: Air Canada took action to re-inspect all engines subject to SB 72-0401 in order to establish a new ‘baseline’. A total of fifteen in-service engines were found with shroud deterioration which would qualify for re-inspection in accordance with the criteria in the SB and three engines displayed sufficient shroud deterioration to be identified as needing a reduced inspection interval. Two other engines were found to have sufficient shroud damage to require removal from service.. Air Canada performed its own risk management exercise