An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. DFDR, Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Quick Access Recorder download of data covering the period prior to, during and after the failure was successfully downloaded. It was noted that the sudden failure had occurred as the aircraft was passing 1590 feet agl in manually controlled flight with the EICAS engine fail warning appearing six seconds later when the N2 speed fell below idle. The aircraft had been initially levelled at 3000 feet and the AP engaged so that the required Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) response could be accomplished and the Auxiliary Power Unit started. An emergency was declared to ATC and the climb then continued on the remaining engine, initially to 7000 feet and later to 12000 feet in order to jettison the 86.6 tonnes of fuel needed to get the ELW within the MLW. The return to Toronto was uneventful and shortly after touch down, partial thrust reverser was selected on the operating engine to assist deceleration. The aircraft came to a stop on the runway and the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services attended and chocked the main landing gear wheels to allow brake release to facilitate cooling before the aircraft was taxied to the parking gate. The total time airborne was 86 minutes. Since a review of the flight crew response showed that it had been in accordance with relevant company procedures for dealing with an engine failure, attention was focused on the engine and the reason for its failure. An initial inspection of the aircraft after the engine failure flight found that the carbon fibre underside of the right wing flaperon had been damaged by debris ejected from the failed engine. The engine exhaust cone was found to contain pooled engine oil and small fragments of both high-pressure turbine (HPT) and low-pressure turbine (LPT) material. “Most of the damage to the LPT was located towards the outer periphery” and it was concluded that “this damage was consistent with excessive heat and impact from debris originating from forward of the LPT stage.” All engine damage was contained and there was no damage to the engine cowlings, although evidence of heat damage to the HPT module was found. The debris ejected from the engine exhaust when the failure occurred was located and retrieved. It was found to correspond to similar fragments found in the engine exhaust cone. A subsequent examination of the failed engine off-wing led to the conclusion that the engine core had seized as a result of the ingestion of several HPT stage 2 nozzle fragments jammed in different locations, which had collectively prevented the core from rotating freely. It was confirmed that there was no indication of a bird strike or any component failure forward of the HPT module. It was found that the service and maintenance history of the engine indicated that it had been maintained in accordance with current regulations and engine manufacturer procedures including regular inspections under SB 72-0401 which had been issued by