1940s and remains widely used in the industry" and has a number of limitations and: only takes into account known or foreseen failure modes of basic components only covers failures or failure condition for one component at a time and does not take into consideration more complex failures involving multiple components does not provide any assurance that all the consequences of a given failure condition will be identified depends on the analyst’s ability to understand and anticipate potential equipment behaviour while it is still being developed was designed to assess failures in electrical or mechanical components and is less suitable for application to "complex software elements".. only takes into account known or foreseen failure modes of basic components. only covers failures or failure condition for one component at a time and does not take into consideration more complex failures involving multiple components. does not provide any assurance that all the consequences of a given failure condition will be identified. depends on the analyst’s ability to understand and anticipate potential equipment behaviour while it is still being developed. was designed to assess failures in electrical or mechanical components and is less suitable for application to "complex software elements".. Two previous Serious Incident Investigations were noted to have identified the sudden failure of previously serviceable components as the root cause of the unexpected occurrence: A failure of the Brake System Control Unit (BSCU) of an Alitalia Airbus A321 on touchdown at Naples in 2007 attributed to a soldering defect on one of the pins on a thermistor component which caused abnormal voltage variations and resultant intermittent failure of the Unit.. An internal short circuit in a single cell in a pioneering type of APU Battery installed in a Japan Airlines Boeing 787 parked at Boston USA in 2013 caused an uncontrollable temperature and pressure increase which led to a cascading thermal runaway within the battery creating [Fire Smoke and Fumes|smoke and fire]]. It was attributed to a failure to consider how the most severe effects of an internal battery short circuit would be contained and noted that "the key assumption made (during development and type certification) that a thermal runaway would not occur was not explicitly discussed or justified".. The formal documentation of Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was as follows: "A soldering defect on the pin of an HSECU component caused the unit to generate incorrect nose-up commands to the motor controlling the THS and to transmit to systems in charge of the monitoring of its functioning values indicating a change in the opposite direction to that in which the motor was actually moving. This single defect caused simultaneous failures on the THS control and monitoring channels that were not detected by any of the aircraft systems and were enough to cause THS runaway under Normal Law." The following five Contributory Factors were also identified: a manufacturing defect that was not detected before the HSECU was put into service;. the imprecise assessment of the effects of the failure types identified