until it returned to a balanced pitch". The Certification of the HSECU was considered and it was found relevant JAR (and FAR) requirements for flight control systems integrity applicable at the time of type certification of the Falcon 7X were detailed in JAR 25.671 and JAR 25.1309. Potential failures such as the one found were the subject to a safety assessment process which depended heavily on System Safety Assessments (SSAs) which themselves were dependent on the results of Failure Mode Effects Analyses (FMEAs).These depend partially on the knowledge and experience of the equipment manufacturer personnel with failure modes and mechanisms. SSAs "contain the definitive list of system failure conditions and associated probabilities" and their purpose "is therefore to check compliance with safety requirements". EASA "ensures that design organisations submit all the documents necessary for type certification (and) checks and approves SSAs and Functional Hazard Assessments (FHAs)” but it "does not systematically verify FMEAs and is therefore not necessarily in contact with equipment manufacturers during type certification of an aircraft". It was noted that at the time of the Investigated event, the Falcon 7X world fleet had accumulated approximately 75,000 flying hours since EASA Type Certification was issued on 27 April 2007. It was also noted that since the design of HSECU electronic controllers was subcontracted to Rockwell-Collins, an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) which was not an EASA-approved design organisation, their design activity was conducted under the supervision of Dassault as aircraft manufacturer. The Investigation went on to look at the effectiveness of system safety assessments generally and identified "several lessons" concerning them, some of which had "aspects in common" with the Falcon 7X Investigation. It was considered that "most safety analysis errors result from the failure to foresee all the ways in which the hazard could occur, especially for complex and new systems". The pitch excursion which occurred to a Qantas Airbus A330 off the coast of Australia in 2008 and was attributed to a failure mode probably initiated by a single, rare type of internal or external trigger event combined with a marginal susceptibility to that type of event within a hardware component, was considered to have "identified several lessons concerning system safety assessments", some with "aspects in common with" the Falcon 7X Investigation. It was noted (in summary - see the Official Report for full details) that: Conventional system safety analysis techniques mainly rely on fault trees using methods which were initially developed for hardware systems and are not well-suited to more complex systems with software elements. This situation is mitigated by creating mathematical or logic models of a system and then using the model to automatically complete tasks such as generating fault trees and was used during the development of the Falcon7X flight control system. However, results depend on how well the model represents the system and environment in which it works and in particular "rarely take into account transient phenomena or the temporal aspect of a failure".. FMEA is "an analysis method that appeared in the