in the HSECU FMEA, validation of the FMEA and in general, the varying results of FMEAs, which can depend on human factors and equipment manufacturer organisational factors;. the lack of mechanisms for detecting potential critical errors in equipment manufacturer FMEAs during the aeroplane safety assessment and certification process. Neither the aeroplane manufacturer nor EASA conducted an in-depth verification of the FMEA;. the limitations in the aeroplane manufacturer’s SSA process during the verification and approval process by EASA despite the fact that the summary of the SSA mentioned THS runaway in normal law. However the detailed results did not include any combinations of failures that could cause the runaway and the HSECU was identified as critical equipment in which a malfunction or error in design can result in a catastrophic situation;. the architecture of the THS control system had interdependent monitoring and control channels that prevented the HSECU malfunction from being detected and reconfiguration to a redundant control channel.. It was further noted that the investigated event: had brought to light inadequate provisions intended to meet the regulatory certification requirement stipulating that the single failure of a component, system or appliance in flight must not cause runaway of a primary flight control to an unwanted position.. highlighted the fact that there are no specific procedures or crew training for THS runaway in Normal Law, which in this case occurred in a sudden and considerable manner.. showed that despite their surprise, the flight crew had been able to maintain control of the aircraft with the THS in full nose-up position by immediately applying and adapting an excessive pitch attitude recovery technique attributed to training which the PF received during his military career until the tripping of a temperature monitoring function two to three minutes after THS runaway restored normal pitch control.. Safety Action taken by HSECU manufacturer Rockwell-Collins as a result of the investigated event was noted as having included the following: the amendment of the HSECU FMEA so that no failures were considered as latent and thirty new failure conditions were added to the single one - a switch of the control channel - which was in the FMEA in effect at the time of the incident.. the addition of X-ray examinations of circuit boards to the HSECU manufacturing process to detect any faulty cold solder joints after the component soldering step.. a changed HSECU PCB design so that no components on adjacent circuit boards were in physical contact with each other.. the addition of insulation to the plated through-hole on the PCB which was found to have been faulty to help increase the temperature when soldering takes place during manufacture.. the addition of an internal supply voltage monitoring system to the HSECU so that if any voltage outside tolerances are detected at the ACMU, the control channel involved will immediately switch to an alternative channel.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the EASA, in coordination with FAA, SAE and EUROCAE, evaluate and