The event occurred in Malaysian airspace but the Investigation was delegated to the French BEA. The aircraft was fitted with two identical flight recorders which combined the function of 25 hour FDR and a 2 hour CVR. Data were successfully downloaded from the FDR units within these recorders but as neither recorder had been electrically isolated after the flight, the voice recording data had been overwritten. It was found that both pilots had previously flown the Falcon 900 and had only recently both become qualified to fly the Falcon 7X. The 39 year-old Captain (a native English speaker) had approximately 5 years total command experience and 3,917 hours total flying experience. This experience included 134 hours on type and he was acting as a Training Captain on the event flight. The 40 year old Co-Pilot (a native French speaker) had originally been a military pilot and had obtained a civil licence in 2008 rated on the Falcon 900 before qualifying on the Falcon 7X just over two months prior to the investigated event. He had a total of 2,685 hours total flying experience including 83 hours on type. He was undergoing line training on the event flight and acting as PF. It was established that the flight was taking place after 4 days maintenance work at Nuremberg in respect of the engines and cabin. No work had been carried out on the flight control system. The flight had been completely uneventful and the flight control system in Normal Law until the descent towards destination. As the aircraft was passing 13,000 feet at 300 KCAS and approaching its cleared altitude of 11,000 feet with the AP and A/T engaged, the PF selected VS mode and a rate of descent of 1,300 fpm. A few seconds after this, the trimmable horizontal stabiliser (THS) went from neutral to the maximum nose up position (12°) in fifteen seconds. The prevailing flight control law automatically resulted in an opposite elevator input in response during which the AP disconnected. Aircraft pitch attitude and positive 'g' increased. The PF made various control inputs including banking up to a recorded 98° in an attempt to regain pitch control. A number of dual side stick inputs occurred with those of the Captain being mainly opposite to those of the PF. As the speed dropped to 125 KCAS, the Captain took over as PF. Almost immediately and without corresponding inputs from either pilot, as the aircraft reached 22,500 feet, the pitch attitude began to decrease. Then "for a reason unknown to the crew, the THS began to move towards a level position, going from twelve degrees to one degree nose-up in fifteen seconds" and it became possible to control the aircraft pitch normally using side stick inputs. The crew decided to continue in manual flight mode and the remainder of the flight was completed without further event. FDR data showed that during the episode, the maximum pitch attitude reached was 41° and vertical acceleration had reached up to 4.6g. Examination