of the FDR data confirmed that disconnection of the AP soon after the runaway began could be attributed to the downward input made on the side stick of the PF. However, the main focus of the Investigation was the Horizontal Stabiliser Electronic Control Unit (HSECU). This unit was manufactured by Rockwell Collins to meet the requirements of the aircraft manufacturer and integrated into the pitch trim control system by them. Functional tests and a visual inspection after the completion of the flight did not find evidence of any HSECU malfunctions. Visual inspections of the HSECU circuit boards did show that "some components on adjacent boards were in mechanical contact with each other" but it was subsequently determined that these mechanical interferences had not caused any relevant malfunction during the incident. However, it was noted that Rockwell Collins had subsequently introduced a modification to address this finding. Tests carried out on HSECUs identical to those on the HB-JFN showed that when their circuit boards were powered by an internal voltage around +0.7 volts instead of a nominal voltage of -15 volts, a THS runaway similar to that which had occurred could be reproduced. Consideration of the -15volt power supply identified three failure modes that could have caused such a voltage variation and the HSECU on the event aircraft was then subjected to further testing to see if one of these failure modes was present. It was found that the impedance value of one component varied between the nominal value of 0.5 Ω and abnormal values of up to 300 kΩ when slight pressure was applied to it. The cause of this variation was cracks in the cold solder joint at the base of the component induction so that it was possible for the component pin to move within in the PCB to which it was attached. After refitting the circuit board in the unit and turning on the power, the -15V power supply malfunction could not be reproduced despite several attempts. An X-ray inspection of the identified soldering defect showed that there was "no alloy in 90% of the plated through hole" in the PCB base into which the component pin should have been secured by soldering. The soldering defect was attributed to "insufficient heat during the soldering process". With these findings, it was determined (see the diagram below) that the transient malfunction in the HSECU internal power supply had resulted in the Unit's Control Channel sending a constant nose-up command to the THS motor whilst simultaneously sending a rotation speed signal to the Actuator Control and Monitoring Unit (ACMU) which indicated that there had been a nose-down movement of the THS. It was only possible for the crew to regain control when the THS actuator reached its limit and continued to receive nose-up commands, since this caused the temperature of the operative actuating motor to increase beyond its limit which caused the ACMU to switch THS control to a different channel which then "commanded a nose-down movement of the THS