were but added that as they were visual with the runway "maybe we will prefer from this position visual approach for two eight.” With the aircraft level at 7,000 feet and about 7 nm north northeast of the runway 28 threshold at 238 KIAS, descent to 5,000 feet was given followed by a turn onto a south easterly heading - see the illustration below. As this descent was commenced, the PF called for the After take-off/climb Checklist and after that, the Captain "mentioned an approach briefing and commented to the First Officer that from their position, it would be best to perform a visual approach to runway 28". The latter did not although "he later made a statement that, whenever possible, he personally favoured an instrument approach because this could be flown in a more precise and calmer way" whereas the Captain later stated that he had "purposely wanted to remain in VMC in order to be able to land from gliding flight at any time should the second engine also fail". He added that "he had not wanted to fly a holding pattern so that the wind-milling time of the shut down engine would be kept to a minimum because of the risk of fire". Having checked that the crew were visual with runway 28, ATC gave a suitable heading towards a visual final and approved a visual approach. Despite the fact that no PAN or MAYDAY status had been declared, ATC continued to clear all other traffic from the vicinity and likely flight path of the A319. With the aircraft still at 7,000 feet and at 252 KIAS and the AP still engaged, the crew selected an altitude of 3,000 ft on the FCU. A "conversation akin to an approach briefing" followed with "the language switching between English and Serbian". It was confirmed that the Seat Belt signs was switched on and as the descent commenced, the AP was disengaged. The crew were aware of their continued high airspeed and that "they were a little high for the approach" and the use of the speed brakes was discussed. At this stage, "no information had been provided to either the cabin crew or the passengers". During the concurrent right turn towards final, a 30° angle of bank was exceeded without any alert from the Captain but with no reduction in airspeed, the aircraft still flew through the extended centreline at 6,150 feet which put it "about 1,750 ft above the nominal ILS/PAPI glideslope of 3.3°" when just under 9 nm from the runway threshold. The bank angle reached 37° and soon afterwards, the aircraft, with the speed brakes now deployed (which had simultaneously led to the disarming of the still-armed ground spoilers) began to turn back towards the centreline. Airspeed remained high and the sink rate increased to a maximum of 2,880 fpm. The landing gear was selected down as the aircraft approached 5,000 feet still at high speed and still about 1,700 feet above the nominal 3.3° ILS