evidence on the component that it had been a different S/N and the identifying label "for whatever reason, had come loose and got lost". It was considered that the performance of the flight crew in response to what was a relatively straightforward technical fault had been substandard in a whole range of respects. Those identified included the following: The Captain's first and almost instant action following the low oil pressure annunciation had been contrary to the principles of CRM in a two-person flight deck and had contradicted the good CRM that had been observed on several occasions during his type training. All further flight management "was influenced by this rapid decision" and "the rush caused by the decision is a common theme that continued throughout the rest of the flight". It was particularly noted that the Captain had "unnecessarily burdened himself with radio communications from the outset" so that "all other relevant factors for carrying out the upcoming approach safely were given too little attention".. The decision to return using a visual approach was made by the Captain alone whereas the PF should have been central to this decision. It was noted that the option of an instrument approach to one of the available longer runways which had ILS approaches with a standard 3° ILS GS slope angle, "was not considered".. The Captain's concern about engine wind milling time was misguided and an "irrelevant" consideration.. The Captain's reasoning for staying in VMC and above the ILS glideslope in case of failure of the remaining engine was considered "unconvincing". It was concluded that "the fact that planning considerations for the approach included the eventuality of failure of the remaining engine" when such an aftermath was of "exceptionally low probability" in the investigated event suggested an insufficiently practice-orientated view of relative risk, particularly "against the backdrop of the resulting unstabilised approach".. The failure to check in with TWR and obtain a landing clearance was considered to be an indication of the flight crew's general "capacity overload".. The fact that the functioning single engine had remained at idle throughout final approach meant that there was a risk that "due to spool-up delay, the flight crew would not immediately be able to assume the positive nose-up attitude required for a safe go-around".. From an overall perspective, the Investigation was "convinced" that the limited aircraft type experience had "played a role" in the conduct of flight procedures, flight path selection and the response to the technical issue which initiated the need to return. The Investigation formally determined that the Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was that "shortly after take-off, the flight crew, in an overhasty manner and without prior analysis of the situation, initiated a risky landing approach, after having switched off the right engine as a result of a leak in the air-cooled oil cooler". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Poor crew resource management within the flight crew.. Non-compliance with systems and operational requirements.. The flight crew’s limited experience on the aircraft