An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). Data from the FDR and the 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded and recorded ATC data relevant to the Investigation were also available. It was noted that both pilots involved were Serbian citizens. The Captain, born in 1968, had 5,184 hours total flying experience which included 233 hours on type, all as commander. The First Officer, born in 1967, had 6,962 total flying hours which included 163 hours on type. Both pilots had received their A320 series type rating at the 'Air Berlin Training Organisation' earlier in the year. The First Officer was the PF for the investigated flight. It was noted that neither crew member was considered "inexperienced" on the aircraft type under Air Serbia procedures which required a minimum of either 100 flying hours and 10 sectors within a consolidation period of 120 consecutive days or 150 flying hours and 20 sectors without time limit to be removed from the "inexperienced" category. This status allowed them to be paired despite both having relatively low type experience. It was established that one minute after becoming airborne from runway 32 at Zurich at less than the permitted maximum landing mass, and just after the flight had changed frequency to Departure and was passing 3,900 feet QNH, an ECAM Master Warning was annunciated to draw attention to a sudden loss of oil pressure in the right engine. Within a few seconds, and without consulting the PF, the Captain, asked ATC for an immediate return to Zurich and was released from the SID being flown as cleared and given an appropriate radar heading. He then followed up with "we have a problem with engine two and please priority landing” to which ATC responded with "expect vectors ILS runway two eight, I say again runway two eight, about twenty-five track miles" and an instruction to make a further turn to the right which was acknowledged. The aircraft continued to climb beyond the SID initial climb clearance of 5,000 feet and passing 5,400 feet, the flaps and the slats were retracted. The spoilers, which had been armed for take-off, remained armed. The Captain then asked the PF "whether he should initiate the ECAM procedure applicable to the oil pressure warning" and the latter replied in the affirmative and added that "he would finish the climb". At this point, ATC had, by implementing radar heading, cancelled the SID but had not issued any cleared altitude, so it was not clear what altitude the PF was intending to stop at. As the ECAM drill was being carried out, ATC advised that the climb could be stopped "now, at 6,000 feet" but when there was no response and climb continued transmitted 10 seconds later to "stop climb at 7,000 feet". There was no crew read back but the aircraft did then stop at 7,000 feet and ATC asked if the crew were ready for positioning to the 28 ILS. The crew replied that they