glideslope. After being assured by the crew that they could still make it straight in even though they were "a bit high”, the controller instructed the crew to change to the TWR frequency. This was acknowledged but no call to TWR was made until after landing. The PF advised that he would land with flaps '3' rather than 'Full' and autobrake 'LO' was selected. Flaps '2' were selected as the aircraft was approaching 2,500 feet QNH at 195 KIAS and descending at 1,320 fpm. When a radio altimeter height of 1,000 feet was passed soon afterwards, there was no SOP call. Flaps were finally deployed to '3' at 878 feet agl at 176 KIAS and a rate of descent of just over 1,000 fpm; the speed brakes remained out but when they were stowed a few seconds later following an aural alert that they were still out, the ground spoilers were not subsequently armed for the landing. The PF requested the landing and it was quickly completed just prior to the automatic callout of "500" which occurred with the aircraft still fast at 149 IAS and still descending at a little over 1,100 fpm and still above the ILS GS by enough to produce an almost full scale fly down command. The APU was started "shortly before the aircraft touched down". During the entire final approach to touchdown, it was found that the thrust of the functioning left engine "remained in approach idle". Main gear touchdown occurred within the TDZ at 136 KIAS and manual braking was commenced. When the thrust reversers were deployed 7 seconds later at 114 KIAS, the ground spoilers automatically deployed. Following receipt of instructions to exit the runway on their first contact with TWR having landed without requesting or receiving a landing clearance, the First Officer "subsequently pointed out to the commander that the passengers had not been informed" and the Captain replied that "this did not matter". On reaching the designated parking position, the Captain requested the ‘After Landing Checklist’ and the passengers subsequently disembarked normally. The cause of the low oil pressure was found to have been a leak in the right hand engine's Air Cooled Oil Cooler (ACOC). The cause of the leak was found to be "material fatigue of the cooling tubes, caused by movements as a result of broken soldering joints". A brazed joint in the cooler had failed and this "had allowed a crack to form and grow through cycling" thus creating the conditions for an oil leak to occur. It was noted with concern that "it was no longer possible to establish with certainty what sort of component the defective ACOC was". According to Airbus, all that could be said with certainty is that "it was not an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) part" installed at airframe manufacture or otherwise. The documented component number and information provided by the former owner of the aircraft both indicated the same component Serial Number (S/N) for the defective component but there was