runway 12, the reciprocal direction of the runway. The Captain stated that at this time “his sight was directed inside the flight deck completing the remaining items on the Before Takeoff Checklist”. The runway 12/30 access from B14 showing the taxi lines and the runway 30 TDZ markings. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Without any intervention from the Captain, the Second Officer then advanced both thrust levers to the FLX/MCT position. After checking thrust was set, she reported noticing that the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) was showing ‘NAV’ instead of ‘RWY’ and called this out. Soon after this call, the Captain looked up and realised that the aircraft was accelerating in the wrong direction but “decided to continue the takeoff believing that the remaining take-off runway available was insufficient to reject the takeoff” and advanced the thrust levers to TOGA. FDR data indicated that this action occurred at 57 KCAS and 63 knots ground speed with 730 metres of runway remaining with TOGA thrust reached within 2 seconds. The Second Officer continued to apply a nose down sidestick input of 6°. After a further six seconds, TWR saw what was happening and called the flight with no response. The Captain then moved the slat/flap to the ‘flap 2’ position and initiated rotation at VR-8 by making a nose up sidestick input recorded as initially 8.3° which then increased to 9.2°. FDR data showed that although the Captain had clearly taken control, he had not taken sidestick priority so that the Second Officer’s continuing nose down sidestick input, albeit reduced to 3° was being summed with the Captain’s opposing input. The aircraft pitch-up angle reached 9.1° and the aircraft lifted off at 132 KCAS - equivalent to 140 knots ground speed given the tailwind takeoff. The aircraft had continued beyond the end of the runway into the RESA by about 30 metres. The illustration below shows the takeoff diagrammatically. An annotated reconstruction of the aircraft ground track. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Although not known to the crew at the time, the No. 3 main gear wheel had struck and damaged one of the runway approach lights. A further call from TWR as the aircraft climbed through 260 feet agl received a response from the Captain who subsequently passed control back to the Second Officer and the intended flight was completed. In his interview, the Captain stated that after arriving at Salalah, he was contacted by company Operations Control and a discussion took place about the return sector. As he stated that he was unaware of any aircraft damage, he decided to operate the flight as planned and subsequently did so as PF. It was concluded that in all probability, neither of the calls which the Captain was required to make when taking control - “I have control” - and when deciding to continue the takeoff - “Go” - or any equivalent verbal communication had occurred. The Investigation team asked Airbus to establish whether the Captain could have completed a rejected