was considered that the presence of a sign at intersection B14 showing the TORA in each runway direction may have prevented the event. It was noted that such a sign is envisaged in the CARs in the event of “operational need”.. The formal statement of Cause of the event was determined as "the First Officer steering the aircraft to the right onto the wrong runway during a rolling takeoff (with) entry to the wrong runway due to degraded situational awareness of the aircraft direction by both pilots due to lack of external peripheral visual watch and runway confirmation”. One Contributing Factor was also identified as “the air traffic controller did not monitor the aircraft movement after takeoff clearance was given”. A total of 6 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air Arabia carry out a risk assessment for single engine taxi considering the estimated taxi time and operation environmental conditions to determine mitigation measures accordingly. [SR41/2021]. that Air Arabia establish a safety case to determine the possibility of enhancing A320 alert systems with the installation of taxiway and runway detection systems that will aid pilots’ situation awareness. [SR42/2021]. that Air Arabia use this Incident to reinforce to the pilots the significance of flight preparation briefing; positive runway identification; significance of knowing runway signage, markings and distances; effective crew resource management during taxi and takeoff; and safeguarding the aircraft and occupants when making the decision to reject a takeoff based on low and high speed regimes. [SR43/2021]. that Air Arabia enhance take-off speed calculations procedure for the flight crew by involving them in these calculations to ensure that they are fully aware of the performance requirements for stopping an aircraft on the runway. [SR44/2021]. that Air Arabia include in the Operations Manual Part A (OM-A) a policy for crew resource management following degraded pilot capability not categorised as incapacitation. [SR45/2021]. that Sharjah Air Navigation Service (SANS) explore the possibility of re-evaluating the risks surrounding intersection takeoffs following this Serious Incident and prepare a safety case study, if needed, to prevent similar incidents from occurring. [SR46/2021]. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 10 January 2022.