takeoff without a runway excursion taking into account the dry runway surface, the takeoff weight, configuration and performance and the prevailing wind velocity in two scenarios: By applying maximum reverse thrust at the time the Captain had selected TOGA at 57 KCAS. By applying maximum reverse thrust at the time when the Captain had selected flap 2 configuration at 109 KCAS.. By applying maximum reverse thrust at the time the Captain had selected TOGA at 57 KCAS.. By applying maximum reverse thrust at the time when the Captain had selected flap 2 configuration at 109 KCAS.. Based on the Airbus calculation that, at the time the takeoff was initiated, there was 984 metres of runway remaining, it was found that it would have been possible to safely stop the aircraft on the runway in both cases if maximum engine reverse thrust was used and MAX autobrake was selected (which it was). For the first scenario, it was calculated that the aircraft would have stopped 653 metres before the end of the runway and for the second scenario, the aircraft would have stopped 45 metres before the end of the runway.. The Investigation noted the existence of two ‘safety systems’ either of which would, had they been installed, have provided aural alerting of the runway line up error before FLEX/MCT thrust was selected: The Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) - A Honeywell product which includes alerts to pilots for potential short runway takeoffs. Takeoff surveillance and performance analysis (TOS2) - An Airbus product which Airbus concluded would have triggered the ECAM caution ‘NAV NOT ON FMS RUNWAY’ as the aircraft lined up in the wrong direction and the ECAM warning ‘T.O RUNWAY TOO SHORT’ since the required takeoff distance as configured was 1,145 metres, more than the 1,000 metres available.. The Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) - A Honeywell product which includes alerts to pilots for potential short runway takeoffs.. Takeoff surveillance and performance analysis (TOS2) - An Airbus product which Airbus concluded would have triggered the ECAM caution ‘NAV NOT ON FMS RUNWAY’ as the aircraft lined up in the wrong direction and the ECAM warning ‘T.O RUNWAY TOO SHORT’ since the required takeoff distance as configured was 1,145 metres, more than the 1,000 metres available.. The Captain’s post takeoff decision making was considered flawed in respect of: The decision to continue the flight to the intended destination rather than return to Sharjah since it was not based on an appropriate risk assessment of the degraded performance of the Second Officer. The failure to report the event to Sharjah TWR The failure to report the event the Company Operations Control Centre.. The decision to continue the flight to the intended destination rather than return to Sharjah since it was not based on an appropriate risk assessment of the degraded performance of the Second Officer.. The failure to report the event to Sharjah TWR. The failure to report the event the Company Operations Control Centre.. Although not proven, it