An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS). Data from both the FDR and the CVR were downloaded but relevant data from the CVR had been overwritten. It was found that the 51 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 22,184 hours flying experience including 15,536 hours on type and had been acting as PM for the investigated departure. He was accompanied by a 34 year-old Second Officer under training who had a total of just 159 hours flying experience, all of which had been gained on type as she progressed through the fifth and final stage of the operator’s MPL-based ab-initio pilot training programme. At this stage of her training, company procedures did not require a third pilot to occupy the flight deck supernumerary crew seat during flights. The event under investigation occurred on the fourth day of line/route training conducted with the same crew pairing. It was established that pre fight preparation was unhurried and apparently thorough and included the Second Officer being briefed that she would be PF and that the taxi out would be on a single engine with the second started nearer the runway. The brief also included the planned intersection and rolling takeoff “as part of her training subjects”. The speeds used for a 57 tonne takeoff using reduced thrust were V1, 122 KIAS, VR, 127 KIAS and V2, 129 KIAS. All relevant flight performance data, including the flap/slat setting and the runway in use - runway 30 - were correctly entered in the FMS. In line with the aircraft operators procedures the ‘V’ speeds used were provided on the OFP rather than calculated by the crew. The OFP stated that from the intersection to be used, B14, the TODA would be 3,050 metres. The ASDA in the event of a rejected take off was not provided which was approximately 1,000 metres shorter that the full length of the runway. During pushback, the left engine was started by the Captain. Taxi clearance was then given as taxi for runway 30 at B14 via taxiways A & A14 and contact TWR on reaching the holding point. After about a minute of taxi time, the right engine was started as the aircraft approached the B14 intersection. With the park brake set, the Before Takeoff Checklist (see the illustration below) was completed ‘down to the line’. The Before Takeoff Checklist. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain called TWR and advised ready for departure and on receiving takeoff clearance read it back “Clear for takeoff, Bravo fourteen, Runway three zero Arabia triple one. Thank you”. The Second Officer then requested completion of the paused checklist which includes confirmation of the runway by both pilots. As this was being read by the Captain, the parking brake was released and after a few seconds rolling forward towards the runway at idle thrust, the Second Officer then began to increase both engines' thrust above idle power and commenced a right turn towards