Many aircraft accidents and serious incidents which have resulted in a Runway Excursion, especially in the landing case, have been partly attributable to a flight crew decision to use a runway which was not conducive to safe operations. Hindsight has indicated that a more careful assessment and tactical decision making process would have meant that a landing on that particular runway, at that particular time, would not have been attempted. The alternative might have been either the use of an alternative runway at the planned destination or a diversion. Often, the context for a flawed decision on runway acceptance by flight crew, is a very strong motivation to try and recover a lost schedule or maintain a planned one. In addition, the increased focus by aircraft operators on minimising fuel burns can lead to a desire to support this goal, which can also occasionally interfere with balanced decision making and prompt the acceptance of an inappropriate runway, even when the aircraft is ahead of the planned schedule or where scheduled turn round times are perceived as challenging. The historical record of runway excursion events shows that the runway conditions which are most often relevant, and which are often difficult for flight crew to assess, especially in the landing case are: Braking Action the likely braking action on a runway reported as ‘wet’ but not contaminated with water, or contaminated by snow and ice which is not hard packed and not uniformly distributed, is difficult to determine. the likely braking action on a runway contaminated with ice or snow cannot necessarily be assumed to be as last advised to ( and transmitted by) ATC.. the likely braking action on a runway reported as ‘wet’ but not contaminated with water, or contaminated by snow and ice which is not hard packed and not uniformly distributed, is difficult to determine.. the likely braking action on a runway contaminated with ice or snow cannot necessarily be assumed to be as last advised to ( and transmitted by) ATC.. Cross Wind Component. The cross wind component when winds are strong, and therefore probably instantaneously quite variable in both speed and direction, and the extremes are in the vicinity of the AFM crosswind limitations for the aircraft type.. Low Level Turbulence. The possibility of variable low level turbulence which could affect the chances of achieving a landing within the designated touchdown zone..