This article introduces a radio spectrum–based controversy that has engaged many aviation safety stakeholders and industry associations in the United States. These stakeholders recently reached a consensus that introduction of a change to 5G wireless technology — using a reallocated portion of the 3.7–3.98 GHz radio frequency (RF) band — could result in unsafe RF interference to radio altimeters, which sometimes also are called radar altimeters. Aviation stakeholders have urged the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to protect operation of all radio altimeters by prohibiting the use of this auctioned bandwidth by the wireless industry unless further research and cooperation yield a solution. This article expands upon two existing SKYbrary articles — Radio Altimeter and Use of Radio Altimeter — that cover the roles of flight crews and these devices in reducing the risk of controlled flight into terrain and other categories of aircraft accidents. The article also cites similarities of a 2011–2012 clash between U.S. aviation stakeholders and a mobile broadband company over potentially unsafe RF interference to global navigation satellite systems. At issue currently is an FCC decision to reallocate a portion of the 3.7-4.2 GHz frequency band, making the frequently spectrum from 3.7-3.98 GHz available for flexible use, including 5G applications by the telecommunications industry. Subsequently, RTCA published a report outlining the unresolved safety issues. The report, Assessment of C-Band Mobile Telecommunications Interference on Low Range Radar Altimeter Operations, RTCA Paper No. 258-20/SC239-006, was released in September 202 and filed with the FCC in October 2020. For this article, documents were selected from aviation safety and avionics experts, focusing on research findings and risk-mitigation advocacy. Documents were selected from wireless experts who produced counter-arguments to the points raised by aviation stakeholders. The wireless experts essentially denied that RTCA’s research proved any potential harm to radio altimeters, and they urged the FCC to dismiss RTCA’s findings.