and the First Officer then said "he’s cinching them all down". About 15 minutes after this, the loadmaster is present and the Captain is heard to ask "how far did it move?" to which the loadmaster responds "just a couple inches". The Captain then remarks "that’s scary....without a lock (for those big heavy things/anything) man, I don’t like that". Later, he said that objects that size were so heavy that "you'd think.....they probably wouldn’t hardly move no matter what" but the loadmaster replies "they always move….everything moves if it’s not strapped.” After a careful review of all the evidence, the Investigation concluded that "at least one of the MRAP vehicles (the rear M-ATV) had moved aft into the tail section of the airplane, damaging hydraulic systems and horizontal stabilizer components such that it was impossible for the flight crew to regain pitch control of the airplane". It also concluded that "the likely reason for the aft movement of the cargo was that it was not properly restrained". An examination of National Airlines’ Cargo Operations Manual found that it "not only omitted required, safety-critical restraint information from the airplane manufacturer (Boeing) and the manufacturer of the main deck cargo handling system (Telair,) but also contained incorrect and unsafe methods for restraining cargo that cannot be contained in ULDs". It was found that the procedures which were provided "did not correctly specify which components in the cargo system (such as available seat tracks) were available for use as tie-down attach points, did not define individual tie-down allowable loads, and did not describe the effect of measured strap angle on the capability of the attach fittings". In addition to these deficient procedures for restraining special cargo loads, the Investigation identified four other areas of safety concern: FAA guidance for operators in respect of the restraint of special cargo loads was inadequate and noted that a current AC on Cargo Operations contained "guidance that conflicts with the safety requirements for using procedures based only on airplane manufacturer, STC-holder, or other FAA-approved data".. Since the cargo handling personnel who perform the safety-critical functions of loading and securing cargo are not FAA-certificated, they are not subject to any standardised procedures, training or covered by duty hours limitations / rest requirements.. FAA inspectors responsible for oversight of air carrier cargo handling operations lack adequate training and guidance to enable appropriate oversight of operators that transport special cargo loads.. FAA oversight items can be deferred without limitation. When its inspectors were unable to perform any en route inspections of National Airlines’ operations overseas because of State Department restrictions on inspector travel into Afghanistan, no alternative means was found to achieve equivalent oversight effectiveness.. The formally documented Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The way in which the movement of cargo led to the aircraft becoming uncontrollable Improper restraint of the rear MRAP ATV allowed it to move aft through the aft pressure bulkhead and damage hydraulic systems Nos. 1 and 2 and the horizontal stabilizer drive mechanism