An Investigation was commenced by the Afghanistan Ministry of Transportation and Civil Aviation (MoTCA) with significant assistance from the NTSB. On 1 October 2013 responsibility for the conduct of the Investigation was taken over by the NTSB. The CVR and FDR were recovered and their data were successfully downloaded. However both recordings ended as the aircraft climbed through 33 feet agl a few seconds after lift off with no sign of anything abnormal. It was established that the accident flight had departed from 3600 metre-long runway 03, rotating near intersection C and had climbed normally for a few seconds before a steep climb followed by a steep nose first descent ending in terrain impact 180 metres to the north east of the upwind runway threshold. A fierce post crash fire began immediately. Total airborne time was estimated at 35 seconds. The take off weight had been calculated as 337 tons with the C of G towards the rear of the allowable flight envelope. The MTOW was 435 tons. The accident flight was one of a series being operated under a multimodal contract with the US Transportation Command. Most of the cargo carried on the accident flight had consisted of five Mine-Resistant Ambush-Protected (MRAP) military vehicles - two 12-ton MRAP all-terrain vehicles (M-ATVs) and three 18-ton Cougars. One of the M-ATVs was positioned forward of the three Cougars and the other to the rear of them. The five MRAPS, which made up almost two thirds of the weight of the total cargo carried constituted 'Special Cargo', because they were not contained in a ULD compatible with the aircraft cargo loading system or enclosed in a cargo compartment certified for bulk loading. This meant that special handling and securing/restraining procedures were required. Debris from the aircraft remote from the impact site was found on the runway near to taxiway C, including small pieces of fuselage skin, a section of hydraulic return tubing, a piece of the rack on which the CVR and FDR are mounted and part of an antenna from one of the M-ATVs. Other pieces of debris were found near the runway between this point and the crash site. The augmented flight crew (two Captains and two First Officers) had flown the accident aircraft from Chateauroux, France to Camp Bastion where all the cargo, including the five M-RAPs, had been loaded before the aircraft continued to Bagram for refuelling (but no change in the load) prior to departure to Dubai. The aircraft was fitted with crew rest facilities used by the operating crew when the augmenting crew members were providing cruise relief. Two mechanics and a loadmaster were also on board. The 34 year old Captain was found to have had about 6000 hours total flying experience including 440 hours since gaining a command on the Boeing 747-400 10 months previously. He had first flown a transport aircraft - the DC8 - on gaining his multi engine CPL in 2004 after two years as a light aircraft flight instructor and