cargo handling personnel resulted in minimal oversight of these areas at National Airlines and enabled critical safety deficiencies to persist. When circumstances such as FAA Inspector travel restrictions or resource shortfalls result in the repeated deferral of required oversight tasks, an alternative method of risk management could help mitigate the effects until those oversight tasks can be completed. The certification of personnel responsible for ensuring the proper loading, restraint, and documentation of special cargo loads, including requirements for their procedures, training, and duty time and hour limitations, would help ensure that these personnel properly perform their safety-critical duties.. The FAA did not ensure that the National Airlines' Cargo Operations Manual reflected information and guidance from the Aircraft and Cargo Handling System manufacturers which specified how to safely secure the cargo.. The lack of clear guidance for FAA Inspectors responsible for the oversight of cargo handling personnel resulted in minimal oversight of these areas at National Airlines and enabled critical safety deficiencies to persist.. When circumstances such as FAA Inspector travel restrictions or resource shortfalls result in the repeated deferral of required oversight tasks, an alternative method of risk management could help mitigate the effects until those oversight tasks can be completed.. The certification of personnel responsible for ensuring the proper loading, restraint, and documentation of special cargo loads, including requirements for their procedures, training, and duty time and hour limitations, would help ensure that these personnel properly perform their safety-critical duties.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as "National Airlines’ inadequate procedures for restraining special cargo loads, which resulted in the loadmaster’s improper restraint of the cargo, which moved aft and damaged hydraulic systems Nos. 1 and 2 and horizontal stabilizer drive mechanism components, rendering the airplane uncontrollable". A Contributory Factor' was identified as "the Federal Aviation Administration’s inadequate oversight of National Airlines’ handling of special cargo loads". Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA should revise the guidance material in Advisory Circular (AC) 120-85, “Air Cargo Operations,” chapter 201(a)(4), to specify that an operator should seek Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approved data for any planned method for restraining a special cargo load for which approved procedures do not already exist, and remove the language in the AC that states that procedures other than those based on FAA-approved data can be used. (A-15-13). that the FAA should create a certification for personnel responsible for the loading, restraint, and documentation of special cargo loads on transport-category airplanes, and ensure that the certification includes procedures; training; and duty hour limitations and rest requirements consistent with other safety-sensitive, certificated positions. (A-15-14). that the FAA should add a special emphasis item to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 1800.56O, “National Flight Standards Work Program Guidelines,” for inspectors of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 cargo operators to review their manuals to ensure that the procedures, documents, and support in the areas of cargo loading, cargo restraint, and methods for securing cargo on transport-category