components to the extent that it was not possible for the flight crew to retain pitch control.. Improper restraint of the rear MRAP ATV allowed it to move aft through the aft pressure bulkhead and damage hydraulic systems Nos. 1 and 2 and the horizontal stabilizer drive mechanism components to the extent that it was not possible for the flight crew to retain pitch control.. The circumstances that led directly to a take off with inadequately restrained cargo Had the Loadmaster consulted the required manufacturers’ weight and balance manuals, he could have determined that the intended load of five vehicles could not be properly secured in accordance with the tall rigid cargo safety requirements; at most, only one MRAP ATV could be transported. Although the Loadmaster did not follow National Airlines’ procedures for securing the special cargo load, the procedures available were deficient to the extent that, even if followed, they would not have enabled him to properly position and restrain the load in accordance with the Aircraft Manufacturer and Supplemental Type Certificate holder requirements. Although National Airlines had provided the Loadmaster with initial and recurrent training, this training was deficient to the extent that it could not have provided him the knowledge and skills necessary to properly load and restrain a special cargo load in accordance with the Aircraft Manufacturer and Supplemental Type Certificate holder requirements. Although the Flight Crew and the Loadmaster were aware that the same cargo had moved during the previous flight, they did not recognise that this indicated a serious problem with the cargo restraint methods.. Had the Loadmaster consulted the required manufacturers’ weight and balance manuals, he could have determined that the intended load of five vehicles could not be properly secured in accordance with the tall rigid cargo safety requirements; at most, only one MRAP ATV could be transported.. Although the Loadmaster did not follow National Airlines’ procedures for securing the special cargo load, the procedures available were deficient to the extent that, even if followed, they would not have enabled him to properly position and restrain the load in accordance with the Aircraft Manufacturer and Supplemental Type Certificate holder requirements.. Although National Airlines had provided the Loadmaster with initial and recurrent training, this training was deficient to the extent that it could not have provided him the knowledge and skills necessary to properly load and restrain a special cargo load in accordance with the Aircraft Manufacturer and Supplemental Type Certificate holder requirements.. Although the Flight Crew and the Loadmaster were aware that the same cargo had moved during the previous flight, they did not recognise that this indicated a serious problem with the cargo restraint methods.. The effect of FAA Oversight on the management of operational risk The FAA did not ensure that the National Airlines' Cargo Operations Manual reflected information and guidance from the Aircraft and Cargo Handling System manufacturers which specified how to safely secure the cargo. The lack of clear guidance for FAA Inspectors responsible for the oversight of