had been promoted to Captain on the DC8 two years later. The 33 year-old First Officer had about 1100 hours total flying experience which included 660 hours on the Boeing 747-400. The 36 year-old Loadmaster was not part of the operating crew or carrying out duties which required any FAA licensing or certification. He had been employed by National Airlines as a loadmaster for a little over two years after previously working as a ground handling supervisor/trainer for a delivery business for 6 years. The periodic company recurrent training evaluation to which he was subject was found to include tie-down restraint criteria/calculations, shoring (load-spreading) criteria/computations and cargo conveyance/restraint systems operation. Neither he nor the operating flight crew members had any previous experience with MRAP vehicle cargo prior to encountering that carried on the accident flight. It was noted that neither the responsibilities of nor guidance for flight crew - in particular aircraft commanders - in respect of cargo loading, were, respectively explicitly defined/ provided. There was no specific FCOM Checklist requirement to verify the cargo load and security of the load on the main deck of the Boeing 747-400 before flight and no evidence was found of any specific training or guidance for pilots on how to check the cargo load pre flight, although it was reported that this "was discussed as a technique during operating experience". No knowledge of the Cargo Operations Manual used by loadmasters appeared to be required and the general understanding of pilots appeared to be summed up by the view expressed that pilots “relied on the loadmasters 100% to make sure the load was done and secured properly" with very little routine interaction between pilots and loadmasters. The Investigation noted that the accident aircraft had been converted to freighter configuration in accordance with Boeing SB 747-00-2004 and was equipped with a Telair main deck cargo handling system in accordance with STC ST00459LA5. The five MRAPs of interest to the Investigation were all loaded on the main deck on pallets. It was reported that no main deck floor locks were used on any of the vehicle/pallet units and that each vehicle was secured to the floor with 5,000-lb-rated tie-down straps, 24 for each M-ATV and 26 for each Cougar in accordance with instructions given by the loadmaster. This was the first time that the operator had ever transported any Cougars. Following arrival at Bagram for refuelling, the aircraft was parked for about 1½ hours. The CVR recording provided the only evidence that there had been some issues involving the security of the MRAPs during the flight from Bagram when crew members could be heard discussing that some cargo had moved, some tie-down straps were loose and one was broken. In respect of the latter, a "knot" was discussed and the First Officer said that all the straps which were keeping the MRAPs from moving backwards were loose. The Captain responded with "I hope…rather than just replacing that strap, I hope he’s beefing the straps up more"