The Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK) was promptly notified of the occurrence by the airport but not by the aircraft operator. An Investigation was carried out into both the runway excursion and the continued operation of the aircraft when in an un-airworthy condition. Noting that the FDR and QAR recorded identical parameter data, the QAR was removed and successfully downloaded and the data relevant to the event were obtained. It was found that the 38 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the investigated events had accumulated 3,880 total flying hours of which 2,488 hours were on type. The 31 year-old First Officer had accumulated 2,240 total flying hours which included 1,800 hours on type. It was established that a stabilised ILS approach to runway 28 at Vilhelmina (LDA 1,260 metres) had been flown. Visibility for the landing had been pre-advised as approximately 1400 metres in snow with runway friction coefficients measured as 0.43, 0.45 and 0.42 in slush to a depth of 5 mm with snow falling. The flight crew, who were familiar with the airport, used the lowest reported friction coefficient of 0.42 for their calculation of landing performance but did not make any corrections for the reported contamination of the runway. It was noted that discounting the potential effects of the reported surface contamination, the friction coefficients on their own corresponded to a braking action of 'GOOD'. Conditions for the landing were a wind from 300° at 4 knots, a visibility of 1,400 metres in snow and temperature and dew point both 0° C. The touchdown occurred in the close vicinity of the appropriate reference speed and on the runway centre line within the Touch Down Zone (TDZ) but immediately after touchdown as the power levers were moved into the beta range to obtain reverse propeller pitch, the aircraft began to drift to the right side of the runway. Within 6 seconds and having travelled about 400 metres along the runway since touchdown, the right main gear departed the paved surface to the right and then ran on the grass, no more than 2.5 metres from and generally parallel to the runway edge, for 155 metres before the aircraft had slowed enough for it to be possible to steer it back onto the runway. It was then stopped before the end of the runway but with what margin to spare could not be established. It was found that as the right main gear departed the runway, it had hit and damaged one of the runway edge lights. As the aircraft back-tracked during the taxi to the terminal on the north side of the runway, the Captain was able to see the wheel tracks on the grass and informed TWR that it was apparent that "they had run off the runway and also damaged a runway edge light". The edge light concerned was located close to where the right main gear departed the paved surface. On receipt of the information that an excursion had occurred, an airport