Investigation was not able to examine the damaged part as it was destroyed upon removal and so although the aircraft was clearly not airworthy for the five flights conducted in a damaged condition, it was not possible to assess the level of increased risk that these flights may have entailed. The underside of the damaged wing flap. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Finally, the Investigation considered how the lack of an embedded safety culture at NextJet evidenced by both the runway excursion and its aftermath had been a context for what happened. As reference for this, the ICAO Safety Management Manual references to "deviations from aviation safety standards and routines" was examined, in particular noting "the operator's responsibility for the balance between production and aviation safety". It was concluded that "the operations of smaller airlines, which sometimes have limited resources, occasionally border on what would be considered a deviation" from acceptable practice. It was noted that there must be an effective 'Compliance Monitoring System' (CMS) to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of the SMS. It was considered that deviations such as those seen in this case clearly indicated significant deficiencies in the operator's systemic safety management processes and it was considered that the fact that "the operator's CMS has not been able to identify these shortcomings in the organisation's safety management system […] can be interpreted as an organisation-dependent deviation on the operator's part". The Investigation concluded that the Causes of the investigated events were as follows: The Runway Excursion during landing was caused by the use of asymmetrical reverse thrust and the probability that braking action was worse than that indicated by the friction coefficients.. The Continued Operation of the Aircraft when it was not airworthy was caused by the crew’s prioritisation of continued further flight during their assessment of the runway excursion and by shortcomings in the company’s systematic safety management with regard to maintenance checks and inspections.. Safety Action taken by NextJet as the result of the runway excursion whilst the Investigation of it was in progress were noted as having included the re-categorisation of Vilhelmina to Category 'C' (special pilot training required) and enhancements to the simulator programme in respect of slippery runway operations. Two Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that the EASA should introduce generic performance corrections for aeroplane operations on surfaces contaminated with slush or water. [RL 2017:0e R1]. that the EASA should review the feasibility of changing the method of reporting from airports in terms of friction coefficients, so that measured values are reported as unreliable under certain conditions. [RL 2017:05e R1]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 5 April 2017.