vehicle was immediately despatched to inspect the scene of the excursion and the findings were duly recorded. Once the aircraft was on stand, the Captain "attempted to make contact with the company’s technician, only to find that he had left the airport" and therefore decided that the continued airworthiness of the aircraft could be confirmed by a pilot pre flight external check. This inspection did not disclose the damage which was subsequently found and so since no aircraft Technical Log entry about the excursion had been made, there was no reason why the aircraft should not continue to Stockholm Arlanda as planned and it subsequently did so. It was found that before departure, the Captain had contacted the NextJet Director of Flight Operations (DFO) by telephone to discuss his intention to continue on the next sector. He stated that this conversation "supported his decision to continue" but it appeared from the account of this conversation provided by the DFO that "he was not provided with a full account of the incident […] only told that they had been far out towards the runway edge during the landing". The DFO stated that he "therefore had not given any permission for - or felt he would have had any reason to 'approve' - the onward flight". The next five flights made by the aircraft - the one on the same day operated by the same flight crew then four the next day - were uneventful. Before the next day's flying, a routine and mandatory engineering inspection of the aircraft was carried by a licensed engineer but the damage was not noticed. Each of the next four flights that day was preceded by a flight crew external check of the aircraft but the damage was not noticed on any of these either. Finally, the damage was noticed and the aircraft identified as consequentially not airworthy and therefore grounded for a full check and rectification. An examination of the recorded flight data showed that when the power levers were moved into the beta range to aid deceleration during the landing roll, the resulting engine power had not been symmetrical, that on the right engine had been noticeably higher than that on the left engine. It was concluded that it was this which had "caused a yawing moment to the right which could not be corrected by the crew". The Investigation noted that the relatively narrow runway (30 metres wide) had meant that once the effect of the asymmetric power had caused the deviation to begin, FDR data showed that there had been only around 6 seconds for the crew to take corrective action before the right main gear left the runway. Corrective opposite rudder input was recorded as the deviation continued but it was clear that the effect of this had not been sufficient to compensate for the asymmetric power effect. It was in any case considered that it is "highly likely that the aircraft was subjected to aquaplaning in the initial stage of