the landing roll" which would have affected the ability to achieve directional control at higher speeds. Whilst the reason why asymmetric power occurred whilst in the beta range could not be determined - the possibility of deviations from correct engine control rigging could not be ruled out - it was not clear why the crew did not bring the power levers forward and back towards idle as soon as the unwanted yaw to the right occurred. The Investigation considered that either the crew had not noticed that the engine power was uneven or that the shortness of the runway meant that the crew believed that the braking effect of reverse propeller pitch - which was independent of the potentially slippery surface - was necessary to slow down in the distance available. The fact that the flight crew had not taken any account of the likely effect of the slush-contaminated runway when calculating landing performance yet commented afterwards that "it was very slippery on the runway" was found to be a direct consequence of deficiencies in the applicable Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). In particular, whilst the operator's Route Performance Manual (RPM) contained general guidance in respect of operations on slippery runways, it stated only that landing on contaminated runways "should be avoided […] whenever possible" and it did not contain "information regarding the reliability of reported friction conditions in connection with slush and temperatures around 0°C". The Investigation noted that although the RPM "had been drawn up in accordance with applicable [EASA] provisions and instructions from the AFM", it lacked any guidance for flight crew on the "the interpretation of friction coefficients when landing on runways contaminated with water or slush". The overall conclusion of the Investigation in this matter was "that there are weaknesses in the fundamental regulatory framework, the intention of which is to ensure there are adequate margins when landing". It was considered that "the regulations currently applicable result in an unreasonable amount of responsibility being placed on an aircraft commander with regard to decisions concerning whether or not a landing is to be performed on a contaminated surface" and that "a clearer regulatory framework would mean better decision-making support for crews in situations that are difficult to assess". It was additionally considered that neither the European Plan for Aviation Safety (EPAS) nor the European Action Plan for the Prevention of Runway Excursions (EAPPRE) currently include future actions which will promote an increased level of landing safety in respect of contaminated runway surfaces. The damage eventually found to have occurred to the aircraft was to the right wing trailing edge flap and consisted of cracks in and a deformation of the flap plate. The area of damage to the underside of the plate was approximately 290 by 180 mm and there was an indentation of approximately 25 mm (see the illustration below). The upper side of the plate was found to have a corresponding 8mm bulge. The damaged flap was not repairable and had to be replaced. The