some cases, data may be available that will allow the making of direct numerical estimate of the probability of occurrence. This is usually the case when estimating the probability of failure of hardware components of a system. Extensive data are often available on historical component failure rates. However, the estimation of the probability of occurrence of hazards (and their effects) which are associated with human error is not straightforward. Unless there is a very high capture rate of relevant occurrence data which has been appropriately stratified, it may be difficult to find meaningful empirical data and subjective assessment will then be all that is possible. As with the estimation of the`severity of a hazard, the development of informed judgments from a structured review by people with extensive experience in their respective fields applied to a standard classification scheme will be the best substitute for absolute values. The probability classification scheme shown below is extracted from ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual. It specifies the probability as qualitative categories, but also includes numerical values for the probabilities associated with each category. Both probability of occurrence of a hazard effect and the severity potential of that effect, need to be taken into account when deciding on the tolerability (acceptability) of a risk. It is a common practice to use a risk classification matrix in support of this two-dimensional judgement. An example of a risk classification matrix used in ATS is provided below. It has been extracted from ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual. Severity is ranked as Catastrophic, Hazardous, Major or Minor, with a descriptor for each indicating the potential severity of consequences. Probability of occurrence is ranked through five different levels of qualitative definitions, and descriptors are provided for each probability of occurrence. Numerical values may be assigned in order to weigh the relative importance of each level of severity and probability. A composite assessment of risk, to assist in comparing risks, may then be derived by multiplying the severity and probability values. Depending on the approaches and methodologies used, risk can be expressed in various ways, for example: Throughout the aviation industry, many different versions of risk assessment matrices are available. Some definitions and categorisations vary, but the general concept remains the same. Examples of Risk Assessment and Mitigation in ATM from EUROCONTROL and Predictive Risk Matrix used by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for airline operations can be viewed here. The output from risk classification is used to determine the risks the organisation should act upon. Decision making will require clearly defined criteria about acceptable or tolerable risk and unacceptable risk (see “Acceptable Level of Safety” in Safety Planning article). The assessment of tolerability (acceptability) is critical in making rational decisions to allocate the limited organisational resources against those risks posing greatest threats and this process often may require a cost-benefit analysis. ICAO explains the process of defining risk tolerability by the following: “Having used a risk matrix to assign values to risks, a range of values may