the limited organisational resources against those risks posing greatest threats and this process often may require a cost-benefit analysis. ICAO explains the process of defining risk tolerability by the following: “Having used a risk matrix to assign values to risks, a range of values may be assigned in order to categorise risks as acceptable, undesirable or unacceptable. These terms are explained below: Acceptable means that no further action needs to be taken (unless the risk can be reduced further at little cost or effort);. Undesirable (or tolerable) means that the affected persons are prepared to live with the risk in order to have certain benefits, in the understanding that the risk is being mitigated as best as possible;. Unacceptable means that operations under the current conditions must cease until the risk is reduced to at least the tolerable level.”. Various strategies and approaches can be used by aircraft operators and aviation service providers in order to reduce the unacceptable risks to tolerable levels. This third and very important step of risk management is discussed further in the Risk Mitigation article. According ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual, there are many options - formal and less formal - to approach the analytical aspects of risk assessment. For some risks, the number of variables and the availability of both suitable data and mathematical models may lead to credible results with quantitative methods (requiring mathematical analysis of specific data). However, ICAO states that few hazards in aviation lend themselves to credible analysis solely through quantitative methods. Typically, these analyses are supplemented qualitatively through critical and logical analysis of the known facts and their relationships. Federal Aviation Administration in Advisory Circular 150/5200-37 (Introduction to SMS for Airport Operators), suggests that determination of severity should be independent of the probability of occurrence, and vice versa, the probability of occurrence should not be considered when determining severity. Over time, quantitative data may support or alter the determinations of severity and probability, but the initial risk determinations will most likely be qualitative in nature, based on experience and judgment more than factual data.