Any T-PED and virtually all non-transmitting PEDs emit low levels of electromagnetic radiation which could theoretically interfere with aircraft avionics when switched on but, unless they are transmitting, even multiple simultaneous use has now been deemed not to prejudice aircraft systems function. Historically, no evidence has ever been presented that correctly functioning non-transmitting PEDs have been the cause of interference or malfunction of aircraft systems. Increasing numbers of aircraft are being fitted with WiFi access which enables controlled passenger access to the Internet in flight via their PEDs. It is common for such access to be permitted only when the aircraft is above 10,000 feet or only made available at the same time as the in-flight entertainment system. The problem with T-PED use in the cabin of an aircraft in flight has always been that if used to attempt direct communication with a ground station, these devices would have to transmit at maximum power to have any prospect of the signal being received and it has been considered that multiple simultaneous such attempts could create a risk of interference with aircraft systems[1]. It is also the case that mobile phone ground networks are not designed to handle connections from T-PEDs travelling at high speed or at a height where they are able to connect to several different ground stations simultaneously. Any attempt to use them in flight could therefore also lead to network problems and, whilst this is not a flight safety issue, it is a further consideration influencing the continuing general ban on in-flight use of T-PEDs. The solution to this problem which is already employed in specially equipped aircraft is the use of Picocells. A picocell acts as a pseudo-mobile telephone tower which communicates with T-PEDs on board an aircraft and relays the signals to either satellite or terrestrial receivers. The picocell is designed and maintained for full compatibility with the rest of the on-board avionics. Communication between the picocell and the rest of the mobile telephone network is on separate frequencies that do not interfere with either the terrestrial cellular system or the aircraft avionics much like the on-board phone systems already installed in some commercial aircraft. Since the picocell antennae within the aircraft fuselage will necessarily be in close proximity with passengers, only very low power is needed for both the picocell and mobile phone to connect so that the likelihood of interference with aircraft systems becomes negligible.