It was noted that the 41 year-old Captain had a total of 10,262 hours flying experience which included 2,615 hours on type. The corresponding experience of the First Officer was not recorded. It was found that IT system software, which had been upgraded during a period when flight operations had been temporarily suspended due to COVID-19 restrictions, had been released with an error which meant that any female passenger who used or was given the title ‘Miss’ at check in was identified as a child (43kg) instead of an adult female (69kg). The consequence of this on the flight from Birmingham was that 38 females were recorded as children resulting in ZFW (Zero Fuel Weight) being 1244 kg below the correct figure. The consequences for the flight investigated were that the weight of the passengers shown on the loadsheet was 1,244 kg below the actual weight and therefore outside the loadsheet LMC (Last Minute Changes) limit for the Boeing 737 (500 kg) specified in the approved Ground Operations Manual (GOM). However, although this meant that an incorrect takeoff weight (88.3% N1 instead of the correct 88.9% N1) had been used for takeoff performance planning purposes, the result did not compromise safe operation of the aircraft. It was found that the underlying origin of the problem was not confined to the flight investigated but was due to changes in the “integrated check-in system” used by the operator, which had been upgraded “as part of a wider system upgrade for the airline industry”. Prior to this upgrade being implemented, ‘front line’ users had been invited to consider any risks that might occur as part of the upgrade but none were identified. The usual “User Acceptance Testing” (UAT) then found that the system had “functioned as expected”. It was found that meetings held in London in February 2020 had discussed the various titles used for passengers - such as Mr, Mrs and Dr - in relation to standard IATA usage but the potential relationship between a passenger’s title and the appropriate standard weight allocated was not discussed. It was also found that “no specific test scenarios looking at passenger titles were examined in the UAT”. The first signs of a problem after the upgraded IT system had been implemented occurred almost two weeks before the formal report which led to this Serious Incident Investigation was generated. An adult female passenger who had been checked in for a flight as a child was also shown on the load sheet as a child. This had been spotted by both the flight dispatcher concerned and the operator’s systems delivery manager but although a check of the flight revealed two other instances where the same error had occurred and the immediate errors were corrected, no safety or ground operations report on the matter was submitted. However, it did result in the informal introduction of a temporary ‘fix’ in the form of a daily check to ensure that all adult females were referred to as ‘Ms’ on the