relevant documentation, with a secondary check by Operations staff against passenger loads. A more formal interim system of checks to deal with the problem was identified which involved a team checking each booking on all upcoming flights and changing all adult females with the title ‘Miss’ to ‘Ms’ and check-in staff were also asked to “pay particular attention to female passengers and double check that they showed in the system as females rather than children when presenting themselves at check-in or at the boarding gate”. However, although this request was sent out electronically to all ground stations it was only as a recommendation and was not prescribed through an amendment to the Ground Operations Manual. These ‘team’ checking arrangements were carried out every afternoon and evening for the following day’s flights and, where possible, checked again every morning before flights departed. An initial attempt to fix the software problem was only capable of changing bookings automatically from ‘Miss’ to ‘Ms’ before check-in so that bookings using the title “Miss” which had already checked in, including online from 24 hours before departure were not amended. Since the interim checking teams routinely did not work over the weekend of 18/19 July and normal opening of online check-in early on the morning of Monday 20 July for the first UK departures on the following day (including the exemplar departure which triggered the Investigation) together meant that significant error in respect of three UK departures early on the morning Tuesday 21 July was not proactively detected. As to the ultimate origin of the IT system problem, it was noted that the airline was part of a larger German-based airline group for which shared system programming was not done in the UK but “in a country where.....the title ‘Miss’ was used for a child and ‘Ms’ for an adult female”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: A flaw in the IT system used by the operator to produce the loadsheet, meant that an incorrect takeoff weight was passed to the flight crew. As a result, the aircraft departed with a takeoff weight 1,244 kg more than stated on the load sheet. An upgrade of the system producing load sheets was carried out to prevent reoccurrence. Interim Safety Action taken by TUI Airways following their awareness of the problem pending corrective action in respect of the underlying IT software issue was noted as having included the following: A member of the Systems team manually checked the flights daily to ensure that the title ‘Miss’ was amended to ‘Ms’.. A secondary check was instigated with the Operations department against the booked passenger loads.. A reminder briefing was given to Ground Handling Agents to ask them to be alert at check-in or during boarding for any adult female passengers showing as Miss or a child.. A formalised procedure for a Customer Care Executive to check bookings was finally instituted on 24 July 2020.. The Final Report was published on 8 April 2021. No Safety