An investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that both aircraft had been operating VFR and heading south along the river. Radar data showed that the collision had occurred at an altitude of approximately 1100 feet and a groundspeed of about 150 knots for the airplane and about 93 knots for the helicopter. The position and estimated altitude implied a position at the boundary of Class 'E' airspace up to 1100ft and Class 'B' aispace above this, with neither aircraft having sought ATC clearance to clinmb above 1100 feet. After the impact, both aircraft fell into the Hudson River below. The radar data also showed that in the minute prior to the collision, a conflict alert for the PA32 and the accident helicopter was generated 11 times to both the low level and higher level ATS Units, bur neither controller recalled seeing or hearing such an alert on their radar display during that time. The collision was witnessed by numerous people, some of whom indicated that neither aircraft appeared to conduct any avoidance manoeuvre prior to the collision. A private video appeared to show the PA32 rolling right just before the collision. The diagram of the tracks of the accident aircraft are shown on the diagram below taken from the official accident report: During the early stages of the Investigation, on 27 August 2010, the NTSB issued 5 Safety Recommendations to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in respect of the management of the low level Hudson River airspace and the response and actions to these, including the establishment of Special Rules Airspace, are detailed in the Final Report. The Investigation found that weather was not a factor in this accident, and sun glare would not have interfered with the pilots’ abilities to detect and track the conflicting aircraft. Other findings of the Investigation included extensive criticism of aspects of the air traffic service provided to the fixed wing aircraft involved in the collision. It was also noted that: the helicopter’s climb above 1,000 feet was not consistent with the operator’s procedures and decreased the vertical separation between the aircraft.. neither pilot effectively used available electronic traffic information to assist in maintaining awareness of nearby aircraft.. current FAA regulations do not provide adequate vertical separation for aircraft operating in the Hudson River special flight rules area because the regulations do not include specific operating altitudes for local aircraft.. the guidance in Advisory Circular (AC) 90-48C, “Pilots’ Role in Collision Avoidance,” could better assist pilots’ efforts to establish effective see-and-avoid skills if the AC were to recognize current challenges that pilots encounter in managing their see-and-avoid responsibilities, including complex, high-density airspace and the increasing presence of technology in the cockpit.. because the FAA’s current TSOs for electronic traffic advisory systems do not distinguish between the different flight characteristics of helicopters and fixed-wing airplanes, the effectiveness of these systems aboard helicopters is limited.. the traffic alerting function of helicopter electronic traffic advisory systems is limited