The REC database was created with the intention of integrating results from working groups such as the ADREP 2000 study group (Corrie, 1995). It also took into consideration studies from: The French Aeronautics and Space Research Center (ONERA, 1998) on the development of a reporting system and safety analysis tools in GA. The French Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC, 1999) on the development of a methodology for Operational Incident Reporting and Analysis Systems (OIRAS).. The list of keywords in REC was created by using adaptive keywords: Adaptive keywords Recognizing the evolutionary nature of an OIRAS as an organizational learning tool, certain keyword groups will be 'living lists' that will expand as more data are received from operators and as analysts challenge and expand their own thinking.. Recognizing the evolutionary nature of an OIRAS as an organizational learning tool, certain keyword groups will be 'living lists' that will expand as more data are received from operators and as analysts challenge and expand their own thinking.. For each occurrence, positive factors were encoded such as those that: Prevented an accident. Mitigated the consequences of the incident. Ultimately permitted the actor to restore normalcy to the situation. In a consistent manner, a list was empirically generated with known recovery strategies, as well as known protections and defenses against dangerous outcomes of failures. They all resulted from the analysis of voluntary reports with a strong emphasis on human factors. The resulting list of 17 numbered factors shown in Table 2 is revisited and updated on a regular basis. Figure 2 illustrates their frequency in the REC database. Number: Title: Definition: 1: Assistance of an instructor/supervisor. The instructor or supervisor assists in giving the trainee a hint or the solution. This can also be done through radio communications when they are not physically in the same place.. 2: Sound reasoning. Implementation of empirical sound reasoning, not necessarily based on an aeronautical context or on specific instructions. An example of such common sense could be to call on the previous frequency when confronted with radio problems.. 3: Use of training instructions/SOPs. In unusual circumstances, the front-line operator acts in an autonomous way and follows the SOPs learned during his/her initial or recurrent training.. 4: Decision to go around. The reporter decided to go around and safely landed.. 5: Decision to land as precaution. This factor includes decisions to land as a precaution outside any airport boundaries with or without emergency conditions. An example would be an interruption of the flight in relation to an adverse environment.. 6: Decision to land on an unexpected runway. This factor includes decisions to execute landings on an unexpected surface, such as a secondary runway, a grass runway or a surface within the airport boundaries.. 7: Air traffic intervention. Information coming from an ATS unit (control, AFIS, etc.) obtained by radio and having a safety benefit for the rest of the flight.. 8: Decision to reject takeoff. This factor includes decisions to reject a takeoff before or after starting the takeoff roll