or when a flight was cancelled, postponed or delayed in order to correct a situation for a higher safety level.. 9: Decision to return to departing point. This factor includes the decisions to return to the departure or to alternate airports after a flight interruption (often during initial climb).. 10: Visual detection. External monitoring enabled the avoidance of another aircraft, an obstacle, high terrain, clouds, etc.. 11: Third party intervention. A person outside to the aircraft spontaneously helps the pilot to act or make a decision that enables a safe flight continuation.. 12: Passenger intervention. A person on board, not belonging to the flight crew, spontaneously helps a pilot to act or make a decision that enables a safe flight continuation.. 13: Accurate usage of documentation. The reading and, especially, the interpretation of documents (like charts and maps) allows the pilot to enhance situational awareness.. 14: Avoidance manoeuvre. Visual detection and avoidance of another aircraft on the ground or in flight. For example, this category also encompasses decisions to execute a taxiway excursion to avoid other aircraft.. 15: Environment observation. The observation or interpretation of the environment (e.g., landmarks) helps the front-line operator to enhance his situation awareness.. 16: Engine failure anticipation. The pilot plans and acts in order to land safely in case of an engine failure, especially on take-off. By extension, this factor is selected to include the risk of an engine failure in flight (e.g. non-certified aircraft in GA) or on approach with a troublesome engine.. 17: Radio procedures. Transmission of radio messages that enabled the breaking of a causal chain that could have possibly have led to an accident, with or without the regulatory phraseology.. A single occurrence can have several of these factors that worked together to complement each other. The few occurrences that are only descriptive (i.e., with no explanatory factors or causes) do not generally include such a positive factor. Between 2000 and May 2005, 904 positive factors were recorded in a consistent manner. Eighty-one percent of the occurrences include one or more recovery factors. Priority was placed on data quality, rather than quantity, in order to produce a comprehensive and consistent dataset for analyses. This is supportive of the notion that ideas to improve human performance and prevent accidents can come from individual occurrences without having to wait for a "sufficient" sample of incidents to occur[9]. The distribution in Figure 2 illustrates predictable results. It shows that training instructions are probably the most efficient way to prevent accidents in GA. The introduction in ICAO’s documentation on LOSA also highlights that “training interventions can be reshaped and reinforced based on successful performance, that is to say, positive feedback” (ICAO, 2002). Thorough visual detection is also a frequent safety net in the prevention of collisions. Some factors are related to outside interventions, and others highlight the key role of ATC and the decision-making process.