Various reviews of human factor taxonomies[3][4][5] mention proactive initiatives with ad-hoc taxonomies on human factors but do not include specific entries for positive factors. For example, the human factors analysis and classification system (HFACS)[6] and the line operations safety audit (LOSA)[7] use databases that aim at tracking systemic deficiencies without a coded structure for recovery (positive) factors. ICAO LOSA-implementation documentation mentions that positive data are captured by “written narratives describing what the crew did well” (ICAO, 2002). These narratives are unstructured and cumbersome to analyze. The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS) database supports specific products and research addressing a variety of aviation safety issues. The ASRS database includes narratives that are an exceptionally rich source of information for policy development and human factors research. The database also contains coded information from the original report, which is used for data retrieval and statistical analyses (NASA, 2006). ASRS coding forms support the recording of “detection and resolutory actions” that can be linked to some occurrences recorded in ASRS. The list contains 34 possible items describing at various levels (flight crew, controller, aircraft or other) an action or an event that was involved in the resolution of an adverse situation. This is an excellent example of positive taxonomy categories. The Global Aviation Information Network (GAIN) has compiled a list of fact sheets on reporting systems and analytical tools. Of the 38 fact sheets on current and planned government safety information collection and sharing programs across the world, only the fact sheet from the French voluntary and confidential reporting system (REC) explicitly mentions dedicated fields for positive factors: The reports are stored in a database that facilitates the search of events for future safety studies. Specific fields are found, like: a simple description of the event itself, causes, safety barriers that prevented the accident from occurring, safety issues linked to the event.. a simple description of the event itself,. causes,. safety barriers that prevented the accident from occurring,. safety issues linked to the event.. REC was created in 2000 by the Bureau d’Enquêtes et d’Analyses (BEA, 2002). It focuses on general aviation (GA) to complement the reporting schemes that already existed for French airlines as required by JAR-OPS 1.037 or in air traffic services[8]. The analyzed reports present high quality information on the behavior and decision-making processes of front-line actors. These human factors characteristics are difficult to highlight in traditional accident investigations, especially when there are fatal injuries or liability issues. In addition to traditional fields, the REC database includes a dedicated field to encode the human factor elements that acted to prevent an occurrence from becoming an accident. [Paragraphs 1.037 of JAR OPS 1 and the French regulation of 12 May 1997 have the same title, “Accident Prevention and Flight Safety Program,” but their content is slightly different. Paragraph 1.037 of the French regulation states: “An operator shall establish an accident prevention and flight safety program which includes an analysis of flight safety or flight parameter recording