Rules and procedures are part of the defenses to prevent undesirable occurrences. Compared to “hard” defenses (e.g., fail-safe designs, engineered safety features, mechanical barriers), procedures, regulations and safety instructions are “soft” defenses that depend on human compliance and therefore tend to fail more easily (Reason, Parker and Free, 1994). Many efforts have been made to study and classify the failures of these human (soft) defenses. Little, however, has been done to structure data on the recovery from dangerous situations. Hence, the need to develop a positive taxonomy for incident analysis. Benner and Rimson[2] discuss some of the characteristics of a positive safety-related taxonomy. Table 1 summarizes some of their key points. 1. Adjust the "Opportunity" paradigm from "Post-accident" to "Pre-accident," (i.e., redefine "accident" and "incident" from mere outcome attributes to functional process descriptors). "An incident is an incipient accident which failed to attain its full potential because of successful intervention by persons, things or fortuity within the system." Redirect data acquisition concentration from accidents (which identify "causes" or operational failures) to incidents (which identify both operational failures and successful recoveries from them).. "An incident is an incipient accident which failed to attain its full potential because of successful intervention by persons, things or fortuity within the system." Redirect data acquisition concentration from accidents (which identify "causes" or operational failures) to incidents (which identify both operational failures and successful recoveries from them). 2. Adjust the "Attitude" paradigm from negative: "What went wrong to cause the accident?" to positive: "What went right to prevent it?" Acknowledge both the ubiquity of human error, and the human capability to recover from errors. Redirect resources toward successful intervention processes that thwart accident progression, thereby focusing on adaptation to error rather than error perpetuation. Expand the scope of investigations to include positive factors. Encourage witnesses to provide accurate data for constructing effective prevention strategies, in contrast to defensive "CYA" (defensive) strategies fostered by current judgmental perspectives which emphasize failures and errors.. Acknowledge both the ubiquity of human error, and the human capability to recover from errors. Redirect resources toward successful intervention processes that thwart accident progression, thereby focusing on adaptation to error rather than error perpetuation. Expand the scope of investigations to include positive factors. Encourage witnesses to provide accurate data for constructing effective prevention strategies, in contrast to defensive "CYA" (defensive) strategies fostered by current judgmental perspectives which emphasize failures and errors.