The regulation consists of seven annexes as follows: Annex I (Part-FCL) deals with flight crew licensing requirements for pilots flying EASA aircraft. Most of the aircraft in Europe are EASA aircraft regardless of State of manufacture or registration. The main exceptions are: microlights, light gyroplanes, amateur built aircraft, ex-military aircraft, foot-launched aircraft, vintage aircraft (that do not have EASA permits to fly or certificates of airworthiness). These are collectively known as non-EASA aircraft. Pilots who only fly these aircraft do not need a Part-FCL licence. Part-FCL requirements are articulated in the following series of subparts: Subpart A: General requirements Subpart B: Light Aircraft Pilot Licence (LAPL) (A, H, S and B) Subpart C: Private Pilot Licence (PPL) (A, H and Airship (As)), Sailplane Pilot Licence (SPL), Balloon Pilot Licence (BPL) Subpart D: Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) (A) Subpart E: Multi-Crew Pilot Licence (MPL) Subpart F: Air Transport Pilot Licence (ATPL) (A, H) Subpart G: Instrument Rating (IR) (A, H, As) Subpart H: Class & Type Rating (A, H, powered-lift, As) Subpart I: Additional Ratings Subpart J: Instructors (Flight, Type Rating, Class Rating, Instrument Rating, Synthetic Flight, Multi-Crew Cooperation, Synthetic Training, Mountain Rating, Flight Test) Subpart K: Examiners (Flight, Type Rating, Class Rating, Instrument Rating, Synthetic Flight, Flight Instructor) Annex II deals with the conversion of national licenses previously held under the JAR FCL scheme. The applicability of this annex ended on 8 April 2015, when an EASA Part-FCL license became mandatory to fly any EASA aircraft for any purpose. Annex III deals with the acceptance of Third Country (TC) licences (issued by NAAs of non-EASA Member States) with regard to the validation and the conversion of TC licences. Annex IV (Part-MED) deals with medical requirements for flight crew licence holders and with requirements for the aero-medical assessment of cabin crews (CC). Part-MED requirements are articulated in the following series of subparts: Subpart A: General requirements Subpart B: Requirements for medical certificates (class 1, class 2 and LAPL medical certificates) Subpart C: Requirements for medical fitness of CC Subpart D: Requirements for aero medical examiners (AMEs), general medical practitioners (GMPs) and occupational health medical practitioners (OHMPs) Annex V (Part-CC) deals with requirements for the issue of a CC attestation. Part-CC requirements are articulated in the following series of subparts: Subpart GEN: General requirements Subpart CCA: Specific requirements for CC attestation Subpart TRA: Training requirements for CC attestation applicants/holders Annex VI (Part-ARA) deals with requirements for EASA member states’ national aviation authorities with regard to the implementation and enforcement of Regulation (EU) No 1178/2011, namely with regard to the certification and oversight of approved training organisations (ATOs), aeromedical centres (AeMCs), organisations operating flight synthetic training devices (FSTDs) as well as the issue of flight crew licences, ratings and certifications. Part-ARA requirements are articulated in the following series of subparts: Subpart GEN Subpart FCL Subpart CC Subpart ATO Subpart FSTD Subpart AeMC Subpart MED Annex VII (Part-ORA) deals with organisational requirements for ATOs, operators of FSTDs and AeMCs. Part-ORA requirements are articulated in