training facilities and documentation; to eliminate formalities during debriefing.. that UTAir Airlines should develop and implement a common format of flight personnel commissioning documentation that will allow to assess the commissioning process (for example, recording type of approach system used as well as approach modes: e.g., A/P, FD etc., as well as meteorological conditions etc.).. that UTAir Airlines should provide for the keeping of records of approaches made by PICs in actual conditions of assigned weather minima.. that UTAir Airlines should make use of the Fatigue Risk Management System (FRMS) Implementation Guide issued in July 2011 by ICAO, IATA and IFALPA in order to monitor flight personnel fatigue risks.. that UTAir Airlines should, before flights performing in periods when ground icing is possible, perform inspections (audit) of all destination APs and subcontractors of ground handling for availability of trained personnel and facilities for A/C de-/anti-icing treatment.. that UTAir Airlines should develop procedures to check A/C conditions after anti-icing treatment depending on the AP and the maintenance organisation facilities.. that UTAir Airlines should ensure strict compliance with flight personnel work and rest limitations as well as arranging leave for crew members in a timely manner.. that UTAir Airlines should, when rostering crew members for flights, take into account the influence of social factors (such as a birthday, a wedding etc.) on the psychoemotional state of personnel.. that UTAir Airlines should, within the framework of the Airline SMS, guarantee the quality of work performed by subcontractors and their compliance with procedures established by the Airline paying special attention to de/anti-icing treatment.. that UTAir Airlines should review the quality of operation of the Airline Directorates.. that UTAir Airlines should rectify other shortcomings revealed during the investigation.. that the General Director of Roschino (Tyumen) Airport should consider the possibility of establishing a ground handling organisation that will meet the State requirements.. that Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) Regional Offices should ensure strict compliance with the requirements of Para 2.3.1 of Russian Federation Government Decree No.609 (PRAPI-98) of 18.06.1998 in terms of initial actions and governing of all means and facilities of agencies taking part in the search and rescue operations.. that Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA) Regional Offices should check the emergency response plans of Airports and Airlines.. that the State ATM Corporation should guarantee strict compliance of ATC officers with ATC Procedures when they are preparing for duty and during their duty shifts, particularly when maintaining radio communications.. that the Ministry of the Russian Federation for Civil Defence, Emergency Management and Natural Disasters Response (EMERCOM) should, with the involvement of IAC, FATA and the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, conduct training for command staff of services that perform search-and-rescue operations at the accident site intended to study the procedures of coordination with the said services especially in terms of documenting the search and rescue operations, A/C fragments displacement and structure cutting operations.. that ATR should consider the case for the introduction into the appropriate documentation (FCOM, FCTM, Cold Weather Operations etc.) of