Australia’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) also has implemented new standards for remote pilot training, the remote pilot licence and the RPA operators certificate. The revisions primarily affect commercially flying a drone in one of two weight ranges. Remote pilots also must obtain explicit permission from CASA to fly an RPA in some circumstances. On April 15, 2019, CASA’s RPAS-related rules were published in Part 101 (Unmanned Aircraft and Rockets) Manual of Standards (MOS) 2019. Rules pertaining to the remote pilot licence do not take effect until April 2020, however. Under the latest scheme, RPA training courses cover the aeronautical knowledge and practical competencies required for the issuance of a remote pilot licence, including how a remote pilot licence may be upgraded to a different category of RPA through ratings, limitations and endorsements. CASA essentially provides one licensing track for people who have no aviation experience, and one licensing track for people who have aviation experience. The agency explains: “If you have no aviation experience, you will need to complete a training course offered by an approved training organisation that holds a remote operators certificate. These training courses comprise theory and operational training. If you want to operate in controlled airspace or outside visual line of sight, you will also need an aircraft radio operators licence. Some training providers may include this in their training course.” Applicants with aviation experience must satisfy these requirements: “A pass [passing grade] in the theory component of a Part 61 flight crew licence (such as a private pilot licence, commercial pilot licence, airline transport pilot license or remote pilot licence). You satisfy this requirement if you have a flight crew licence, an equivalent military qualification, [or] an air traffic control licence (or equivalent). International qualifications will be recognised where we are satisfied that it is equivalent to the theory component of a remote pilot licence training course;. “Complete an operational training course with an approved training organisation, or undertake a CASA flight test; [and,]. “You will also need to complete five hours flying your drone under standard operating conditions. You will need to submit your flight log with your application.”. CASA also explains, “For some operations, you will need permission to fly under the drone safety rules (set out in Civil Aviation Safety Regulations Part 101). Depending on where you intend to fly, [CASA] might require a safety case and risk assessment.” Remote pilot licence holders also must either obtain their own CASA RPA operators certificate or operate commercially with an operator that has this certificate. CASA added that consultation with the RPAS industry “is why the standards require knowledge of, and practical competencies to be demonstrated on, the actual type of RPA to be flown in practice rather than some representative model. In some circumstances, there will be no representative model.”