The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards for training and licensing remote pilots to fly under Federal Aviation Regulations Part 107, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems, (sUAS) reflect the government’s high priority to safely expedite and streamline related rule making. Organizers of the FAA UAS Symposium 2018, for example, said that except for the military drone pilots and manned-aircraft pilots who apply, initial holders of FAA remote pilot certificates constitute “a new group of aviators that may not have gone through the hundreds of hours of training that traditional pilots typically undergo.” Standards for obtaining FAA’s remote pilot certificate with small UAS rating notably do not require training on flying skills and procedures or any practical (flight) test by a certificated examiner. Instead, case-by-case requirements for such training, practical tests and logged flight experience — typically proposed to FAA by the operators and remote pilots pursuing waivers to standard operating limitations — will be accepted or rejected based on screening and safety-risk oversight by FAA. This policy must be understood, however, in the context of the FAA’s regulatory-structure model, which has three classes of small UAS–certification standards: low-risk flight operations under Part 107, high-risk flight operations that require full type certification of aircraft and operations by the agency; and middle-risk flight operations that rely on industry-developed aircraft certification standards and industry-based operator-compliance processes, one symposium presenter said. FAA refers to the low-risk class as “operator-centric” because the operators fly by complying with FAA rules. The high-risk class is called the “third-party validation system,” which involves greater FAA oversight. The middle-risk class is called the “industry-based compliance process.” FAA’s Drone Zone website, as of July 2019, showed that 2,859 waivers to FARs Part 107 haver been issued since August 2016 through the industry-based compliance process. This public list of waivers does not show which of these waivers led to FAA requiring hands-on flight training, logged flight experience, or assessment of flying skills and procedural knowledge by an FAA inspector or FAA-designated examiner, etc. According to the FAA Aerospace Forecast, Fiscal Years 2019–2039, “Remote pilots (RPs) primarily facilitate non-model sUAS flights for commercial activities. An important final metric in non-model sUAS is the trend in RP certifications [i.e., remote pilot licences]. As of December 2018, more than 116,000 RP certifications have been issued [since 2016]. Over 90 percent of those who took the exam passed and obtained RP certification. … RPs are set to experience tremendous growth following the growth trends of the non-model sUAS sector. Starting from the base of 116,027 RPs in 2018, non-model activities may require almost 350,000 RPs in five years, a three-fold increase, providing tremendous opportunities for growth in employment associated with commercial activities of UAS.”