This article discusses what sometimes appear to be unique approaches to training and licensing civilian pilots of small remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS). By count of aircraft and flights, this is the largest segment of these aircraft within the broader scope of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). Training approaches and licence requirements reviewed for this overview, with exceptions, appear less distinctive after a closer look. The overview cites policies and concepts adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), the consensus of national aviation authorities in Europe, and insights from their competent-authority counterparts in Australia, Canada and the United States. Questions that sometimes arise about the apparent licence diversity are: Is the pilot training rigorous enough to mitigate risks (i.e., equivalent to passing a traditional ground-school exam to fly manned aircraft)?. Does the pilot training include hands-on flight training on aircraft or simulators and require demonstration of remote pilot competencies to an examiner?. What level of competency is demonstrated when 90 percent of the remote pilot candidates pass a 60-question knowledge exam after an online presentation covering the rules, where not to fly, etc.?. This article also cites rationales behind the apparent diversity. For example: The remote pilot license is considered a starting point designed for the widest range of applicants. Advanced knowledge, skills and attitudes come later in the form of add-on ratings, endorsements and waivers of specific flight limitations;. The remote pilot licence alone was never intended to be equivalent to the private pilot–commercial pilot–airline transport pilot ladder of manned aviation; and,. Authorisations for a remote pilot or a remote pilot-in-command to conduct advanced and complex missions require the authorities’ further assessment of the aircraft operator, other crewmembers (such as observers) and similar risk-management factors beyond one remote pilot..