Bulgaria Air A319 for the first time as it approached the holding point S6 by which time they said they “had reached V1”. They added that they expected that “it would come to a halt before entering the runway, its taxiing speed being compatible with this scenario”. However, soon after this, they realised that it was crossing the holding point and as VR had been reached, the Captain decided to continue the takeoff, during which they estimated that they overflew the A319 at an estimated height of about 100 feet (which if correct would have meant clearing the A319 by about 60 feet). The crew of the arriving A319 subsequently stated that the frequency was very busy with exchanges in both French and English and that after vacating runway 08R, they were initially told to taxi to holding point S6 and hold short of runway 08L but as they were taxiing, the controller had said “Bulgaria 431, number one, keep on taxiing” which they understood as being a clearance to cross the runway whilst reading back the instruction using the controller’s exact words. They added that “after they had crossed the runway, the controller told them that they had not been cleared to cross it” and said that they had not seen the Freebird Airlines A320. The Captain of the arriving Air France A320 subsequently stated that “when the controller told the Bulgaria Air A319 to keep taxiing, he asked himself if that corresponded to a clearance to cross runway 08L as, being based at Paris-CDG, he knew that normally controllers explicitly gave the crossing clearances”. He added that this was why, when the controller told him to follow the A319, he had asked for confirmation that it included clearance to cross the runway. The TWR controller had started his shift about twenty minutes earlier and on taking up the TWR position, had asked for and been allocated another controller to assist him by coordinating with other controllers because the approach radar controller was sequencing arriving aircraft at 2.5 nm separation which created a high workload. He noted that shortly before the A319 had landed another approaching aircraft had made a go around because the preceding aeroplane had not vacated the runway. He stated that after the A319 had vacated the runway on V5, he had instructed it to taxi to holding point S6 and when the Air France A320 vacated on V6, he had realised that there was going to be a conflict between the two aircraft at the beginning of taxiway S6 and had decided to give priority to the A319. He had then turned his attention to the next aircraft on approach to runway 08R “as he was not sure that he had cleared it to land”. He then said that when the RIMCAS warning activated, his assisting controller told him that the A319 was in the process of crossing runway 08L but that it was too late to intervene as the departing A320 had begun to