rotate. He added that “he had not had any misgivings about the intention of the Bulgaria Air flight, as the read back had been correct and the aeroplane was taxiing slowly to the holding point”. The Assisting Controller had started his shift 2 hours 40 minutes prior to the event under investigation and until moved to assist the TWR controller when the latter took over that position, he had been in the approach radar position. He stated that “the traffic was quite heavy with reduced separations between aircraft on final approach (which) required increased monitoring of inbound aeroplanes and late landing clearances”. He stated that he had seen the arriving A319 taxiing but that it had been “difficult to see if it was going to stop or not, as it was taxiing slowly”. When the RIMCAS Warning occurred and he saw it crossing the holding point, he alerted the TWR controller “specifying that it was too late to act”. He was of the opinion that “if the TWR controller had not been busy with the close arrivals, he could have taken the time to clarify about the crossing” but noted that “the TWR controller had not asked him to call the approach radar controller to ask for greater separations and he had not done this himself, as the period of peak traffic was coming to an end”. It was noted that the AIP entry for Paris CDG states that “aircraft vacating runway 08R/26L or 09L/27R after landing must NEVER cross RWY 08L/26R or RWY 09R/27L without first receiving specific ATC clearance”. It was also noted that: to increase the chances that an aircraft taking off on the inner runway will have become airborne before reaching an aircraft which has just cleared the outer runway after landing and enters the inner runway, the taxiways closest to the centre of the runway - in the case of runway 08L the crossings from S5 to T8 and from S4 to T7 (marked in red on the illustrations above) were permanently closed.. the longitudinal profile of runway 08L is not level and its first 500 metres are about 26 feet higher than its far end which can make it difficult for pilots crossing the runway from taxiway S6 (or S7 and S9) to see an aircraft at the beginning of its takeoff.. the AIS phraseology guide stipulates the following controller phraseology: Managing priorities when taxiing: “Rapidair 3245, give way to Citron Air coming from your right, taxi holding point runway 27 via B7.” Holding short of a runway and then crossing a runway: “Rapidair 3245, hold short of runway 18” followed by “Rapidair 3245, cross runway 18 right.” Crossing a runway without holding: “Rapidair 3245, keep taxiing, cross runway 18 right.”. Managing priorities when taxiing: “Rapidair 3245, give way to Citron Air coming from your right, taxi holding point runway 27 via B7.”. Holding short of a runway and then crossing a runway: “Rapidair 3245, hold short of runway 18” followed by “Rapidair 3245,