An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant flight trajectory data was obtained from the A320 QAR and from data stored by the “OzRunways” app installed on the pilot’s Apple device. The Captain of the Airbus A320, who was acting as PF for the flight, had a total of 13,935 hours flying experience of which just 66 hours had been within the previous 90 days. Whilst familiar with Ballina, they had not operated there for nine months. The First Officer had a total of 4,830 hours flying experience of which just 10 hours had been within the previous 90 days including operating into Ballina the previous day. The pilot of the Jabiru light aircraft had a total of 775 hours flying experience and had flown 56 hours in the previous 90 days. They were familiar with Ballina Airport and reported transiting the surrounding airspace about eight times a year although they admitted being unfamiliar with radio phraseology commonly used by commercial transport flights, including reference to waypoints such as ‘OPESO’ which was very close to the position of the near miss (see the illustration below). The intersecting north easterly and south south-easterly tracks of the two aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] When the A320 was approximately 40 nm to the southwest of its destination, a routine position broadcast was made on the shared CTAF which Ballina used. The same frequency was also used by neighbouring airports including, in the vicinity of the investigated traffic conflict, by three smaller aerodromes, Casino, Lisburn and Evans Head - see the illustration below. Ballina was one of the only two Australian airports to also operate a “Certified Air/Ground Radio Service” (CA/GRS) on the CTAF frequency. This additional traffic de-confliction information service was provided only to commercial passenger transport aircraft with over 30 seats and had been introduced 3½ years previously in response to the increasing number of aircraft movements at Ballina. On receipt of the A320s position broadcast, the Ballina Airport Certified Air/Ground Radio Operator (CA/GRO) “confirmed that the crew were aware of two other passenger flights, another A320 departing to the south from runway 06 at Ballina and a Boeing 737 inbound to Ballina from the south”. At about the same time, the light aircraft tracking south southeast towards its destination made a position broadcast on the shared CTAF addressed to Lismore, advising that it was 4 nm to the east of Lismore and descending through 5,300 feet. Neither aircraft heard the call of the other although they were already maintaining ground tracks which would intersect and were both descending towards their intended destinations (refer again to the previous illustration). The four locations in the area all sharing the same CTAF frequency. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The potentially conflicting light aircraft appeared on the A320 TCAS traffic display but without an altitude indication. Both pilots reported having attempted, without success, to visually acquire the proximate traffic in the absence of any cloud and in excellent visibility