The Investigation made a ‘Safety Analysis’ of the assembled evidence and concluded that the need for the pilots of both aircraft when operating in Class ‘G’ airspace to make full use of the available CTAF and, in the case the light aircraft pilot, to also ensure Mode ‘C’ TCAS was selected had not been recognised. It was noted that after receiving a TCAS TA, the A320 crew had not made a CTAF broadcast in the interests of collision avoidance. The separation ultimately achieved was “entirely fortuitous”. Since the facilitating factor in the conflict was the absence of air traffic control or provision of a centrally controlled traffic information service, the consequence of the airspace being classified as uncontrolled, the implications of this were considered. A review of past events was found to indicate that self-separation using broadcast traffic advice had (in general) been a largely reliable procedure despite relying on individual pilots both recognising a potentially unsafe situation and, when necessary, formulating an effective separation plan which “often requires coordination with the pilot(s) of the other involved aircraft”. However, in the absence of any possibility of coordinated TCAS RAs, it was noted that “this process is almost exclusively reliant on individual human actions without other mechanisms potentially acting as a safeguard and/or safety redundancy” and consequentially vulnerable to human error by pilots regardless of their experience. It was considered significant that not only is the airspace around Ballina Airport used on a regular basis by “a complex mix of aircraft types and operations, including high capacity passenger transport” it is also near to several other uncontrolled airports. Given that context, whilst it was not considered that the factual findings of the Investigation indicated that present arrangements constituted an “unsafe system”, it was concluded that there was potentially an opportunity to further reduce the risk of traffic conflict. It was considered that relevant safety improvement might be achievable by the increased use of controlled airspace and by more use of ADS-B data both by ATS and individual aircraft. In addition, improved monitoring of air traffic movements may be able to assist in the identification of areas of increasing risk. Four Contributing Factors to the investigated conflict were identified as follows: The mode of the transponder on board 24-7456 was not selected to transmit altitude data, which resulted in VH-VGP’s traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) not indicating the approaching aircraft’s altitude or providing a resolution advisory.. The pilot of 24-7456 did not recall hearing broadcasts from VH-VGP and remained unaware of the other aircraft until passing above it.. The flight crew of VH-VGP did not recall hearing the broadcast from 24-7456 when it was near Lismore and remained unaware of the aircraft until receiving a TCAS TA. However, they did not know the approaching aircraft’s altitude, did not attempt to make radio contact and only sighted it moments before the aircraft passed.. The vertical separation between the aircraft when their flight paths inadvertently intersected reduced to about 600 feet, which was entirely