Tyres and tubes should be stored in a cool, dry place out of direct sunlight.. Temperatures should be between 0°C and 30°C.. Particular care should be taken to store tires away from fluorescent lights, electric motors, battery chargers, electric welding equipment, electric generators and similar equipment. These items create ozone, which has a deteriorating effect on rubber.. Local aviation authority regulations may address limits to tyre and tube storage humidity limits.. Care should be taken that tires do not come in contact with oil, gasoline, jet fuel, hydraulic fluids or similar hydrocarbons. Rubber is attacked by these in varying degrees.. All tires and tubes should be inspected immediately upon receipt for shipping and handling damage.. Whenever possible, tires should be stored vertically on tyre racks. The surface of the tyre rack against which the weight of the tyre rests should be flat and wide to minimize distortion.. Stacking of most tires is permissible; however, care must be used to prevent distortion of the tires on the bottom of the stack. Manufacturer's guidance on the subject should be followed.. Tubes should be stored in their original cartons whenever possible. If stored without their cartons, they should be lightly lubricated with talc powder and wrapped in heavy paper.. Tubes can also be stored in matching tires. Tires should be clean and lightly lubricated with talc with tubes inflated just enough to round them out.. Under no circumstances should tubes be hung over nails, pegs or any object that might form a crease in the tube. Such a crease will eventually produce a crack in the rubber.. Age is generally not an indicator of tyre serviceability as long as all service criteria, visual criteria, or individual customer-imposed restrictions are met.. It is recommended that tubes not be reused; they can grow as much as 25% in service. Reusing them can result in folded, pinched tubes which can fail or create an imbalance.. Tyres can be inflated at operational pressure if allowed by the aviation authorities. The assemblies can be stored like this for up to 12 months. After that time, inflated assemblies that have not been used should be re-inspected to tyre appearance criteria. These reinspections can be performed multiple times as long as the tyre meets all inspection and inflation criteria.. If the tyre does not meet the inspection and inflation criteria, the tyre should either be scrapped or returned for retreading, depending on the tire’s condition. For assemblies stored for extended periods of time, inflation pressure retention checks should be performed to help re-verify the airworthiness of the assembly.. Correct mounting and demounting of aircraft tyres and tubes are essential for maximum safety and economy. It is a specialized job that should be done only by fully trained persons with the proper tools and with careful attention to specific instructions and established procedures.. An inflated tyre/wheel assembly is potentially explosive. Mounting and demounting of aircraft tyres is a specialized job that is best done with the correct equipment and properly trained