become aware that the LGGL had not been removed and stored on-board the aircraft before flight.. Rather than inform an engineer or pilot as per procedures, the pushback driver removed the LGGL pins from the landing gear sleeves before pushback. However, as the lanyards attaching the pins to the sleeves was missing and the pushback driver did not understand the LGGL locking mechanism, he removed the pins and not the sleeves.. The Safety Message drawn from the Investigation was that “it had highlighted how a number of relatively small errors and/or omissions, associated with separate functional areas, can combine to potentially affect flight safety (when) in this case, the identification and rectification of any one factor would probably have significantly reduced the likelihood of the occurrence developing”. It was further observed that “while all persons working in and around aircraft have specific roles, they also have a responsibility to notify the operating crew about any concerns they may have with the aircraft since it is imperative that any concerns are assessed and rectified by appropriately qualified personnel before flight”. Safety Action taken by Virgin Australia Regional Airlines following the event and known to the Investigation prior to its completion was noted as having included the following: The previously agreed but not implemented ‘Aircraft Readiness Log’ and associated procedures has been introduced.. Flight crew have been instructed to use a standardised method for the stowage of an aircraft’s LGGL pins and sleeves in the stowage compartment provided such that the flag ends are partially exposed, to facilitate easier detection of their presence during pre-flight checks.. Ground Handlers have been reminded that they are not permitted to remove LGGL pins and that if they observe them still installed during their pre-departure walk round or prior to an imminent pushback, they must instead report this to either the pilot-in-command or to maintenance personnel.. The Final Report was released on 11 September 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.