that he would not be able to get back to the A320 to supervise refuelling, the ‘apron engineer’ who had been involved in the tow phoned one of the ‘on-board engineers’ and asked him to take over the task of preparing the A320 for departure, including supervising refuelling. This refuelling subsequently took almost half an hour and was completed 20 minutes prior to schedule time of departure. By the time refuelling had finished, the driver tasked by the contracted ground handling agent Swissport was present in his tug which was attached to the front of the aircraft and the Swissport Dispatcher assigned to the departure was sitting in the tug with him. Hold loading had been completed and passenger boarding was about to commence. However, whilst waiting in the tug, the driver then noticed that the locking pins and their associated flags were still installed which he stated he had “considered unusual”. He reported having attempted for around 10 minutes thereafter to contact the ‘Aircraft Movements Coordinator’ (AMCO) by radio to request an engineer to inspect the pins but when he had been unable to do so with only 7 minutes to go until departure, he had decided to remove the pins himself. Unfamiliar with the relatively unusual LGGL system on the A320, he had not also removed the associated locking sleeves. He placed the three flagged pins in his vehicle and then boarded the now fully loaded aircraft to get the load sheet countersigned by the Captain. The Dispatcher, in headset communication with the flight crew, then confirmed that “all doors and panels were secured and that the aircraft was clear to push back”. Neither of them mentioned to the flight crew that the tug driver had removed the flagged locking pins from the landing gear. As the aircraft push back began, one of the LGGL sleeves fell unnoticed from the aircraft onto the taxiway and then, about 10 minute later, a second sleeve fell from the aircraft onto the departure runway as the aircraft got airborne, again unnoticed. A number of reports of FOD on both runways and taxiways then began to occur. After a report from a landing aircraft crew to ATC of FOD on the runway about half an hour after the A320 had taken off, a runway inspection was carried out by an airport operations officer but no FOD was found. However, ten minutes later, another similar report led to a second runway inspection by a different operations officer who located one of the LGGL locking sleeves next to the runway PAPI and almost an hour later, the second LGGL sleeve was found on the apron. The A320 crew, by this time on the descent into Christmas Island, were advised of the findings and asked to check the flight deck stowage compartment to see if the LGGL pins and sleeves were on board and found that they were not. As a precaution against possible landing gear damage, the gear was lowered a little earlier than