usual in case additional time was required to respond to any abnormal indications but the remainder of the flight was uneventful and a subsequent inspection by the engineer travelling with the aircraft found no evidence of any aircraft damage. Contrary to the conventional LGGL systems in which all three gear legs are locked in position only by locking pins, in the case of the A320, locking is achieved by fitting hinged ‘sleeves’ in the locking position and then securing the sleeves in position with locking pins (which look like the pins more usually used on their own as ground locks).The locking pins are fitted with the usual red flags. Two different LGGL systems of this type are used on A320s with that on the aircraft involved using the sleeves to secure the landing gear strut position (see the illustration below) rather than the landing gear door actuating cylinder. The conventional ‘simple’ flagged-pin system used on the nose landing gear and the two similarly-flagged sleeve-and-pin systems used on the main gear would normally be a set specifically assigned to the aircraft. When not fitted, this would be kept on board the aircraft in a designated stowage on the flight deck where their presence could be confirmed prior to commencing a flight. Each main gear sleeve is supposed to be painted red and attached to the corresponding pin to which the red flag is attached by means of a wire lanyard. However, it was found that in this case, neither sleeve was attached to its flagged pin, making it easy for anyone unfamiliar with the aircraft type to remove only the flagged pins from the main gear. One of the sleeves in this case was also missing most of its red paint (see below). It was established that the absence of the lanyards had not been reported prior to the investigated event and also that the same lanyards were also missing from the main LGGLs on two other A320s in the operators fleet. The extent to which procedures for the use of LGLLs during towing operations and the allocation of the associated responsibilities were documented for use by those involved was reviewed: The Manual detailing the operator’s ‘Approved Maintenance Program’ (AMP) contained a comprehensive description of maintenance procedures for the aircraft operator’s Aircraft Maintenance Organisation (AMO) personnel but did not include any reference to towing procedures or the installation or removal of the LGGL.. The A320 AMM described the maintenance procedures for the A320 as specified by Airbus and although it stated that “safety devices (LGGL) were to be installed on landing gear prior to towing” it made no reference to their removal following a tow.. The ‘Virgin Group Operations Manual: Airport Airside Operations Manual’ (AAOM) provided instructions for towing Airbus A330 and Boeing 737 aircraft which included a requirement to install and remove LGGLs and that the person responsible for ensuring that this occurred on these aircraft types was the person designated as aircraft brake operator for the tow. This Manual