An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was noted that prior to passenger boarding, the aircraft had been towed by ground handling personnel from the domestic apron to its departure gate at the international terminal. Prior to this tow, an ‘apron engineer’ employed by the airline’s aircraft maintenance organisation (AMO) had fitted the Landing Gear Ground Locks (LGGL) which, in the case of the main landing gear on this aircraft type, consist of a sleeve which is secured in position by an attached pin (see the illustration below). This engineer then acted as the aircraft brake operator for the tow. Shortly after the tow had been completed, he left the aircraft having been instructed to supervise the refuelling of another aircraft. At this point, he expected to be able to return after the refuelling task to also supervise the refuelling of the A320 and to remove the LGGLs at that time. Whilst he was away from the aircraft, other airline AMO engineers (referred to from now on as the ‘onboard engineers’) were working on the flight deck of the A320 to rectify an avionics defect and being assisted by another company engineer who had been assigned as a matter of routine to travel with the aircraft to Christmas Island. The ‘apron engineer’ who had ridden the brakes during the tow was aware that the rectification work was to take place and that there was a possibility that if it was not successful, an alternative aircraft may have to be found to operate the flight. An operating crew consisting of a Captain and a First Officer were rostered for the flight and the Captain decided to act as PF for the first flight. They were to be accompanied by an augmenting crew member, who in this instance was a Training Captain. No specific pre-flight duties were specified for an augmenting crew member but it was common practice for them to carry out the external pre flight check. It was noted that the aircraft was scheduled to continue from Christmas Island to the Cocos Islands before returning to Perth and since enhanced pre-flight preparations were required, delegation of the external check to the augmenting crew member would represent a good use of resources. The flight crew arrived at the aircraft approximately an hour prior to the scheduled departure time but were initially unable to gain access to the flight deck because of the rectification work and they were advised that it was likely to be another half hour before they could enter the flight deck. The augmenting crew member then carried out the external check, observing that the LGGLs were still fitted with the flags showing. He reported having considered removing them but that he had concluded that he could not do so safely and so on completion of the check, he had advised the Captain accordingly. The Captain subsequently stated that he had “assumed” that LGGL removal would occur during normal departure procedures. On realising