able to access the flight deck and also because although the augmenting crew member who had carried out the external check had noted that the LGGL were still in place, it was the PM First Officer who would normally have begun his pre flight checks by carrying out that check. The last chance to detect the incomplete removal of the LGGLs was the explicit check to ensure that that they were in the flight deck stowage but did not occur in response to the corresponding challenge during the ‘Before Start Checks’.. It was noted that on 12 April 2016, one of the same operator’s Fokker F100 aircraft had departed from Perth with its ‘conventional’ landing gear pins fitted after a similar failure to remove them after towing to the position where passenger boarding had taken place and an air turn-back had been made when the gear could not be retracted after takeoff. The operator’s internal investigation found that the Captain had seen that the pins were fitted and had “assumed that they would be removed prior to departure”. The engineer who conducted the required pre-dispatch external inspection (a responsibility since transferred to the ground handling contractor) had not noticed that the pins were fitted. This investigation led to a recommendation that the operator’s maintenance organisation “consider making the installation and removal of gear pins an action that requires a maintenance log entry” but this was not actioned and instead it was agreed that a new ‘Aircraft Readiness Log’ would be introduced in which ground lock fitting and removal would have to be recorded and such entries signed for. This agreed action had still not been taken over 2 years after the F100 event had occurred but following the investigated A320 event, the new log was introduced on 8 October 2018. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation were recorded in the form of five Contributory Factors as follows: The handover of pre-flight engineering duties between engineers did not effectively communicate the requirement to remove landing gear ground locks (LGGL), contributing to the on-board engineer having no expectation of any further requirement to perform additional checks or tasks relating to the exterior of the aircraft.. There was no formal documentation regarding when LGGL pins should be removed following a positional tow. The absence of a formal process contributed to the LGGL remaining in place throughout the preparation of the aircraft and the on-board engineer having no expectation that the LGGL were still installed when he supervised the refuel.. The normal pre-flight sequence for the flight crew was disrupted due to maintenance work on the flight deck and delegation of the exterior walk-around check. This contributed to the flight crew not identifying that the LGGL were missing from the stowage compartment on-board the aircraft.. The operator did not have a procedure for making maintenance log entries when LGGL were installed and removed. The maintenance log entry relating to LGGL would have provided another opportunity for the flight crew and the engineer to