these changes, engineers from the airline’s AMO were responsible for dispatch including an external inspection which would include the removal of any LGGLs found to be still installed. Under the new arrangements which had been in place for almost three months, a contractor (Swissport then Aerocare) had taken over responsibility for dispatch duties. AMO engineers advised that they had continued to conduct informal external checks after this transfer of dispatch duties despite the absence of any requirement to do so. The on-board engineer advised that he did not perform such a (now entirely optional) external check after supervising the refuelling. It was also not possible to establish whether the phone call in which transfer of engineer oversight of refuelling was agreed had included any specific mention of the fact that the LGGLs were still installed. However, it was found that the operator’s AMO “did not have documented procedures or training relating to the handover process between engineers”. The pre-flight procedures and responsibilities for the operator’s A320 flight crew were described in the A320 FCOM and the A320 QRH. The preliminary flight deck pre flight check before every flight was found to require that a check should be made to confirm that the LGGLs and pitot tube covers were on board and stowed. The QRH assigns this duty to the PM although the flight crew involved indicated that the check was normally done by the pilot assigned to carry out the external pre flight check as they left the flight deck for that purpose since the LGGL stowage compartment was in a position which made the required check difficult to do whilst in a pilot seat. It was, though, apparent that in practice, the stowage compartment check “was not necessarily dependent on external check, although the crew perceived the tasks were normally performed together”. The external pre flight check was, however, found to explicitly include checking that “the nose, left main, and right main landing gear safety pins have been removed”. It was noted that the company ‘Flight Operations Policies and Procedures Manual’ (FOPPM) applicable to all aircraft operated by the airline described additional procedures to be carried out if one or more LGGLs was found to still be installed during an external pre-flight check. These required that in such circumstances, the Captain must: direct that the LGGLs are removed prior to taxiing.. confirm the LGGLs have been removed by the presentation of the removed locks/pins by an authorised person from an appropriate position on the ground.. acknowledge (in the form of a ‘thumbs up’ sign) that they are satisfied that all locking devices have been removed (this signal may alternatively be given by the First Officer).. In the case of the investigated departure, it was the augmenting crew member who had performed the external check and, on re-boarding the aircraft, he had told the Captain that the LGGLs were still installed. No evidence was found that the latter had subsequently “directed or confirmed the removal of the LGGLs as documented