in the FOPPM” but it was also noted that the second ‘challenge and response’ item on the ‘Before Start’ Checklist was “Gear Pins and Covers Removed”. It was considered that the failure to properly remove the main gear LGGLs had been the consequence of a number of factors: Maintenance organisation procedures did not define installing and removing LGGL as a maintenance activity, so there was no requirement to record these activities in the Aircraft Technical Log.. It was not possible to be certain that the telephone communication between the ‘apron engineer’, who was aware that the LGGLs were still fitted to the aircraft, and the ‘on board engineer’ to whom he had passed the responsibility of overseeing refuelling, had included reference to the need to remove them. Although no longer required perform a pre-departure external check after a ground handling contractor had been engaged by the aircraft operator to oversee all aspects of dispatch, it was noted that engineers sometimes (but not in this case) had continued to informally conduct such a check.. A320 procedures for ground handlers under the new contractor required the Dispatcher to perform a walk-around check prior to departure and stated that all ground handlers should “be aware” of landing gear pins with the Dispatcher required to “check that landing gear pins have been removed during the walk-around”. The procedures stated that any abnormalities (such as unexpected pins) must be reported to the aircraft Captain immediately after the walk-around. However, no training or familiarisation in the ‘non-standard’ A320 landing gear ground lock system had been provided.. Having been unable to contact the ‘Aircraft Movements Coordinator’ by telephone to report that he could see the flagged pins still installed, concerned that he should not contribute to a delayed departure and being familiar with the removal of ‘conventional’ gear ground lock pins from Boeing 737 aircraft “to assist the engineers” and under their supervision, the pushback tug driver had assumed that A320 main gear locking was similar. The Dispatcher was aware of and concurred with the tug driver’s action to remove (only) the (flagged) pins from the A320 landing gear.. The fact that it was possible to remove the pins which secured the main gear LGGL sleeves in position without also removing the sleeves was due to the fact the wire lanyards which should have attached the flagged pin to its corresponding sleeve were missing from both main gears.. The decision to remove the LGGL pins and not contact the flight crew was contrary to ground crew general procedures and training. The pushback driver reported that he did not consider contacting the flight crew. It was noted that there had been several opportunities for both the pushback driver and the Dispatcher to communicate with the flight crew throughout the pre-flight sequence and there was no technical barrier to this.. The flight crew’s delayed access to the flight deck had disrupted the normal check of the LGGL stowage because the external check was conducted before the flight crew were