did not include any mention of towing procedures for A320 aircraft or the related responsibility of the brake operator. Its only mention of the LGGLs on the A320 was in a section on dispatch procedures for A320 and Fokker 100 aircraft which stated that “removal of landing gear pins was the responsibility of the flight crew and engineering”.. The operator’s applicable ‘Line Maintenance Procedures’ (LMP) dated 11 September 2017 stated that “towing should be conducted in accordance with the AMM”. There was no reference to the installation or removal of LGGLs as part of towing and a section entitled ‘Removal of locking and safety devices’ contained nothing except the word ‘Reserved’. It was found that a previous version of the LMP dated 9 September 2016 had included a description of the tasks involved in towing aircraft, but this did not include “a step for removing LGGL after a tow”. It did have a section on ‘Removal of Locking Devices’ which stated that: The Captain was responsible for ensuring that all ground locks were removed prior to flight and must confirm with the First Officer that locking pins had been removed and stowed on board the aircraft. Authorised aircraft maintenance engineers must remove locks and stow them on the aircraft. The Dispatcher would provide an additional check during the pre-dispatch walk-around to ensure all locks had been removed.. The Captain was responsible for ensuring that all ground locks were removed prior to flight and must confirm with the First Officer that locking pins had been removed and stowed on board the aircraft.. Authorised aircraft maintenance engineers must remove locks and stow them on the aircraft.. The Dispatcher would provide an additional check during the pre-dispatch walk-around to ensure all locks had been removed.. Given the above findings, the Investigation concluded that “there were no specific procedures for removing LGGL from the operator’s A320s after a positioning tow”. In the absence of any explicit requirements relevant to the pre-departure situation in this case, the Investigation examined the engineers’ understanding of the process for installing and removing LGGL. The ‘on-board engineer’, who had taken over responsibility from the ‘apron engineer’ who had originally anticipated covering the whole pre-departure task but had been unable to do so after going to oversee refuelling of another aircraft, stated that the normal sequence after towing an aircraft onto the departure bay was for the engineer to remove the LGGL and stow them on board on completion of the tow. However, the ‘apron engineer’ "said it was approved practice for engineers to leave pins in place after towing an aircraft, particularly if the aircraft was likely to sit for a while or may be unserviceable and towed off the bay” and that in such circumstances, engineers would leave the LGGL installed after a tow and remove them only in conjunction with subsequent refuelling. It was found that there had recently been changes to the operator’s pre-flight dispatch duties which affected the pre departure responsibilities of engineers. Prior to