Expectation bias has been described in research cited in a U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) aircraft incident report as “a psychological concept associated with perception and decision making that can allow a mistaken assessment to persist.” (Bhattacherjee 2001) Expectation bias, and the related confirmation basis, can cause a person’s incorrect belief to persist despite available contradictory evidence. In A Practical Guide for Improving Flight Path Monitoring, the Active Pilot Monitoring Working Group said that “individuals are vulnerable to thinking they see what they expect to see … . Inattention blindness, change blindness and expectation bias are not manifestations of laziness, but simply are part of the way everyone’s brain processes information.” Expectation bias occurs when a pilot hears or sees something that he or she expects to hear or see rather than what actually may be occurring. That expectation often is driven by experience or repetition. For example, if a pilot is regularly cleared to cross a particular runway during operations at a familiar aerodrome, he/she may come to “expect” the clearance. This could cause a potentially dangerous situation if on a particular day, the pilot actually is instructed not to cross the runway in question due to another aircraft landing or taking off. The same bias can extend to what the flight crew sees, or thinks it sees. For example, on 20 Aug. 2008, a misconfigured Spanair McDonnell Douglas MD-82 (MD82, Madrid Barajas Spain, 2008) crashed on takeoff from Madrid-Barajas Airport. It was established that the flight crew, with the aircraft commander as pilot flying, had unintentionally attempted the takeoff without setting the flaps/slats to the required and intended position. Expectation bias likely played a role when the first officer called out a flap setting of 11 degrees while conducting both the takeoff briefing and the final check before takeoff. “There is a natural tendency for the brain to ‘see’ what it is used to seeing (look without seeing),” the final accident report said. “In this case, the first officer, accustomed to doing the final checks almost automatically, was highly vulnerable to this type of error. … The captain, for his part, should have been monitoring to ensure that the answers being read aloud by the first officer corresponded to the actual state of the controls.” NTSB has investigated numerous accidents and incidents involving pilot errors resulting from expectation bias, particularly in night VMC when fewer clues were available to pilots to aid in airport and runway identification. For example, in January 2014, a Boeing 737 landed at the wrong airport in Branson, Missouri, in night Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC). The flight crew expected that the visually identified airport and runway were the intended destination and did not reference cockpit displays to verify the airport and runway. As a result, the airplane landed on Runway 12 at M. Graham Clark Downtown Airport instead of Runway 14 at Branson Airport. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said in 2012 that an analysis of runway incursion data showed that expectation