An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) downloads covering the event were available to the Investigation as was the ATC ground radar recording and the marks made by the landing gear as the aircraft left the runway, travelled on the grass and then regained it (see the diagram below). It was noted that the 57 year-old aircraft commander, who had overall flying experience commensurate with age, had been promoted to Captain with the operator after 20 years service as a First Officer almost 10 years prior to the investigated incident. He had logged 3500 hours in command on the Boeing NG. The 31 year-old First Officer was recorded in the Investigation Report as holding an Algerian PPL issued in 2005 and as having acquired just over 1000 hours experience on type out of 2100 hours in total, having joined the operator soon after issue of his PPL initially on the ATR 72. It was established that after the crew had wrongly reported that they had reached the holding point for the 4000 metre long departure runway 36L when they were still about 240 metres from it, a take off clearance had been issued with approximately 140 metres still to go. After first stabilising the engines at 40% N1, the aircraft commander as PF had begun to set the calculated reduced take off thrust symmetrically and progressively when the aircraft was still about 20 metres from the holding point, but he had not been prepared for the effect of this action on his ability to maintain the indicated and intended track onto the runway centreline with such a lightly-loaded aircraft. As a result of the premature application of thrust, the aircraft then left the right hand side of the 45 metre wide runway (opposite to the entry taxiway) at a recorded ground speed of 61 knots, then travelled for about 250 metres on the grass shoulder parallel to it before hitting and destroying a runway edge marker as it rejoined the paved surface at 92 KCAS (77 knots ground speed) and continuing to complete the take-off. Recorded data showed that the actual rotation speed had been 161 KCAS compared to the planned VR recorded on the flight documents of 129 KIAS. On arrival in Sétif, the aircraft was found to have sustained damage to 24 of the right engine fan blades, to the right side landing light, to the lower anti collision beacon and to both nose landing gear tyres. The runway excursion was not reported to ATC who had not observed it. Awareness of the event was only gained some eight hours later after the operator’s operations control sent a telex to their company station manager at Lyon asking him to request that the airport carry out a runway inspection because of damage to the aircraft involved which had been found on arrival at Sétif. CVR data showed that during the climb out, the First