Officer had asked the commander about what had happened during take-off and he had replied to the effect that “he had tried his best from the start, but that he couldn't get the aircraft back” and that “he had then slightly reduced the power of the left engine to get the aircraft back on the runway”. There was no further discussion of the incident during the remainder of the flight and it was not mentioned to the Senior Cabin Crew Member. The flight documents indicated a take-off weight of 54.9 tonnes - well within the MTOM of 78.2 tonnes - and a take-off C of G towards the allowable aft limit. It was noted that the surface wind given by ATC at the time the take off clearance was from 360° at 13-20 knots and it was considered that this would have been unlikely to have been a factor in the excursion. In respect of the departure from the runway, the Investigation was of the opinion that: “In the course of the turn (onto the runway), the nose gear skidded badly, because it was positioned at right angles to the track of the aircraft, leaving a single tyre mark. The fact that the centre of gravity of the aircraft was to the rear, and the force of the acceleration combined with the absence of any forward movement of the handle, contributed to the aircraft's skidding. Moreover, no attempt was made to brake the main landing gear. The PF, taken by surprise by the acceleration of the aircraft and by the rapid deterioration of the situation, did not disengage the A/T to reduce the speed of the two engines and to try and prevent the aircraft from leaving the right side of the runway. The PF had probably already executed rolling take-offs when not yet lined up with the runway centre line, but in heavier aircraft.” It was further noted that whilst the aircraft was travelling on the grass, “the PF reduced the speed of the left engine for a few seconds by moving the left engine throttle lever into the IDLE position and kept turning the manual nose gear steering wheel and depressing the left rudder pedal” and concluded that “these actions and the efficiency of the rudder” had enabled him to put the aircraft on a track which was convergent with the runway centre line. It was observed that the damage to the right engine had occurred whilst the aircraft was on the grass with the engine set to take-off thrust. In respect of the continued take off, it was considered that “Crew Resource Management does not seem to have prompted the crew to carry out a better analysis of the situation or to take appropriate decisions.” The formally recorded Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: “The runway excursion was due to non-compliance with the rolling take-off procedure, owing to the premature selection of the take-off thrust whilst the aircraft, which was light and had a centre of