An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish investigation agency CIAIAC. It was established that the Finnair aircraft was at FL390 in the vicinity of the Thomas Cook aircraft at FL370 near to the waypoint ‘BRICK’. Immediately after the Thomas Cook aircraft had requested descent and been told to standby, the same controller gave the Finnair aircraft a direct routing and following a request for immediate descent, clearance to FL250. The controller reported that at this point, the radar display label for Thomas Cook was showing FL400 and the one for Finnair was showing FL390. The Thomas Cook aircraft noted from its TCAS display that the aircraft above was beginning a descent and TCAS activation in respect of it followed, first a TA and then a ‘Descend’ RA and then soon afterwards a reversal to a ‘Climb’ RA. The two RAs were followed and clear of conflict reported to ATC when received. It was found that the Finnair aircraft, descending at 3300 fpm, would have received an RA to ‘Adjust Vertical Speed’ to 0 fpm at the same time as the Thomas Cook aircraft received their TA. One second later co-ordinated RAs were annunciated requiring a climb by Finnair and a descent by Thomas Cook, both at a rate of 1500 fpm. The Thomas Cook aircraft began descent but the Finnair aircraft, still above the other aircraft, ignored the RA and continued descent at an increased rate of 4200fpm with the other aircraft in sight. The effect of this had been to trigger the reversal RA ‘Climb, climb NOW’ for the Thomas Cook aircraft simultaneously with a maintain vertical speed RA for the Finnair aircraft which had by now passed through the level of the Thomas Cook aircraft. ‘Clear of Conflict’ was annunciated six seconds later. It was found that a fault in the ATC radar system has led to the label for the Thomas Cook aircraft temporarily disappearing from the radar screen and being replaced by two labels, one showing the correct level of FL370 and another showing FL405, with the Finnair aircraft still showing FL390. On the basis of this information, the controller had instructed the Thomas Cook aircraft to descend to FL390. On being advised by the aircraft crew that they were already at FL370, a new instruction was given to turn 30° right. Immediately after this transmission, the Finnair aircraft stated “please confirm we were cleared to descend to level 250. We had a TCAS RA”, in response to which the controller responded in the affirmative. Following a simulation of the encounter, (see the diagram below) the Investigation concluded that “the aircraft were on slightly divergent flight paths. The TCAS was activated when the aircraft flew within the protective airspace of the TCAS, which at that altitude was 1.3 NM and 700 ft.” The required minimum separation in the airspace involved was 5nm and 1000feet with the achieved separation recorded as 300 feet vertically (Finnair above Thomas Cook) at 0.7nm followed 5 seconds later by 100