ft vertically (Finnair below Thomas Cook) at 0.9nm. The respective radar tracks are shown on the diagram below. Investigation of the radar display fault found that it “seems to fit the characteristics of garbling sometimes seen in non-Mode S radars when the oblique distances between each aircraft and the respective radars are very similar”. It was further noted that “given this similarity in the distance, an overlap occurred in the reply received by the radars from the aircraft, resulting in new tracks appearing on the screen and in the label for (the Thomas Cook) aircraft splitting from the corresponding aircraft symbol.” However, it was noted that the flight progress strips for the two aircraft showed the correct flight levels for both aircraft prior to the issue of a descent clearance to the Finnair aircraft. The Investigation noted that the Finnair crew should have immediately respond as indicated to any TCAS RA even if contrary to ATC instructions and should never execute manoeuvres in the direction opposite to that indicated by a TCAS RA. The formal statement of the Investigation in respect of Cause of the Incident concluded that it arose because of “the clearance given by the controller to (the Finnair) aircraft) to descend from flight level 390 to 250, crossing through the flight level being occupied by (the Thomas Cook) aircraft, FL370, resulting in a violation of the minimum radar separation distance prescribed.” It was also considered that the following contributed to the incident: a possible garbling problem that made it possible for the label on the radar display for (the Thomas Cook) aircraft to show that it was flying at flight level 405. The controller’s failure to detect the fault that existed with the labels. The improper response by the crew of (the Finnair) aircraft to the climb advisory issued by its TCAS. Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation: that AENA ensure that its controllers are aware of the faults that can occur affecting the auxiliary systems used over the course of their jobs and of the way to detect and address said faults. [REC 100/12]. that FINNAIR as part of the refresher training given to its crews, enhance the training on the procedures to be followed in the event of aircraft encounters resulting in a TCAS activation. [REC 101/12]. The English translation of the Final Report was published shortly after the original Spanish report in October 2012.