was considered to have increased the chances that a the single pack might trip off. The following Findings were formally documented: Contributing Safety Factors During a No Engine Bleed Takeoff, a defective high-stage valve allowed a pressure increase in the aircraft’s right bleed air system that triggered the system’s overpressure switch to activate the right bleed trip off. Attempts by the flight crew to reset the system were unsuccessful.. The flight crew continued the flight and climbed above FL250, which was the aircraft’s minimum equipment list-specified ceiling with a single air conditioning pack operating.. The left and only operating air conditioning pack tripped off due to a reduced air flow over the system’s heat exchanger due to a damaged flexible hose. As a result, the aircraft depressurised.. Other Safety Factors The action to continue the takeoff was contrary to the operator’s procedures and increased the risk of the (at that time) unknown underlying aircraft problem having effect during the remainder of the flight.. The action to address the right bleed system fault soon after takeoff increased the risk of the flight crew being distracted from their primary flying tasks at a critical phase of the flight.. Following the no engine bleed takeoff, the flight crew did not reconfigure the air system controls in accordance with the supplementary procedure, inadvertently isolating the right wing anti-ice system from the operating bleed air source, and putting the aircraft at risk of asymmetric wing icing.. The flight crew did not activate the aircraft’s engine anti-ice systems when operating in icing conditions, increasing the risk of an engine icing event.. The cabin crew displayed an inconsistent knowledge of the operation of the cabin oxygen system, increasing the risk of reduced cabin staff performance or passenger injury.. Other Key Findings A published procedure to reset bleed trips in earlier model B737 aircraft, and that may have been of use in this case, was not published for the B737 NG.. The cabin supervisor exhibited very good situational awareness, acting to secure the cabin without specific advice from the flight crew as to the nature of the emergency.. Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation by the Aircraft Operator was noted to have included the amendment of manuals to provide further guidance to crews on oxygen mask operation and a modification to the pre-take-off passenger safety demonstration to include advice that oxygen would flow through passengers’ masks even though individual bags may not have inflated. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 29 April. No Safety Recommendations were made.