An Investigation was carried out by the ATSB. It was found that the initial fault has occurred below 80 KIAS during the take off roll. An attempt at reset after becoming airborne but when still below MSA was not successful and with APU air not available above FL170, it was initially decided to cruise at FL250, a lower level than planned. Once there, however, icing conditions were encountered and it was decided to continue the climb to FL350 so as to be able to cruise clear of cloud. Then, at FL318 during the climb, about 135 nm south west of Coolangatta, the left air conditioning pack failed and an emergency descent was made to 10000 feet. During this descent, cabin altitude exceeded 14000 feet, which led to the passenger oxygen masks deploying automatically. Thereafter, the diversion to Brisbane was achieved by making a track reversal to an airport near to but larger than the departure airport. It was noted that maintenance action on the incident aircraft immediately prior to departure had cleared a reported fault of an open left hand air conditioning ram air door made by the previous operating flight crew. Although this subsequently turned out to be a symptom of the split in the flexible hose that contributed to the failure of the left hand bleed supply en route, it was considered equally possible that the reported open ram air door might have been a result of a fault with the door actuator, as diagnosed by maintenance and the reason which had led them to lock the ram air inlet door open as a way to permit continued operation of the aircraft. It was noted also that the Master Caution during take off activated at less than 80 kts and that the failure to reject the take off was therefore contrary to Operator SOPs and had increased the risk of the underlying aircraft problem having an effect during the flight. Similarly, the decision to deal with the bleed failure soon after take off instead of waiting until above Minimum Sector Altitude, was considered to have increased the risk of the crew being distracted from their primary flying tasks at a critical phase of the flight. It was observed that a bleed trip-off was less likely in the 737 NG types than 737 Classic types because of system design changes which was the reason why the possibility of using engine anti-ice to facilitate system reset after a bleed trip off was not documented for the 737 NG aircraft. Given that the aircraft was certified for operation up to a maximum ceiling of FL410 on a single air conditioning pack and the bleed-trip occurred post dispatch, it was notes that the Minimum Equipment List (MEL) maximum operating altitude of FL250 was of no relevance to the decision on an appropriate cruise altitude. However, the climb to FL350 had placed additional load on the left, degraded, air conditioning pack which was "not capable of operating at the maximum ceiling" and this