centreline at 20° angle. The First Officer subsequently stated that on returning to monitoring after the 20 second distraction with his headset, he had observed that the vertical bar of his PFD was offset to the right and on calling this out had received a response from the Captain that he was aware and correcting it. He then stated that as the lateral deviation appeared to be increasing, he had suggested to the Captain that a go-around would be appropriate. The annotated horizontal and vertical components of the approach. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The deviation left was not corrected and the aircraft remained above the glidepath with the pitch attitude continuing to increase to +11° before decreasing. The thrust levers “were moved forward several degrees in three successive actions” but the airspeed had continued to decrease to 120 KCAS (VREF -15) before increasing again. At this point, the lateral deviation indicated on the PFDs reached full scale deflection. After a further 7 seconds (which was 23 seconds after nose-up inputs had started), the thrust levers were moved to the TOGA detent and the Captain pressed the TOGA button (point 5 on the illustration). The latter activated the corresponding pitch and heading modes and pitch attitude stabilised at +8°. Seeing the apparent initiation of a go around, the TWR controller “asked the crew if they were going around which they confirmed" (point 6 on the illustration). The aircraft crossed the threshold of parallel runway 35L at 420 feet agl as it continued on a deviation heading of 341°M. The controller instructed the flight to continue on that heading and to climb to 5,000 feet. On this heading, the aircraft then flew in succession over the main taxiway, an aircraft parking area and close to the TWR which it crossed at 820 feet aal (point 6 on the illustration). Whilst the height at which airport buildings were crossed was unusually low, it was considered that it had been high enough to avoid any risk of collision with obstacles. The controller subsequently asked the crew if they had lost the centreline and they replied that “there was a small problem with the instruments and that they had got everything back”. Radar positioning to a second Cat 3a ILS approach followed and it was completed normally. Since the (required) use of the HUD without the Captain having had similar previous experience during line flying and the monitoring of that process by the First Officer were a specific feature of the mis-flown approach, the Investigation examined the evidence to see if useful findings in those respects could be identified. On request, the HUD OEM advised that no malfunction on this model of HUD had been reported to them in the period March 2019 to February 2020 during which this model had accumulated around 220,000 operating hours including 26,000 hours on the CRJ700. It was noted that several published papers have dealt specifically dealt with “the cognitive impact of the use of the HUD” by