pilots and detailed several potential problems with using a HUD including: The lack of simultaneous attention to the HUD symbols and the wider flight deck environment and instead a tendency to alternate their attention between the HUD and the external scene with a bias towards the HUD.. Difficulties in detecting unanticipated events or issues in the outside environment leading to inattentional blindness (cognitive tunnelling).. This phenomenon of "cognitive tunnelling" can be exacerbated without pilots being aware of it.. The “excessive precision” of a HUD FD may be tiring.. Possible transition difficulties during a go-around as the focus changes from flight path management to pitch attitude management assisted by the lack of indications to encourage the pilot to use the pitch reference instead of the flight path reference.. It was observed that the non standard “slow and progressive manner” in which the missed approach was initiated had contributed to the aeroplane losing height and ending up at 15 knots below VREF and might have been caused by a combination of: the Captain focusing his attention exclusively on the HUD to align the Flight Path symbol on the Guidance Cue and to the First Officer’s late resumption of monitoring the approach after resolving his radio reception problem. the absence of the Approach Warning message due to the use of an HGS mode which was not the required AIII mode (although the conditions for its activation were met) since “crews are used to starting a go-around as soon as this message appears”.. Three potential Contributory Factors which may have contributed to the approach being carried out in a mode other than the appropriate AIII (Cat 3a) HUD mode being selected were identified as follows: The crew’s improper use of the control panel which could have caused either: an erroneous selection of the control mode on the control panel at the start of the descent or a de-selection of the AIII mode linked to the performance of the RA test, having previously set the AIII mode to standby.. an erroneous selection of the control mode on the control panel at the start of the descent or. a de-selection of the AIII mode linked to the performance of the RA test, having previously set the AIII mode to standby.. The conditions for arming the AIII mode were not all present which might have resulted in this mode, although correctly selected, not being armed.. Improper checking of the approach parameters on the PFDs and the HUD, notably during the call-outs specified in the standard procedures, which meant that the crew did not detect that the AIII mode was not the active mode.. Three other potential Contributory Factors which may have contributed to the approach being continued below 500 feet aal were also identified: The Captain’s repeated corrections of an increasing amplitude while following the flight path indicated by the HGS flight director, in a context where he was flying his first ILS CAT IIIa approach using the HUD without forward visibility.. The Captain focusing his attention