An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA using relevant QAR data but relevant CVR data were not preserved. It was found that the QAR recorded only two parameters relating to the HUD, annunciation of a ‘HUD Fault’ and annunciation of an ‘Approach Warning’ neither of which was activated. It was also noted that the position of the FD bars was not recorded on the QAR either. Recorded ATC data was available. The total flying experience of the 55 year-old Captain was not recorded, but it was noted that he had flown 486 hours on type in the previous year. He had only been promoted to Captain 10 months before the investigated event occurred and stated that he had never previously flown a Cat 3a ILS approach using the HUD in “real” LVP conditions. The 43 year-old First Officer had flown 496 hours on type in the previous year and stated that during his previous CAT 3a approaches, “he had always observed that the (HUD) bars were centred and, in particular, had never observed a path deviation”. LVP were in force at destination due to the prevalence of freezing fog (temperature and dew point both being reported as -1°C) and the crew had planned the approach accordingly on departure from Lille. For the CRJ700, the applicable operator procedures for these conditions mandated that the necessary manual Cat 3a ILS approach could only be flown by the Captain by reference to the HUD. In the aircraft involved, the HUD was installed only at the Captain’s position. With the aircraft stabilised on the runway 35R ILS and fully configured for landing, ATC gave the RVRs as 325 metres (touchdown), 300 metres (midpoint) and 400 metres (end). Tthe Captain disconnected the AP at 1400 feet aal (point 1 on the illustration below which depicts the flight path) and began following the HUD guidance cue whilst the First Officer monitored the flight path on his PFD. About a minute later at about 500 feet aal, the aircraft entered the fog layer (point 2 on the illustration) and, according to the Captain, from this moment the lateral guidance cue began to show a divergence to the left. At the same time, the First Officer reported having temporarily ceased monitoring the approach on his PFD “in order to fiddle with the jack socket of his headset as he was having radio reception problems”. At 320 feet agl, the PF made series of left roll inputs of increasing amplitude and the bank angle reached 11° (point 3 on the illustration) and the airspeed decreased through VREF +3. He then followed this with a pitch up which resulted in the pitch attitude increasing though 2°. Three seconds later, the aircraft reached a minimum height of “around 265 feet” (point 4 on the illustration) and was slightly left of the ILS LOC and above the ILS GS. The wings were then levelled but the aircraft was still diverging from the runway extended