The official investigation report emphasized a double message: Nothing can replace a good flight crew, but even the best trained and competent crew cannot compensate for the inherent faults in a complex system such as air transport. It is clear that the flight crew did not fulfil its role as the last line of defence in the system. But the pilots were not alone in this respect; almost all stakeholders at all levels of the system, through their actions or lack of action, contributed to denying the crew the means to mitigate the consequences of its own actions. De-icing was not requested. This was the biggest risk taken by the crew. The captain was known for his caution and respect for SOPs. He de-iced the airplane prior to taking off at the beginning of the flight leg. He walked to the terminal during refuelling in shirtsleeves in the snow; it was impossible for him not to have noticed the weather conditions. The captain did not deliberately take the wrong decision; the explanation for the mistake is to be found in the overall context and the associated constraints. No preflight external inspection was performed. However, the relative usefulness of a walk-around could be challenged in view of the very limited knowledge that the airline’s crews demonstrated in general on the consequences of wing contamination, as reported in the accident report. This was attributed to a lack of both airline training and crew awareness programs.. An inexperienced dispatcher allowed the airplane to fly with the APU inoperative, knowing there was no ground power equipment at the refuelling site, so that one engine would have had to be kept running, and that company regulations forbade de-icing an airplane with an engine running. This was a serious dilemma for the pilots, and it is presumed that this was the subject of the animated phone conversation that resulted in the captain being so frustrated. This certainly had a significant effect on the pilot’s decision not to de-ice.. Numerous mistakes were found in the flight log after the accident. It contained a wrong MTOW, wrong fuel data for the alternate airport and a passenger load greater than allowed. It is not known if these discrepancies were discussed during the phone conversation.. A weather update on icing conditions was issued by the airport when the airplane was on the ground at the previous airport. This update was known to company dispatchers but was not transmitted to the crew. The captain could have chosen not to land at the planned refueling airport had he known of this weather update.. The ramp agent, after confirming the availability of deicing equipment to the captain, did not go any further. He did not insist on an answer from the captain about deicing nor did he get a definite answer, even though he knew the wings were covered with snow.. The two cabin crewmembers knew that the wings were covered with ice and snow. They never tried to bring that information to