The official investigation report emphasized a double message: Nothing can replace a good flight crew, but even the best trained and competent crew cannot compensate for the inherent faults in a complex system such as air transport. It is clear that the flight crew did not fulfil its role as the last line of defence in the system. But the pilots were not alone in this respect; almost all stakeholders at all levels of the system, through their actions or lack of action, contributed to denying the crew the means to mitigate the consequences of its own actions. De-icing was not requested. This was the biggest risk taken by the crew. The captain was known for his caution and respect for SOPs. He de-iced the airplane prior to taking off at the beginning of the flight leg. He walked to the terminal during refuelling in shirtsleeves in the snow; it was impossible for him not to have noticed the weather conditions. The captain did not deliberately take the wrong decision; the explanation for the mistake is to be found in the overall context and the associated constraints. From all these events, the following contributing factors can be identified: Individual factors include: Furthermore, the accident investigation pointed out that inadequate organizational processes and latent organizational faults were the root cause of most of the risky behavior exhibited by the flight crew. Three distinct organizations were found to have “contributed” to the latent organizational faults that led to the accident. The accident investigation identified the operator, the regulatory agency and the operator’s parent company. The operator The accident-investigation commission found not only that these latent organizational faults generated errors, but also that they created a working environment in which violations would have been unavoidable if employees were to do their jobs. These latent organizational faults included: The regulatory agency Deregulation policy during the 1980s had significantly increased workload at the same time staffing was cut to comply with budget measures. The parent company The parent airline was the majority shareholder in the operator. But the commission found that the parent decided to stay away from any involvement in the subsidiary airline’s operations. The accident report said that the captain was entirely responsible for the decision to land and take off at the refueling airport. However, it also said that the entire system contributed to putting him in a situation where he did not have all the information and tools necessary for correct decision making.