chief pilot, chief instructor and a line pilot for the airplane, as well as being chief pilot for another airplane type.. Additionally, the airplane maintenance division was under-staffed, inexperienced and facing a shortage of spare parts due to a management decision to buy the aircraft type fleet without sufficient spares.. Finally, the company flight safety director resigned the year before because he had not been supported adequately and had no direct access to the chief executive officer. He was later replaced, after another accident.. The accident report concluded that the airline was not ready to start passenger revenue services with the new type.. The regulatory agency Deregulation policy during the 1980s had significantly increased workload at the same time staffing was cut to comply with budget measures. The regulatory agency should have audited the operator. Part of the audit was done, but all aspects related to line operations were postponed because the operator did not have an approved FCOM. The audit finally took place, but aircraft operations were not audited because the audit manager had no jet experience. The accident commission called that decision “a serious omission” and said that a proper line audit would have uncovered some of the company’s deficiencies before the accident.. Regulations require the audit report to be published 10 working days after the end of the audit. The operator received the report after the accident, more than five months after the end of the audit.. The report concluded the audit was “badly organized, incomplete and inefficient.”. The parent company The parent airline was the majority shareholder in the operator. But the commission found that the parent decided to stay away from any involvement in the subsidiary airline’s operations. The great experience the parent company had gained over the years operating jets was not made available to the operator.. Parent company support was limited to some information on flight safety brochures and on flight data recorder readouts.. There was no integration of the operator’s flight safety department within the parent company’s flight safety organization.. The accident report said that the captain was entirely responsible for the decision to land and take off at the refueling airport. However, it also said that the entire system contributed to putting him in a situation where he did not have all the information and tools necessary for correct decision making.