Weather conditions were bad and forecast to deteriorate below minimum landing conditions. This led the crew to select alternate landing sites and load additional reserve fuel. Furthermore, it was the start of the spring school holidays; the flight was full, and a refuelling stop was required on the way back from the first leg of the flight. When the captain took over the airplane at the departure airport, the auxiliary power unit (APU) had been out of service for five days. This meant that a ground power source was needed to start the engines before departure and that one engine had to be kept running during the stopover because there was no ground power unit available there. De-icing was prohibited by company regulations when one engine was running. After de-icing, the first flight started the day’s rotation with a 13-minute delay. The decision to leave had been taken because an improvement in the weather was forecast. Finally, the flight arrived at the second airport 20 minutes late. There was a conflict between the captain and the local manager over excess weight due to 10 extra passengers to be boarded. The resulting consequence is the need to unload fuel to avoid exceeding the maximum take-off weight (MTOW). This created additional delays, and the cabin crew informed the captain and the first officer of numerous concerns expressed by the passengers about their connecting flights at the final destination. The pilots clearly expressed their frustration. The airplane landed at the return-leg airport with an hour’s delay in snow showers. Passengers were disembarking and boarding while the airplane was being refuelled with one engine running. The fire service was not there. Fire equipment arrived after the start of refuelling, which did not please the captain, who was well known for his caution and respect for standard operating procedures (SOPs). As refuelling continued, the captain had what witnesses inside the terminal described as an “animated” telephone conversation with airline dispatchers about the weather conditions, the number of passengers and alternate airports. He then returned to the airplane increasingly irritated and showing clear signs of frustration. Back on board, without any external preflight inspection, the captain asked the ramp agent if de-icing equipment was available. He was told that the airplane could be de-iced before departure. The captain did not formally request de-icing, and the ground agent did not insist on it. The airplane left the apron and taxied to the runway covered with 0.50 in (1.27 cm) of wet snow. An additional delay occurred due to priority given to a landing airplane. More than 70 minutes late, the airplane started to roll on a contaminated runway with the front half of the wings covered with ice, as noted by passengers and cabin crew. After a longer than usual roll, the captain, the pilot flying, initiated rotation. After some slight buffeting, the airplane touched back down on the runway. Less than 325 ft (99 m) from the end of the runway, the captain initiated a second