There are two measures which will directly reduce the effective level of exposure of exposure to high G: The use of an Anti-G Straining Manoeuvre (AGSM) is claimed by some to be able to increase G tolerance by up to 3G. Two similar versions of the same method have been advocated. Both act by delaying the flow of blood away from the brain and both should be commenced just before anticipated exposure to high G for maximum effectiveness. The first involves the continuous and ideally maximum contraction of major skeletal muscles whilst physically closing the access of the respiratory tract to the mouth and nose at the glottis (which is behind the ‘Adam’s Apple’). This is achieved by beginning to say the word ‘hick’ following a deep inhalation and immediately forcefully closing the glottis. The pressure should be continued for 2.5 to 3 seconds before rapidly exhalation as the word ‘hick’ is finished and a repeat cycle should begin almost immediately. An alternative variant advocates a quick intake of breath followed by tensing the abdominal and chest muscles whilst slowly exhaling over 3-4 seconds.. The wearing of special anti-G trousers or even a complete G-suit which use air pressure to compress the lower parts of the body and thereby restrict the ease with which downward blood flow can occur.. There are two other measures which can increase the chances of recovery from A-LOC if visual warning signs do not occur before the condition occurs: Remaining in open channel radio communication with a knowledgeable ground or airborne observer who has visual contact with the aircraft and can issue an early alert if the trajectory of the aircraft appears abnormal.. Always flying aerobatic manoeuvres at a height above the ground which allows space to recover control if it is temporarily lost due to G-induced impairment. If rapid onset of high G is likely in a pre-planned manoeuvre, then a risk assessment should be used to determine the minimum height above terrain for a high-G manoeuvre which will enable a ‘prompted’ recovery..