have been undertaken by the operator because of this accident. “Loss of control of the UAS which impacted Industrial Road, Halifax, Yorkshire, 6 August 2019.” AAIB investigation to Parrot (UAS, registration n/a), published 14 November 2019. — The UAS was being operated by the emergency services in response to a serious incident requiring an urgent search for a missing person along a canal path. An elevated position in a small, quietly populated cul-de sac was chosen from which to operate the UAS, with a good line of sight visibility of the search area. The weather was good, clear and sunny with a wind of about 14 kt, gusting 28 kt and an OAT of 22˚C. There were no pedestrians in the operating area and no vehicular traffic. The UAS made a normal takeoff and responded correctly to the control inputs made by the operator. It was manoeuvred towards the canal area at an altitude of about 60 m, continuing to respond correctly to the control inputs. It was brought to a hover for the operator to survey the general area and select a suitable flight area to clear the canal towpath. Whilst surveying the area, and approximately 45 seconds into the flight, the operator experienced vibrations from the UAS which were evident in the camera image feed. The operator performed a 360˚ turn of the UAS in order to check control, which was effective. However, seconds later, control inputs did not have the desired or expected response from the UAS. It continued to vibrate heavily and began to move erratically and manoeuvre itself without control inputs. With the UAS facing away from him, the operator attempted to manoeuvre it backwards towards him, but it flipped uncontrollably resulting in an uncontrolled descent, impacting a small residential street. The total flight time was 1 minute and 21 seconds. There were no injuries to persons or damage to property on the ground, but the UAS suffered extensive damage. No cause for the loss of control was identified. “Controlled flight into building, Seal Sands, Middlesborough, 19 August 2020.” AAIB Investigation to DJI Mavic Pro 2, (UAS, registration n/a) 190820, published 10 June 2021. — The DJI Mavic Pro 2 was being used to carry out some aerial filming at a construction site. The aircraft was being operated by a remote pilot (RP) who was supported by an observer. At the time of the accident, the RP was completing a tracking shot around personnel working on the site. Prior to this sequence of filming, he had been recording in Full Point of View (FPOV) mode, but to record the personnel working on the site, he had changed to a High Quality (HQ) mode. Changing from FPOV to HQ video reduced the angle of view from 77 degrees to 55 degrees and, therefore, the aircraft needed to fly further away from the subject to capture a similar view. As the tracking shot was being flown, the observer communicated to the RP that the UA was being