An Investigation was carried out by the TSB. The FDRs were downloaded but the limited parameters recorded meant that the data available as a result was of little assistance. Both 30 minute CVRs were overwritten and it appears that neither TCAS unit non volatile memory (NVM) record was read, although there is no explanation of why this useful and simple action was not taken. All four pilots involved were noted to have been experienced overall in proportion to their rank but both pilots operating the southbound aircraft had low DHC8 type experience, although not so low as to preclude pairing. Both flights were operating on Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) FPLs and the southbound aircraft was airborne ten minutes before the northbound one. By the time they began to approach their passing point, both were at their cruise levels in accordance with ATC instructions, the southbound aircraft at FL 220 and the northbound one at FL230. The conflict occurred outside radar cover in Class ‘A’ airspace with the AP engaged on both aircraft. The approximate tracks and the location of the passing point are shown on the diagram below taken from the Official Report. Due to recurring aircraft pitch oscillations when the autopilot’s ALT HOLD mode was selected, the flight crew of the northbound aircraft decided to engage VS as a means to maintain their cleared altitude of FL 230. During the flight, the First Officer, who had been acting as PF, left the flight deck for an extended ‘toilet visit’ and the aircraft commander took over as PF. Whilst the First Officer was absent, the aircraft began a slow descent which was not noticed by the aircraft commander who remained alone in the flight deck. The aircraft lost just over 700 feet of altitude over a 14-minute period - a mean rate of descent of approximately 50 fpm. Although the aircraft commander reported that he had visually scanned the instruments sporadically, he stated that his attention had been “largely focused outside as he contemplated the landscape of the eastern coast of Hudson Bay”. When this un-noticed descent began, the opposite direction aircraft at FL220 was about 130 nm ahead. Upon return to the flight deck, the First Officer saw on entering that the TCAS traffic display on the VSI was indicating a target straight ahead and slightly to the right. A TCAS TA was then heard followed by a TCAS ‘CLIMB’ RA. Before the First Officer could take their seat, the commander disconnected the AP and initiated a steep turn to the right, banking up to 38°. During this turn, the aircraft lost just over 50 feet in altitude before beginning to climb in accordance with the RA and stopping the turn. In the southbound aircraft, the First Officer who was PF noted the TCAS TA, disconnected the AP and made a shallow turn to the right with a small loss of altitude. When the TCAS RA ‘DESCEND’ was annunciated, he began a shallow climbing turn to the left before