being warned by the aircraft commander to halt the turn and begin descending as required by the TCAS RA. The First Officer subsequently stated that he “believed that the visual indication on the VSI was recommending the turn”. Following the two delayed RA responses, the aircraft passed each other with a separation which was estimated from FDR data to have been of the order of 1500 feet vertically and 0.8 nm laterally before returning to their respective cleared levels. In view of the poor TCAS RA responses, the Investigation examined the situation at Air Inuit in relation to mandatory TCAS training. It found that there was no provision for TCAS training in either initial or recurrent aircraft type ground training. However, “according to the company training program, when the pilot is hired, ground training on the operation and use of TCAS is provided during the company’s orientation training”. The aircraft commander who mishandled the TCAS RA on the southbound aircraft was found to have been employed by the company since 1990 at which time no Company aircraft were equipped with TCAS. During recurrent ground training in 2010, a CD containing a self-study program was reported to have been provided to pilots but “There is no record that this self-paced study program was completed by either of the pilots who mishandled the TCAS TAs in this Incident”. In the case of the other two pilots, this program appeared to have been completed in February 2010. In respect of the use of VS mode as a means to maintain level flight, it was noted that: “pitch oscillations when the autopilot was engaged had been observed in the past, not only by this crew or on this particular aircraft, but on other DHC-8s of the company. Nothing indicates that this situation had been formally pointed out to the company’s maintenance personnel, such as by means of an entry in the aircraft logbook”. It was also noted that some, but not all, of the DHC8 fleet at Air Inuit had an audible alert in the case of deviation from the selected altitude. The southbound aircraft which in this event failed to maintain its assigned level was not fitted with an audible alert and it was considered possible that the commander “expected to hear an audible warning if the aircraft deviated in altitude for any reason”. The Investigation Findings included the following in relation to Cause and Contributing Factors: The use of VS mode is neither intended for nor evaluated for this function, but nothing prohibited the flight crew from using it to maintain altitude.. The element of surprise, the required shift of attention, and the rarity of traffic alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS) warnings are all factors that may have reduced the (northbound aircraft) Captain’s ability to react quickly to the resolution advisory (RA).. The absence of simulator training on TCAS manoeuvres contributed to the crews’ initial incorrect reaction to the RAs.. In respect of Risk, the Investigation findings included: The absence of