An Investigation was carried out by the TSB. It was found that the Captain had approximately 7500 hours total flight time, 2000 hours on type and 50 hours as pilot-in-command and that the accident flight was his first following completion of line training. The First Officer was found to have had approximately 5600 hours total flight time with about 700 hours on type and had been free of duty for 38 days prior to the day of the accident. It was established that the aircraft commander, acting as PF had briefed for a visual approach to Fort Nelson ‘backed up by the ILS’. Descent had been continued below the altitude appropriate to the intended and achieved 5nm range from touchdown turn onto final approach which had occurred at 2200 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings (equivalent to 950 feet aal). At this time, the AP was engaged, the flaps were at 15° and the landing gear was down. The AFDS had captured the localiser and the glideslope was armed. The PF had then selected VS on the MCP with a descent rate of -500 fpm despite the fact that the GS indication on the ADI was full scale ‘Fly Up’. The EGPWS Mode 5 ‘Glideslope’ Alert activated twice and the PF stated that he was correcting. Shortly afterwards he disconnected the AP and the GS was finally intercepted 40 seconds before touchdown at 420 feet aal. However, the aircraft was then allowed go above it before the PF made a corrective pitch down which produced an increase in rate of descent to almost 1000 fpm and a speed of 142 KIAS against the applicable Reference Speed (Vref) of 128 KIAS. The A/T was not manually disconnected prior to beginning the landing flare and approaching touchdown it did not automatically enter retard mode passing 27 feet agl because the MCP setup selected was the one corresponding to a go around - SPD mode with the AFDS set up for ALT ACQ. The aircraft touched down 6knots fast at 134 KIAS, some 550 metres from the threshold with 1400 metres of runway remaining. When the PF moved his hand to actuate the thrust reversers, the A/T advanced the thrust levers in order to maintain the MCP-selected speed of 133 knots. The extension of the speed brakes was also prevented by thrust rising above idle. The PF captain repositioned his hand on the thrust levers, disconnected the A/T and selected Flight Idle. Contrary to SOPs the First Officer did not call out "no speedbrake", "no reverse", or "autobrake disarm" during the initial roll-out. Deceleration began about 5 seconds after touchdown with approximately 760 metres of runway remaining with full manual braking and reverse thrust and speed brakes deployed. The rate of deceleration averaged thereafter - MS 0.35 g - was consistent with a bare and dry runway surface. It was noted that although the length of the landing runway “was appropriate to the operation (it) afforded little room for deviation from aircraft speed on landing