beyond the recommended 1000 feet mark, thus reducing the amount of available runway for stopping.. The autothrottle system was not disengaged below 50 feet, which resulted in the A/T system increasing thrust in order to maintain the selected airspeed. This increase in thrust delayed the deployment of the speed brakes and thrust reversers, which left insufficient runway in which to stop.. In respect of Risk, the Investigation concluded that: If flight crews are not given training on fatigue and fatigue countermeasures, they risk not having the tools they need to deal with fatigue.. If flight crews are required to assess their own level of fatigue and the effects it will have on their performance, they may not identify unacceptable levels of fatigue.. It was also formally noted as an additional ‘Other Finding’ that “the conditions experienced on landing were equal to or better than the runway surface condition report and Canadian Runway Friction Index readings indicated”. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator Enerjet as a result of the event was noted as the May 2012 issue of a communication to all flight crew that contained an open-book exam on relevant sections of the Company Operations Manual. The exam submissions were corrected to 100% at an all-pilots meeting the following month. It was noted that “the goals of this activity were to raise awareness of the fatigue self-assessment tool in the Operations Manual and to provide an opportunity for reiterating the importance of making fair and honest assessments of fitness for duty and reassuring pilots that booking off duty was non-punitive in cases such as fatigue/illness/stress". In the context of having undertaken another runway overrun investigation, the Investigation also noted that the safety issue posed by landing accidents and runway overruns had been included in recent issues of the TSB “Watchlist” and that the Board has investigated a number of landing accidents and incidents of this type and identified deficiencies, made findings, and issued safety communications on subjects such as runway surface condition reporting requirements and on the provision of RESAs. It noted that benign consequences of the overrun investigated in this case still served to particularly highlight the latter issue and that the event “brings attention to the necessity for airports to provide adequate safety areas at the end of runways or other engineered systems and structures to safely stop planes that overrun.” The Final Report of the Investigation was officially released on 25 April 2013. No Safety Recommendations were issued.