and the touchdown point”. Having failed to stop on the paved runway surface, the aircraft exited the end at 10 to 15 knots before coming to a stop 70 metres further on and approximately 6 metres to the left of the extended runway centre line with the main landing gear on frozen soil and the nose landing gear in approximately 50 cm of snow. It was considered that a number of aspects of the way the approach had been flown were “consistent with a combination of attention decrements” which could be associated with the Captain’s statement that he had “not attained any appreciable sleep in the 24 hours preceding the flight”. The Investigation considered on the basis of the way the approach had been flown that the Captain had been fatigued and that the condition “may have adversely affected his judgment and ability to adequately evaluate and manage operational risks”. It was noted that at the time of the investigated event, Enerjet did not have an FRMS in place nor was one required by regulation. It was noted that the Captain had decided to report to work that morning although he had not achieved any appreciable sleep the night before. Although aware of an “alertness assessment tool” contained in the Company Operations Manual, he made no use of it and had not received any training from Enerjet in respect of fatigue and fatigue countermeasures. In respect of the potential consequences and available response to any aircraft overrun accident at Fort Nelson it was noted by the Investigation that: Although the recommended Runway End Safety Area was not designated for the overrun which occurred, “the terrain up to 150 metres beyond the runway end is free of obstacles and is graded such that rescue vehicles can manoeuvre effectively around an aircraft in that area”.. Aircraft rescue and fire-fighting (Rescue and Fire Fighting Services) services were not available at the airport nor were they required to be since an airport has to handle more than 180 000 passengers for this to be a requirement and in 2011, Fort Nelson handled only 34206 passengers in the course of 22050 aircraft movements.. Emergency response for the airport is the responsibility of the Fort Nelson Fire and Rescue which is located in the town of Fort Nelson from which response time is estimated as 7 minutes.. The formal Statement of the Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributing Factors was that: The Captain did not attain appreciable sleep in the 24 hours preceding the flight and was fatigued, likely resulting in attention decrements.. The Captain continued the approach when the aircraft was not in a stabilized configuration, consistent with fatigue-induced reduction in forward planning and a focus of attention towards salvaging the flight.. On short final the Captain pitched the aircraft nose down in an attempt to capture the glideslope which was (by then) below their flight path. The nose down attitude increased the airspeed resulting in a longer flare and a touchdown