they then both evacuated through the right cockpit window. The full width of the left wing was seriously fire-damaged outboard of the number 1 engine pylon and the bottom of the left wing fuel tank was found to have sustained structural damage during the accident sequence. The explosion was found to have been initiated by fuel which was leaking from a broken supply line in the left engine pylon which had ignited and then spread over the exterior surfaces of the almost empty wing fuel tank. Other damage to the aircraft was variously attributed to either or both structural damage due to the initial impact and damage caused by the subsequent fire and explosion. The outer cylinder of the left MLG shock strut was found to have fractured around its entire circumference with the upper part of the cylinder remaining intact and attached to the aircraft (see the illustration below). The fracture occurred midway through the air filler valve bore on the aft side (see the second composite illustration below) and on-site examination identified features consistent with fatigue on the fracture surface. Metallurgical examination of a detached fragment of this cylinder and the corresponding fracture region on the largest piece of the MLG found indications consistent with an overstress fracture having originated from a pre-existing crack in the air filler valve bore. Features consistent with mixed mode fatigue, overstress, and intergranular fracture were found to be associated with propagation of the initial crack. These findings confirmed that once the crack had reached a critical length, the left MLG cylinder had fractured in overstress due to the loads imposed during landing. The most prominent feature of the crack initiation site was consistent with a corrosion pit with no indications of protective nickel, chrome, or cadmium plating at the radius or along the smooth sections of the air filler valve bore. Such plating is stipulated by maintenance instructions and its absence over time would have been conducive to corrosion pitting of the type found. It was noted that once corrosion pitting (or mechanical damage to the protective coating during maintenance) has occurred, the risk of fatigue cracking is significantly raised. The most recent overhaul of the left MLG was found to have been in 2008 and had involved an ASB-mandated inspection of the air filler valve bore and a corrosion repair on the accident cylinder which included brush cadmium plating. This ASB had been issued in response to another FedEx MD10-10F MLG collapse which had occurred in 2006. It was not possible establish what had happened to the cadmium plating on the assembly being investigated and noted that there was no way to effectively inspect this area during routine maintenance activities. It was found that the manufacturer-recommended overhaul interval for the MLG assembly is 8 years or 7,500 flight cycles, whichever comes first whereas at the time of the accident, the corresponding FedEx interval was 9 years or 30,000 flight hours, whichever comes first. This scheme meant that the failed cylinder was