An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant data from the solid state FDR and the CVFDR (Combined Voice and Flight Data Recorder) were successfully downloaded and were of assistance to the Investigation. It was noted that the 55 year-old Captain, who had joined the Operator as a Boeing 727 Flight Engineer in 2000 and had subsequently been progressively promoted to First Officer and Captain on that type before moving to the MD11 fleet in 2012, had an estimated 10,000 hours total flying experience of which 1443 hours were on type. The 47 year-old First Officer, who had been a Boeing 727 Flight Engineer with the Operator since 2007 before being promoted to First Officer and moving to the MD11 fleet in 2012, had an estimated 6000-6300 hours total flying experience of which 1244 hours were on type. It was established that with the First Officer as PF, the flight had proceeded normally to an ILS approach to the 2743 metre-long runway 10L at destination. The approach was stable and made with 35° flap set for landing. The AP was disconnected as the aircraft was passing 1000 feet agl and the A/T was disconnected as it passed 100 feet agl. At 50 feet agl, the First Officer initiated the flare and main gear touchdown subsequently occurred in the TDZ (Touch Down Zone) and to the left of the runway centreline with the Nose Landing Gear following three seconds later. Ground spoilers were deployed followed by the thrust reversers and CVR data recorded the Captain instructing the First Officer to begin braking (the aircraft did not have autobrakes) ten seconds after main gear touchdown. Both pilots subsequently stated that they had heard a "bang" as the First Officer began applying the brakes and that the aircraft had then suddenly yawed to the left. About the same time, CVR recorded the sound of multiple thuds which were considered to be consistent with the sound of a main gear assembly collapsing. The Captain took control and applied full right rudder to no effect whilst the First Officer continued braking. The Captain then instructed the First Officer to advise TWR of their emergency. An airport video recording of the landing showed that after the number 1 engine had initially supported the left side of the aircraft after the left MLG had collapsed, a fire began near the left wingtip whilst the aircraft was still moving. It eventually came to a stop off the left side of the runway between 30º and 40º off the runway heading near the A4 taxiway. The pilots began running the evacuation checklist and stated that just as they were about to evacuate, there was an explosion. The airport video showed that this had been accompanied by a ‘fireball’ erupting at the number 1 engine that reached more than 150 feet into the air with debris from the explosion above this. The Captain reported attempting to discharge a fire bottle in that engine but it did not work and