the applicable SOP which requires the pilot to ensure that the thrust levers are at idle so that ground spoiler deployment occurs since otherwise ‘Phased Lift Dumping’ (PLD), which reduces the severity of a possible bounce at landing by partially extending the ground spoiler under certain conditions, is not activated. The 7½° pitch attitude led to an automatic callout warning of an excessive nose up attitude in response to which the Captain reduced the pitch attitude to a recorded 1.8° nose down whilst the bounce kept the aircraft in the air. He also reduced the thrust to idle which, because the ‘on-ground’ status is retained for three seconds from last occurrence, resulted in the PLD function activating the ground spoilers. The combined effect of ground spoiler deployment and the negative pitch attitude resulted in a three-point second touchdown four seconds after the first with an even greater (3.41g) vertical acceleration - classified by Airbus as a “severe hard landing”. It was concluded that this impact had caused the disintegration of both nose wheels. Unknown to the crew, the resultant debris was then ingested into both engines. The landing attempt was immediately rejected and a missed approach procedure was commenced with an observed abnormally low climb rate. Shortly afterwards, TWR advised that “fire was observed coming out from its left engine” and a few minutes later, a tyre from the aircraft was found on the runway. On being informed of this, the Captain declared a MAYDAY and began considering which airport would be suitable for a landing, aware that the hard landing had disabled the main navigation system and that the backup navigation system had been activated. It was decided to divert to Shenzhen, which was approximately 23 nm north northeast of Macau and had more favourable weather conditions, but to first perform a low flypast at Macau to allow ATC there to visually inspect the apparent status of the engines and landing gear. This was inconclusive as regards the nose wheel tyres but was able to confirm the absence of visible fire. En route to Shenzen, the CVR recorded the flight crew briefing the cabin crew on the emergency evacuation to be carried out after landing which specified that it should be conducted through the right side as the left engine may be on fire and also requesting that the emergency services should be in attendance for the landing. After 43 minutes airborne, the landing at Shenzen was completed with the nose gear being held clear of the runway for as long as possible to minimise further damage to the aircraft and damage to the runway. The pre-planned emergency evacuation was ordered and all 166 occupants exited using the evacuation slides at door 1R and door 4R. In addition to the destruction of both nose wheels and substantial damage to the leg, a subsequent inspection of the aircraft found extensive damage to both engines, especially to the left, which was all subsequently shown to have been caused by debris ingested