from the shattered nose wheels. All 36 left engine fan blades were damaged as were the blades in both the low pressure and high pressure compressors and “melted metal” was found attached to the combustor and both the high pressure and low pressure turbines. This engine also had penetration damage to the fan case and to the leading edge of the inner fan cowl and severe damage to the engine’s acoustic panels. The right engine had also ingested debris but the only significant damage was to six fan blades and two acoustic panels. Considerable damage was also found to the lower forward fuselage which had been significantly deformed following the nose landing gear leg minus wheels making contact with the runway and damage to the lower rear fuselage indicating that a tail strike had occurred during rotation for the go around. The Investigation used the recorded flight data to examine the handling of the aircraft following the damage caused by the second touchdown. It was found that the Captain had initiated the go-around “about three seconds” after it had occurred “by advancing the thrust levers to the TOGA position and engaged full nose up input”. The latter action caused the pitch attitude to increase to 15° nose up which triggered a second excess pitch up warning as a tail strike occurred. The Captain responded by reducing the pitch up to around 7.5° and a slow climb out began. FDR data showed that despite the thrust being set to TOGA, although the right engine was at about 90% N1, the left engine N1 was fluctuating between 50 and 60% N1 as a result of ingestion damage. It quickly became apparent to the flight crew that the landing gear could not be raised. CVR data showed that the TWR advice transmitted around 30 seconds after go-around commencement was somehow misunderstood by the crew since immediately afterwards the right engine thrust lever was moved from TOGA to Idle without any prior communication between the pilots, although upon completion of the movement, one of the pilots could be heard immediately questioning (in Chinese) the equivalent of “is it left or right?” followed by a voice requesting TWR to confirm whether it was the left or right engine which was on fire. There was no response to this except to instruct the flight to “follow standard missed-approach procedure” and although the question was then repeated, there was still no response. It was noted by the Investigation that there had been no engine fire warning and since there was also no evidence that there had been a fire in either engine subsequently found, it was concluded that the ‘fire’ sighted was probably “a spark produced by the high speed abrasion between debris of the fractured nose gear and the rotating parts of the left engine”. Setting the right engine to Idle with the landing gear still down and the flaps now reset to position 3 in accordance with go-around SOP actions meant that the available thrust