was not sufficient to maintain a positive rate of climb and having reached 1047 feet agl, the aircraft then rapidly lost height at up to 1500 fpm as the pitch attitude reached a recorded 14.41° nose up. Initially the mode 3 EGPWS Alert “DON’T SINK” was activated and stall warnings were then annunciated at 950 feet agl for 2 seconds with the AoA at around 15° and again at 765 feet agl for 9 seconds at the same AoA. In response to the second stall warning and after 15 seconds with insufficient thrust had elapsed, the right engine thrust lever was returned to the TOGA position leading to recovery of airspeed and a positive climb. It was noted that the recorded height loss was 425 feet to a minimum of 624 feet agl.[1] Once this climb had been established, the Captain called TWR again asking for confirmation of which engine had been observed on fire and this time received the immediate response “left engine” and the left engine thrust lever was then “immediately moved to the idle position”. It was observed that the need for the pilots to ask three times and wait 35 seconds to get confirmation of which engine appeared to be on fire had meant that the damaged engine “was left unnecessarily operating at Take-off / Go-around (TO/GA) Mode which could have led to other failures” but also that the initiative taken by the pilots to question and challenge each other’s actions immediately after the right hand engine thrust lever had been moved to the idle position “had contributed positively to the earlier recognition of the error in thrust setting and prevented further altitude loss”. It was noted that following the initiation of a go-around from runway 34 by the A320, the runway remained in use and approximately four minutes later, an Airbus A321 being operated by EVA Air on a flight from Taipei to Macau landed on it without subsequently reporting any FOD on the runway. Immediately after this landing, the airport RFFS reported having found a tyre on the runway and TWR then stopped use of the runway for takeoff and landing and requested a runway inspection. The Investigation noted that the relevant airport operator procedures required that a runway inspection must be carried out “before allowing runway operation when there was confirmed evidence of FOD presence on the runway or aircraft technical problems had occurred with a high possibility of resultant FOD being present”. In association with this requirement, three examples of such “aircraft technical problems” which could have been linked to the investigated event were found as follows: a rejected take-off or landing with hard braking causing tyre burst. a landing with gear or brake problems (smoke observed). a landing with fire in the aircraft.. It was noted that the first two of these were “specific technical problems” of which ATC had no information until the tyre was found on the runway. However, it was considered that another “sign of aircraft technical problems”