was the abnormal landing with a bounce that was followed by a missed approach with fire then observed coming from the left engine and noted that this had not led to ATC suspending runway operations for an inspection and TWR had instead then issued a landing clearance for the EVA Air A321. In respect of the finding that, as the aircraft had been about to touch down, there was evidence that low level wind shear of which ATC were unaware had been present, it was noted that the airport had had no equipment to detect the presence of such wind shear and had therefore been unable to alert the flight crew to the risk of encountering it. Contributory Factors were identified as follows: For the first touchdown at 2.36g and bounce: Encountered severe low-level wind shear with rapid tailwind increase and downdraft tendency momentarily before touchdown Macau International Airport had no equipment to detect low-level wind shear. The aircraft landed with excessive tailwind.. Encountered severe low-level wind shear with rapid tailwind increase and downdraft tendency momentarily before touchdown. Macau International Airport had no equipment to detect low-level wind shear.. The aircraft landed with excessive tailwind.. For the second touchdown at 3.41g with the nose landing gear leading: A normal landing pitch attitude was not maintained after the bounced landing. The thrust levers were moved to idle from above the CLIMB detent during the bounce which resulted in the activation of the ground spoiler by the Phased Lift Dumping function even when the aircraft was actually airborne (due to the system retention of on-ground status for 3 seconds).. A normal landing pitch attitude was not maintained after the bounced landing.. The thrust levers were moved to idle from above the CLIMB detent during the bounce which resulted in the activation of the ground spoiler by the Phased Lift Dumping function even when the aircraft was actually airborne (due to the system retention of on-ground status for 3 seconds).. Safety Action taken by the Beijing Capital Airlines and known to the Investigation was noted to have included, but not been limited to the following: Implementation of a process to identify pilot skills so as to classify pilots into three categories to be used as a reference for crew pairings, task assignments and targeted trainings.. Provision of further online theoretical training on the handling of landing with wind shear, hard landing and a bounce up after a hard landing for all A320 and A330 flight crews.. Provision of flight simulator recurrent training on low-altitude wind shear handling, low-altitude go-around and landing deviation control.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Macau International Airport evaluate historic runway weather data to determine the case for implementing a low-level wind shear detection system or terminal Doppler weather radar for the detection of hazardous weather conditions. [AR-2018-001]. that Macau International Airport review Operational Procedure Document number OP-ATC-07 regarding the “mandatory” runway inspection to be conducted before allowing runway operation when