competence would be a prerequisite for safe flight. However, neither pilot had much instrument flying experience and the evidence gathered suggested that neither had been able to demonstrate more than marginal performance in this respect during their S76 training and re-qualification/qualification processes. It was found that there was no commonly used standard procedure for ‘black hole’ approaches and departures at Ornge but rather a range of informal approaches which varied amongst both individual pilots and between different bases. Many of these differences were found to be related to the past experience of pilots, some of whom had acquired practices at previous EMS employers and it was clear that “experienced Captains at Ornge Rotor Wing recognised the inherent risks of night flying and some had implemented their own procedures to ensure safety margins were maintained during night flights”. In the absence of any recommended or maximum bank limit for night operations in SOPs, many pilots were found to have “adopted the widely accepted practice of restricting all turns at night to a maximum of rate 1”. Another widely accepted practice among experienced pilots was “to closely monitor the PF during night takeoffs and night landings” and “many pilots indicated that they would not conduct any in-flight checks during the departure phase” and would instead “closely monitor the flight instruments in case the PF experienced difficulties” leaving non-essential post take-off checks until no longer in a critical phase of flight at low altitude. The subject of night vision goggles (NVG), which were not used by the accident aircraft crew or colleagues at Ornge, was examined and it was noted that it has been reported that more than 90% of civilian HEMS operators in the USA now use NVGs routinely. It was considered after a detailed analysis of on and off duty time prior to the accident flight and “a rigorous analysis of crew communications” during the flight, that “there was no indication that fatigue played a role” in the accident in the case of either pilot. It was found that Ornge Rotor-Wing had a “diverse fleet” of S-76A helicopters, that differed considerably, which “created challenges” for their pilots. Some “were uncomfortable switching, on short notice, to an unfamiliar S-76A in the fleet” and it was found that “in some cases, pilots refused to fly at night in unfamiliar S-76As because they deemed it to be unsafe”. Other pilots were reported to be unhappy at the lack of modern GPS and Autopilots in some S76As since this led to increased pilot workload. EGPWS was not a regulatory requirement and it was found that at the time of the accident, only 5 of the S76As were so equipped and the accident helicopter was not one of them. The management at the Operator, which was a part of “Ornge Global Air Inc.”, was examined. It was found that at the time of the accident, “the majority of the senior management team of Ornge Fixed Wing and Ornge Rotor Wing came from a predominately fixed-wing background”