of the offer, he called “30 degrees of bank” which the First Officer acknowledged, indicating that it was too much and apologised. One second later, the landing-gear warning horn sounded and the Captain stated that they were descending adding “let’s climb”. The aircraft struck terrain less than one second after this on a north westerly heading. Twenty-three seconds had elapsed from the time the First Officer had stated that he was commencing the left turn. It was noted that the aircraft was equipped with a satellite tracking system which reported take-offs, landings and position updates every two minutes. In the absence of an ELT signal, the first suspicion of a problem was triggered by the absence of these signals and after all methods of establishing contact had failed, a search was commenced. The wreckage was located from the air 5½ hours after the helicopter had taken off approximately 1 nm northeast of Moosonee runway 06. Investigators determined that ground impact into a densely wooded environment had occurred at “steady, shallow descent angle (approximately 9 degrees)” and with approximately 20 degrees of left bank. Although the exact speed of the helicopter at impact could not be determined, site evidence “indicated a high-energy state” consistent with being at or near cruise speed and recorded data from the MPFR showed that after take-off, the main rotor rpm had reached and stabilised at the 104% used for normal operations at the Operator. The evidence indicated that the post crash fire had been intense and had probably involved an explosion. The approximate flight path of the helicopter (reproduced from the Official Report) An examination of the recovered 406MHz ELT, which was configured to transmit on transmit on 121.5 MHz and 243 MHz with a 406 MHz data burst approximately every 50 seconds, showed that it had been released from its normally secured position due to failure of its ‘hook-and-loop’ retaining strap during the impact sequence. It was found ‘armed’ but the battery was depleted. Since it functioned normally when power was applied and the ‘g’ force activation threshold would have been exceeded in the impact sequence, and since the tailboom-sited external antenna had been severed, the absence of a received signal was attributed to the damaged antenna. It was found that the helicopter “had no known deficiencies before the occurrence flight and was being operated within its load and centre-of-gravity limits” and “nothing was found to indicate that the aircraft encountered any type of system malfunction during the flight”. The weather conditions reported by the Moosonee AWOS at the time of the accident included lowest cloud at 4,600 feet and an overcast ceiling at 9,000 feet with a light north easterly breeze and visibility exceeding 9 statute miles. The area to which the helicopter flew towards after take-off lacked “cultural lighting” and so, with very few visual cues available and the prevailing overcast, it was concluded that the take-off had been into what could be characterised as ‘black hole’ conditions in which some instrument flying