An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transport Safety Board (TSB). The Multi Purpose Flight Recorder (MPFR) carried, which was configured primarily as a 2 hour CVR, was recovered and its data successfully downloaded. These data proved crucial to the Investigation. Both pilots were found to be experienced single crew day VFR helicopter pilots. The Captain had accumulated a total of 11,500 total flying hours of which 10,800 were on helicopters and which included 10,430 in command. He was employed full time as Chief Pilot of the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources Rotor-Wing division and had only recently begun part time work for Ornge Rotor-Wing as a means to gain more night and instrument flying than his full time job provided. Whilst he had previously been rated on the S76 and had 500 hours experience on the type, much of this was not recent and only 28 hours had been flown with Ornge. His first operational shift with Ornge had been just over a month before the accident. He was also a licensed engineer. The First Officer had 3,706 total flying hours, all on helicopters, which included 3,369 in command. He had recently joined Ornge where he had gained his S76 type rating, accumulating 158 hours experience on the S76 since qualifying. It was established that after twice declining the flight because of unsuitable weather conditions, the weather improved and the crew proceeded to Moosonee airport to prepare for the VFR flight which was expected to take just under 2 hours. The First Officer, without any documentary evidence that he was one of the First Officers explicitly approved for this, had occupied the right hand seat and acted as PF. The subsequent take-off was made from runway 06 after a briefing which had included the intention to make a left turnout towards Attawapiskat but had not mentioned either a planned turnout altitude or planned actions in the event of an emergency during the take-off part of the flight, both of which were Operator Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Just before take-off the First Officer had indicated that the flight to Attawapiskat would be conducted at 1,000 feet. During the transition to forward flight, the Captain called the increasing torque and immediately after calling 95% indicated that airspeed was increasing through 35 knots. The First Officer had then indicated that he was commencing the climb-out and as he continued the climb, the Captain confirmed a climb at approximately 400 feet per minute. Approximately 10 seconds later, the First Officer called for the After Takeoff Checks, the Captain advised that they were climbing through 300 feet agl and the First Officer responded that he was commencing the left turn. The Captain acknowledged this and began the Checklist, announcing that “the gear was in transit, the aircraft’s emergency flotation system was off and the compasses were slaved”. He also offered to turn off the landing light and repeated this a few seconds later after there was no response. Two seconds after this repeat