except for designated black-hole locations, which did not apply to Moosonee. As a result, the inadequacy of the company’s night-flight SOPs contributed to the accident.. Ornge Rotor-Wing was not using the company’s currency tracking program as intended to ensure that pilots were qualified in accordance with both company and regulatory night-flight currency requirements. As a result, the central scheduling department did not identify that, according to inaccurate data in the currency tracking program, the First Officer was not qualified for the flight.. Although Ornge Rotor-Wing had established policies and procedures defining the operational readiness of its pilots, these were bypassed and eroded by the company, which resulted in the crew not being operationally prepared for the conditions encountered on the night of the occurrence.. Ornge Rotor-Wing was operating with insufficient and inexperienced personnel in key positions, which allowed unsafe conditions to persist.. Transport Canada’s approach to surveillance activities did not lead to the timely rectification of non-conformances that were identified, allowing unsafe practices to continue.. The selection of the corrective action plan process as the sole means of returning Ornge Rotor-Wing to a state of compliance resulted from the belief that other options were either unavailable or inappropriate for use with a willing operator. This belief contributed to non-conformances being allowed to persist.. The training and guidance that was provided to Transport Canada inspectors resulted in uncertainty, which led to inconsistent and ineffective surveillance of Ornge Rotor-Wing.. Findings as to Risk were also identified as follows: If pilots engage in other work-related activities before the commencement of scheduled flight duty time, there is a risk that regulatory flight duty time limitations will be exceeded, which may degrade performance due to fatigue.. Under current regulations, there is no requirement for multi-crew pilots operating in accordance with Subpart 703 of the Canadian Aviation Regulations to undergo any type of line indoctrination. As a result, there is a risk that pilots will not be fully prepared to safely conduct operations in their designated positions on all company routes.. If companies do not take adequate steps to protect the integrity of mandatory exams administered to their pilots, there is a risk that the tests will not be effective in validating that pilots possess the prerequisite knowledge needed to safely carry out their duties as flight crew.. There is currently no regulatory process for Operators of multi-crew aircraft in accordance with Subpart 702, 703, and 704 of the Canadian Aviation Regulations to have company standard operating procedures reviewed by Transport Canada. As a result, there is a risk that non-optimal procedures will be adopted.. Under the current Subparts 702, 703 and 704 of the Canadian Aviation Regulations, helicopter First Officers and Captains are held to the same pilot proficiency check standard. As a result, there is an increased risk that a pilot assigned to Captain duties will lack the required proficiency and crew resource management skills to safely carry out those responsibilities.. If the experience and proficiency of pilots are not factored into crew scheduling,