There was no indication that, subsequent to the January 2013 program validation inspection, regional Transport Canada personnel had been influenced by Ornge Rotor-Wing’s provincial emergency medical services role.. There were no signs of pre-existing or impact-related damage to explain why the helmets were not found on the victims, and it was not possible to determine whether they had been properly secured before the occurrence.. It was not possible to determine whether all of the occupants were wearing their seat belts and shoulder harnesses at the time of impact.. The landing-gear warning horn sounded just prior to impact, and was most likely activated as a result of erroneous pitot-static readings caused by impact with the trees.. Safety Action taken by the Operator as a result of the event was noted to have included the following: the immediate suspension of ‘black hole’ operations until an acceptable risk mitigation plan could be put in place.. a major revision of SOPs relevant to the accident.. introduction of restrictions for all night take off and departure procedures - calls for the after take-off checklist only after passing 500 feet agl and no turns below 1000 feet unless in accordance with an ATS request or a published procedure.. no checklist usage during turns unless operationally necessary.. no turns at greater than rate 1 during operations at night or under IFR.. enhanced recurrent on-aircraft pilot training on CFIT avoidance, black hole flying and night VFR operations.. Fourteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Department of Transport require all Canadian-registered aircraft and foreign aircraft operating in Canada that require installation of an emergency locator transmitter (ELT) to be equipped with a 406 MHz ELT in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organization standards. [A16-01]. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) establish rigorous emergency locator transmitter (ELT) system crash survivability standards that reduce the likelihood that an ELT system will be rendered inoperative as a result of impact forces sustained during an aviation occurrence. [A16-02]. that the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) establish rigorous emergency locator transmitter (ELT) system crash survivability specifications that reduce the likelihood that an ELT system will be rendered inoperative as a result of impact forces sustained during an aviation occurrence. [A16-03]. that the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment (EUROCAE) establish rigorous emergency locator transmitter (ELT) system crash survivability specifications that reduce the likelihood that an ELT system will be rendered inoperative as a result of impact forces sustained during an aviation occurrence. [A16-04]. that the Department of Transport establish rigorous emergency locator transmitter (ELT) system crash survivability requirements that reduce the likelihood that an ELT system will be rendered inoperative as a result of impact forces sustained during an aviation occurrence. [A16-05]. that Cospas-Sarsat amend the 406-megahertz emergency locator transmitter first-burst delay specifications to the lowest possible timeframe to increase the likelihood that a distress signal will be transmitted and received by search-and-rescue agencies following an occurrence. [A16-06]. that the Department of Transport prohibit