with the only members of the Ornge Rotor Wing management team with rotor-wing experience being Operations Manager (OM) and Chief Pilot (CP). The Investigation found that “there was a widespread perception among employees that the senior management did not have a full appreciation of the challenges associated with running a HEMS operation, due to their lack of rotor-wing experience”. It was concluded that “in the months leading up to the accident, the OM had reached task saturation” due to the extreme workload associated with combining his OM and “Interim CP” positions. A new ‘full time’ Chief Pilot had been appointed just over a month before the accident. It was noted that the position of Manager of Rotor Wing Flight Training and Standards was vacant at the time of the accident. Considerable time was taken during the Investigation to examine all aspects of the operational context for the accident at the Operator. It was concluded that the two accident pilots “were not operationally prepared for the conditions they encountered on departure from Moosonee” and that although Ornge “had established a series of policies and procedures defining the operational readiness of its pilots that exceeded minimum regulatory requirements, these were bypassed and eroded as challenges arose”. The effectiveness of the regulatory oversight performed by Transport Canada (TC) was also subjected to scrutiny. It was found that there had been “problems with respect to the timely rectification of regulatory non-conformances at Ornge RW, as well as with the manner in which those non-conformances were addressed by TC and by Ornge RW itself”. It was noted that this situation occurred in a period when TC “was transitioning to a more systems-level approach to surveillance, with one result being that the training and guidance provided to inspectors resulted in uncertainty and in surveillance that was either inconsistent, ineffective, or both”. The formal statement of Causes and Contributory Factors was as follows: The crew conducted a flight under night visual flight rules regulations without sufficient ambient or cultural lighting needed to maintain visual reference to the surface.. When the pilot flying encountered a lack of visual cues off the departure end of Runway 06, necessitating transition to flight by reference to instruments, an excessive bank angle and rate of descent developed, which were not recognised by the crew at an altitude that permitted recovery.. The severity of the impact forces caused the deaths of the First Officer and one of the flight paramedics, and likely rendered the captain and the other flight paramedic unconscious. The latter 2 individuals likely succumbed rapidly to their injuries before significant inhalation of fire combustion products.. The crew were not operationally ready to safely conduct a night visual flight rules departure that brought the flight into an area of total darkness.. Insufficient and inadequate training contributed to the difficulties that the crew encountered during the departure from Runway 06 at Moosonee Airport.. Ornge Rotor-Wing did not have dedicated night-flight standard operating procedures (SOPs) to address the hazards specific to night operations,