An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian KNKT (NTSC). The aircraft SSFDR and SSCVR were successfully downloaded and analysis of this data allowed the Investigation to confirm that "there were no issues with the aircraft and (that) all systems were operating normally." The focus then turned to the pilots and their control of the aircraft. It was established that the accident flight was a line training detail for the First Officer, a 25-year old Malaysian who had just over 300 hours total flying time including 117 hours of line training on the MA60 and who was expected to be released for unsupervised flying the following day. His extended line training had been preceded by 24 hours of line observation. The aircraft commander was a 42 year old Indonesian with 12,500 hours experience including 2000 hours on type who had become qualified as a Line Training Captain on the MA60 and had 218 hours of his flying experience logged in that capacity. The crew had reported being in Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) when passing 10,500 feet in the descent. It was established that the approach, with the First Officer acting as PF had been to a visual left base for runway 07 with landing clearance issued with the aircraft in sight in that position. The surface wind was passed as 120°/14 knots. Recorded flight data showed that although the aircraft then turned onto final approach at approximately 1000 feet aal and on a normal descent profile, it briefly stopped descending before resuming a steeper corrective descent thereafter This had resulted in rates of descent which had exceeded 1000 fpm and at one point had reached 1300 fpm. The AP was not disconnected until the aircraft was less than 2nm from the runway. It was apparent from FDR data that "the left power lever was in the range of BETA MODE while the aircraft altitude was approximately 112 ft….followed by the right power lever at 90 ft" and both remained there until the very hard runway contact (a vertical acceleration of +5.99 g) in an essentially wings-level attitude followed by a substantial bounce (-2.76 g). The initial runway contact occurred at 58 metres beyond the runway threshold and the aircraft came to a complete stop 200 metres further on. After the aircraft stopped, the two flight attendants assessed the situation and decided to evacuate the passengers through the rear left door. The four of the total 42 passengers who sustained serious injuries were seated in rows three, seven and eight. More detail on the nature of their injuries and the serious injury sustained by one of the pilots was not disclosed. It was noted that in accordance with the Operator's Normal Checklist, the power lever electro magnetic stop had been selected to the 'open' position which had the effect of making it possible for the power levers to be moved below Flight Idle position in flight when it would not otherwise have been possible. This change in the Checklist meant that