it was no longer the same as the equivalent Checklist in the aircraft manufacturer's FCOM. It was found that there was no evidence that the decision to make this change taken by the Operator's "Board of Instructors" had been accompanied by any safety assessment, risk analysis and/or regulatory approval. It was also observed that there was (by design) no visual or audio alert when the electro magnetic stop was selected OPEN. It was also considered that the fact that the Minimum Equipment List (MEL) permitted the electro magnetic stop to be inoperative subject to it being in the 'OPEN' or unlocked position was contrary to the requirements of the Indonesia CASR in that the latter require that "(the) reversing system should be designed so that no single failure or reasonably likely combination of failures or (any) malfunction of the system will result in unwanted power lever movement (into the) BETA range and reverse under any expected operating condition" but that "failure of structural elements need not be considered if this kind of failure is extremely remote". Specifically it was considered that the extant MEL item "does not meet the CASR requirement that this condition should be extremely remote, unless otherwise the additional operation procedure and limitation is applied." In respect of the First Officer's movement of the power levers into the ground/beta range in flight when such action was explicitly prohibited, it was found that he had previously been observed to delay moving the power levers to Ground Idle during landing. It was considered that on the accident flight, aware of this, he had unintentionally lifted the mechanical power lever stop baulks and retarded the power levers prematurely. The Investigation concluded that the following Contributing Factors had led to the accident: The procedure of selecting Power Lever Lock to “OPEN” during approach was made without (a) comprehensive risk assessment.. Both power levers (had) entered BETA MODE (by) 90 feet (agl) due to the safety device namely Power Lever Lock has been opened during approach, which was in accordance with operator procedures and (the subsequent) lifting of Mechanical Power Lever Stop Slot which was not (recognised) by the pilots.. The movement of power levers to BETA MODE resulted the pitch angle (being) changed to low pitch which produced significant drag and thereby caused a very significant loss of lift.. The Investigation noted that similar issues in respect of both the FDR and the aircraft operating manuals to those identified in a previously-investigated MA60 accident which had occurred in Indonesia had been found and that in the case of the former, a re-issue of the previous recommendation would therefore be made (see below) and that in the case of the latter, the NTSC was in receipt of a relevant communication from the Xi'an Aircraft Corporation but that the matters raised had not yet been satisfactorily resolved. Seven Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should review its quality system