An Investigation was carried out by the Egyptian Ministry of Civil Aviation (MCA). FDR and CVR data was successfully downloaded from the recovered recorders. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions were benign and that both pilots were operating their first jet transport type, the Captain having accumulated less than 500 hours on type and the First Officer less than 250 hours on type. The Captain had previously had a long military flying career, acquiring most of his flying hours on the C130. The First Officer was in his first post as an airline pilot. After departure from runway 22R, the aircraft was found to have been cleared for a climbing left turn to intercept the 306° radial from the Sharm el-Sheikh VOR to which allows departing flights to gain sufficient altitude before proceeding over higher terrain located along the flight path to Cairo. As shown in the diagram below, this left turn was achieved, but as the aircraft passed 5000 feet, a progressive right bank developed which was not corrected until after a steep descent at increasing airspeed had begun by which time it had exceeded 110°. Almost all the flight was conducted without the AP engaged and it was not clear whether both pilot had the same awareness of AP status during the flight. A very late attempt at recovery was evident but by then a high speed impact was inevitable. Despite considerable efforts, this Investigation was not able to determine a Probable Cause from the evidence available and the analysis thereon. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "No conclusive evidence could be found from the findings gathered through this investigation to determine a probable cause. However, based on the work done, it could be concluded that any combination of these findings could have caused or contributed to the accident. Although the crew at the last stage of this accident attempted to correctly recover, the gravity of the upset condition with regards to attitude, altitude and speed made this attempt insufficient to achieve a successful recovery." Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that Manufacturers and Operators should make a joint effort to minimise MEL-CDL-DDL allowances to avoid lowering safety standards by overloading pilots, and ensure that whenever found necessary to maintain such items, very clear procedures addressing pilots and maintenance crews to be made available.. that Manufacturers and Operators should make a joint effort to enhance the function and reliability of FDR and CVR due to the importance of the data obtained to the safety of the aviation industry.. that Manufacturers and Operators should make a joint effort to ensure that a clear engagement status indication for the autopilot is available to the crew to avoid any possibility of incorrect perception or ambiguity.. that Manufacturers and Operators should make a joint effort, based on data collected from different operators using this autopilot and the number of reports of unexpected autopilot behavior some of which are unexplained, re-assessment of this