autopilot system is recommended and operators should be made aware of any problems and manufacturers' analysis actions and recommendations.. that the Civil Aviation Authority should ensure that all operators strictly adhere to CAA regulations and requirements, especially in remote stations.. that (those responsible for) pilot training should emphasise early detection and recognition of conditions that could lead to upset condition.. that (those responsible for) pilot training should emphasise timely and appropriate recovery action from upset conditions to counteract sudden unknown abnormal conditions.. that (those responsible for research into) human factors carry out in depth studies of Spatial Disorientation, ways of early recognition between crew members and appropriate crew action to overcome it and increase crew awareness of this phenomena.. that (those responsible for pilot training in) human factors note that it is clear that more emphasis in this area of training will achieve earlier recognition and recovery from abnormal conditions.. The Final Report was published in three parts: Factual Information (24Mb) Analysis (8Mb) Conclusions (6Mb). Factual Information (24Mb). Analysis (8Mb). Conclusions (6Mb). One of the Comments on the draft of the Final Report made by the US as a participant in the Investigation was that" “The only scenario identified by the investigative team that explained the accident sequence of events and was supported by the available evidence was a scenario indicating that the Captain experienced spatial disorientation, which resulted in his making inadvertent actions that caused the accident. The remaining scenarios and possible causes were not consistent with the evidence and did not explain the sequence of events identified by the investigative team.” To which the response of the MCA, as the body with responsibility for the conduct and findings of the Investigation was that: “With regard to the statement that there was supporting evidence that the captain experienced spatial disorientation is inaccurate to say the least. The investigation team studied this scenario extensively, numerous conflicting evidences appeared leading to the MCA adopting the position that no conclusive evidence could be found to explain this accident.”