During a cross wind takeoff, there is a tendency for the upwind wing to lift and for the aircraft to turn into the wind (weathercock) as the aircraft accelerates. In some aircraft, roll spoilers will deflect when aileron input is made which, in turn, can exacerbate the tendency for the aircraft to turn into wind. The roll spoiler effect typically becomes active at around 10 degrees of aileron deflection. When flying aircraft equipped with roll spoilers it is important to know whether/exactly how much stick or control wheel can be applied without causing asymmetric roll spoiler deployment. When appropriate, pilots new to type may find it helpful to have another pilot to watch the roll spoilers when the aircraft is stationary so they can establish precisely the amount of into wind aileron can be applied before spoiler deployment. If excessive use of roll control causes roll spoiler extension, performance will be reduced. V1 may be compromised by the reduced lift and greater drag, invalidating accelerate/stop distance and second segment climb performance. Reducing the FLEX/Assumed temperature or using Full Power will reduce the margin of error. In general, in a strong crosswind the less time spent on the ground the better. Irrespective of aircraft size, undercarriage configuration or number of engines, the primary means of directional control during the takeoff run is based on aerodynamic forces generated by the primary flight control surfaces: in particular, the rudder and the ailerons. The elevator is also used to maintain a downward force on the nosewheel to maximize its effectiveness. However, all of these control surfaces require an aircraft specific, minimum airflow speed across the surface before it will become effective. Appropriate rudder deflection should be made at the commencement of the takeoff. However, directional control during the initial (low speed) portion of the takeoff roll may need to be accomplished by other means, dependant on aircraft type, such as differential braking, nosewheel or tailwheel/tailskid steering; differential thrust is also an option, though its use can be potentially hazardous, especially for the inexperienced. With a strong crosswind at 90 degrees to the runway, gusts may well create a tailwind and the downwind engine intake(s) on a large commercial airliner may be blanked by the fuselage, potentially creating an engine surge problem unless the engines are accelerated smoothly to establish a good intake airflow. The tailwind component and slow acceleration will both affect performance. In all cases, manufacturer/Company guidance should be followed. The following are some of the more common techniques for aircraft with tricycle undercarriage: Single engine (BEECH 23 Musketeer, CESSNA 172 Skyhawk, etc):. FULL aileron should be held into the wind as the takeoff roll is started. This control position should be maintained while the airplane is accelerating until the ailerons become effective at which time aileron deflection should be decreased to maintain wings level. The runway centerline should be maintained with the rudder which, in most cases, is effective as soon as power is applied. Normally, this will require applying downwind rudder