relay messages when operating at extreme range or when poor propagation is suspected.. If there is no suitable frequency on which to initially re-establish communications, then 121.5 MHz can be used. This frequency should also be selected if it is impossible to re-establish communications on any frequency so that any transmission from intercepting military aircraft might be heard.. Controllers Do not pass RTF frequency changes as part of a multi-part clearance. Do not follow any frequency change with another instruction such as a heading or level change. Listen carefully to read-back of RTF frequency changes and immediately correct any error. On observing or being informed of radio interference, arrange for transfer of affected aircraft to another RTF frequency. Report any radio interference through the appropriate reporting channels. If loss of communication is suspected, attempt to contact the aircraft by other means, including relay through other aircraft, through the previous operating agency/RTF frequency and through the operator, who may be able to contact the aircraft by other means, e.g. SELCAL or ACARS. If attempts to restore two-way communications with the aircraft are unsuccessful, inform the appropriate military authorities in accordance with national procedures and thereafter keep them informed of any action taken by the ATS unit as well as any further intended action. When contact is not quickly established, do not delay issuing precautionary clearances to potentially conflicting aircraft because of an assumption that contact will soon be re-established.. Do not pass RTF frequency changes as part of a multi-part clearance.. Do not follow any frequency change with another instruction such as a heading or level change.. Listen carefully to read-back of RTF frequency changes and immediately correct any error.. On observing or being informed of radio interference, arrange for transfer of affected aircraft to another RTF frequency.. Report any radio interference through the appropriate reporting channels.. If loss of communication is suspected, attempt to contact the aircraft by other means, including relay through other aircraft, through the previous operating agency/RTF frequency and through the operator, who may be able to contact the aircraft by other means, e.g. SELCAL or ACARS.. If attempts to restore two-way communications with the aircraft are unsuccessful, inform the appropriate military authorities in accordance with national procedures and thereafter keep them informed of any action taken by the ATS unit as well as any further intended action.. When contact is not quickly established, do not delay issuing precautionary clearances to potentially conflicting aircraft because of an assumption that contact will soon be re-established..