Operators Ensure that flight crews, cabin crews and ground engineers are aware of the loss of communications issue through publicity. Ensure that SOPs for copying, setting and cross-checking frequency changes, and for loss of communication are sound, and that they are followed by all pilots. Install radio anti-blocking devices if appropriate. Ensure the carriage and pre-flight functional checking of at least one spare headset. Install radios with a pre-select frequency capability.. Ensure that flight crews, cabin crews and ground engineers are aware of the loss of communications issue through publicity.. Ensure that SOPs for copying, setting and cross-checking frequency changes, and for loss of communication are sound, and that they are followed by all pilots.. Install radio anti-blocking devices if appropriate.. Ensure the carriage and pre-flight functional checking of at least one spare headset.. Install radios with a pre-select frequency capability.. Pilots Do not switch immediately to the next sector frequency following read back of controller’s instruction. Ensure confirmation of your read back is received. Always follow standard procedures for copying, setting and cross-checking RTF frequencies. As soon as a loss of communication is suspected, check radio equipment settings and audio panel settings and carry out a radio check. If any part of a message for you is garbled or unclear, request confirmation or clarification. Always use headsets during times of high RTF loading. Always wear a headset when members of the flight crew are involved in other tasks and may not be monitoring the RTF. If the squelch control is adjusted to reduce the effect of interference, take care to ensure that transmissions from ATC or other aircraft are not cut out. Always report any radio interference experienced whether or not it affected safe operation. Make use of other aircraft to relay messages when operating at extreme range or when poor propagation is suspected. If there is no suitable frequency on which to initially re-establish communications, then 121.5 MHz can be used. This frequency should also be selected if it is impossible to re-establish communications on any frequency so that any transmission from intercepting military aircraft might be heard.. Do not switch immediately to the next sector frequency following read back of controller’s instruction. Ensure confirmation of your read back is received.. Always follow standard procedures for copying, setting and cross-checking RTF frequencies. As soon as a loss of communication is suspected, check radio equipment settings and audio panel settings and carry out a radio check.. If any part of a message for you is garbled or unclear, request confirmation or clarification.. Always use headsets during times of high RTF loading. Always wear a headset when members of the flight crew are involved in other tasks and may not be monitoring the RTF.. If the squelch control is adjusted to reduce the effect of interference, take care to ensure that transmissions from ATC or other aircraft are not cut out.. Always report any radio interference experienced whether or not it affected safe operation.. Make use of other aircraft to