An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. It was established that after the onset of the Dutch Roll and the disconnection of the autopilot by the crew, the aircraft had gained nearly 1000 feet of altitude before recovery to FL350 was achieved. In the subsequent descent below FL350, the Dutch roll intensity lessened and then stopped passing FL280. No emergency was declared and when the aircraft was abeam Miami, the crew decided to return to Varadero. During the landing flare, the rudder control inputs were not effective in correcting for a slight crab. When it was seen that the rudder was missing, small pieces of it were visible still attached to the vertical stabiliser. Subsequent analysis found that the rudder loss during flight had been progressive, and that by the time the aircraft landed, most of the rudder had separated from the aircraft with the missing pieces having fallen into the ocean. None were recovered. It was noted that the problem the crew had faced was “flight control difficulties of unknown origin” for which there was no established procedure. It was accepted that “the ambiguous nature of the symptoms made it difficult for the crew to assess the situation and to form a clear diagnosis of what had caused the control problems that they had experienced” since “only when rudder inputs were made in the final stages of approach and landing did it become apparent that rudder response was abnormal”. In respect of the decision to return to Varadero at low level rather than divert to either Miami or Fort Lauderdale, the Investigation determined that the aircraft had not been in danger of losing the vertical tail plane during the flight, either through loss of static strength or loss of stiffness. In respect of the decision of the flight crew not to declare an emergency, the Investigation noted that “In this occurrence, by the time the crew was in a position to communicate to ATC, they had full control of the aircraft and did not feel it necessary to declare an emergency.” The Investigation also noted that the flight crew had not sought, nor had the cabin crew volunteered, information on the experience in the cabin at the onset of the event and that, as a result, useful information had not been available to the flight crew, specifically in respect of the magnitude of the forces incurred in the aft galley and the subsequent adverse effects or a description of the noise (volume and type of sound) heard by the cabin crew. It was found that all members of the cabin crew had assumed that their experience was representative of the experience throughout the cabin and that the Captain had assumed that if potentially valuable information existed within the cabin, the cabin crew would provide it without being asked. It was concluded that the most likely rudder failure scenario was that: “Some time before the occurrence flight, a disbond or in-plane core fracture occurred. The cause