of this initial damage may have been a discrete event or a weak bond at the z-section. An indication of weak bonding was found at the z-section along the interior lower front of the left side panel. This damage then grew, possibly due to reduced pressure cycling loads associated with normal flight, without detection until it reached a critical size. During the occurrence flight, having reached the critical size, the damage rapidly propagated, resulting in a loud and sudden explosion of the skin. This separation could have damaged the opposite side panel and created a large sideways force on the empennage. The resulting sudden reduction in torsional stiffness led to the onset of rudder flutter. About one second later, there was a large aft and downward force associated with failure of the upper hinge points, as the rudder separated. The rudder-separation event lasted about seven seconds, after which only 16 per cent of rudder effectiveness remained. During the remainder of the flight, more rudder pieces separated, and the aircraft landed with no aerodynamically effective rudder remaining.” The Investigation findings in respect of Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The aircraft took off from Varadero with a pre-existing disbond or an in-plane core fracture damage to the rudder, caused by either a discrete event, but not a blunt impact, or a weak bond at the z-section of the left side panel. This damage deteriorated in flight, ultimately resulting in the loss of the rudder.. The manufacturer’s recommended inspection program for the aircraft was not adequate to detect all rudder defects; the damage may have been present for many flights before the occurrence flight.. This model of rudder does not include any design features in the sandwich panels to mechanically arrest the growth of disbond damage or in-plane core failure before the damaged area reaches critical size (such a feature was not specifically demanded for certification).. The Investigation findings as to risk included the following: The sampling intervals for lateral and longitudinal acceleration captured by the DFDR fitted to the aircraft were insufficient to record the highly dynamic conditions present at the time of the occurrence. This resulted in incomplete information being recorded.. There are insufficient published procedures available to flight crew members to assist in recovering from a Dutch roll.. Declaring an emergency and clearly communicating the nature of the problem allows air traffic control to more easily coordinate between units and anticipate the needs of the crew in planning traffic management.. Procedures and practices that do not facilitate information sharing between crew members increase the likelihood that decisions will be based on incomplete or inaccurate information, potentially placing passengers and crew at risk.. Two Safety Recommendations were issued during the investigation and reproduced in the Final Report: That the (Canadian) Department of Transport, in coordination with other involved regulatory authorities and industry, urgently develop and implement an inspection program that will allow early and consistent detection of damage to the rudder assembly of aircraft equipped with part number A55471500