An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Accident Investigation Sector. Data from the CVR were successfully downloaded and were useful in assessing crew performance in response to the two separate technical malfunctions which occurred. It was noted that the 40 year-old Captain had 9,512 hours total flying experience including 3,909 hours on type. He was accompanied by a 41 year-old First Officer with 8,754 total flying hours including 1,657 hours on type. It was established that after starting the No. 1 engine on stand, the attached GPUs were removed and pushback was commenced. As the pushback neared completion, the No 2 engine start was commenced using APU bleed air and, once the aircraft had stopped moving, a taxi clearance was requested and received. During the No. 2 engine start, an indication of low yellow system hydraulic pressure was presented on the ECAM and just over a minute later "terrible smoke" became apparent in the flight deck just as the ground crew requested that the park brake was set, which was done. The Captain asked the ground crew if any smoke was visible outside and was told it was not. He then asked the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) the same question and was told that the cabin was "smoky and smelly". The First Officer suggested going back onto stand for a second time and both pilots donned their oxygen masks and checked that intercom communications using them were still normal. One minute later, the SCCM advised that there was "very thick smoke" in the cabin and soon afterwards the Captain asked the ground crew to position the aircraft back onto the stand. This was acknowledged and the ground crew requested a tug for this purpose since the one used for pushback was no longer present. Three minutes after smoke had been first sensed in the flight deck, the Captain informed the SCCM that the aircraft would be returning to the stand for disembarkation and she advised that the occupants of the cabin "could not breathe". Another member of the cabin crew instructed passengers to remain seated. The Captain told the First Officer to "keep the APU running and that he would shut the engines down" but then a minute later "said that he was going to turn off the APU bleed in order to stop the air circulation". Information from the cabin continued to indicate that conditions in the cabin remained very bad with one estimate of visibility as "four rows". Concurrently, conditions in the flight deck had improved. The Captain confirmed with the SCCM that an evacuation would be necessary and, five minutes after the first signs of "smoke" had appeared, he decided that this should take place at the final pushback position. The ground crew were advised of this and asked if passenger steps could be made available and asked if the doors could be opened from the inside. At about this time, one of the cabin crew had donned a PBE unit which had ignited