and into the APU air inlet. The Operator’s maintenance crew found that the hose which supplied hydraulic fluid under pressure to the rudder yellow actuator in the vertical fin was the source of the leaking fluid. A laboratory report on the failed hose, which had been installed at build in 2003, concluded that the origin of the failure was most probably, fatigue degeneration of the metal braiding which had then led to failure of the core pipe it contained. It was noted that the APU air intake is fitted with a diverter and fluid gutters which help to drain or divert fluids flowing along the fuselage towards the inlet on the ground or in flight which minimises but cannot entirely prevent fluid ingestion from a large hydraulic leak which occurs on the ground. This meant that there had been sufficient ingestion of fluid to generate a significant quantity of atomised hydraulic fluid which had formed the mist that filled the cabin after entry through the air conditioning system. In respect of the ignition of one of the PBEs, a considerable number of the Operators B/E Aerospace PBE Units of the same type as the one which caught fire were examined and several were found to have similar faults. No single cause was identified but the Investigation determined that "it is highly probable that the PBE caught fire because of manufacturing defects". Once it became clear that the malfunction which had occurred was not unique, two Prompt Safety Recommendations (PSRs) were issued as follows: that the FAA should consider removing from service all suspect (B/E Aerospace) PBE units, P/N 119003-11, as identified by the manufacturer between S/N 003-34983M and S/N 003-35563M. [PSR41/2014]. that the FAA should consider undertaking a review of the reliability of the in-service (B/E Aerospace) PBE P/N 119003-11. [PSR42/2014]. The initial response of the FAA was an undertaking to work with the NTSB and the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) to investigate the issue raised and determine the best course of action. Subsequently, the FAA has issued an ADD 2016-11-20, which requires inspection and replacement if the pouch is damaged, as well as the removal of the PBE-11 units before 15th Jan 2018, whatever the condition of the pouch. Some specific observations relevant to the effectiveness of the Operator's SMS were also made, including the following: when introducing uniform skirts as an alternative to uniform trousers for female cabin crew, no safety risk study was carried out because it was "considered that the skirts would provide the same safety performance". It was noted that "the Operators Safety Unit was not consulted on the change, nor was it requested to prepare a risk analysis exercise on the change".. There was no specific requirement that trainee cabin crew use a packed PBE unit in the simulator class. The already-opened dummy PBE units used in simulator training were not equivalent or close to real life use and there was no specific requirement in the Operator's training procedure to require female crew members