immediately they had pulled the two activation lanyards. The wearer immediately removed the unit and dropped it on the floor near the L3 door where it continued to burn despite the discharge of four halon fire extinguishers on it and caused localised fire damage. On being advised of this, the Captain called for the attendance of the fire service and, seven minutes after the first appearance of "smoke" in the flight deck and two minutes after deciding to disembark using external steps, ordered an emergency evacuation over the PA. All doors except L3 were used and all slides deployed normally. The fire service personnel gained access to the aircraft "by removing their shoes and climbing up the escape slide extending from R1 door". It was concluded that overall, the evacuation of the aircraft had been well-managed but on exit, "the passengers wandered close to the aircraft as they were not given directions as to what to do or where to go" and on being advised of the evacuation, "ATC did not issue any instruction to stop airside operations and several aircraft and vehicles continued moving". One other aspect of the evacuation which drew attention from the Investigation was the reluctance of cabin crew to remove their shoes before using the evacuation slides. They reported being "worried that their feet may be injured due to the impact with the ground when reaching the end of the slide" and those female crew wearing the skirt rather than the trouser uniform option "added that they felt uneasy using the slides as they were wearing skirts". These factors were considered to have compromised the assertiveness of some cabin crew and it was considered that there may be a need to evaluate and enhance cabin crew training in the management of an emergency situation. In respect of the flight crew response to the situation, it was noted that: initiation of the eventual evacuation by the Captain had been delayed for three minutes after he had become aware from the explicit statements of the cabin crew of the severity of the situation in the passenger cabin.. Although the abnormal checklist included in the QRH required the flight crew to shut down the APU immediately in case of smoke generation, the crew did not implement that step and the APU remained running which allowed more mist to enter the cabin.. CRM during the occurrence had been generally effective.. In respect of crew Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), it was noted that: There was no dedicated on-ground emergency smoke or mist Checklist. The Checklists contained in the Operator's FCOM and CCOM were relevant to in-flight smoke and included items that were not applicable to an on-ground smoke or mist emergency.. The Abnormal Checklist deals with 'mist' under the generic term ‘smoke’.. In respect of the annunciated yellow hydraulic system malfunction, inspection of the exterior of the aircraft in situ disclosed evidence of hydraulic fluid leakage coming from the tail fin with fluid having flowed down around the aft fuselage