to wear uniform clothing.. "The probability of an evacuation on the ramp was not taken into account by the Operator, nor had there been a situation that might have required addressing the need for such a procedure. The Operator's evacuation procedure, checklists, as well as training, were all attuned to an in-flight fire, therefore, the cockpit and cabin crew were not experienced with, or trained for, an evacuation on the ramp.". Airport/ATC Emergency Management issues were identified as follows: When made aware that passenger disembarkation airside and then an emergency evacuation airside was intended, ATC did not treat the situation with an appropriate level of urgency by ATC. Other aircraft and vehicles were permitted to manoeuvre in close proximity to the aircraft. Although there were no unsafe consequences, the Investigation believed that a hazardous situation was created.. The airport authorities did not take sufficient action to facilitate the evacuation by protecting the area of the Aircraft and making personnel, equipment, and facilities available to safeguard and guide the evacuated passengers and appeared to lack efficient procedures to manage an aircraft evacuation on the ramp.. The formal statement of Cause of the dense mist entering the aircraft cabin was "the failure of a yellow hydraulic system rudder servo hose that allowed leaking hydraulic fluid to enter the APU where the fluid was heated and atomized and was then fed into the cabin air conditioning system" and that "the cause of the hydraulic hose failure was not determined". The formal statement of Probable Cause of the subsequent PBE fire was "manufacturing defects in the PBE candle (which) caused a vigorous chemical reaction in the candle which resulted in abnormal ignition when the cabin crew member who had donned the equipment pulled the activation lanyard". A Contributing Factor in respect of the hydraulic fluid mist in the cabin was determined to have been that “the flight crew decided to leave the APU running in case it became necessary to shutdown both engines, but they did not close the APU bleed as required by the SMOKE/FUMES/AVNCS SMOKE checklist which meant that that mist continued to enter the cabin. This decision was taken without having positively identified the sources of the smoke/mist". Nine new Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Emirates Airline, in conjunction with Airbus, assess the risk of amending the existing SMOKE/FUMES/AVNCS, SMOKE and SMOKE/FUMES REMOVAL Checklists to distinguish between in flight and on-ground smoke or mist scenarios, and insert appropriate text in Checklists. [SR45/2016]. that Emirates Airline conduct a safety risk analysis of cabin crewmembers’ uniforms for appropriateness in dealing with onboard emergency situations. [SR46/2016]. that Emirates Airline consider a policy of initiating comprehensive safety risk assessments in cases of any addition to, or change of, existing processes or equipment that may have a significant effect on air safety. [SR47/2016]. that Emirates Airline address cabin crew simulator training to ensure that it accurately reflects actual operational conditions in terms of clothing worn and PBE use.