Maintenance programmes and schedules will give a list of tasks, with intervals quoted in units of flight hours, flight cycles or calendar time. These will be determined according to hard time, On-condition or Condition monitoring criteria. The operator will use maintenance schedule to suit its own operations, based on either a Block (Pyramid) system or Equalised (Progressive) system. In Block (Pyramid) maintenance, often denoted by letter checks A, C and D, an example illustration might be having one set of basic tasks done at say 200hrs. Then another set of tasks could be added at first multiple of this basic interval, say 400 hours, then another at 600, 800 hours etc. Hence, as the hours increase, the number of required tasks also increases. Block (Pyramid) maintenance may suit long haul carriers and/or older aircraft which can be scheduled for longer on the ground. Benefits include fixed preparation and completion times, a reasonably low variability in workload and fixed content, planning and control. Disadvantages include the relatively large gaps between checks, and potential uneven loading for staff and other resources. The aircraft may also be out of service for long periods. In the case of the Equalised (Progressive) system, checks are shorter and equal in size, but are carried out more frequently. Sometimes these are referred to as E checks, but the tasks are the same, but packaged differently. For example, D check work could be ‘equalised’ into C checks, e.g. C1, C2, C3, C4, which are progressively deeper inspections/ component replacements. Equalised (Progressive) system may suit short haul, low cost carriers and/or newer aircraft that do not want / need their aircraft to be out of service for long periods of time. Many types of check are short enough to be carried out overnight when the aircraft is not required. Benefits include the equalisation of resources and the workload for Maintenance personnel is more constant. Disadvantages include additional cost as work to access the aircraft may need to be repeated, and also the issue of “emergent work” that perhaps cannot be quickly remedied on discovery.