As a result of its investigations, the AIBN submitted 7 safety recommendations: "During the investigation, the AIBN has become aware that pilots have received warnings from the Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) during apparently normal approaches to runway 19 at Skien airport Geiteryggen. This can undermine respect for the warning system. Inadvertent GPWS warnings were also a factor relating to the accident in question here. The AIBN recommends that Avinor should undertake a review of approach procedures (LLZ DME) for runway 19, among other things, with a view to reducing the opportunity for inadvertent GPWS warnings (SL recommendation no. 10/2005).. The investigation has discovered that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority largely based its inspection work on inspections of the company’s manuals, and to a lesser extent verified the company’s actual practices. The AIBN recommends therefore that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority should assess whether, to a greater extent than previously, its inspection activities should also be directed towards verifying the actual practices within a company (SL recommendation no. 11/2005).. A review of the quality system at European Executive Express has uncovered a series of weaknesses. The AIBN recommends that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority should undertake a new assessment of the quality system at European Executive Express AB (SL recommendation no. 12/2005).. The accident in question can, with great probability, be linked to the fact that the aircraft was landing with ice on the wings. Current procedures for this aircraft type do not contain any items that would guarantee a maximum possible degree of ice-free wing before landing. The AIBN therefore recommends that the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK (CAA-UK) should order BAE Systems to introduce a procedure that would reduce the possibility of landings with wings contaminated with ice (SL recommendation no. 13/2005).. The procedures for removing ice on the wing are based on the crew being able to assess the thickness of the ice without having a specific tool to undertake such as assessment. The AIBN therefore recommends that the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK (CAA-UK) should order BAE Systems to assess whether a form of ice accretion meter should be installed on this aircraft type. (SL recommendation no. 14/2005).. The Jetstream 31 is equipped with a stall warning system which activates on the basis of the wing’s angle of attack. If the aircraft’s wings are contaminated with ice, stalling can occur at smaller angles of attack than the criteria for issuing a warning. This is not discussed in the Approved Flight Manual (AFM), and the flight crew in this instance were apparently unfamiliar with the situation. The AIBN recommends therefore that the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK (CAA-UK) should order BAE Systems to inform and warn operators of the fact that the stall warning systems do not function as assumed when the wings are contaminated with ice (SL recommendation no. 15/2005).. The investigation has discovered that the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAR-OPS 1) have very general requirements for training when a company employs flight crew