loaded 747-8” and that the crew had calculated a landing distance required of 2549 metres. It was noted that the aircraft operator’s definition of a stable (ILS) approach required that the following conditions should be met: Only small control inputs are necessary to remain on the glideslope and localiser course.. Indicated airspeed shall not be below the reference speed for the given landing configuration.. Indicated airspeed shall not deviate more than +10 knots or -5 knots.. Glideslope deviation shall be within 1 dot.. The rate of descent shall be within 1000 feet/minute unless more is operationally necessary.. The landing can be made within the touchdown zone.. If any one of these is no longer met, the approach is considered unstable and a go-around must be made. In addition, if the PM calls that the approach has become unstable, the PF must make a go-around regardless of his own judgement. The Investigation was unable to determine at interview if the First Officer, as PM had communicated to the Captain that the approach was unstable or called for a go-around. The Investigation found that as well as the windshear warning mentioned by the Captain at interview, two other such warnings had been reported by aircraft on approach to runway 36R that night. It noted that the ANSP, LVNL, had “not been able to demonstrate” that these reports led to updating of the ATIS in accordance with its own operating procedures. However, there was no on-aircraft windshear warning during the approach under investigation. It was noted that the FDR record of wind velocity during the approach matched that recorded by the on-ground wind measurement system located near the beginning of runway 36R and that shortly before landing, ATC had transmitted to the aircraft a spot wind derived from this ground equipment. Boeing were invited to analyse the FDR data relating to the event and concluded the flight conditions during the approach could be described as turbulent. It was also noted that the control inputs made by the Captain during the manual control phase had been insufficient to recapture the glideslope and that “shortly before landing the aircraft mainly experienced updrafts and to a lesser degree downdrafts which decreased in magnitude while approaching the runway”. It was evident that once below 200 feet, deviation below the glideslope continuously increased. After the EGPWS ‘sink rate’ was annunciated, the data showed that the Captain had pulled back on the control column and reduced the rate of descent to 500 fpm but this was not enough to avoid a hard landing. It was concluded that the data did not allow the increase in sink rate shortly before landing to be attributed to windshear. Safety Action taken by the Operator as a result of the investigated event was understood to have included the provision of additional training for both the Captain and the First Officer which consisted of eight hours of simulator training with prior self-study on the causes of hard landings, the importance of landing in the