The event was classified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board. Relevant data were downloaded from the aircraft FDR and the information on activations of the EGPWS on short final was available. It was noted that the operating crew had been passengers on the previous 6 hour sector from Hong Kong to Novosibirsk where the aircraft had been on the ground for 1¼ hours and had been on duty for more than 14 hours by the time the aircraft landed at Amsterdam. However, no reference was made by either pilot to any fatigue. It was established that the aircraft landing weight was well within the maximum permitted - 318 tonnes against the maximum permitted 346 tonnes - and the centre of gravity was within the permitted flight envelope. At the time of the approach, the surface wind being reported on the ATIS was from a mean of 320° and variable from 290° to 360° at a mean speed of 26 knots gusting to a maximum of 38 knots. The flight crew reported having been fully aware of this and confident that the conditions were within applicable operational limits. FDR data showed that the ILS approach to runway 36R had been normal until 700 feet aal, at which point the Captain had disconnected the AP and flown the aircraft manually. Almost immediately, the flight path began to deviate below the ILS GS. It was noted that the prevailing procedures at the aircraft operator required that a go-around must be flown if the annunciated GS deviation exceeds 1 dot when the aircraft is below 500 feet in VMC. During this approach under investigation, the deviation below the ILS GS remained within 1 dot until passing 100 feet agl after which it exceeded this and the rate of descent reached 1070 fpm resulting in the successive activations of EGPWS Modes 5 (Glideslope) and 1 (Sink Rate) just a few seconds away from touchdown. The Captain subsequently stated that “he was unable to execute a go-around because the touchdown followed almost immediately”. Initiation of the flare reduced the rate of descent to 500 fpm and the initial main gear touchdown just prior to the beginning of the runway was made with a recorded 1.76g and three elevated runway threshold lights were hit and destroyed. The aircraft briefly bounced before a second and final ground contact just within the runway but well short of the TDZ (Touch Down Zone) occurred at 1.84g. There were no control problems and the aircraft normally decelerated before exiting the runway and taxiing to its assigned parking position. After the landing the flight crew heard on the ATC frequency that another aircraft on approach to the same runway had made a go-around after receiving a windshear warning. On interview, the Captain stated he suspected that windshear shortly before the landing had been the cause of the undershoot. It was noted that the 2825 metre runway 36R LDA is “relatively short for a