although the generic aircraft type guidance was to begin the flare to land at the 20 feet agl automated callout, this had not happened and the pre-touchdown -2° pitch attitude had been maintained until the first bounce at 2.8 g occurred. The recorded rate of descent at this first touchdown was also found to have exceeded the structural design specification which was itself based on a normal wings level touchdown and it was considered that although no immediate damage had occurred, this first touchdown may well have “degraded the landing gear strength”. Whilst the impact of the second touchdown was relatively benign, it was also followed by the highest bounce (to 14 feet agl) after which the third touchdown caused sufficient asymmetric main landing gear damage to preclude both a go around and normal directional control. It was noted that in the event of such a high bounce, the Operator’s FCOM mandated the immediate commencement of a go-around by setting an appropriate pitch attitude and power but “the FDR did not record any pilot attempt to go around” with inevitable consequences thereafter. The aircraft ground track from short final to final stop. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Given the PF's familiarity with the aircraft type and the undemanding nature of the approach, the runway and the prevailing weather conditions, the Investigation considered that a potential explanation for the failure to flare may have been the combination of the low intensity runway lighting and the wet runway surface which would have reflected very little light. This could have “affected the pilot depth perception and caused the pilot to perceive incorrectly that the aircraft was higher than the real condition”. However, such an illusion would have had to be powerful enough to cause an affected pilot to completely ignore the sequence of automatic height callouts every 10 feet below 50 feet. Separate from the immediate cause of the accident, the Captain’s response to the evacuation of occupants once the aircraft had stopped was considered to have been inappropriate in a number of respects including: His failure to follow the OM procedure for communication with the both the cabin crew and the passengers.. His failure to promptly shut down the engines because he appeared unaware that sufficient cabin lighting to facilitate an emergency evacuation at night could be obtained from the aircraft battery by selecting the ‘MIN CAB LIGHT’ switch to ‘on’, a facility which was clearly described in the ‘Emergency Evacuation on Ground’ Checklist.. Given that the OM envisaged the possibility that the cabin crew might decide that they should initiate an evacuation in the absence of an instruction to do so from the flight crew, it was evident that “the propeller hazard during evacuation was not considered”.. Two Safety Recommendations were made early in the Investigation as follows: that Wings Abadi Airlines review bounce recovery training for all pilots. [04-2016-43.01]. that Wings Abadi Airlines review emergency evacuation training including joint training of flight crew and cabin crew. [04-2016-43.02]. Safety Action was