An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT). Relevant data was downloaded from both the CVR and FDR as were recorded ATC communications and data from CCTV FOD detection cameras along both sides of the runway. It was found that the 28 year-old Captain, a British national who had been acting as PF for the flight, had a total of 4,065 hours flying experience of which all but 260 hours were on type. The 24 year-old First Officer was an Indonesian national who had a total of 3,300 hours flying experience of which all but 100 hours were on type. In slight rain with a light southerly breeze and partial cloud cover with a base of 1,500 feet aal, an uneventful stabilised approach was made to the 2,560 metre-long runway. However, the following landing commenced with a bounced nose gear first touchdown at an 880 fpm rate of descent which was then followed by four more bounces over the next 11 seconds. The third bounce recorded a 6g vertical acceleration and occurred with a 13° roll to the right which resulted in the initial runway contact being only with the right main gear upon which that gear assembly collapsed. Only at this point did the crew appear to consider a go around but this was no longer an option despite a subsequent increase to the power which this would have required. After the final two bounces, the gear collapse led to the aircraft drifting to the right of the centreline before coming to a stop half a minute later with the right main gear still just on the runway - see the illustration below. The TWR controller had already recognised that the landing had been abnormal and alerted the airport RFFS and once the aircraft had stopped, when the crew also asked directly for such assistance, they were advised it was on the way and to wait for it to arrive. The damaged right main gear and propeller. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Whilst waiting for the RFFS to arrive, the Captain decided to keep the engines running “to provide lighting in the cabin” but when the RFFS arrived at the aircraft a couple of minutes later, ATC instructed the crew to shutdown the engines so that the passenger evacuation could begin. This evacuation was completed approximately ten minutes after the aircraft had stopped. In addition to the right main landing gear which was folded inward, the right propeller blade tips had been broken off at about 26 cm from the tip and several dents and punctures were evident on the right fuselage. Superficial marking of the runway surface by white paint marks from aircraft fuselage were also found. The passage of the aircraft along the runway is shown on the illustration below. Analysis of the considerable evidence found that the initial touchdown had been not only bounced but also nose gear first. Significantly, it also showed that