An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). The solid state combined CVDR and an additional CVR installed in the helicopter were recovered from the submerged wreckage on the same day as the accident and together provided access to voice and flight data relevant to the accident, although it was noted that the CVDR did not contain voice data. The main wreckage of the aircraft was subsequently raised from the bottom of the lagoon. It was noted that the 37 year-old Captain was of US nationality and had accumulated a total of 5,406 hours flying experience of which 1,077 hours were on type. The 26 year-old First Officer was of Nigerian nationality and had a total of 808 hours flying experience of which 570 hours were on type. It was established that the first flight of the day for the accident helicopter had been the sector from Lagos to the SEDCO Express offshore platform. It had then left there for the return flight to Lagos without refuelling on a VFR flight plan and with the Captain as PF, initially climbing to 3000 feet. First contact with Lagos ATC advised that the flight was approaching 1000 feet and giving at ETA of ten minutes from present. As requested during the initial exchange, the crew subsequently reported “field in sight” and were instructed to report left downwind for runway 18L. Less than a minute later, the helicopter was seen to crash into the shallow water of the Lagos Lagoon. Recorded flight data indicated that whilst at 1000ft and 120 knots, the helicopter experienced an uncommanded and sudden pitch up, yaw and roll for 12 seconds until it impacted the water. Some of the passengers who survived “confirmed seeing the crew trying to stabilise the aircraft before impact” but it was considered by the Investigation that “the time available was not enough to do much before the aircraft impacted the Lagoon waters”. The Recorded flight data also showed that impact occurred at pitch up angle of about 42°, a roll angle of about 20° and with negligible forward speed. In the initial investigatory work, it was discovered that the forward main servo input control pushrod assembly, also sometimes referred to as the forward servo clevis rod and bell crank assembly, had failed when the control pushrod tube separated from the control pushrod end with its bearing and jam nut. The jam nut involved was found to have been loose and “not seating against the Control Rod” - see the illustrations below. It was found that the separation had occurred because of “wear in the rod end fitting shank” and the jam nut end fitting which fits into this rod end shank was found to rotate freely when turned by hand. It was determined that “thread peaks found at the middle and upper end of the end fitting shank were smooth and rounded, consistent with wear”. This meant that once the separation had occurred, pilot inputs to the cyclic