control stick did not reach the cyclic control mixing unit and the aircraft had therefore become instantly uncontrollable. A metallurgical examination of the control rod components by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) led them to conclude that the separation which occurred “was a pre-impact condition”. A Preliminary Report was then released on 21 September 2015 which detailed these early findings of an airworthiness deficiency and made two Interim Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation should consider a redesign of the affected control push rod assembly by introducing additional wire locking safety features between the Jam nut and the Pushrod to enhance better security. [2015-009]. that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) should immediately carry out appropriate oversight action on all the Sikorsky S-76 series helicopters flying in Nigeria to ensure the implementation of the Emergency Airworthiness Directives (EAD) and the Alert Service Bulletin (ASB) issued by the FAA and the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation. [2015-010]. Apart from the findings in respect of the control rod, when the recovered wreckage was examined, it was found on initial inspection that the No. 2 Engine had “damage associated with the uncontained failure of internal components”. However subsequent teardown at the engine manufacturer with AIB investigators in attendance concluded that the damage was attributable to a combination of impact forces and ‘blade shedding’. NB: Blade-shedding is part of a safety process aimed at preventing turbine discs from bursting in the event of over-speed and if that happens, it facilitates sequential blade separation so as to reduce the centrifugal force sustained by the discs. It was found that five months prior to the accident, maintenance had been carried out in the vicinity of the main servo area when the main gearbox (MGB) was replaced. It appeared that the forward servo clevis rods and its associated bell crank were removed during the replacement of the MGB but it was not possible to make any link between this maintenance activity and the failure on the evidence available. The Cause of the Accident was determined as “the separation of the Forward Servo Clevis Rod Assembly from the bearing and Jam nut (Bell Crank Assembly) which is part of the Cyclic Control System responsible for stabilising the attitude of the helicopter which made the aircraft uncontrollable”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The absence of a secondary mechanical locking system (lock-pin or wire-lock) in the design of the Forward Servo Input Control Rod assembly (which) contributed to the separation of the Forward Servo Clevis Rod from the bearing and Jam nut.. The wear that was prevalent at the Forward Servo Clevis Rod end fitting shank, which made the Jam nut rotate freely when force was applied.. Safety Action taken in the early stages of the Investigation prior to the issue of the Preliminary Report and its two Interim Safety Recommendations was noted as follows: On 10 September 2015, the Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation issued ASB 76-67-57 applicable to all S-76 helicopters equipped with Control