Abbreviated examples of optimal emergency communication in the following bullet points are covered in detail by the previously cited IATA best practices: Effective cooperation and coordination — within a safety culture of “high mutual assistance, low discord, and timely communication and feedback” — reduce the likelihood of unmitigated safety threats (primarily human errors) that can kill or seriously injure people aboard or near an aeroplane.. The best practices describe circumstances in which the SCCM or other flight attendants would be expected to initiate an evacuation: “An evacuation should be initiated by the PIC; however, in catastrophic events, the PIC may not be able to give this instruction. Cabin crew should be trained to recognize the situations where they are permitted to initiate an evacuation without waiting for an order, and that they may only do so once the aircraft is stationary with engines powered down. … If cabin crew consider that an evacuation may be required, they must attempt to contact the flight crew in order to inform them of the situation and await instructions. If contact with the flight crew is not possible, cabin crew should initiate the evacuation.. Suggested circumstances include: a fire inside or outside the aircraft that is getting worse, dense smoke in the cabin that is threatening life, ditching [and,] obvious destruction of the aircraft. … As it is important to keep the flight deck door closed wherever possible to prevent the spread of smoke, the actions taken by flight crew will very much depend on the information provided by cabin crew via the interphone.” Air carriers should ensure strong foundational knowledge among personnel of their functional roles, their authority (during normal operations and emergency operations) and the exact scope of responsibilities of flight crew and cabin crew, such as constant awareness of principles of operational control and safe conduct of a flight.. In the event of incapacitation of any aircraft crewmember, all personnel should be aware of alternate role(s) and actions they might have to assume, especially communication during an emergency.. Cabin crewmembers should demonstrate satisfactory understanding/fluency in using the company-designated common language during their training and testing, and while communicating and performing duties during normal, abnormal and emergency operations.. Emergency communication competence includes repeating face-to-face or interphone instructions received from other crewmembers (i.e., performing a “read-back”) to confirm the accuracy of critical facts and mutual understanding.. The cabin crew and flight crew also should acquire skills to communicate about “significant operational events in normal, abnormal and emergency situations” via signals and commands. Levels of competence established by the airline should facilitate consistently safe closure, arming, disarming and opening of doors; jumpseat occupancy and restraint; and communication via designated verbal methods (e.g., interphone), visual cues, non-verbal audible cues, cabin crew call systems, etc.. Emergency communication competence includes preventing unwarranted distraction of the flight crew at critical stages of flight (e.g., including periods requiring compliance with sterile flight deck regulations).. Immediate emergency communication from cabin crew to flight crew also is essential to deal with