aware that they are getting progressively sleepier. However, after several days they no longer notice any difference in themselves, even though their alertness and performance continues to decline. In other words, as sleep restriction continues, people become increasingly unreliable at assessing their own functional status.” The Investigation reviewed the OM guidance on pilot incapacitation for both flight and cabin crew as available at the time the investigated event occurred and concluded that it had generally been followed although it was capable of enhancement. The extent to which the OM and crew training covered fatigue was also reviewed and again, whilst it was covered, it was concluded that, particularly in the context of the investigated event, the potential link between serial fatigue and the risk of in flight incapacitation was not given due prominence.. The absence of an OM procedure covering controlled rest was noted as leaving no contingency option for non-augmented flight crews where one pilot exceptionally becomes aware that they may be fatigued to the extent that a proactive short period of in-seat rest may be able to resolve the problem. Appendix ‘C’ of the ICAO ‘Fatigue Management Guide for Airline Operators’ 2nd Edition 2015 was noted as the best reference for this matter. The absence of an OM procedure covering controlled rest was noted as leaving no contingency option for non-augmented flight crews where one pilot exceptionally becomes aware that they may be fatigued to the extent that a proactive short period of in-seat rest may be able to resolve the problem. Appendix ‘C’ of the ICAO ‘Fatigue Management Guide for Airline Operators’ 2nd Edition 2015 was noted as the best reference for this matter In the absence of any record of crew incapacitation events in South Korea, relevant evidence from elsewhere was sought. It was noted that a 2017 incapacitation of the Captain of a two pilot flight crew of a Boeing 777-200 freighter was found to have be attributable to longstanding underlying cardiovascular health issues which had gone undetected. It was also noted that a study by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau published in 2016 had found that “half of all pilot incapacitation occurrences were related to gastrointestinal illnesses such as food poisoning or gastroenteritis”. No direct reference to pilot incapacitation arising from serial fatigue was found. Safety Action taken by Asiana as a result of this event was noted as having included the following: the simulator training scenario which covers pilot incapacitation has been changed from the takeoff phase to the descent phase where the frequency of this occurrence is higher, although this scenario does not extend the scenario until landing.. newly employed First Officers are now provided with a ‘personal life management program’.. The Probable Cause of this Serious Incident was formally recorded as the First Officer’s loss of consciousness due to an unknown cause. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Lack of awareness about sleep deprivation.. Lack of individual fatigue management.. Lack of both a safety culture in the organisation and a safety