cause for concern but advised that supplementary oxygen be continued. The SCCM reported that after this “the pilot appeared to get better and showed no unusual symptoms”. A few minutes after this, the Captain completed a normal landing at Kaohsiung and on reaching the gate, a paramedic was waiting and concluded that as the patient's condition had now significantly improved, it would be fine to disembark the passengers first. Once they were all off, the paramedic was able to discuss the First Officer’s condition with him and, on checking his blood pressure, body temperature and blood sugar, found nothing abnormal. Subsequent checks were able to exclude gastroenteritis, the most frequent factor in cases of crew incapacitation. In a later interview with investigators, the affected pilot stated he had “felt dizziness and powerlessness, could not stay upright in the seat, recognised verbal stimuli but could not respond”. He correctly recalled most of the Captain’s actions, the sequence of cabin crew entering and their actions. A doctor from the airline's medical department saw the pilot the next day and he was given a comprehensive medical examination and then attended “consultations with neurologists and cardiologists at an external specialised medical facility over a period of a month”. After this process, the airline’s medical officer assessed the cause of the transitory incapacitation as likely (but not confirmed) to have been ‘Vasovagal Syncope’ but also mentioned that the possibility of an epilepsy origin could not be ruled out on the evidence available. In accordance with the requirements of the Aviation Medical Examiner’s Manual, the airline’s Aeromedical Examiner (AME) submitted the case for a decision by the Airman Medical Certification Board which decided that the First Officer was unfit to continue as a pilot due to being “unfit due to loss of consciousness of unknown cause”. It was noted that “In the 72 hours before the Serious Incident, the First Officer had flown about 4 hours for three days in a row from 26 April to 28 April”. Then, on the day of the event, he had arrived at the airline office at 0900 local time although the flight to Kaohsiung had not departed until over seven hours later. The First Officer stated that he had not drunk any alcohol or taken any illegal medication in the 24 hours before the flight. However, it was then found that prior to the day of the event, he had slept for only about two hours per day for three days and could be reasonably presumed to have had a high level of fatigue based on accumulated sleep debt. It was noted that the proven fact that “people are not very accurate at judging their alertness and performance after sleep has been restricted for several days” was discussed in section 2.2.1 of the current edition of ICAO Doc 9966 where the statement “how you function versus how you feel” states as follows:. “For the first few days of severe sleep restriction (for example, 3 hours in bed), people are