After interviewing both pilots and determining that a Serious Incident had occurred, the Taiwan Transportation Safety Board (TTSB) notified the ICAO and delegated the Investigation to the Korean Aviation Accident Investigation Board (ARAIB). Relevant data from both the aircraft FDR and CVR were downloaded and all members of the flight and cabin crew were interviewed. It was noted that the 47 year old Captain had been employed by Asiana since 2008 and had recorded a total of 9,893 hours flying experience with the airline of which 4,026 hours were on type including time in command since his promotion to Captain in February 2018. The 27 year old First Officer had total of 836 hours flying experience which included 532 hours on type after joining the airline in April 2018 had subsequently being released for unrestricted line flying on type on 18 February 2019. About 30 minutes before arrival, the Captain, who was at that time acting as PM gave an approach briefing in anticipation of taking over as PF and subsequently did so. Three minutes after this, with about 20 minutes of flight time remaining, he asked the First Officer to input an ACARS request for the destination weather which he did. Then, whilst waiting for the printout, he suddenly lost consciousness. The Captain asked for and received assistance from the Cabin Crew which included immediate first aid, administering oxygen and moving the incapacitated pilot's seat back so as to prevent any interference with the flight controls. The Captain then declared a MAYDAY, advising that he intended to complete the intended flight without the assistance of a second pilot. The SCCM subsequently stated that when first seen, the First Officer could not respond verbally but “appeared to vaguely focus when questioned”. He had been “pale, in cold sweats and his body drooped” and when the SCCM touched the First Officer’s arms “he could not sense any tension of muscle”. The SCCMs immediate ‘first aid’ response was to loosen the First Officer’s tie and belt, fit his oxygen mask and massage his limbs. After this, the pilot’s condition improved and with the abnormal pallor and cold sweats gone, some arm movement was seen and some response to questions occurred. However, despite this slight improvement, it was clear after about ten minutes that recovery was not going to be rapid enough for the First Officer to resume duty as a pilot. The Captain therefore requested that he be removed from the fight deck so having confirmed that he could move by himself, he was “guided to a passenger seat at the front of the cabin”. Once there, he was given further oxygen from a portable therapeutic oxygen bottle and more limb massage. A second call was then made to ask any passenger who was a medical professional to make themselves known to the cabin crew, an initial such call having received no response. This time, a suitably qualified passenger did respond and, after examining the First Officer, did not identify any immediate