to suddenly drop before the aircraft hit the water, about 95 metres from the northern shore after which it came to rest inverted and with the cabin submerged. The entire tail section and parts of both floats could initially be seen above the waterline, but within about ten minutes, the wreckage was completely submerged. With an impact speed estimated to have been around twice that considered survivable, all occupants sustained fatal injuries. The aircraft ground track from the Cottage Point pontoon until entering Jerusalem Bay. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft ground track within Jerusalem Bay. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft wreckage was subsequently recovered and a detailed examination established that “the angle measured from the deformation of the engine and forward fuselage was consistent with a high angle of attack when the aircraft impacted the water”. It was concluded that, combined with the sudden change to a nose down pitch observed by multiple witnesses, this was consistent with an aerodynamic stall from which at such a low height, recovery would have been impossible. It was established that the Pilot, who had begun flying in Canada in 1997, had a total of 10,672 hours flying experience with the majority, at least 9,000 hours, being on floatplanes including float equipped version of the Cessna 172,182, 185, 206 and 208 and on de Havilland Canada DHC-2 and DHC-6. The latter had included three years ending in the May of 2017 flying the DHC6 in the Maldives, on return from which he had begun working for Sidney Seaplanes, completing about 112 hours on the operator’s two DHC-2 aircraft and about 269 hours on their amphibious Cessna 208. Prior to his recent three years in the Maldives, he had also been employed by Sydney Seaplanes and in a 2.5 year period had recorded almost 800 hours flying in the operator’s two DHC-2 aircraft. With this background, he was familiar with both the operation of the aircraft type involved and with its operation from Cottage Point, from where the aircraft operator estimated he had made at least 780 flights, the majority in one of the operator’s DHC-2 aircraft. Earlier on the day of the accident flight, he had completed seven short flights in the accident aircraft totalling around 2 hours in the air and which had included two flights from Cottage Point. During the previous three days, he had flown 8:40 hours all in an amphibious variant of the Cessna 208. The aircraft operator’s Chief Pilot stated that “the pilot had good aircraft handling skills and was conservative with his decision-making” and a previous Chief Pilot indicated that he had considered him to be "a reliable, steady operator who did not take risks and had a very strong attitude to safety”. The Pilot was described by his work colleagues as being “very diligent and methodical, very meticulous and always correcting small things and overall a safe pilot who had all the experience behind him (and) had no issues with grounding an aircraft”