above the typical endogenous levels of up to 3%, the Pilot was a non-smoker and could be confirmed to have had no recent exposure to passive smoking. However, given that examination of the wreckage had found a breach in the firewall close to the pilots seated position and he had flown six earlier flights in the same aircraft that day, an increased level of CO could be expected. What might have then increased it was the fact that just prior to the accident flight nearly half an hour taxiing with his door open. The fact that all occupants had, at least to some extent, abnormally high levels of CO in their blood was considered as indicating an aircraft source, with the variation between passengers attributable to the pattern of air circulation within the cabin and variation in individual physiology such as breathing rate. An indicative scale of the potential human performance consequences of elevated levels of blood CO was presented by the Investigation to illustrate the scale of impairment relative to the levels found in the three most affected occupants. A generalised depiction of the adverse health effects of elevated CO levels. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A review of the CO test results by a forensic and aviation pathology specialist in the context of the other post mortem findings and the circumstances of the accident concluded that “it was very likely that CO was present in the aircraft cabin”. They noted that “the physical symptoms and cognitive effects of CO exposure generally start to occur at a level of around 10% and will become more severe as the level of CO increases and/or the duration of exposure increases". The view was taken that in this case, the Pilot would have almost certainly been experiencing some associated symptoms and that the two passengers with CO levels which were almost as high as the Pilot’s would also have been experiencing symptoms, possibly to the extent of creating a distraction. While accepting that the Pilot’s elevated CO level was not fatal, the specialist considered that it was “certainly capable of resulting in pilot incapacitation in the form of headaches, nausea, confusion, disorientation, and visual disturbance”. Eight Contributory Factors which had led to the accident were formally identified as follows, one of which was classified as a ‘Safety Issue’: The aircraft entered Jerusalem Bay, a known confined area, below terrain height with a level or slightly descending flight path. There was no known operational need for the aircraft to be operating in the bay.. While conducting a steep turn in Jerusalem Bay, it was likely that the aircraft aerodynamically stalled at an altitude too low to effect a recovery before colliding with the water.. It was almost certain that there were elevated levels of Carbon Monoxide in the aircraft cabin, which resulted in the pilot and passengers having higher than normal levels of Carbon Monoxide in their blood.. Several pre-existing cracks in the exhaust collector ring, very likely released exhaust gas into the