An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). In the absence of any recorded data for which devices were not required to be fitted to aircraft under 5,700 kg, the investigation was obliged to rely on witness statements and CCTV, video and photographic evidence. The latter included 22 pictures which “were consistent with having been taken from the front right passenger seat” and covered the taxi, takeoff and initial climb "through either the front windscreen or the front right passenger window”. Prior to the departure of the accident flight, the pilot had begun his day by flying the accident aircraft from Rose Bay, making two sightseeing flights followed by a 20 minute flight from Rose Bay to Cottage Point with the five passengers who would later board the aircraft to return to Rose Bay on what turned out to be the accident flight. He then flew two return trips from Cottage Point to Rose Bay. On arriving back at Cottage Bay, there was just over an hour until the agreed time for the party of five he had earlier brought from Rose Bay to return there so he shut down the engine and walked to the nearby kiosk to get some food and a drink. Whilst there, he received a call from the operator asking him to move the aircraft off the single birth pontoon to which it was moored to allow the operator’s other DHC-2 to fly in and pick up other passengers. He therefore returned to the aircraft, started the engine and taxied clear of the pontoon into Cowan Creek (see the illustration below). A few minutes later, the other aircraft arrived and occupied the pontoon for around 25 minutes after which he was able to taxi back to the pontoon ready to board his passengers. The taxiing to, around and back from Cowan Creek meant the engine had been running for “up to 27 minutes” by the time it was again shut down. It was noted that during this taxiing, CCTV footage showed the pilot’s door had been ajar. The passengers subsequently boarded and the aircraft taxied away from the pontoon back to the designated takeoff area in Cowan Creek. Takeoff was made in a north north-easterly direction and the aircraft became airborne before passing abeam Cowan Point. It climbed straight ahead before making a right hand orbit at an estimated (from passenger photographs) bank angle of 15-20° and at a height of around 100 feet. The aircraft was then observed by several witnesses to head directly towards and into Jerusalem Bay whilst flying level or in a slight descent below the height of the surrounding terrain, an unusual but not prohibited flight path. Witnesses also reported hearing the aircraft engine at this time and considered the sound to be “constant and normal”. The aircraft was seen continuing along the southern shoreline before suddenly entering a steep right turn at low-level. Part-way through this turn, the aircraft nose was seen