be torqued to a specific value and they were therefore to be used in accordance with standard practice using proper judgment to avoid a collapsed fitting and ensure a tight joint. It was demonstrated that air containing CO would have been able to enter the cabin through the bolt holes and noted that the normal pressure differential between the engine/accessory bay and the cabin would have accelerated this flow. It was also accepted that additional CO ingress could have occurred because of the deteriorated gaskets and noted that because of damage caused by the accident, the possibility that there were other breaches in the firewall could not be eliminated. Examination of the wreckage revealed that both magneto access panels were not properly secured and based on recently recorded maintenance it appeared that they had probably not been removed and refitted for some considerable time. The left (pilot’s side) panel had only two of the required four securing bolts fitted in diagonally opposite positions, both of which had ‘butterfly’ head modifications to permit tightening by hand, one of which was “an unidentified wing-head screw with a narrowed (necked) shank”. The gasket “was present and bonded to the panel but was noted to be in a deteriorated condition” and tests led to the conclusion that both the securing bolt and screw had been subject to excessive shank wear in service. The right side panel was found to have had three of the required four bolts installed at the time of the accident but one of these was not recovered. One of the two recovered bolts was consistent with the required bolt but with a ‘butterfly’ modification welded to the head but the other was a stainless steel cross-head screw, similar to those used on the aircraft instrument panel. The installed gasket on this panel was also in a deteriorated condition. The two magneto access panels, gaskets and bolts with a sample of the specified AN3 bolt. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was found that the butterfly-modified bolts prevented the use of a spanner to tighten them as intended. It was also found by examination of the magneto access panels on three other DHC-2 aircraft which had also been maintained by the same MRO as the accident aircraft that both missing bolts and butterfly head bolt modification were not uncommon. It was noted that whilst there was no associated regulatory requirement, the aircraft instrument panel just to the left of the pilot was fitted with a single use Carbon Monoxide (CO) chemical spot detector which had a 12 month life once installed. This had a use-by date of 1 April 2018 on the back. Tests on all the deceased deemed reliable showed that they had, to varying degrees, elevated levels of Carbon Monoxide (CO) in their blood, the Pilot having the highest at 11% and two of the passengers having concentrations which were almost as high. Whilst smoking was known to be a cause of concentrations of CO in the blood well