the front of the passenger cabin. Inspection of the engine exhaust system noted that the exhaust from each of the nine cylinders was collected in two manifold assemblies in which the individual sections were joined by sleeves which it was informally suggested were “generally not completely sealed”. The manifold assemblies from each half of the engine were joined just prior to the tailpipe which was located on the lower right side of the engine bay. Apart from Daily Inspections, the required maintenance schedule involved ‘A’ Checks of the engine, airframe and floats every 50 hours and more comprehensive ‘B’ Checks of the engine and airframe every 100 hours or 6 months. There were also “numerous other specialised inspections” as well as a requirement to comply with the appropriate ADs and regulatory Orders. A routine ‘A’ Check had been carried out three weeks prior to the accident and the most recent ‘B’ Check had been completed just over 7 weeks prior to the accident. The latter had incorporated a scheduled engine change which required certification that the engine exhaust system had been thoroughly inspected and both the exhaust flange gaskets and the exhaust ‘ring’ and heater gaskets had been replaced. It also required that an inspection of the main firewall for cracks or structural damage must be performed. It was noted that removable panels in the firewall were used to access the magnetos, but that as the magnetos had already been installed on the replacement engine, they had not been accessed via the firewall panels. It was found that these panels were in any case not always inspected during a ‘B’ Check unless an apparent issue with their function had been reported. It was noted by the assigned MRO ((maintenance, repair and overhaul company) that there were other much smaller access panels in the firewall including those for mechanical engine controls. Following the finding of abnormally high Carbon Monoxide (CO) levels during post mortem toxicology tests on the accident flight occupants (see the next section), a detailed testing programme using another DHC-2 was conducted. This demonstrated that either a simulated exhaust leak or a missing magneto access panel bolt did not result in elevated high levels of CO in the cabin on their own but the simulated exhaust combined with missing magneto access panel bolts did do so. In this case it was demonstrated that the CO “was more evident at the pilot’s position and was exacerbated when the pilot’s door was ajar with a simulated exhaust leak source in the engine bay”. These cabin CO levels were reduced by more than 80 percent when the access panel bolts were reinstalled with the exhaust leak remaining. It was noted that a gasket was bonded to each magneto access panel and that the panel was to be secured to the main firewall using four bolts of a type specified by the OEM inserted into a self-locking metal nut plate. It was also noted that there was no requirement for the bolts to