Issue: AO-2017-118-SI-04]. Three ‘Other Findings’ were also formally documented as follows: It was very likely that the middle row right passenger did not have his seatbelt fastened at the time of impact but the reason for this could not be determined.. The accident was not survivable due to the combination of the impact forces and the submersion of the aircraft.. The pilot had no known pre-existing medical conditions that could explain the accident.. Safety Action taken in relation to the identified ‘Safety Issues’ whilst the Investigation was being conducted was noted as having included the following: The Civil Aviation Safety Authority issued an Airworthiness Bulletin recommending the use of electronic personal CO detectors in aircraft.. Sydney Seaplanes added a serviceability check of the carbon monoxide detectors fitted to their aircraft into their monthly emergency equipment checklist.. Safety Action taken by the ATSB during the course of and related to the Investigation which was not associated with an identified Safety Issue included the issue of two ‘Safety Advisory Notices’. The first (AO-2017-118-SAN-001) reminded aircraft maintainers that thorough inspection of piston-engine exhaust systems and the timely repair or replacement of deteriorated components is the primary mechanism for preventing Carbon Monoxide exposure and, in combination with the assured integrity of the firewall, decreases the possibility of carbon monoxide entering the cabin. It also explicitly reminded maintainers of the importance of conducting detailed inspections of exhaust systems and firewalls, with consideration for potential Carbon Monoxide exposure. The second (AO-2017-118-SAN-002) reminded aircraft operators, owners and pilots that the use of an attention-attracting carbon monoxide detector in the cockpit provides pilots with the best opportunity to detect carbon monoxide exposure before it adversely affects their ability to control the aircraft or (they) become incapacitated. It therefore “strongly encouraged” operators and owners of piston-engine aircraft to install a carbon monoxide detector with an active warning to alert pilots to the presence of elevated levels of carbon monoxide in the cabin. In the event that these are not provided, pilots are encouraged to carry a personal Carbon Monoxide detection and alerting device. Three Safety Recommendations were issued to address Findings made during the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority takes further safety action to enable it to consider mandating the carriage of carbon monoxide detectors in piston-engine aircraft, particularly passenger-carrying operations. [AO-2017-118-SR-050]. that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority considers mandating the fitment of onboard recording devices for passenger-carrying aircraft with a maximum take-off weight less than 5,700 kg. [AO-2017-118-SE-049]. that since the International Civil Aviation Organisation, has not, given that it has developed technical standards for lightweight recorders and airborne image recorders and is aware of their known benefits for the identification of safety issues, required the fitment of such devices to passenger-carrying aircraft with a maximum take-off weight less than 5,700 kg, it takes safety action to consider (extending) the safety enhancement provided by these devices to passenger-carrying operations (in this category). [AO-2017-118-SR-048]. The 153 page Final Report was released on 29 January 2021.