(if its airworthiness was in any way in doubt). Although Sydney Seaplanes held a regulatory approval as a pilot training and checking organisation, this was a not a requirement and had been continued voluntarily after their previous provision of a regular public transport service between Rose Bay and Newcastle, which did require this approval, ceased. This meant that they had continued with a training and checking regime which included annual and biannual checks. On his return to Australia in May 2017, the accident aircraft pilot had successfully completed all required (comprehensive) training and checks on both the DHC-2 and Cessna 208 amphibious aircraft. An OPC (Operator's Proficiency Check) flight was conducted to a number of locations including Cottage Point and covered emergency actions such as simulated engine failures after which the Pilot was rated highly. A further check to achieve Authorised Landing Area (ALA) status for various locations including Cottage Point assessed his preparation for flight, route knowledge, consideration for wires, water depths/channels, tidal effects and awareness of en route facilities such as communications and emergency services and recorded a high standard of proficiency. A low-level manoeuvring proficiency check was also completed and assessed as being at a high standard and included: level steep turns in cruise configuration. climbing steep turns in takeoff configuration,. descending steep turns in landing configuration. missed approach and go-around. stall and recovery in approach configuration. manoeuvring at low-level after takeoff and before landing.. Other training completed included: NOTECHS (non-technical) skills training in communication, situational awareness, decision making and workload management, emergency procedures training on both the DHC-2 and Cessna 208. flight crew dangerous goods and non-dangerous goods course. engine compressor/turbine water wash course. fuel barge training. a regulatory training module on alcohol and other drugs ‘managing risk’ human factors flight operations refresher training in October 2017 which included information acquisition and processing, decision making, health, fatigue and stress and operator incidents. It was noted that the Australian regulatory syllabus and standards for the holder of a professional pilot licence “have long included the requirement for pilots to be aware of the sources, symptoms, effects and treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning” and that as there was a similar Canadian requirement, it was considered “very likely that the Pilot would have been aware of this hazard”. The accident aircraft was of predominantly metal high construction, manufactured in 1963 and first registered in Australia in 1964. It was powered by a Pratt & Whitney nine-cylinder, single-row, air-cooled radial engine, which drove a Hartzell HC-B3R30-4B three-bladed propeller. In 1999, the original undercarriage was removed and floats, auxiliary vertical fins and a water rudder steering system were fitted. Ventilation was by circular vents in both front fixed side windows and by opening the cockpit side sliding windows which could be secured in position by a friction lock mechanism. Two roof air vents were installed in the rear part of the six-passenger cabin (the seventh passenger seat was to the right of the pilot) but there were no such vents at