and the remainder of the approach was flown manually by the PF. Flaps 3 was then requested - but the PM only selected Flaps 2 (without a corresponding callout) due to the airspeed being marginally above the limit for Flaps 3. Landing clearance was given and a few seconds later, the ALT/SEL (with 2,000 feet selected) was pulled. Since the aircraft was below that altitude, the A/T increased engine thrust from 34% to 87% but since the aircraft was now in manual flight, no climb followed, only an increase in airspeed. As the aircraft momentarily levelled off at 185KIAS approximately 4.5 nm from the runway, the PM selected Flaps 3 but as the speed increased due to high thrust, a Flap Overspeed Warning was annunciated for 3½ seconds. No call for this selection was made. Further FCU inputs were made and the A/T was disconnected. The aircraft became aligned with the PAPI just inside 2nm from the runway. This put the aircraft inside the applicable mandatory Stabilised Approach gate which was at 690 feet (MDA + 100 feet) which was not called. By 500 feet, airspeed was Vapp + 21 and the aircraft was back on the vertical profile. With the aircraft approximately 1 nm from the runway and passing 370 feet at Vapp+ 12, the PF made the 500 foot stable approach call, which included "a hundred above, stable, minimums, runway in sight". The engines remained at idle. As the aircraft descended through 200 feet approximately 0.5 nm from the threshold, airspeed was decreasing below Vapp, the pitch attitude was 5.6° nose-up and the rate of descent was 570 fpm. As the aircraft descended through 80 feet, the PF "applied nose-up side-stick input, consistent with the landing flare" with the airspeed now 11 knots below Vapp and the rate of descent approximately 650 fpm. The true AoA at this time was calculated to have been almost 10°. At 40 feet agl, the airspeed was approximately 19 knots below Vapp, pitch attitude had stabilised at 9.8° nose-up and the rate of descent was approximately 860 fpm. The true AoA at this point was calculated as approximately 13.8°. As the "30" auto callout was given, "the thrust levers were momentarily advanced to maximum take-off thrust […] but increased by only 4% before the aircraft touched down". Touch down occurred with a 3.12g vertical load factor and a pitch angle recorded as 7.7° nose-up. The touch down speed was 108 KIAS and the position was calculated as having been less than 40 metres past the displaced runway threshold. With the ground spoilers extended and the autobrake activating normally, reverse thrust was selected and the aircraft subsequently taxied off the runway to its parking gate without further incident. Once there, the crew reported the hard landing and the FDR data was reviewed and appropriate maintenance inspections performed. It was found that both main landing gear assemblies had been subjected to a high load exceedance. With the approval of both Airbus and Transport Canada,