An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transport Safety Board. FDR and CVR data were recovered and used to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had approximately 10,000 flying hours which included 4,200 hours on type of which 500 were as commander, all obtained since he had been employed by Air Canada Rouge as a Captain seven months earlier. Prior to that he had been employed by Air Canada mainline since 2006, gaining his A319/A320 type rating in 2008. The First Officer had approximately 12,000 total flying hours which included 475 hours on type. He had joined Air Canada Rouge at the same time as the Captain after just five months at Air Canada mainline. It was established that, having previously been "unaware" that the runway 07 ILS approach at Montego Bay was not available despite inclusion of the relevant NOTAM in their "flight release documentation", the crew had already briefed for the ILS approach. When offered either an RNAV or VOR/DME approach to the same runway at a relatively late stage in the flight and accepted the latter, the necessary re-brief was carried out only 12 minutes before landing and specified a managed (automation-performed) approach. The Jeppesen plate used for the approach is shown below. The flight crew had then held "a non-operational conversation" lasting nearly 3 minutes which ended approximately 8 minutes prior to touchdown as the aircraft descended though 10,000 feet. Two minutes later, ATC queried whether the aircraft would be able to proceed direct to LENAR and this was answered in the affirmative. With the airspeed at 250 KIAS and the aircraft level at 3,000 feet and tracking towards LENAR, the PF selected a target speed of 190 KIAS on the FCU and the A/T effected a corresponding thrust reduction. With the aircraft about to turn directly onto the FAT just inside LENAR, the PF requested flaps 1. The aircraft established in the FAT at approximately 9.6 nm from the threshold with the airspeed of approximately 200 KIAS and began its final descent. During the next minute, the FMA modes changed as expected to 'NAV' and 'FINAL DES', and the selected speed was successively set to 180, 190, 200, and finally to the calculated Vapp of 134 knots. The rate of descent reached 2,000 fpm but began to reduce once the selected speed had been reset to Vapp. The FAF was crossed at the correct height of 2000 feet at Vapp + 54 knots. Flaps 1 were still selected contrary to the applicable SOP of Flaps 3. The PF selected the correct 3.2° FPA and in response, the FMA modes changed to TRK and FPA. The crew did not make the SOP calls for the FAF position or complete SOP actions for the position. The latter included setting the missed-approach altitude in the FCU. As the aircraft descended through 1,780 feet approximately 5.2 nm from the runway threshold at 186 KIAS, the AP was disconnected