The most common coordination and coordination-related procedures include: Exchange of flight information (e.g. estimates, revisions, basic and extedned flight data as well as entry clearances). Approval requests. These are defined in local documents, e.g. Letters of Agreement or Manuals of Operations. An approval request may be a part of the initial flight information exchange. Examples of situations that may require this procedure: A late change of the coordinated flight level (e.g. several minutes before the boundary); The level an aircraft is to be cleared to climb if departing from an aerodrome that is close to the boundary; The use of cpecific levels or level bands; Clearing an aircraft to fly on a direct route to a point in the next ATS unit airspace (or further), etc.. A late change of the coordinated flight level (e.g. several minutes before the boundary);. The level an aircraft is to be cleared to climb if departing from an aerodrome that is close to the boundary;. The use of cpecific levels or level bands;. Clearing an aircraft to fly on a direct route to a point in the next ATS unit airspace (or further), etc.. Transfer of control and communication. The transfer of control is usually effected at the moment the aircraft passes the boundary between the two ATS units. Transfer of communication, however, usually takes place earlier (1-2 minutes in most cases). The receiving controller is not supposed to modify the ATC clearance of the aircraft prior the boundary crossing unless the release procedure has been coordinated (see next point).. Release. This procedure is a part of the transfer of control and communication. The transferring controller delegates control of an aircraft to the receiving controller whilst the aircraft is still within the transferring controller's airspace. The responsibility for separation provision lies with the transferring controller. The release may be restricted at the transferring controller's discretion, e.g. the aircraft may only be released for descent to a specified level.. Notification. These procedures include informing the neighbouring unit of certain situations, e.g.: radart or other equipment failure; aircraft emergency; aircraft not contacting the receiving unit; activation of a special use area (danger, prohibited, segregated, etc.); change of the operating frequency (e.g. due to change of the sector configuration or an issue with a freqency).. radart or other equipment failure;. aircraft emergency;. aircraft not contacting the receiving unit;. activation of a special use area (danger, prohibited, segregated, etc.);. change of the operating frequency (e.g. due to change of the sector configuration or an issue with a freqency).. Rejection and counter-proposal. If a controller cannot accept an aircraft under the conditions specified, they can reject the coordination and offer terms under which they would..