The above scenario shows: This accident resulted from the failure of the left engine after rotation. This event alone, although critical at that moment in the flight, was not in itself sufficient to cause the airplane to crash. According to the airline’s SOPs, the initial climb after a single engine failure should be conducted with the gear retracted; while maintaining the V2 safety speed until the safety altitude is reached; and in a climb performed with a maximum rate of climb of 500 fpm and a maximum pitch attitude of 12 degrees. The profile flown was 1,400 to 1,800 fpm at 18 degrees. When the engine failure occurred after rotation, the captain immediately took over in a brusque manner. Since he was pilot not flying (PNF) and as such had not previously been directly involved in control inputs, he flew with too high a pitch-up attitude that was incompatible with the lack of power due to the engine failure and led directly to the stall. By taking control so suddenly, the captain had no strategy to react to the failure appropriately in order to recover from the situation. The lack of a briefing before takeoff did not prepare the crew to operate effectively in such a situation. In addition, the failure of the left engine at the same time the first officer called for gear retraction hampered efforts to maintain speed. The first officer again called for gear retraction. Since the captain took over, task sharing was switched between the two pilots; the first officer was no longer pilot flying. It was now up to the captain to request gear retraction, but he failed to do so. The gear remained extended until impact. Total absence of mutual control and crew coordination prevailed here. With the gear extended, one engine out and a high pitch attitude, the aerodynamic characteristics deteriorated rapidly. The yaw created by the failed engine also contributed to the increase in drag following the engine failure. From these events, the following contributory factors can be identified: