Normally an evacuation is started by an order from the aircraft commander. Sometimes, however, passengers may start the procedure without being told to. This may happen for a variety of reasons: Perceived danger. Passengers rarely experience emergencies so they may not assess the siutation correctly. Abnormality, combined with uncertainty, may cause them to panic and act quickly, one of the possible scenarios being to start an emergency evacuation.. Misunderstanding. In an abnormal situation, a rapid disembarkation order may be misinterpreted as an evacuation one. Also, the lack of any instructions (or information) from the flight deck may contribute to a passengers' decision to act. They realise something is wrong and there is an urge to do something.. Crew Incapacitation. If the pilots and the cabin crew are incapacitated they cannot organise an evacuation which leaves this up to the passengers.. There are several issues associated with this behaviour: Increased risk of evacuation injuries. The passengers are usually not familiar and most have no practical training with emergency evacuations. Therefore, lack of guidance from the cabin crew may contribute to inappropriate passenger actions resulting in injuries.. Lack of coordination. Coordinated actions between the flight crew, the cabin crew and the passengers normally result in smooth flow of people out of the aircraft. When this is not the case, the process is not as efficient and precious time may be lost. For example, the crew may not extend the flaps if they are unaware that the evacuation has already started. This, in turn, may cause the people who have left the aircraft via the overwing exits to try to return inside.. Ground risks. Passengers on the movement area are generally guided so as to avoid various airport hazards. When an evacuation is done either after a commander's order or on cabin crew initiative, they are directed by the cabin crew after leaving the aircraft. If this is not the case, the passengers may put themselves at risk (by e.g. remaining too close to the aircraft). It is also possible that they stray in different directions which makes it harder to count how many have exited the aircraft (and thus determine how many are still inside)..