The most common transponder failure types classified by feature are: Mode A code only (Aircraft Identifier);. Mode C information only (Altitude data);. Mode S 24-bit address only which may result in unidentified aircraft being present on the situational display or a wrong track correlation;. Total failure (A, C & S), which may result in the aircraft disappearing from the situational display.. Partial loss of transponder functionality (e.g. operational at reduced power limiting transponder detection by ATC radar and/or other aircraft).. The transponder failure types classified by severity are: Total loss – feature(s) unavailable;. Corrupted – feature available but wrong data is being transmitted;. Intermittent – the data is correct but is transmitted with interruptions;. Duplicated – two or more aircraft are transmitting the same values.. Some feature/severity pairs are not applicable (e.g. duplicated mode C). The most common combinations of transponder failures are: Total loss: There is no transponder-based data received at the CWP. For the purposes of this study, it is assumed that the loss is maintained through an entire sector or multiple sectors.. Corrupted Mode A: Information received at the CWP is incorrect, primarily due to an error input into the transponder, or the processing and transmission of the Mode A code by the transponder. Whilst errors leading to an incorrect Mode A code could occur in the ground ATM system, they are not the focus of this study.. Intermittent Mode C: Transponder-based altitude information is lost from the CWP for short periods of time, long enough to cause the end effect (risk), for example 1-2 minutes. This is assumed to be due to transponder-based errors or detection failures, rather than ground system processing failures.. Duplicated Mode S 24-bit address: Two aircraft are operating with the same aircraft ID, specifically the same Mode S 24-bit address. The aircraft would usually need to be proximate for this to have a significant safety impact e.g. within the same sector or adjoining sectors – although it is recognised that the resulting potentially unexpected trajectory may cause confusion even where aircraft are not proximate..