An investigation was carried out by the German BFU. It was found that neither the aircraft nor the passenger bus had any technical deficiencies and that the AGNIS (Azimuth Guidance for Nose-In Stand) and the associated stop device PAPA (Parallax Parking Aid) for the assigned gate, B26, was not operating at the time of the collision and that a marshaller was allocated to attend. It was noted from the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) that the flight crew had noticed the stationary bus on the road but had not assessed that the distance between it and the aircraft would be insufficient after turning into the parking gate. It was established that an abrupt braking manoeuvre initiated by the aircraft crew just before the collision had occurred as a result of the co-pilot seeing a follow-me car quickly approaching the aircraft from the front and was not because of any realisation of an impending collision with the bus. The crew had only become aware of the collision with the bus approximately one minute after the aircraft had stopped. The applicable traffic regulations for the road involved were found to stipulate that vehicles should stop on the first stop marking when travelling east “whenever an aircraft was taxiing via taxiway G to parking position B26”. During the investigation, it became apparent that it might not be possible for a vehicle stopped at the first stop marking on the taxi area road to physically see an aircraft taxiing towards B26 due to oncoming traffic. It was therefore concluded that the bus driver in this case had no reason to stop at the first stop marking and thus provide the inbound aircraft with priority After noticing the aircraft when midway between the two stop markings, the driver brought his vehicle to a stop but it was then already in a position where a collision was inevitable, which the driver recognised. The diagram below, taken from the official report, shows the relative positions of the aircraft and the bus at the collision and their previous tracks. It was noted that there was no airport procedure specifying the limit of aircraft movement when arriving at gate B26 and finding the AGNIS/PAPA deactivated and no marshaller in position at the head of the stand, whereas this circumstance would require an aircraft to wait off the gate. The Investigation concluded that the immediate cause of the collision was “an insufficient distance between the passenger bus and the taxiway of the Airbus A340” and that the three “systemic causes” were as follows: The spatial separation between the taxi area road and the taxiway G towards parking position B26 was insufficient.. Coming from the east, the position of the first stop line marking on the taxi area road did not allow for an unrestricted view of the parking position B26.. The vehicle drivers coming from the east had to decide during the drive on the taxi area road whether to stop at the first or second stop line marking. They also