An upset is not necessarily a departure from controlled flight (i.e. a stall/spin) but it does include abnormal attitudes and gross over/under-speed conditions as defined in the Preface above. Avoidance and Recognition are as important as recovery, if not more so. Effective monitoring by both pilots of the flight path and of each other cannot be over emphasized. Even on those aircraft with fly-by-wire primary controls and envelope protections, pilots must remain aware that certain system failures can degrade these protections in which case the recovery actions outlined in this and related SKYbrary articles will apply. The onset of an unusual aircraft attitude, in a commercial transport aircraft, operating a normal passenger or cargo flight, is usually quite slow but the flight crew realisation that this circumstance exists is usually quite sudden. Thus the ‘startle factor’ may confuse the crew’s initial reaction. It is most important to work out what is really happening before reacting on the controls. The actions required to correct an upset must be practised in the full flight simulator for the specific aircraft type, and on one which is approved for this type of training. All flight crew (both line and training pilots) must be aware of the limitations of the simulator’s fidelity. It can only reproduce the behaviour of the real aircraft within the parameters of the data package used in the simulator. Test pilots do not deliberately lose control of their aircraft just to get data for the simulator manufacturer. For example, no simulator can reproduce the behaviour of the real aircraft in extreme attitudes when fully stalled. Within the aviation industry, some divergent views still exist over appropriate recovery techniques. In the event of an upset, flight crews should use only those techniques recommended by the aircraft’s manufacturer and the operator. However, an understanding of the principles involved can provide a helpful background and this is the objective of this short note on the subject. Whatever the cause of an upset, recovery must begin as soon as possible, using the correct flight control inputs – i.e. those which will bring about recovery without causing structural damage to the aircraft, that might then make it difficult or impossible to control properly. Mismanaged recovery from one excursion to the edge of or beyond controlled flight can lead quite easily into another different excursion from fully controlled flight, which may be more serious than the previous ‘event’. The key to recovery is the ADI (Attitude Director Indicator). Most passenger and cargo aircraft have a restricted field of view. For example, at over 25 degrees nose up, the view is probably of the sky only. In the nose down case, greater than 10 degrees pitch down, the view is likely to be restricted to the ground. It may also be IMC - or dark - outside. Therefore it may be difficult or even impossible to see the natural horizon and to use it as a reference datum. In this case the only references are the ADIs (they