The ‘startle factor’ - beware of reacting too quickly or inappropriately on the controls before working out what is happening. The need for full control inputs - flight control forces become less effective when an aircraft is at or near its critical angle of attack or stall. Full control authority may well need to be used even though such action will induce a very unfamiliar sensation.. Unusual trim forces - as the upset was developing, the autopilot may have been applying large and unexpected trim offsets in an attempt to maintain normal flight path that will only become evident at the point of autopilot disengagement. In some aircraft, large trim offsets reduce the amount of control authority available to the pilot until the trim offset has been removed. Understand your aircraft systems and always heed the manufacturers’ and operators’ advice relevant to the specific type.. Counter-intuitive responses - after much routine training emphasising the recovery from the approach to the stall, which usually requires an increase in thrust and a relatively small reduction in pitch attitude, it may well be counter intuitive to use full down elevator control or to reduce thrust when recovering from a high angle of attack (AoA), especially at low altitudes. Note that should the aircraft be stalled when already in a nose down attitude, the nose must still be further lowered in order to reduce angle of attack. In these circumstances, altitude cannot be maintained and must temporarily be accorded secondary importance.. Positive ‘g’ - when pulling ‘g’, either when recovering from a dive or when in a steeply banked turn, the AoA is increased and the associated stall speed increases. In both cases pulling 2g increases the stall speed by 41%. Recovery action should be achieved by first rolling the wings level and then apply ‘g’ (In some fly-by-wire aircraft, roll control authority may be inhibited or limited while pulling ‘g’ to respect structural limits). The average airline pilot will have little experience of flight with increased ‘g’ loadings and may well feel the load is well in excess of what it actually is. This can impede appropriate control input under ‘g’ loads.. Negative ‘g’- aggressive action may be necessary to unload ‘g’ forces to less than 1 g by pushing the control column forward without delay. Having said that, reducing ‘g’ beyond zero 'g' should not be necessary. Negative 'g' creates an unfamiliar environment in which the pilots will be ‘floating’ up against their harnesses and it may become difficult to reach the rudder pedals if they were not previously correctly adjusted. Unsecured objects such as approach plates, meal trays or drink containers may be flying around.. Under-wing mounted engines- pitch attitude may change with thrust. Reducing thrust creates a nose-down pitching moment; increasing thrust creates a nose-up pitching moment. With under-wing mounted engines, adding high thrust when already in a nose-high unusual attitude may aggravate the situation and even prevent recovery. Although counter-intuitive, it may be necessary to reduce thrust to prevent