non-precision instrument approach. This allowed the helicopter to enter a critically low energy state, from which recovery was not possible.. Visual references had not been acquired by the Minimum Descent Altitude and no effective action was taken to level the helicopter, as required by the operator’s procedure for an instrument approach.. In addition, the following four Contributory Factors were identified: The operator’s SOP for this type of approach was not clearly defined and the pilots had not developed a shared, unambiguous understanding of how the approach was to be flown.. The operator’s SOPs at the time did not optimise the use of the helicopter’s automated systems during a Non-Precision Approach.. The decision to fly a 3-axes with V/S mode, decelerating approach in marginal weather conditions did not make optimum use of the helicopter’s automated systems and required closer monitoring of the instruments by the crew.. Despite the poorer than forecast weather conditions at Sumburgh Airport, the commander had not altered his expectation of being able to land from a Non-Precision Approach.. The Investigation "determined that the causal and contributory factors identified in this accident are unlikely to be particular to this flight crew and therefore appropriate safety action should be taken in order to prevent future similar accidents". Extensive Safety Action was taken on various issues highlighted by the Investigation whilst it was in progress by CHC Scotia, the UK CAA and Eurocopter (since renamed 'Airbus Helicopters') and is detailed at various points in the Official Report. A total of 28 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: On 18 October 2013, two Recommendations were made as follows: that Highlands & Islands Airports Limited provides a water rescue capability, suitable for all tidal conditions, for the area of sea to the west of Sumburgh, appropriate to the hazard and risk, for times when the weather conditions and sea state are conducive to such rescue operations. [2013-021]. that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) review the risks associated with the current water rescue provision for the area of sea to the west of Sumburgh Airport and take appropriate action. [2013-022]. A further 26 Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency introduces a requirement for instrument rated pilots to receive initial and recurrent training in instrument scan techniques specific to the type of aircraft being operated. [2016-001]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency reviews the existing research into pilot instrument scan techniques, particularly with respect to glass cockpit displays, with a view to addressing shortcomings identified in current instrument scan training methods. [2016-002]. that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews the methods used by UK North Sea helicopter operators for confirming compliance with their Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to ensure they are effective. [2016-003]. that the Civil Aviation Authority reviews the Standard Operating Procedures of helicopter operators supporting the UK offshore oil and gas industry, to ensure their procedures for conducting Non-Precision Approaches are sufficiently defined. [2016-004]. that the