An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Recovery of significant parts of the wreckage including the tail boom containing the Combined Voice and Flight Data Recorder (CVFDR) was completed on 29 August. The CVFDR was found to contain a complete record of the accident flight and some items of avionics equipment, identified as containing potentially useful Non Volatile Memory content were retrieved from the recovered wreckage and their data recovered. A radar record of the approach was available which was found to continue until just before impact. It was found that the 51 year-old aircraft commander had 10,504 total flying hours which included 1894 hours on type. He had been employed by CHC on offshore operations for 16 years and was familiar with operations into Sumburgh. The 40 year old First Officer was found to have joined CHC just over a year earlier following experience flying small single-engine, single pilot helicopters and had qualified as a line pilot on the accident type in late February 2013. It was established that the aircraft had been en route from the Borgsten Dolphin Platform to Aberdeen and had been planning to land at Sumburgh only to refuel. On nearing Sumburgh, it had been radar vectored onto the final approach track for the LOC/DME approach to runway 09 (see the corresponding chart included below). The Sumburgh Airport weather conditions passed to the crew by ATC half an hour prior to the accident were a surface visibility of 2800 metres in mist and cloud SCT/200 feet and BKN/300 feet and these were found to correspond to the conditions promulgated in the METAR timed three minutes after the accident had occurred. The aerodrome elevation was noted as being 21 feet amsl. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the accident flight and had flown the approach entirely in IMC with the AP in 3-axes using V/S Mode. MDA for the approach was 300 feet. It was found that "although the approach vertical profile was maintained initially, insufficient collective pitch control input was applied by the commander to maintain the approach profile and the target approach airspeed of 80 kt". As a result, insufficient engine power was available and airspeed reduced continuously as the approach continued. Despite the First Officer's 100 above (MDA) call and automated CHECK HEIGHT call outs at MDA both verbally acknowledged by the commander, descent continued below MDA. As airspeed continued to reduce, the First Officer "drew the commander's attention to the airspeed which was now about 35 knots and the helicopter was descending at 1000fpm". The commander acknowledged and "began to increase the collective" but shortly after the automated 100 feet above the surface automated call out had occurred, control was lost and water impact at around 1800 fpm occurred. Shortly before impact, the First Officer armed the helicopter's Emergency Floatation System so that although it had "rolled upside down and rapidly filled with water" on impact, it had remained afloat. The four fatalities included two