amended requirements should also be applied retrospectively to helicopters currently used in offshore operations. [2016-018]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the Certification Specifications for Large Rotorcraft (CS 29), certified for offshore operation, to require the provision of a side-floating capability for a helicopter in the event of impact with water or capsize after ditching. This should also be applied retrospectively to helicopters currently used in offshore operations. [2016-019]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the Certification Specifications for Large Rotorcraft (CS 29), certified for offshore operation, to ensure that any approved cabin seating layouts are designed such that, in an emergency (assuming all the exits are available), each exit need only be used by a maximum of two passengers seated directly adjacent to it. [2016-020]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the Certification Specifications for Large Rotorcraft (CS 29), certified for commercial offshore operations, to include minimum size limitations for all removable exits, to allow for the successful egress of a 95th percentile-sized offshore worker wearing the maximum recommended level of survival clothing and equipment. [2016-021]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the Certification Specifications for Large Rotorcraft (CS 29), certified for use in commercial offshore operations, to require a common standard for emergency exit opening mechanisms, such that that the exit may be removed readily using one hand and in a continuous movement. [2016-022]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the operational requirements for commercial offshore helicopters to require the provision of compressed air emergency breathing systems for all passengers and crew. [2016-023]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) amends the operational requirements for commercial offshore helicopter operations, to require operators to demonstrate that all passengers and crew travelling offshore on their helicopters have undertaken helicopter underwater escape training at an approved training facility, to a minimum standard defined by the EASA. [2016-024]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency amends the design requirements for helicopters to ensure that where life rafts are required to be fitted, they can be deployed readily from a fuselage floating in any attitude. [2016-025]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency requires that, for existing helicopters used in offshore operations, a means of deploying each life raft is available above the waterline, whether the helicopter is floating upright or inverted. [2016-026]. Three Special Bulletins were published during the course of the Investigation to report progress - on 5 September 2013, 18 October 2013 and 22 January 2014 - and the Final Report was published on 15 March 2016.