of an FCOM or similar. Given that the use of appropriate autopilot modes to manage the flight path of the helicopter is a factor in this accident, more comprehensive information from the manufacturer on how the helicopter should be operated has the potential to provide more adequate and effective SOPs. The Rotorcraft Flight Manual (RFM) for the accident helicopter did not provide information and guidance for the use of the autopilot system fitted to the helicopter and neither was it an airworthiness requirement. At the present time, out of the large public transport helicopter types, only the EC225 has a manufacturer-provided FCOM.. At the time of this accident, North Sea helicopter operators had in place voluntary Operational Flight Data Monitoring (OFDM) programmes. Such a programme was also found to be a contractual requirement of some of its clients. There was no regulatory requirement at the UK or European level for such programmes. Although the coverage of the CHC OFDM programme was considerable, it was found not to monitor day to day performance in respect of a number of operating standards which had been central to the progress towards loss of control on the investigated approach.. In respect of the accident sequel - the evacuation of the occupants and survivability issues generally, the Investigation found that whilst the water impact was survivable, different specifics had led to the four fatalities: one had died in the life raft from a chronic heart condition which was probably exacerbated by the stress of the evacuation.. one had managed to escape from the helicopter cabin but drowned prior to, or immediately after, reaching the surface of the water.. one had been incapacitated by a head injury during or immediately following the impact with the water probably drowned without regaining consciousness.. one had died as a result of being unable to successfully escape from the cabin.. In respect of those who evacuated successfully and survived, it was found that: The EBS hybrid re-breathers worn by the passengers functioned correctly but were not used by most of them either because they were unaware of the air supply that was available within them, or because they were unable to locate or deploy the mouthpiece.. Passengers exited the cabin through window openings. A number of window panes were displaced during the initial impact and others were removed by the passengers. The majority of passengers who removed window panes reported that this was not easy and was significantly harder than they experienced during training.. There had been a significant delay (almost an hour) in arrival on scene of the airport 'Fast Rescue Craft' due to launching complications although this had not affected the outcome of the rescue due to the arrival of SAR helicopters on the scene which were used to winch all the survivors on board and transfer them to a casualty reception centre at the airport.. The Investigation formally identified the following Causal Factors: The helicopter’s flight instruments were not monitored effectively during the latter stages of the