who "did not escape from the upturned fuselage" and two died before being rescued. Both pilots were interviewed during the Investigation but “neither pilot was able to explain exactly what had happened during the latter stages of the approach to Sumburgh, nor why it had happened". The Commander "stated he had no recollection of events between the time the helicopter passed 4 DME and just before impact, when he caught sight of the sea surface and attempted a recovery" and that "it had been his intention to carry out up to two approaches at Sumburgh and then decide on where to divert". The Investigation found that during the accident flight, there was "no attempt to obtain an up-to-date weather report for Scatsta, the nominated alternate airport, or any other potential alternate airport during the accident sector, even though the weather at Sumburgh was deteriorating" and that "the approach was commenced without the crew having established that there was an available alternate with acceptable weather" when in fact, the nominated alternate, Scatsta was no longer viable due to poor weather conditions. However, the Investigation did subsequently estimate that the helicopter had had sufficient fuel available at the time of the accident to reach Wick or Kirkwall (although not Inverness or Aberdeen). At that time, the weather conditions at Wick were favourable for a diversion. Noting that, although the First Officer had raised the possibility of a diversion due to the deteriorating weather at Sumburgh, the Investigation found that the Commander had "expressed several times the view that a diversion would not be necessary and they were likely to be landing at Sumburgh" which, it was considered, "suggests that, despite his earlier briefing, he had not formulated an alternative plan and his focus had narrowed to landing at Sumburgh". The possibility that there was any previous case of the Commander continuing an onshore approach to land in weather below the applicable approach minima was examined and it was found that during the year preceding the accident, there was no evidence of this in respect of his 29 approaches to Sumburgh or his 267 approaches to Aberdeen. The Investigation noted that the First Officer had stated after the accident that "he did not consider that he had received training on the specific duties of the Pilot Not Flying (PNF) in respect of how to monitor the progress of an approach, or of how to monitor the other pilot during an instrument approach". He had also stated that "he considered that he had not received guidance as to when, as PNF, he should look outside during an approach to acquire the visual references required for landing". Having established that there was "No evidence....of a causal or contributory fault with the helicopter either before or during the accident flight" the Investigation focussed on the operational aspects and the post crash response. A review of the recorded flight data by the helicopter manufacturer concluded that the loss of control had been a direct consequence of combination