of a nose-high attitude, low airspeed, high rate of descent and high power which had placed the helicopter in a Vortex Ring entry condition (also known as “settling with power”). The Investigation concurred with this explanation of the loss of control and noted that, given the limited height available at that point, recovery to controlled flight would have been "difficult, if not impossible". It was noted that the helicopter was not fitted with a GPWS/TAWS, nor was it required to be. It was also noted that similar helicopter types operating in the UK Offshore sector, such as the Airbus Helicopters EC225, were fitted with a Honeywell Mk XXII EGPWS compliant with the applicable RTCA/DO-309 standard for 'HTAWS' and certified by EASA. Operation of the helicopter at the time of the accident was noted as having been subject to an AOC issued under JAR-OPS 3 with oversight of the Operator being the sole responsibility of the UK CAA who, in that capacity, had therefore approved the CHC Operations Manual (OM). The Investigation found variously that: The OM did not provide a sufficiently detailed description of how to carry out a Non-Precision Approach and evidence from FDM data indicates that a variety of techniques were used by pilots.. The Commander’s decision to fly the Non-Precision Approach using a reducing airspeed meant that there were two parameters changing during the approach. These were: a) the vertical speed, controlled through the autopilot, and b) the airspeed, controlled through manual collective pitch adjustment. This method increased the risk that any significant period of inattention to either parameter would lead to an undesired approach profile.. At the time of the accident, the operator’s SOPs did not mandate the use of 4-axes mode for Non-Precision Approaches, but provided the crew with a choice as to whether to use 3-axes or 4 axes modes. The use of automation was therefore not optimised and this safety barrier was ineffective.. The evidence suggests that the appropriate flight instrument displays were not being monitored adequately in the latter stages of the approach. There is evidence from similar accidents to both fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft, with both highly automated and non-automated flight decks, that pilot monitoring of the airspeed in particular, can be overlooked. While there are potential technological solutions to this problem (for example, low energy alerting systems, as recommended by the NTSB) improved pilot training may also be beneficial.. In respect of SOPs, the operator identified, in their SMS, the need to ‘maintain procedures for allowing the comparison of standard operating procedures (SOPs) with those actually achieved in everyday line flight’, but it had not implemented an effective method for achieving this. Thus, there was limited evidence to confirm that SOPs were complied with routinely during everyday line operations.. The fact that an aircraft manufacturer can make a significant input into the operating procedures for their aircraft is reflected in the certification requirements for fixed wing aircraft, which require manufacturers to provide comprehensive operational guidance in the form