a takeoff clearance, too, but held position. The 190 crew heard the 737 takeoff clearance and rejected their own takeoff, passing clear of the 737 at high speed. The Investigation suggested a review of intersection takeoffs. ...further results On 24 October 2021, a Shorts SD360 intending to land at the international airport serving Ndola did so at the recently closed old international airport after visually navigating there in hazy conditions whilst unknowingly in contact with ATC at the very recently opened new airport which had taken the same name and radio frequencies as the old one. The Investigation found multiple aspects of the airport changeover and re-designation had been mismanaged, particularly but not only failure to publish new flight procedures for both airports and ensure that NOTAM communication of the changes internationally had been effective. On 11 October 2016, an Airbus A320 crew accelerating for takeoff and already at high speed observed an Airbus A330-300 beginning to cross the runway ahead. Unsure of whether they would be able to reject the takeoff and stop before reaching it, an early rotation was commenced. The A330 continued to cross and the A320 passed over its vertical stabiliser with what was subsequently calculated as a 19 metre clearance. The Investigation found that the same runway controller had initially cleared the just-landed A330 to cross the runway but forgot this and then cleared the A320 to take off. On 18 March 2019, a Bombardier Challenger 300 had just touched down at Subang when it collided with an unseen and apparently unlit vehicle destroying it and critically injuring its occupant. Significant left wing leading edge damage was then found. The destroyed vehicle and another one had been cleared onto the runway by ATC for routine runway maintenance purposes by a single controller who then failed to tell another colleague taking over that the runway was occupied. Use of single controller position manning was non-standard and airside vehicle and aircraft communications were routinely using different communication channels preventing situational awareness. On 27 April 2021, a Boeing 737-400 commenced a night takeoff at Porto in good visibility without seeing a runway inspection vehicle heading in the opposite direction on the same runway. On querying sight of an opposite direction aircraft on a discrete frequency the driver was told to quickly vacate the runway. The aircraft became airborne 300 metres before reaching the vehicle and passed over and abeam it. Both vehicle and aircraft were following the controller’s clearances. The detailed Investigation confirmed controller error in a context of multiple systemic deficiencies in the delivery of runway operational safety at the airport. On 14 November 2019, a Boeing 737 was instructed was instructed to stop its night takeoff from Lyon at a low speed when the controller saw snow clearance vehicles entering the runway ahead. This vehicle group had been cleared to enter the active runway by the ground controller without any coordination with the runway controller and only the monitoring of surface movement radar and visual external