psi - well into the red range - but as the indicated oil temperature had not risen above 88°C, it had been decided to keep the engine running. In weather conditions which were “not considered a factor” in the accident, the initial touchdown on the 1,768 metre long 45 metre wide runway was on the right main gear. Once touchdown was complete approximately 365 metres past the runway threshold, the Captain selected reverse pitch on both engines which was immediately followed by a loss of control with the aircraft pitching up and rolling to the right. The right wing touched the runway and the aircraft then began to pivot around the right wingtip and veered off the runway. As the aircraft completed a 180° turn to the right to face towards the approach just made, the nose dropped and it came to a stop with the engines still running. After shutting the engines down, the crew exited the aircraft via the left overwing emergency exit having been unable to open the main passenger door which was subsequently found to have been pierced by a piece of propeller blade from the left propeller. All three landing gear legs were detached during the excursion, the nose section of the aircraft was “severely distorted”, both wings were damaged and both sets of propeller blades were severed at the blade roots. The left propeller blades were found in the feathered position and the right propeller blades were found at a low angle (start lock) position. An initial inspection found that no oil level was visible in the left engine oil tank sight gauge and the oil tank was empty. There was a pool of oil in the exhaust duct but no evidence of any oil leak inside the engine compartment. When the engine oil system was drained, ¾ litre of oil was collected and inspection of the magnetic chip detector showed no evidence of any contamination. The left engine was then removed and shipped to manufacturer for teardown. It was noted that according to the AFM, the minimum oil pressure limitation for operation of the Honeywell TPE331-11U-612G engines is 50 psi. The left engine had been on the wing for 1,900 hours since the last overhaul at which point the rear turbine oil seal assembly had been replaced. Teardown of this seal assembly disclosed that excessive soot and solid carbon residue of the type created when oil has reached high enough temperatures (200-230°C) to cause its thermal breakdown. It was found that the AFM Limitations included a requirement that the engine must be allowed to cool down by running the engine below 20% torque for three minutes before shutdown. If this is not done, “oil that remains trapped within hot locations of the engine will heat up to a point where the oil decomposes into a carbon deposit”. The Investigation was unable to determine whether the engines of the accident aircraft had been routinely shut down correctly but “a random sampling of engine shutdowns