was gathered using flight data monitoring information downloaded from a similar aircraft operated by Perimeter Aviation (and it was found that ) of 20 samples taken, 50% of engine shutdowns occurred before the full 3-minute cool down period had elapsed”. It was determined that the diagnosis and consequent rectification action by maintenance after the low oil pressure observed on the ground two days prior to the accident flight had not identified the real cause of the lack of oil pressure, which had been “a steady oil leak past the rear turbine air-oil seal assembly” with the depleted oil supply resulting in cavitation of the engine driven oil pump and a consequent loss of oil pressure which accounted for the loss of propeller control authority - and thereby loss of control of the aircraft - when reverse was selected after touchdown. It was also noted that since there had been no evidence of any issues with the hydraulic system on the accident flight and given the substantial accident damage to the aircraft, “further inspection and repair of the hydraulic leak were not carried out”. It was noted that regulatory requirements for flight by the aircraft required that the AFM must be carried on board. The Investigation “determined that the crew did not refer to the AFM during the occurrence”. It was noted that the QRH carried and referred to by the crew during flight had been developed by Perimeter Aviation and that a QRH, which is not subject to regulatory approval, must reflect the procedures contained in the AFM although they “may be abbreviated for ease of reference”. The relevant QRH procedure for low oil pressure was found to require that “in the event of a low oil pressure light illuminating, check the corresponding oil pressure gauge (and) if oil pressure indication is below 40 psi or abnormal, the engine is to be shut down”. It was noted that after their consultation with company Maintenance Control, the crew had failed to follow this required procedure. A discrepancy was found between the AFM-specified response to a low oil pressure indication which it was considered “may lead to continued operation” in such circumstances and the equivalent Perimeter QRH response with only the latter requiring engine shutdown if oil pressure drops below 40 psi. It was therefore observed that “if operators of the SA227-AC Metro III aircraft rely solely on the emergency procedures listed in the AFM, continued engine operation with low oil pressure may result in loss of control of the aircraft”. It was noted also that, although there was no regulatory requirement for operations under Canadian Aviation Regulations (CARs) for Subpart 703 (air taxi) or Subpart 704 (commuter) flight operations to have an approved SMS in place, Perimeter Aviation, which operated its SA226 and SA227 aircraft under Subparts 703 and 704 and its DHC8 aircraft under Subpart 705, had an approved SMS which covered all three types of operation. This included providing a formal CRM course for its DHC8 pilots at the