pressure indications”). The aircraft remained grounded awaiting the parts needed for the repair and the following day, a different maintenance crew arrived with the required parts and replaced the left engine oil pressure snubber. After a ground run showed no sign of any oil leak, the aircraft was released to service. However, during a pre-flight inspection, an engineer then noticed a hydraulic fluid leak and on checking the hydraulic fluid reservoir found it to be low but on inspection could find no source for the leak so the aircraft was again parked overnight. The next day, another maintenance crew were sent to Gods River to investigate and rectify the hydraulic leak and another flight crew were sent there to fly the aircraft back to base. However, a lengthy inspection and engine ground run also failed to identify the source of the hydraulic leak and it was decided to obtain a ferry flight permit to allow the aircraft to be positioned to Thompson for further inspection and repair - a fifty minute flight. Hydraulic fluid was added as was an additional 1 quart of oil to the left engine. It was noted by the Investigation that the Engine Maintenance Manual (EMM) specified that oil consumption should not exceed 1 quart per 12½ hours of engine operation and that the same oil reservoir had been replenished the previous day ready for flight. The ferry flight permit was obtained for a gear down flight crew only positioning sector as requested and the pilots then contacted the company Assistant Chief Pilot for a briefing on the safety issues associated with the flight which included that the landing gear should be retracted only in an emergency. The flight departure was normal but approximately 15 minutes after takeoff, the left engine oil pressure was observed to have dropped into the ‘yellow’ range (40-70 psi). After talking to maintenance control, the crew “decided that if the oil pressure dropped below the yellow band and the oil temperature increased beyond the green band, then the engine was to be shut down”. The crew began to run the “Pre-planned Engine Shutdown Checklist” in the QRH “so that they would be prepared if the left engine indications changed (and) retracted the landing gear to reduce drag” but stopped at the point where both generators are switched off as the oil temperature indication had remained normal. When approximately 40 nm southeast of their intended destination, the crew advised ATC that they had an indication of low oil pressure on one engine that it “might need to be shut down”. The ARFF at Thompson were advised and put on standby. There were no further developments and the aircraft commenced final approach to Runway 24 at Thompson with normal gear extension but as the runway threshold was approached, the left engine rpm dropped slightly to 96% and the Captain responded by making a corresponding adjustment to the right engine rpm. By this time, the left engine oil pressure indication had dropped to 16