An Investigation was carried out by the Transportation Safety Board (TSB) of Canada. The aircraft involved was not fitted with a FDR nor was it required to be but its 30 minute CVR was removed and its data were downloaded. The aircraft had been retrofitted with a Garmin 950 ‘Integrated Flight Instrument System’ which was capable of recording navigation data and flight control data on two SD data cards. Only navigation data SD card was installed in the accident aircraft. In respect of the lack of any regulatory requirement for the aircraft to be fitted with an FDR, the Investigation noted that “numerous TSB aviation investigation reports have referred to investigators being unable to determine the reasons for an accident because of the lack of on-board recording devices” and observed that “the benefits of recorded flight data in aircraft accident investigations are well known and documented”. The recurrence of this issue in this Investigation after it also attracted attention during the TSB Investigation into a fatal accident in 2016 together with the lack of progress on an outstanding Safety Recommendation issued to Transport Canada in 2013 resulted in the release of a new Recommendation during the course of this Investigation to seek action and it is reproduced toward the end of this summary article. It was noted that the Captain had a total of 1,400 flying hours including 1,000 on type. She had completed her First Officer Training with the operator in January 2016 and completed line training on the type involved the following month. A little over four months later, she had commenced Captain upgrade training and just 8 days prior to the accident, she had been released for unsupervised command flying after completing 82 hours of line training (the minimum is 20 hours). The First Officer had a total of 950 flying hours of which 700 hours were on type. He had completed his First Officer line training in August 2016. It was established that after landing at Gods River after a scheduled flight from Winnipeg two days prior to the accident flight, an alert for low left engine oil pressure had been annunciated when the speed levers had been selected to low for taxi. The taxi had been completed and a normal shutdown followed. On subsequent inspection, the pilot found the left engine oil quantity as low and when the left engine oil pressure only reached 35psi, after the engines had been restarted in order to taxi to the refuelling pad, the pilot decided to shut the engine down and use only the right engine to complete the repositioning. After shutting down the aircraft on the fuel pad, the pilot contacted company maintenance control to report the situation and was advised that a maintenance crew would be sent to the aircraft location to investigate. On arrival, the maintenance crew added 3 quarts of oil and an inspection of the left engine found oil leaking from the left engine oil pressure snubber (a component which “eliminates erratic oil