not well known within the aviation community, many flight crews found themselves in a surprising situation where it was difficult to understand what was happening, and without any effective solutions to apply. Sometimes the consequences were disastrous. Since these phenomena have become better known, crews have been trained to identify the situation rapidly and correctly and to apply the correct flying techniques. The most attention-consuming performance level is the knowledge-based level. In a completely new situation, without the help of any existing solutions, the person is forced to face the task of trying to derive an on-the-spot solution based solely on knowledge of the system. When such a situation emerges in the context of a complex system and under time pressure, the analytical capacity of human cognition may be quickly surpassed, and the chances for a successful outcome are seriously compromised. Preventing crewmembers from getting into such testing situations is one of aviation’s guiding principles. Example - Knowledge-based Performance Two cases that involved a total loss of hydraulics, the DC-10 at Sioux City, Iowa in 1989 (uncontained engine failure) and the A300 near Baghdad in 2003 (hit by a missile), serve as rare examples where the flight crew was successful in the almost impossible task of learning to fly and land a damaged aircraft using engine power only. In these cases the flight crew could rely only on the on-the-spot reasoning, experimenting and overall knowledge of the aircraft and flying.. Two cases that involved a total loss of hydraulics, the DC-10 at Sioux City, Iowa in 1989 (uncontained engine failure) and the A300 near Baghdad in 2003 (hit by a missile), serve as rare examples where the flight crew was successful in the almost impossible task of learning to fly and land a damaged aircraft using engine power only. In these cases the flight crew could rely only on the on-the-spot reasoning, experimenting and overall knowledge of the aircraft and flying. Errors and violations have different forms at different performance levels. Slips and lapses typically emerge at the skill-based level. There are several known mechanisms behind slips and lapses. It is known, for example, that mental “programs” that are most commonly used may take over from very similar programs, which are less frequent or exceptional. Example - Lapse at the skill-based level The captain learns that a structural repair has been performed on his aircraft prior to the flight due to earlier ground damage, and decides to take a look at it during the walkaround. However, when he later starts the walkaround check, he quickly falls into the normal routine “program” of performing the walkaround, completely forgetting his intention to check the damage repair. He realizes his lapse only once back in the cockpit.. The captain learns that a structural repair has been performed on his aircraft prior to the flight due to earlier ground damage, and decides to take a look at it during the walkaround. However, when he later starts the walkaround check, he quickly falls into the