normal routine “program” of performing the walkaround, completely forgetting his intention to check the damage repair. He realizes his lapse only once back in the cockpit. Violations at the skill-based level are routine violations: violations that have become part of the person’s automated routines, like routinely exceeding the speed limit slightly when driving. Mistakes are results of conscious decision making, so they occur at rule-based and knowledge-based performance levels. In both cases, the two typical areas that can lead to problems are: Identifying the situation correctly. Knowing the correct solution (rule) to apply.. At the knowledge-based level, the challenge is to process an overflowing quantity of information and to understand it in such a way as to be able to make both a correct diagnosis and appropriate decisions. In contrast, at the rule-based level the flow of information may be well within processing limits, but the partially unconscious process of situation diagnosis and the quality of previously learned solutions (rules) become critical. Violations at the rule-based level are usually situational: the person performs the corner-cutting he or she judges necessary or useful to get the job done. Violations at the knowledge-based level are usually so-called exceptional violations, and sometimes are quite serious in their nature. Errors and violations together form the unreliable part of human performance. It is often stated that 70-90 percent of current aviation disasters are due to “human factors.” While the reality is somewhat more complex, it is true that current accidents usually contain important human performance elements. Errors and violations contribute to accidents both directly and by making the consequences of other problems more serious. In a complex (at least a priori), high-risk system - such as commercial aviation - there are multiple layers of defenses against known types of accidents. Therefore, an accident involves several contributing factors, some usually being quite visible and others being more distant in time and place from the actual accident. It is important to realize, that in such a system, the consequences of an error typically depend more on factors other than the apparent gravity of the error itself. In other words, it is usually wrong to think that a big catastrophe must have been preceded by an equally serious error. More commonly it is the number of errors and the capability of the system to contain the errors that determine the outcomes. Examples - Consequences of errors Error (lapse): Setting the flaps correctly for takeoff is forgotten. Factors influencing the consequences: Aircraft type and performance Actual takeoff weight Runway length and obstructions ahead Functioning of the takeoff configuration warning. Error (mistake): Navigation error. Factors influencing the consequences: Other aircraft nearby High terrain nearby Functioning of the Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) Warnings from Air Traffic Control (ATC) Functioning of the Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System (EGPWS).. Error (lapse): Setting the flaps correctly for takeoff is forgotten. Factors influencing the consequences: Aircraft type and performance. Actual takeoff weight. Runway length and obstructions ahead. Functioning of the takeoff configuration