of information. Examples - Biases and heuristics: Expectation bias helps to fill in the blanks in communications and understand incomplete messages, but it can also make the person hear what he or she expects to hear instead of what was actually said. Expectation bias is difficult to counteract. It is important to stress the importance of readbacks and to really listen. Availability heuristic helps to collect information rapidly, but puts more emphasis on the most easily available information sources rather than the most reliable and relevant sources. Availability heuristic can be counteracted through good design of instruments, procedures and training that prompt the flight crew to focus on the contextually most relevant information sources while also underscoring the limitations of these sources. Confirmation bias helps create a hypothetical diagnosis about the situation rapidly, but the hypothesis is based only on a subset of available information and may lead to fixation, where an incorrect diagnosis is maintained despite an increasing quantity of counter-evidence. This bias underlines the value of “fresh eyes” making an independent diagnosis.. Expectation bias helps to fill in the blanks in communications and understand incomplete messages, but it can also make the person hear what he or she expects to hear instead of what was actually said. Expectation bias is difficult to counteract. It is important to stress the importance of readbacks and to really listen.. Availability heuristic helps to collect information rapidly, but puts more emphasis on the most easily available information sources rather than the most reliable and relevant sources. Availability heuristic can be counteracted through good design of instruments, procedures and training that prompt the flight crew to focus on the contextually most relevant information sources while also underscoring the limitations of these sources.. Confirmation bias helps create a hypothetical diagnosis about the situation rapidly, but the hypothesis is based only on a subset of available information and may lead to fixation, where an incorrect diagnosis is maintained despite an increasing quantity of counter-evidence. This bias underlines the value of “fresh eyes” making an independent diagnosis..