potential for engine damage through human error - e.g., by wrong timing of opening and cutting off fuel flow. The automatic engine start sequence on FADEC-equipped aircraft prevents these errors by precise monitoring of the key engine start parameters, correct timing of each step in the sequence and automatic shutdown if anything abnormal occurs. Example - Error reduction Applying good ergonomics to a cockpit design reduces errors. Shaping the flap, spoiler and landing gear levers to symbolize their functions produces both visual and tactile cues and reduces slips involving the use of the wrong lever. The clear and logical visual design of instruments and displays, like the presentation of speed and altitude on the Primary Flight Display, reduces errors in reading them.. Applying good ergonomics to a cockpit design reduces errors. Shaping the flap, spoiler and landing gear levers to symbolize their functions produces both visual and tactile cues and reduces slips involving the use of the wrong lever. The clear and logical visual design of instruments and displays, like the presentation of speed and altitude on the Primary Flight Display, reduces errors in reading them. Examples - Error detection Performance calculation software can warn the flight crew when some input values are outside the reasonable range, making the error immediately visible (cued by the environment). Red flags on locking and safety pins can help detect pins that have been left in position: they can be seen in the wrong place (still at landing gear during taxiing) or their absence in the correct place can alert the crew. Crosschecking is a way to apply error detection as an error management strategy (facilitating detection by another person). So-called forcing functions are design features that force a person to detect and correct an error before continuing the task, e.g. the refuel panel of the Hawk trainer cannot be closed if the fuel switch underneath is left in the “ground” position.. Performance calculation software can warn the flight crew when some input values are outside the reasonable range, making the error immediately visible (cued by the environment).. Red flags on locking and safety pins can help detect pins that have been left in position: they can be seen in the wrong place (still at landing gear during taxiing) or their absence in the correct place can alert the crew.. Crosschecking is a way to apply error detection as an error management strategy (facilitating detection by another person).. So-called forcing functions are design features that force a person to detect and correct an error before continuing the task, e.g. the refuel panel of the Hawk trainer cannot be closed if the fuel switch underneath is left in the “ground” position.. Examples - Error recovery The “undo” function in computer software is perhaps the best-known application of an error recovery feature. The possibility to introduce an automatic pull-up function as an extension of the EGPWS has sometimes been discussed. Such a function would introduce forced error recovery.. The “undo” function in computer software is perhaps