taken into account and implemented correctly. To fulfill an important error detection role, the PNF must know how to monitor the flight effectively in different flight phases. The unlocking movements needed to operate flap and spoiler levers may delay the execution of a slipped action long enough to permit detection either by the person himself or by another. Erroneously retracting the flaps at too low a speed or too high an angle of attack causes some aircraft to activate protections to minimize excursions from the desired flight profile. Depending on the situation, slats will remain extended and takeoff/go-around (TOGA) thrust may be applied. Thus, the error is tolerated. Not having retracted the flaps and approaching the flaps-extended speed limit will activate overspeed protections. In this case, error detection (overspeed warning) and tolerance (automatic flap retraction) together provide the opportunity for successful error recovery.. To facilitate detection, it is crucial that the aircraft provides the flight crew with immediate good-quality feedback on their actions and that flight crew members are trained to use that feedback systematically to validate that their commands (e.g., autopilot mode changes) are taken into account and implemented correctly.. To fulfill an important error detection role, the PNF must know how to monitor the flight effectively in different flight phases.. The unlocking movements needed to operate flap and spoiler levers may delay. the execution of a slipped action long enough to permit detection either by the person himself or by another. Erroneously retracting the flaps at too low a speed or too high an angle of attack causes some aircraft to activate protections to minimize excursions from the desired flight profile. Depending on the situation, slats will remain extended and takeoff/go-around (TOGA) thrust may be applied. Thus, the error is tolerated.. Not having retracted the flaps and approaching the flaps-extended speed limit will activate overspeed protections. In this case, error detection (overspeed warning) and tolerance (automatic flap retraction) together provide the opportunity for successful error recovery.. As stated, mistakes are deficient solutions or decisions, often caused by failed situational diagnosis or poor-quality learned solutions. If crewmembers find themselves in a knowledge-based problem-solving situation, their chances of success depend on their basic knowledge of the key phenomena, and the use of skills promoted through crew resource management (Crew Resource Management) training, such as the ability to stay calm, communicate and cooperate. Because mistakes at the knowledge-based level are difficult to recover, instead of trying to develop related error management strategies the principle in aviation is simply to prevent crews from getting into such situations. The whole aviation system has been built accordingly. Scientific data suggest that the probability of correctly recovering from a skill-based slip is double compared with a rule-based mistake and three times higher than for a knowledge-based mistake. The remainder of this chapter concentrates on rule-based mistakes. The usable mistake-mitigation strategies are reduction, detection and recovery. Success in these will be mainly determined by three elements: knowledge, attention factors and strategic factors: Knowledge is reflected both