the best-known application of an error recovery feature.. The possibility to introduce an automatic pull-up function as an extension of the EGPWS has sometimes been discussed. Such a function would introduce forced error recovery.. Example - Error tolerance Conservative operational margins in performance models ensure that reasonably small errors in aircraft loading and weight and balance calculations do not endanger the flight in critical phases such as takeoff.. Conservative operational margins in performance models ensure that reasonably small errors in aircraft loading and weight and balance calculations do not endanger the flight in critical phases such as takeoff. Slips and lapses are an unfortunate byproduct of the useful human capability to perform actions “automatically,” without full attention. The mechanisms causing slips and lapses function at an unconscious level. Therefore, even if slips and lapses can be reduced through good design of the working interfaces, procedures and environments, it is impossible to prevent all of them. Examples - Reduction of slips and lapses Controlling factors that are known to contribute to errors, such as unnecessary distractions; sterile cockpit principles aim to reduce distractions. Standardized procedures reinforce the correct sequences of actions and thus have a positive impact on both slips and lapses. Levers designed with good tactile feedback reduce the risk of slips. Use of checklists reduces the risk of lapses. An airline was worried about several instances in which flight crews failed to set flaps to the correct takeoff flap settings and had to be reminded by the takeoff configuration warning. In response, the airline changed the checklists to place the flap item before the taxi phase, avoiding distractions encountered while taxiing.. Controlling factors that are known to contribute to errors, such as unnecessary distractions; sterile cockpit principles aim to reduce distractions.. Standardized procedures reinforce the correct sequences of actions and thus have a positive impact on both slips and lapses.. Levers designed with good tactile feedback reduce the risk of slips.. Use of checklists reduces the risk of lapses.. An airline was worried about several instances in which flight crews failed to set flaps to the correct takeoff flap settings and had to be reminded by the takeoff configuration warning. In response, the airline changed the checklists to place the flap item before the taxi phase, avoiding distractions encountered while taxiing.. The last example further illustrates the fact that effective solutions usually require operational changes at the organizational level. Due to the somewhat unpredictable nature of slips and lapses, the key management strategies are detection, recovery and tolerance. Fortunately, most slips and lapses are detected, usually by the person who made the error. Also, when a slip or lapse is detected, it is usually easy to recover. Examples - Detection, recovery and tolerance of slips and lapses To facilitate detection, it is crucial that the aircraft provides the flight crew with immediate good-quality feedback on their actions and that flight crew members are trained to use that feedback systematically to validate that their commands (e.g., autopilot mode changes) are