in how well situations are diagnosed and the quality of the chosen solutions. Adequate knowledge relies on training, experience and availability of updated situational information, such as weather and runway conditions.. Attention factors determine how easily the relevant information is available. In an ideal case, the attention of the crew is guided to the contextually most relevant and reliable source of information, and the presentation of the information is such that it enables the crew to rapidly achieve complete situational understanding. Information overload, distractions and noise should be avoided. When the available information corresponds to attention resources and information needs, diagnosis is easier and potential mistakes are more easily detected. Attention factors are particularly important in view of the biases and heuristics[2] that can distort the diagnostic process.. Information overload, distractions and noise should be avoided. When the available information corresponds to attention resources and information needs, diagnosis is easier and potential mistakes are more easily detected. Attention factors are particularly important in view of the biases and heuristics[2] that can distort the diagnostic process. Strategic factors determine the difficulty of the situation in terms of multiple goals, some of which are often partly in conflict. Usually, some goals are obvious and official, while it is possible that others are hidden, personal or even unconscious. Strategic factors become most visible in decision-making situations.. Example - Strategic factors Following a system failure, the flight crew hesitates between: landing at the nearest airport that has a short runway and limited landing aids, and, continuing to the original destination that is also the airline’s base with maintenance facilities and a good runway. Safety, operational and passenger comfort goals all mix together. The pilots may have their own emotional preference for continuing to the base because that means getting home. There may also be fear of sanction by management if the flight crew lands the aircraft at an unplanned destination “without real need.”. Following a system failure, the flight crew hesitates between: landing at the nearest airport that has a short runway and limited landing aids, and,. continuing to the original destination that is also the airline’s base with maintenance facilities and a good runway. Safety, operational and passenger comfort goals all mix together.. The pilots may have their own emotional preference for continuing to the base because that means getting home. There may also be fear of sanction by management if the flight crew lands the aircraft at an unplanned destination “without real need.” It is clear that while some strategic factors originate from the flight crew, many of them are imposed by the organization and external agents. Obviously, the organization should try to ensure that serious goal conflicts are avoided or when they do arise that safety is not compromised. A significant proportion of mistakes is caused by incorrect situation diagnosis, which is a particularly problematic task for human cognition. Such diagnosis is mainly due to the biases and heuristics used by human cognition in an attempt to process rapidly large amounts