In simple terms, violation management consists of understanding the reasons for violations and then trying to eliminate these reasons. In an ideal situation, the organization facilitates learning from difficulties in the operations and fixing them before people need to “fill the gaps” by committing violations. There are known factors that increase the probability of violations: Expectation that rules will have to be bent to get the work done. Powerfulness, Feeling that skills and experience justify deviating from the standard procedures. Opportunities for short cuts and other ways of doing things in a seemingly better way. Poor planning and preparation, putting the person in situations where it is necessary to improvise and solve problems as they arise.. This set of factors is sometimes called the “lethal cocktail”. Often the conditions that induce violations are created because the organization cannot adapt fast enough to new circumstances. The violator may be a very motivated person trying to do things “better” for the company. This explains why management pilots are often more likely to commit violations, especially in small companies where business pressures are strongly felt. Examples - Violations The CEO of a small helicopter operator, who was also flying as a captain, flew scheduled passenger flights without the required first officer, sometimes making a non-qualified pilot sit in the copilot seat to mask the violation. This exceptional and completely unacceptable behavior probably reflects operational pressures, a high motivation to perform and a sense of powerfulness. Arrival of new aircraft, a growing route network and an absence of increased resources combine to create a lack of pilots. This shortage, in turn, creates the pressure for some management pilots to push duty time limits. Over-motivation to bring the aircraft to the scheduled destination, combined with high regard of one’s own flying skills, may encourage a pilot to try to push below the minima and land.. The CEO of a small helicopter operator, who was also flying as a captain, flew scheduled passenger flights without the required first officer, sometimes making a non-qualified pilot sit in the copilot seat to mask the violation. This exceptional and completely unacceptable behavior probably reflects operational pressures, a high motivation to perform and a sense of powerfulness.. Arrival of new aircraft, a growing route network and an absence of increased resources combine to create a lack of pilots. This shortage, in turn, creates the pressure for some management pilots to push duty time limits.. Over-motivation to bring the aircraft to the scheduled destination, combined with high regard of one’s own flying skills, may encourage a pilot to try to push below the minima and land.. As with errors, it is important to look for the root causes of violations in an organization. Solutions focused at the root-cause level will be the most effective. It is also important to recognize that it is not always productive to punish a violator because the violation may be committed due to factors beyond his or her control. However, this in no way is intended