further event. It was noted that: according to the A320 FCTM, the height loss after initiating a go around varies between 10 and 40 feet depending on engine thrust at the time the thrust levers are moved to the TOGA position. In this respect, QAR data showed that the airspeed at this point was 9 knots below Vapp which alone would have caused a height loss greater than 10 feet.. although the prevailing meteorological conditions were conducive to the possibility of windshear, the aircraft predictive windshear system had not activated when (according to the flight crew) it had been selected to auto, which would have allowed it to issue alerts even with the aircraft weather radar switched off. It was, however, observed that it was still possible that “a light windshear/downburst arriving at the airport area” might have increased the chances of touchdown prior to the runway threshold beyond the effects of low airspeed.. it was likely that the gradual descent to and below the vertical profile applicable to the descent could be attributed to “the visual illusion caused by the rain on the aircraft windshield and further loss of visual contact with the runway”.. the TAM A320 FCTM stated under the section headed “consideration about go-around” that “a go-around must be considered if […] adequate visual references are […] lost below minima”.. Actual or potential Contributory Factors were identified as follows: Visual illusions (undetermined) - it is possible that the sensory impressions of the flight crew were affected by the rain during final approach so that the crew may have wrongly detected the position of the runway (vertically or horizontally) whilst they still had some visual references.. Environmental influences (confirmed) - the flight crew lost visual contact with the runway due to reduced visibility caused by heavy rain. It is also possible that a low intensity windshear/downburst affected the aircraft flight path.. Pilot judgment (undetermined) - it is possible that the flight crew had sought to re-establish visual contact with the runway before initiating a late go around - the crew only initiated the go around at 41 feet above the height of the landing runway threshold.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) encourage the operator to effectively warn their crews about possibility of visual illusions during flight in rain conditions. [IG-057/CENIPA/2015 - 01]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) encourage the operator to reinforce flight simulator training on rejected landing manoeuvres in conditions similar to those during the occurrence. [IG-057/CENIPA/2015 - 02]. The Final Report was completed on 19 December 2018 and published online in both Portuguese and English language versions on 15 January 2019.