An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft was fitted with two DVDRs from relevant data were downloaded. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total 6500 flying hours which included 410 hours on type. In addition to the failure of the only serviceable ACM, this examined crew and RTF communications difficulties whilst the pilots wore oxygen masks and difficulties which became apparent during the emergency evacuation. Examination of the failed No 1 pack ACM showed that its rotor had seized, the same component fault which had led to the failure of the No 2 air conditioning system on the same aircraft four days earlier. It was found that both ACMs had suffered Stage 2 turbine blade failures with the resultant imbalance resulting in contact between the turbine blade tips and the ACM casings which produced hot, finely divided, metallic particles that were released into the cabin air system, creating the reported symptoms of haze, ‘smoke’ and fumes inside the aircraft. The blade fatigue failures were both close to the blade root and were attributed to fatigue cracking originating in a location of high stresses associated with a known blade resonance condition. The Investigation was told that a new Stage 2 turbine housing was under development to address the problem. In respect of crew communications, it was found that intercom and radio use whilst the flight crew had been wearing their oxygen masks had proved very difficult due to technical problems with the masks. Because of this, the cabin crew had to implement emergency procedures to gain access through the locked flight deck door to receive their instructions. The First Officer also had to repeat calls to ATC to make himself understood and communications between the two pilots were rendered so poor that they had to resort to shouting. In the light of findings by the Investigation on the reasons for these problems, the mask manufacturer reported having undertaken a detailed review of its design and manufacturing processes which resulted in design modifications and the addition of manufacturing quality checks. Difficulties with the emergency evacuation included use of the over-wing exits. The right over-wing exit became jammed and unusable because of an inappropriate trim design at the exit and passengers who evacuated via the left over-wing exit reported than having been unsure of the right way to get from the wing down to the ground. It was also found that none of the passengers had evacuated the aircraft via D1R which was attributed to the staggered layout of the front two emergency exits with D1L being the main access door and the first to be encountered and D1R being further forward, behind a galley bulkhead and not a door normally used by passengers. Many passengers commented that they had found the main exit slides very steep and were surprised by the speed at which they slid down them and that the slides ended without any round-out at the bottom