The EUROCONTROL APM Specification describes the minimum requirements for the development, configuration and use of APM in Europe. The Specification exists only as the final draft version while the Guidance Material has a ‘released’ status. Currently, there is no plan to undertake any further development of the Specification. EUROCONTROL Specification for Approach Path Monitor Released Comprehensive guidance material to assist in implementing the EUROCONTROL Specification for Approach Path Monitor covers the full APM lifecycle: Definition of objectives. Implementation or change. Tuning and validation. Operation and monitoring. The APM Guidance is provide with several appendices to support ANSPs in the implementation of APM. EUROCONTROL Guidance Material for Approach Path Monitor (Edition 1.0 dated 19 May 2009) Released Appendix A: Reference APM System: Detailed technical explanation of typical implementation details of APM with emphasis on parameterisation and performance optimisation. Optimisation concepts are also covered in detail. Appendix B: Safety Assurance: A set of three documents that can be used as starting point for APM safety assurance work in a particular local context. Appendix B-1: Safety Argument for APM System: This document describes a possible initial Safety Argument.. Appendix B-2: Generic Safety Plan for APM Implementation: Describes what safety assurance activities should be considered at each lifecycle phase, who should do them, and what the criteria for success are.. Appendix B-3: Outline Safety Case for APM System: Addresses in detail the assurance and evidence from the System Definition stage and outlines the likely assurance and evidence for the later stages.. Appendix C: Cost Framework: Appendix C: Cost Framework for the Standardisation of APM: A set of guidelines for users of the Cost Framework (an Excel model) to assess the economic impact of the standardisation of Approach Path Monitor Warning for individual ANSPs.. Appendix C: Supporting Spreadsheet: Supporting Excel spreadsheet for the Cost Framework model.. Appendix D-1: A study comparing the performance of the current skyguide MSAW system on the final approach segment with that of a more typical APM system, in order to assess if any advantage would be gained. The study identifies potential alternative solutions for APM for Geneva airport.