The factors listed below, either combined or on their own can “assist” the build-up of a situation where an aircraft (almost) lands without receiving a clearance. Aircraft not on the correct frequency – for various reasons pilots may remain on the approach frequency instead of switching to tower. Given the usual priority order “aviate-navigate-communicate” it is possible to neglect the “communicate” part, especially during high workload moments (as is the case with final approach). In such situations the tower controller is usually unable to instruct the flight crew to go around if necessary.. Lack of clearance discovered too late – sometimes pilots realize that they are about to land without a clearance. This usually happens too late (if they were aware of the lack of clearance in good time, they would either try to obtain it or prepare to commence a missed approach).. High workload – the final approach is one of the busiest phases of the flight. With many things to do (especially in adverse weather conditions), it is possible that pilots forget to obtain a landing clearance. The tower controller, on the other hand, may also be too busy (or may be waiting for a call from the aircraft being unable to see it) and fail to issue the clearance (or a go-around instruction, as appropriate).. Expectation bias – it is a part of human nature to believe something expected has already happened. Pilots, especially under high workload, may easily assume that, among the other things said and done, the landing clearance has been received.. Failure to call as instructed – sometimes aircraft are transferred too early on the tower frequency. In such cases, especially at busy aerodromes, it is customary to instruct the pilots to call again later (e.g. 4 miles from touchdown, when overflying the outer marker or other radio aid, etc.) in order to obtain a landing clearance. The period of time may be long enough for the pilots to forget they had to make a call, especially given the higher workload situation..