There are a number of safety barriers intended to reduce or mitigate the risk of landing without clearance. Their effectiveness often depends on the local circumstances (as is the case with most aerodrome-related topics). The most notable factors that affect the safety barriers are: Radar coverage – the level of ATC radar coverage may differ. Radar guided approaches affect likelihood for detecting an aircraft bound for landing and the existing situation of loss of communication when the transponder Mode A is set to squawk 7600.. Meteorological conditions affect the possibility of detecting potential threats in good time. The in-flight visibility and time of the day may be such as to allow pilots to: Recognise potential threats in good time. Prevent the recognition of potential threats in good time.. Recognise potential threats in good time.. Prevent the recognition of potential threats in good time.. Also, the surface visibility/cloud base and time of the day may be such as to allow the controller to: Recognise potential threats in good time. Prevent the recognition of potential threats in good time.. Recognise potential threats in good time.. Prevent the recognition of potential threats in good time.. Runway status – runways can be in use or not for traffic purposes and there may or may not be obstructions. The runway statuses that can influence the efficiency of barriers for the different scenarios are: Active Runway; Inactive Runway; Closed Runway.. Active Runway;. Inactive Runway;. Closed Runway.. Clearance conditions – variation in local procedures and practices for delivering a landing clearance. The way landing clearance is delivered at different airports may vary, including whether or not: Multiple landing clearances are used; Conditional landing clearances are issued; There are specified minimum distances from the runway threshold (or landed/departing traffic) by which a landing clearance must be issued.. Multiple landing clearances are used;. Conditional landing clearances are issued;. There are specified minimum distances from the runway threshold (or landed/departing traffic) by which a landing clearance must be issued.. Physical visibility (visual surveillance capability from the TWR) - the view (direct or using CCTV) of the relevant part of the aerodrome and its vicinity from the ATC Tower may be restricted by: The location, height, design, equipment of the tower; The airport layout or obstructions; The temporary presence of aircraft or vehicles.. The location, height, design, equipment of the tower;. The airport layout or obstructions;. The temporary presence of aircraft or vehicles..