An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. The experience of the flight crew involved was not recorded but it was noted that both crew were based at Lyon. It was noted that the TWR controller involved had been qualified for control positions at the airport since 2005 after beginning his controller career at Reims ACC in 1996. It was noted that the two parallel runways at the airport “dependent with respect to wake turbulence (and) are normally managed as a ‘nominal twin runway’ with takeoffs using the inner runway 17R/35L and landings being made on the outer runway 17L/35R”. When so managed, a controller may accept a landing on the inner runway if the visibility is greater than 5 km and the ceiling higher than 1,500 feet. Runway 35L is relatively flat along its complete length so it is possible for the crew of an aircraft waiting to cross it to have a good view of its full length. It was established that at the time of the event, the prevailing weather conditions were CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) and therefore there had been no impediment to visibility from the TWR or to pilots. It was also noted that although a controllable stop bar system was installed to protect runways 17 and 35, it was only activated when LVP apply and that the available TWR ground radar display was not used when the meteorological conditions were good and all traffic could be observed directly from the tower. The ground track of the two aircraft is shown in the illustration below with timed positions for clearance issue and pilot actions which also indicate the corresponding position of the other aircraft at that time. When the controller cleared the CRJ700 to cross 35L at position 3, the A319 was already accelerating on its takeoff roll and about 1000 metres from the intersection at which the CRJ700 had been cleared to cross. Aware of the possibility of conflict when crossing runway 35L and having covered this point, the locally-based CRJ700 crew had therefore both checked that runway 35L was actually free of traffic in good time before entering and on seeing an aircraft on the runway approaching the intersection at high speed, the PF Captain had braked and brought the aircraft to a stop before reaching the CAT I holding point. As the CRJ700 crew were braking, the TWR controller instructed them to stop but did not use the applicable emergency phraseology. The English-speaking A319 PM Captain subsequently stated that when the speed of the aircraft was already in excess of 100 knots, “he thought he understood that the traffic then starting to vacate runway 35R had just been cleared to cross runway 35L” but, not being a French speaker, was unsure if that was what he had heard and judging that they would be past the rapidly approaching intersection before the other aircraft reached it, he had decided not to instruct the First Officer