the 2016 and 2017 events was the alert given by the pilots, which '“can only work if the language used for the radio exchanges allows all the actors to have good situational awareness, i.e. a common language". The Conclusions of the Investigation as to the origin of the controller error which occurred and means by which the risk of conflict was avoided were, in summary, as follows: After clearing the A319 to take off from runway 35L, the controller then issued a clearance for the CRJ700, which had just landed on runway 35R, to cross runway35L without detecting the conflict. During his out-of-window scan, probably carried out partially, he did not see the aeroplane taking off and was not alerted when overlaying the strips in the bay dedicated to the runway.. The rhythm imposed by the density of the traffic, and the repetition of the same clearances, in particular during the inbound hub, inevitably led to the controller carrying out the various tasks somewhat automatically (management of strips, clearances, out-of-window scan). The detection of a conflicting clearance can then fail, particularly as the strip board, used in the conditions laid down at Lyon Saint-Exupéry, does not constitute a robust barrier. The distinction between an aeroplane lined up and an aeroplane cleared to take-off is solely based on the runway number being ringed or simply underlined. This difference is barely noticeable when quickly handling the strips. Overlaying the strips in these situations leads to the masking of potential aircraft conflicts.. The CRJ 700 was cleared to cross runway 35L in French which the English-speaking crew of the A319 did not understand so were prevented from recognising the potential conflict. The fact that the CRJ 700 crew were based at Lyon and were aware of the runway incursion risk probably contributed to them actively checking the runway before crossing it. The use of several languages in exchanges with crews may reduce the situational awareness of the crews in the surrounding traffic with the possibility of recovery becoming more uncertain.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the ANSP (DSNA) implement suitable work tools and methods to, in particular, reinforce the physical indication of the runway’s occupancy so as to prevent conflicting clearances being given while the runway is being crossed. [FRAN-2020-003]. that the ANSP (DSNA), in collaboration with the Lyon Saint-Exupéry airport operator implement suitable alert systems and runway protection tools so as to increase the chances of detecting runway crossing conflicts even when outside LVP conditions. [FRAN-2020-004]. The Final Report was published in English translation on 23 April 2020 after the initial and definitive publication in French on 26 March 2020.