to reject the takeoff. He also stated that he could see that the CRJ700 had braked before it reached the holding point and that the A319 then passed the intersection concerned at a speed which had been “close to V1”. The Captain, who along with his First Officer was also based at the airport, observed that ATC use of “a mix of French and English in exchanges significantly reduced situational awareness for non French-speaking crews”. The ground tracks of the two aircraft with their relative positions annotated. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The controller involved noted that the event had occurred towards the end of a run of inbound flights. He stated that when he had cleared the CRJ700 to cross the runway, he thought that his visual scan had not been sufficiently wide. He then moved the (green inbound flight) strip for the flight onto the runway 35L bay of his board above the (orange outbound flight) strip for the A319 and put a cross on it. He added that when he next looked out, he saw both aircraft and realised that there was a conflict and seeing that the CRJ700 was already taxiing slowly, had instructed it to stop. A local investigation by the ANSP Service Quality and Safety subdivision decided that as the cause of the conflict was the controller’s conflicting clearances and since this was an (ultimately corrected) “solely non-systemic” error, it was not necessary to take any specific measure or to have the event examined by the “Local Safety Commission”. It was noted that the previous year, the Commission had investigated an event which was virtually identical to the one now being investigated externally, the only significant difference being that the flight crews of both the aircraft involved in the 2016 event had been English speakers. It was concluded that “the probability of this type of event re-occurring was low” and no safety action at either local or national level was recommended. The role of the airport LRST, which met annually, was noted to be the consideration of occurrences such as the one under investigation and the submission of any proposals to the Airport Safety Promotion Committee. It was found that at its annual meeting in 2017 the LRST had “indicated that it appeared necessary and relevant to define hot spots for runway crossings” and, three years later, shortly before the publication of the Investigation Report, three hot spots relating to runway crossings were added to the aerodrome chart. It was noted that in 2012, the Eurocontrol ‘Safety Improvement Sub Group’ had identified the detection of an occupied runway as one of its five safety priorities and an operational study carried out as follow up to this had concluded that “whilst the use of a visual memory aid (such as the strip board) is in theory a very reliable barrier, in practice, it is not an effective safety barrier”. With that in mind, the Investigation observed that the safety barrier which had operated in both