A320 had already touched down. Taxiway Layout and naming. Consideration of the taxi routing to and through the 6-way intersection to reach the required C6 access for an intersection departure from runway 07R led the Investigation to conclude that both taxiway layout and taxiway naming were unduly complex and capable of creating an avoidable increase in workload for pilots not familiar with the airport or departures from a particular runway. The oblique intersection of taxiway C6 with runway 07R meant that a 120° turn was required to reach "PSN 2" which for that manoeuvre only was contrary to commonly accepted practice for runway access. The prevailing situation in both respects was compared to recommended practices in ICAO Annex 14, the EAPPRI, the ACI Runway Safety Handbook and the EASA specifications for Aerodrome Design (CS-ADR DSN) and found to be not in accordance with them to varying degrees. Some suggestions which could reduce complexity were made. Event Risk Classification. The variation in the way that the risk classification systems applied to runway incursion events produced a measure of relative risk for particular events was discussed and it was noted that their outputs were not consistent with the less prescriptive guidance on what constituted a 'Serious Incident' according to Annex 13. It was noted that such a difference "is not a pure administrative matter, but also triggers a different response by the stakeholders involved" and thereby influences the level of scrutiny of the circumstances which prevail. The Cause of the investigated event was formally documented as "the take-off without clearance of an aircraft instructed to 'line up and wait' on Runway 07R while an aircraft was in final approach of Runway 01". Seven Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Non-use by the E195 crew of a mnemonic and/or cross-check for the take-off clearance.. Limited traffic information/situational awareness given when delivering ATC clearances.. Inadequate doubt-clearing management on the E195 flight deck.. The unfamiliarity of the E195 crew with the airport.. Authorising an aircraft to line up on RWY 07R at a short distance from the intersection with RWY 01 without correlation with landing traffic on the latter.. The intersection and status of RWY 01 is not indicated on RWY 07R.. The complex taxiway layout (a junction connecting 6 taxiways just before taxiway C6, where the obliquely-angled entry to the taxiway includes part of the taxiway centreline lights).. Safety Action taken during and known to the Investigation as a result of the event included the following: Air Dolomiti made some changes to their Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to require that when on the ground, "the pilot conducting the taxi, should continuously express his/her intention in relation to the ground route to be followed" and to add the procedure that the nose landing light should be switched on only when the take-off clearance has been received.. Belgocontrol introduced a new procedure to improve situational awareness of pilots which requires controllers to inform them of the "closest traffic" whenever a line up and wait clearance