the ability of the flight crew to see the landing runway threshold or final approach area should not be used.. It was also noted that Attachment A to ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 'Aerodrome Design and Operations' states that "the centre line of an entrance taxiway should be perpendicular to the runway centre line, where possible" so that "pilots (have) an unobstructed view of the entire runway, in both directions, to confirm that the runway and approach are clear of conflicting traffic before proceeding towards the runway". It then adds "where the taxiway angle is such that a clear unobstructed view, in both directions, is not possible, consideration should be given to providing a perpendicular portion of the taxiway immediately adjacent to the runway to allow for a full visual scan by the pilots prior to entering [....] a runway". Appendix K of the EAPPRI also emphasises that "flight crew need an unobstructed view of the runway, in both directions, to confirm that the runway and approach is clear of conflicting traffic before proceeding to enter or line up [and] to achieve this clear view, runway entrances should be at right angles to a runway". It was observed that although the use of Simultaneous Intersecting Runway Operations (SIRO) "may serve to increase traffic efficiency, shorter approach tracks and taxi routes for example, there are inherent risks associated with (this practice and) strict procedures must be in place to prevent a runway incursion". However, the Investigation took the view that it should not consider the decision to use SIRO rather than other potentially viable alternatives and therefore confined its analysis to the safety issues associated directly or indirectly with SIRO. A number of aspects of the event were discussed in the Investigation's analysis including: Human Factors relating to the issue of the Take-off Clearance. Whilst the available evidence did not enable a meaningful attribution of 'human factors' which might have led both E195 pilots to unintentionally take off without clearance, it was considered that had the ATC instruction to “Line up and wait Runway 07R” been supplemented by additional information, such as a location or a warning of incoming traffic, "it would have increased the situational awareness of the crew and increased the probability that the instruction would have been retained". Procedural Context for non-compliance with Clearance. The Air Dolomiti Operations Manual was found to not adequately address the need for positive confirmation of ground clearances by both pilots and as such made it more likely that a pilot - in this case the senior pilot - would be content to take the advice of the other pilot when uncertain rather than initiate clarification from ATC. Controller Mitigation of the consequences of the incursion. Even though the controller reacted quickly to the situation, since it took only 5 seconds for the E195 to reach the intersection from the moment it started to accelerate for the take-off, it may not have been possible to prevent a collision at the intersection if the