An Investigation was carried out by the Air Accident Investigation Unit (Belgium) - AAIU (Be). It was decided that "since no accident occurred, the FDRs need not be read out" but QAR data were downloaded and included, along with ATC recorded data, relevant information. By the time the event was reported to the AAIU (Be) relevant CVR data had been overwritten. It was noted that the 52 year-old E195 Captain, who had been acting as PF for the departure involved, had 14,400 total flying hours including 4,662 hours on type and that the 45 year-old First Officer had 8350 total flying hours including 4,643 hours on type. Both had flown to and from Brussels a few times in the past but reported being relatively unfamiliar with it. The 46 year-old A320 Captain had 10,961 total flying hours including 8,960 hours on type and the 31 year-old First Officer had 667 total flying hours including 491 hours on type. The TWR controller involved had 8 years’ experience of the position and was almost 5¾ hours through a 7 hour afternoon shift. It was established that the E195 had left the gate slightly behind schedule and during push-back the crew, aware that they would be departing from runway 07R, had requested departure from the C5 intersection. The GND controller "responded by giving a taxi route leading to the C6 intersection" which was not immediately understood by the crew "due to the rapid speaking tempo" and they requested and received clarification explaining that all 07R intersection departures enter the runway from taxiway C6. Upon reaching the C6 stop bar located at the exit from the 6-way intersection between taxiways C6, C5, E1, OUTER10, INNER10 and Z - see the illustration below - it stopped and, after switching to TWR as instructed, was cleared to "line up and wait" on runway 07R. This clearance was correctly read back after which the "stop bar lights dimmed" allowing the aircraft to proceed. The Captain reported finding the taxiway centreline lights onto the runway "not easy to follow" and being sufficiently "uncertain of their position" to have "asked the First Officer if they were on the runway". The crew stated that "during the line-up, they had had an optimum view of runway 01 and again did not notice any landing light". Once lined upon the runway 07R centreline, aligned on Runway 07R, the Captain asked the First Officer whether they had received take-off clearance and "the First Officer answered positively". At this time, the A320 was on final approach for runway 01 and, after the E195 had been instructed to line up and wait on runway 07R, it had been cleared to land. According to both the TWR Controller and the TWR Supervisor, traffic at this time was "not dense" and so the TWR Controller was managing both landings on runway 01 and take-offs on runway 07R. It was reported to the Investigation that "specifically for (runway 07R) line-ups from C6, the controller maintains eye contact with