aircraft, because of the short reaction time necessary in case of incident" and the controller involved stated that he had maintained a clear view of the aircraft . The E195 crew confirmed that they had initiated a rolling take-off run as soon as they were lined-up and had not seen the approaching A320. The A320 crew saw the E195 starting to roll and "were about to call ATC when the TWR Controller, who had visual contact with both aircraft, promptly instructed the A320 to go around". The A320 crew responded immediately with FDR data recording a minimum height of 68 feet agl. Their aircraft subsequently passed over the intersection of the two runways about a minute after the E195 had passed it. Their subsequent landing was uneventful. It was noted that the airport was equipped with an A-SMGCS which includes the generation of warnings when a runway incursion occurs. This alerting system provided a visual alert when the E195 entered the Runway 01 protected area 90 metres from the runway 01/19 centreline which, for the 50 metre-wide runway, was 65 metres from its edge and 4 seconds before it crossed the intersection. It was noted that the combination of take offs from 07R and landings on runway 01 was a normally-used one and that forecast and actual surface winds at the time favoured this combination. The prevailing winds were light, the tail wind components on runway 25R (only) were in excess of the maximum allowed under the airport's runway designation procedures (7 knots). The arrangements for intersection take-offs from runway 07R were reviewed and it was noted that, as in the case of the investigated departure, all such departures would require aircraft to enter the runway via taxiway C6. Declared distances for three such take-off positions were provided in the AIP and marked by illuminated signs - see below - and designated as Positions H (for 'Heavy'), PSN 1 and PSN 2. No explicit mention of "PSN 2" was made to the departing E195. The existence of similar 'take-off without clearance' events was noted and summaries of some events of this type included in the Accident and Incident cases held in SKYbrary were listed. Six other similar occurrences at Brussels, not necessarily of the same relative risk, were found to have been recorded over the 5 years to November 2016. A number of sources of information on the risk management of runway incursion were identified including: The ICAO Doc 9870 'Manual on the Prevention of Runway Incursions', First Edition 2007. The European Action Plan for the Prevention of Runway Incursions (EAPPRI - Edition 2.0). The 'Runway Safety Handbook' published by the Airports Council International (ACI) First Edition 2014. It was noted that Chapter 4 of ICAO Doc 9870 makes recommendations for the prevention of runway incursions which include: Pilots should not accept an ATC clearance that would require them to enter [,,,] a runway from an obliquely angled taxiway.. When using […] intersection departures, oblique or angled taxiways that limit