this container, they were able to identify the container’s rechargeable battery pack as the source of fumes and the fire warning and so after this had been electrically isolated, the container was removed to an airport warehouse pending return to its manufacturer for a detailed examination. It was found that “significant impact/collision damage” had occurred to the back of the container apparently as a result of its mishandling sometime during the hour from completion of routine pre-flight recharging of its battery pack and the container manufacturer concluded that the external impact had caused one of the brackets in the container battery compartment to be torn from its mounting allowing the batteries to move position in a way which led to overheating and a short circuit. It was also considered that the extent of the externally-caused damage was “beyond what should be expected in routine handling”. However it was observed that the short circuit outcome had, by design, prevented any further damage to the container electrics that could have led a fire to breakout and that the frictional heating of the damaged cables had caused the smoke/fumes which had alerted the loaders to the fact that the container had been rendered unfit to be carried. External impact damage to the container involved. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The flight crew response to the warning received was considered relative to available procedures. The applicable QRH Checklist for a rear cargo hold fire warning contained a caveat that if such a warning occurred on the ground whilst the hold access door was open, verification that an actual fire had been observed was necessary before the hold fire extinguishing system could be activated so it was not.. The content of the OM Part ‘B’ included the use of the ‘Attention Crew - At Stations’ announcement. It was evident that whilst announcement was envisaged as being used on the ground for a stationary aircraft with the parking brakes applied to communicate to the cabin crew a need for “an increased level of alertness” following the occurrence of a “potentially hazardous event”, it was not necessarily appropriate for the circumstances encountered in this event. The guidance provided also stated that this announcement “can be used on the ground from when the aircraft doors have been closed for departure until the aircraft doors are opened for disembarkation” although it did not preclude its use in other situations with which it was compatible. Since this announcement requires all cabin crew to take their allocated positions next to the various aircraft exit doors, its use resulted in some of them being redeployed from the front of the aircraft to position at or nearer to the position of the aft cargo hold. In retrospect, it was noted that the Captain had concluded that an ad hoc PA telling the cabin crew to prepare for a rapid disembarkation would have been more appropriate. However, this would not have been the standard PA for a rapid disembarkation via boarding doors rather than