An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB based on information provided by the aircraft operator and the manufacturer of the cargo container involved. It was noted that the 53 year-old Captain of the flight had a total of 17,000 hours flying experience of which 10,300 hours were on type. It was established that whilst the three pilots were in the flight deck preparing for the flight, a rear cargo hold fire warning was annunciated and the operating crew responded by informing ATC and commencing the corresponding QRH checklist. Since this required that if the aircraft is on the ground with the cargo doors open, the hold fire extinguishers should only be discharged if the existence of an actual fire can be confirmed, the Captain instructed the Relief First Officer (RFO) to go into the cabin and investigate. The warning then ceased. Having gone to the rear of the cabin and been unable to see any signs of fire through the windows or detect any related fumes there, the RFO reported back to the Captain accordingly before leaving the aircraft to make an external inspection. Whilst the Relief First Officer was doing this, the cabin crew reported to the Captain that there were “acrid fumes in the passenger cabin” as a result of which he decided to pause the aft cargo hold fire checklist and commence the ‘Smoke Fire and Fumes’ Checklist. A ‘PAN’ call was made on the ATC GND frequency and a PA was made to the 13 cabin crew (the only people on board at the time) using the wording of the ‘Attention Crew - At Stations’ call which is the standard means of preparing cabin crew for the potential need to respond to an emergency situation and requires all cabin crew to go to their allocated seating positions adjacent to particular exit doors. As the RFO approached the open door of the aft cargo hold, he saw two of the loading team running away from it and they explained that they had detected “acrid fumes” inside the hold. Immediately following this conversation, the RFFS arrived. The RFO briefly discussed the situation with the RFFS commander who then told him that a precautionary disembarkation of those on the aircraft was appropriate. On his return to the aircraft to inform the Captain of this, he was instructed to brief the cabin crew accordingly and did so. Once the APU had been shut down and the ‘Aircraft Secure’ Checklist completed, all members of the crew then left via the air bridge connected to door 2L and were off the aircraft approximately 8 minutes after the fire warning had been annunciated. One of the cabin crew sustained a minor injury when leaving the aircraft as the result of tripping on a cargo net being used to secure cargo in the passenger cabin. All rear hold cargo was removed and examined by the RFFS who identified a refrigerated container as the source of the fumes. After opening the back of