only be a matter of a few miles at best.) Agencies include ATC, other aircraft or boats and, where possible, directly to the emergency services such as the Coastguard.. Shipping. Survival after a ditching will often depend on how quickly you are picked up so unless it is going to be possible near an offshore platform then ditching within line of sight of any vessel which can be located makes a lot of sense,. Ensure Floatation. The Helicopter Emergency Floatation Systems (EFS) must be armed as soon (within the limitations of the flight manual) as it becomes obvious that a ditching is inevitable.. Cabin Preparation. In the time available, passengers should be forewarned of the impending ditching as soon as possible to allow them a mental rehearsal of the evacuation and survival techniques which will be needed. This may be accomplished by the flight crew but cabin crew (if present) should be prepared to supplement any announcement and, if necessary, provide a complete briefing. Many (although not all) oil and gas support helicopters have push out windows as emergency exits. These plastic windows are held in place by a rubber tear out seal around the window that must be removed before exit. Once removed the windows are pushed out by hand. Consider briefing passengers to remove the seal (but not push out the windows) before touchdown, facilitating emergency exit should the aircraft capsize.. Final Approach and touchdown. Determine the best direction to approach the ditching location in relation to sea state and wind direction. Unless the wind is calm, the chances are that the direction of the wind will differ from that of the swell. Where the swell is more marked, it may be advisable to ditch along the swell accepting a crosswind component and the higher touchdown speed, thus minimising the potential for nosing into the face of the rising swell. Radio Altimeter height callouts from the PM are likely to be of assistance both by day and by night. The overriding objective should be to maximise the chances the helicopter remaining upright. Clearly a low forward speed, low rate of descent and appropriate pitch attitude will all be of importance. Monitoring the horizon if possible at touchdown, rather than the sea at one’s feet, should reduce the tendency to “hunt” the swell, facilitating the landing. In the dark, the extent to which external lighting may assist touching down will be a matter of judgement based on the prevailing circumstances. Since judging sea state at night may be difficult, a power-available ditching will allow a low-level pre-inspection of the sea surface and may be worthwhile.. Evacuation. Once on the surface, the engines should be shut down if running and the main rotor stopped. In most cases, Rotor Brake should not be used as the transfer of energy thorough the aircraft could be enough to capsize it. Once the rotor has stopped, the occupants should be instructed to begin evacuation. The primary objective will be to deploy and board the