fpm. Two minutes after appearing on radar, and with 1½ minutes to go before the collision, the Cessna was passing 1,000 feet QNH and the F16 was at 1,600 feet QNH "roughly 7 miles northeast of the Cessna 150's position". The first illustration below shows the converging tracks annotated with the altitudes of both aircraft at one minute intervals. The second shows expanded detail of the collision vicinity with times, altitudes and radio calls to and from the F16. Radar data indicated that as the two aircraft converged to within approximately 3.5 nm laterally and 400 ft vertically one minute before the estimated time of the collision, a visual and aural Conflict Alert was triggered at the radar controller's position and "about 3 seconds later" with the aircraft now approximately 2 miles apart and "closing in towards each other at 300 knots" and shortly after the Cessna 150 had passed through 1,200 feet QNH climbing, the controller issued a traffic advisory to the F16 - "traffic, twelve o’clock, two miles, opposite direction, one thousand two hundred indicated, type unknown". This transmission was the first mention of proximate traffic given to the F16 pilot and occurred "2 minutes and 25 seconds after it had first appeared on radar". When the F16 pilot immediately responded that he was looking for the traffic, the controller added four seconds later that he should "turn left if he did not see it". The F16 pilot "did not hear that instruction because he was fixated on finding the other aircraft and asked the controller to confirm the distance" to which the response was to “turn left, heading 180, immediately” if the traffic was not seen. This instruction was immediately acknowledged and with the traffic still not seen, a standard rate 30° banked turn was commenced with the AP remaining engaged to facilitate a continued visual scan. The left turn placed the F16 on a collision course with the still unseen Cessna and as the F16 passed through 150° degrees in the turn, the controller added "traffic passing below you, one thousand four hundred". A few seconds later, the two radar returns merged as the collision occurred at 1,600 feet QNH. It was found subsequently that the F16 pilot had finally sighted the Cessna when it was "less than 500 feet away, less than a second before the collision and had pulled full aft stick in an attempt to avoid collision" without success. Immediately prior to the sighting, he reported having been looking below the level of his aircraft. After considerable modelling using the available data, the USAF Investigation concluded that "It is highly unlikely that either pilot involved or any pilot in a similar situation could have seen the other aircraft prior to the controller's traffic advisory". The main concerns of both Investigations centred on the radar controllers approach to de-confliction and the fact that neither of the aircraft involved had made full use of the available support to the well-known limited effectiveness of "see-and-avoid" in