Class 'E' controlled airspace where no separation is provided between IFR traffic and VFR traffic. The Radar Controller The decision to place the F16 "on a flight path projected to pass close to the departure end of the runway at a non-towered airfield on an intersect with normal departure routes" had "required significant vigilance to avoid the development of a conflict".. The first traffic advisory was given to the F16 only about 40 seconds prior to the collision which was inadequate. It was considered that the initial assumption that the observed (Cessna 150) traffic would remain in the Berkeley Circuit was inappropriate since it had indirectly compromised late initial traffic advisory.. The decision to turn the F16 left was made on the assumption that the F16 could and would "turn on a dime" whereas at the airspeed involved, the radius of any turn would have been considerable even if, as the controller reported having expected, the qualification "immediately" she had used in the final avoidance instruction had resulted in a steeper turn with the AP out. It was considered that to achieve last minute avoiding action, an additional degree of urgency should have been added to the call, possibly 'expedite'.. It was considered with hindsight to be clear that "any turn of the F16 to the south would increase the likelihood of collision". It was noted that although turning the F16 to cross in front of the Cessna 150's track "was not contrary to FAA guidance for air traffic controllers, it was the least conservative decision, as it was most dependent on the F-16 pilot's timely action for its success".. It was noted that had the controller instead "issued a right turn or climb, this would have avoided the conflict". The controller stated that she had not given a climb because "the altitude indicated for the Cessna's radar target was unconfirmed".. Use of collision avoidance aids There were 'systems' available which may have improved or enhanced both pilots' situational awareness of other aircraft and potential conflicts with them but they were not used. The Cessna 150 pilot had not, by the time of the accident, sought flight-following from ATS Charleston, although he was still sufficiently close to his departure airport to have been monitoring the CTAF for awareness of aircraft in the vicinity of Berkeley as recommended by the FAA and it was considered, "based on statements from his flight instructor and from his logbook entries, which both cited past experience communicating with ATC" that he would probably have been intending to contact ATC at some point during the flight. It was also noted that the F16s sensors, as configured, did not provide its pilot with information on the proximity of the Cessna 150. It was nevertheless considered that whilst the support which both of these 'systems' could have provided to all parties involved "would have increased their situational awareness and aided each pilot with the difficult task to see and avoid other aircraft, there is insufficient evidence to conclude