this, by itself, would have prevented the collision". See-and-Avoid It was noted by the NTSB Investigation that there are "inherent limitations" to see-and-avoid which include "limitations of the human visual and information processing systems, pilot tasks that compete with the requirement to scan for traffic, the limited field of view from the cockpit, and environmental factors that could diminish the visibility of other aircraft". In this connection, the USAF Investigation noted that the sequence of actions required to react to an initial sighting of a proximate aircraft, typically adds up to 12.5 seconds - see the illustration below. It also noted that "when conducting a visual scan, or clearing, the procedure is to focus on 30 degree wide portion of the sky, focus on the ground about 4-8 miles away, then move up and scan a few inches above and below the horizon, scanning for at least 2 seconds in each sector". Because of the relatively low speed travelled by aircraft such as the Cessna 150, its pilot "would be required to scan a large area of the sky (approximately 180 degrees) to find potential conflicts" and a complete scan "would take more than 15 seconds to complete". The effectiveness of such a scan could easily be reduced by anything that interrupts the direct line of sight, "ranging from aircraft structures to a bug splatter on a windscreen". It was considered that "at the extreme edges of influence, these can either block a pilot’s vision or trap the eye, drawing a pilot’s focus away from scanning". In the specific case of the Cessna 150 pilot's chances of spotting the F16, it was found through modelling that the prominent wing strut on the Cessna 150 would have obstructed the pilot's view of the F16 "from approximately 1 mile away until immediately before impact". It was also noted that the size of a conflicting aircraft is likely to be very small and the constant relative bearing which characterises a real collision risk target makes early detection even more difficult. The USAF Investigation provided an illustration of this which is reproduced below. The Human Factors perspective on the collision for the F16 pilot was explicitly examined by the USAF Investigation. Two human factors relevant to the mishap were identified, 'Inaccurate Expectation' and 'Fixation'. Inaccurate Expectation applied because it was usual to receive initial traffic information at 20nm rather than 2nm separation and when receiving it at 2nm, the F16 pilot was forced into “aggressively” working to visually acquire and avoid the other aircraft. It was noted that "individuals in time-critical situations are susceptible for skill-based inaccuracies (and) therefore when unexpected situations force individuals to rapidly process and react, there is increased potential for error". Fixation, "when the individual is focusing all conscious attention on a limited number of environmental cues to the exclusion of others" occurred when the F16 pilot did not hear the controller's first "turn left" instruction whilst undertaking the demanding task of visual scanning. It was noted that "it is