It was noted that less than three months after the investigated event, Iberia had temporarily suspended operations of the A-340-600 at Quito following a more serious landing overrun accident at that airport. During this time, approach procedures for both runways which would ensure that aircraft were sufficiently stabilised prior to touchdown were defined and a new procedure for precision approach to runway 35 was adopted with a requirement to proceed to the designated alternate if runway 17 was in use. Also, having noted that because of the size of the fleet, pilots would fly to Quito infrequently, Iberia ”organised a group of Captains to fly there on a more regular basis”. It also contracted the use of an A340-600 flight simulator for use in crew training in recognition of the handling differences between it and the A340-300 which crews also flew on the basis of a single type rating. The Investigation formally concluded as follows: “No evidence was found of any existing defects in the aircraft tyres or of malfunctions in any of its systems, nor of the presence of foreign object debris on the runway surface”. “The Probable Cause of the event is considered to be the performance of a landing with a high drift angle of the main gear relative to the runway centerline, combined with a high descent rate. This is consequence of a non stabilised approach, with excessive descent speed, which forced the crew to perform strong yaw and bank corrections in order to maintain the required horizontal course. The downwind leg of the visual approach circuit was performed with a little separation from the runway and a continuous turn was made (from) the downwind leg until the final, which gave little margin to the crew to stabilise the aircraft before touchdown. The consecutive changes in the crosswind component when the aircraft was close to the ground contributed to the crew not being able to stabilise it during final approach” The Final Report of the Investigation: Report QUITO 1/2007 was approved by the CIAIAC on 21 February 2011. No Safety Recommendations were made.