The event was notified to the State of the Operator by the Republic of Ecuador Accident Investigation Commission (Junta Investigadora de Accidentes - JIA) who subsequently delegated the Investigation to the Spanish CIAIAC. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was recovered but the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had not been stopped and the relevant recording had been overwritten. It was found that Iberia procedures for stopping the CVR did exist but the task was designated to be carried out by maintenance personnel. The Investigation found no evidence that there had been any relevant aircraft technical malfunctions, nor that any runway FOD had been present. It was established that the flight crew had consisted of the aircraft commander, a relief Captain and two Co Pilots. Both operating crew for the landing at Quito had been experienced on the aircraft type. The runway in use was advised as 17 and weather information passed to the crew prior to their decision on which approach to fly had been a W/V of 120° varying between 060° to 180° with a mean speed of 9 knots gusting to 19 knots, visibility good and a cloud base of 3900 ft aal. ATC had initially cleared the aircraft to position for a left base for runway 17 but then agreed to the crew request for an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 35 followed by circling to 17. The AIP chart for the ILS approach to 35 with reference to the circling to 17 option which was included in the Official Report includes a general reference to it being an “ICAO” standard chart, although there is no reference on it to PANS-OPS and there is no information about the chart which would have been used by the Iberia crew. The Investigation noted that “the fact that runway 17 was in use, and not 35 as called for in the operator’s instructions for the VOR-ILS approach, forced the crew to make a circling approach”. It also noted that circling, for which there is no prescribed track, is restricted due to the nature of the terrain around the airport location and specifically that high terrain in the extended downwind position prevents this leg being prolonged excessively. It was considered that “there is no indication that the operator had planned this manoeuvre in any detail”. FDR data showed that the downwind leg had been flown “with little separation from the runway” and that a constant turn which began only 27 seconds prior to landing had been necessary to reach 500 ft on finals from the downwind leg. The Investigation considered that “whether the downwind leg could have been prolonged without compromising safety given the rising mountain terrain is debatable” Despite the short amount of time before touchdown once on final approach, it was concluded that “the aircraft made a reasonably stable approach” but that the rate of descent was around 1500fpm as late as 400 feet aal, which was above the maximum 1200fpm allowable in the Operator’s Stabilised Approach guidance.