It was still 1000 fpm when the flare was initiated and touchdown occurred at 960fpm with 10° of drift. It was established that the aircraft had contacted the runway surface 160 metres from the beginning of the runway threshold with a groundspeed of 175 knots. Pieces of tyre were found from the contact point forward for the length of the landing run, during which the aircraft was more or less aligned with the runway centerline until coming to a stop 2720 m away from the touchdown point on the 3120 metre long runway. During the landing run, ATC notified the crew of disintegrating tyres and it was found subsequently that tyres 10, 4 and 8 had burst, tyre 12 had deflated and tyres 3 and 7 had been subjected to a high brake temperature. Iberia provided the Investigation with their Operations Manual Part C content in respect of Quito which included the following “relevant aspects to the (investigated) incident"7 Given the mountainous terrain, published maximum maneuvering speeds must be strictly observed.. The main approach is the 35 ILS-VOR, with a permissible tailwind of 10 knots.. Only a circling approach to the east) of runway 17/35 is possible for runway 17.. The low visibility circling manoeuvre is described in the FCOM issued by the aircraft manufacturer ….which states the need to be stable at an altitude of 400 feet at the conclusion of the base leg. The standard pattern visual approach is performed at 1,500 ft AGL.. All landings to be made by the aircraft commander, who must have at least one year of experience of the A340 fleet. To maintain their rating for the airport, they were required to have landed there at least once in the previous year, or undergo simulator training for that airport or fly there as an Observer on a regularly scheduled flight.. It was, however, considered by the Investigation, there was “no record of the operator, either by itself or with the manufacturer’s support, having performed an in-depth study of the landing conditions on runway 17 when operations to Quito airport were initiated”. In respect of the handling of the aircraft, FDR data made available by Iberia showed that in the previous year, “approximately 15% of all flights (to Quito) had landed on runway 17, especially from June to August due to the prevailing winds”. It was also noted that “the operator’s training syllabus for the second quarter of 2006 focused on Quito” but because Iberia did not make use of an A340-600 flight simulator, approaches to both runways were practised only on the -300 simulator. Tyre distress under the combination of abnormal lateral and vertical loads was considered in the light of Airbus’ comments that “the landing conditions at Quito exceeded the specifications tested during the tyre certification process….according to certification data, the tyres may have withstood the touchdown despite the 10° drift had the descent rate been lower”. It was concluded that there was no basis for the issue of a safety recommendation