An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB assisted by access to radar and R/T recordings. It was established that with the Co Pilot as PF and the AP engaged, the aircraft had been radar vectored onto the ILS LOC for runway 23 and as the cleared altitude of 3500 feet was approached, power had been further reduced to aid speed reduction prior to descent on the ILS GS. However, this had had the effect of (routinely) activating the gear warning horn. The PF attempted cancellation but the desired result was not achieved and the continued sounding of the warning horn was accompanied by disconnection of the AP and removal of all FD modes leaving only a fly up command on (only) the left hand side attitude indicator because the go around button had been inadvertently pressed. The only annunciations of AP/FD status were on the panel at the left hand side pilot position, above the attitude indicator and thus difficult for the Co Pilot to see. Both crew temporarily lost situational awareness as a result of the confusion caused and at a range of 15nm from the runway, the aircraft began to descend below 3500 feet at an increased rate of descent of around 3000 fpm for around 16 seconds. The first to recognise the unintended descent was the aircraft commander who immediately instructed the PF to climb back to 3500 feet. However, as this was being done, an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) ‘TERRAIN TERRAIN PULL UP’ Warning occurred and ATC, who had observed the unexpected descent, also advised of it - shortly before a corresponding Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) Alert was generated. Recovery to 3500 feet was achieved over a 40 second period from a minimum altitude of 2273 feet during which the minimum vertical clearance from terrain was 1484 feet. The vertical profile flown in relation to terrain is shown in the diagram below taken from the Official Report. It was noted that the Operators fleet of B200 aircraft was predominantly a variant fitted with Electronic Flight Instrument System flight instrumentation whereas the incident aircraft was fitted with mechanical instruments and only had an ADI at the left hand side pilot position. It was also noted that the go around button on the incident aircraft was in the same position on the left hand side of the left hand power lever as the gear warning horn silencing button on the EFIS-equipped aircraft, the only difference being that the EFIS variant go around button is recessed but the non-EFIS variant gear warning cancel button protrudes. It was established that the Co-Pilot had only recently joined the Operator after obtaining a B200 type rating in the USA, and after completing line training had flown only five sectors. His type rating training and limited subsequent line flying had all been conducted on EFIS-equipped aircraft and although he had been briefed on the non-EFIS variant by another line pilot and indicated to the Operator that he was