An Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Unit of the Danish Accident Investigation Board (AIB). It was immediately established that severe internal damage had resulted in the failure of the left hand Pratt and Whitney JT8D-217C engine. Recorded data was successfully downloaded from the removed DFDR and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and used to assist in the Investigation. It was found that action to reject the take off had been initiated at 76 KIAS. It was determined at an early stage that the flight crew response had been appropriate and it therefore "decided not to investigate the operational aspect any further". The failed engine was removed from the aircraft and sent to an overhaul facility for tear down in order to facilitate investigation. Visual examination of the engine revealed that all 88 third stage low pressure turbine (LPT) blades had fractured at or near the airfoil root above the flow path platform. The remains of one of these - blade number one - showed clear evidence of heat and fatigue in the fractured area (see the first diagram below). There was no evidence of failure origin on the 87 other third stage blades. All the blades on the fourth stage LPT were also found to have been similarly fractured at or near the blade airfoil root (see the second diagram below). It was noted that none of the remaining parts of the fourth stage blades showed any evidence of fatigue. Overall, no evidence of LPT or exhaust case breaches or any signs of case flange breaches was found and all observations confirmed that the failure sequence had been fully contained within the engine case. Further attention was particularly given to the attached remains of the third stage number 1 blade which, along with the adjacent blades 2 and 88, was removed from the disk. Clear evidence of fatigue was observed on the number 1 blade with the fracture surface showing various degrees of oxidation and beach marks visible. The origin of the fatigue cracking was obvious with the fatigue part of the fracture being relatively smooth and the secondary fracture rough and serrated. Scanning Electron Microscopy was used to further examine the origin and propagation of the crack with adjacent blade 88 used as a reference. The engine manufacturer provided explanations for various detailed markings on the blades and it was established that all of the third stage LPT blades had been installed as overhauled (OH) in January 2006. Since then, the cycles had reached almost the half way point to the next likely overhaul at 20,000 cycles - although it was stated that this figure was dependent on service experiences and any overhaul shop recommendation. It was noted that lower inspection thresholds apply to OH blades than to new blades. It was noted that "the primary cause of fractured LPT blades was shroud wear" and the following background information was documented: The JT8D engines LPT blades have shrouds at the outer extremities of the associated airfoils. The blade