shrouds are nested in close proximity to each other. The turbine blade shrouds have a mechanical interlocking feature in the form of a notch that allows each blade to be physically interlocked at its shroud with an adjacent blade. A variety of mechanisms can cause wear in the mechanical interlocking feature. For example, during operation of the turbine there might be vibration of adjacent blades with respect to each other and the hub. The aforementioned interlocking feature might then facilitate mitigation of airfoil vibration such that the stresses induced within the blades during operation are in turn mitigated. The close tolerances of the interlocking features might increase wear in the vicinity of the interlocking features as the adjacent notches rub against each other. The existence of a 2011 FAA AD for initial and repetitive torque inspections of third and fourth stage LPT blades for shroud notch wear on some variants of the JT8D engine was noted but this had only applied to fourth stage blades in the case of the -217C variant. The Investigation was unable to confirm or eliminate shroud notch wear on the evidence available. The failed engine was confirmed to have been in compliance with all other applicable ADs. The engine manufacturer advised that "a number of JT8D engine LPT blades fractures had led to in-flight engine shutdowns, with ten third stage fractures recorded between May 2008 and June 2013, at which point it was believed that just over 1600 JT8D-217C/219 engines were on wing". It was noted that -217C and -219 LPT third stage blade fractures were not distinguished from one another because of the close similarity of the two engine variants and their common third stage blade part numbers. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that whilst the origin of the failure sequence was a fracture in the no. 1 blade of the third stage LPT attributable to fatigue, neither defects nor structural abnormalities explained the initiation of the fatigue crack and the root cause of the fatigue could not be exactly determined. The Final Report was published on 12 May 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made but the Investigation Report stated that "the AIB encourages the Type Certification Holder of the involved engine type (PW JT8D-217C) to evaluate the case for mandating shroud notch wear inspections on stage 3 LPT blades" noting that such inspections are currently only mandatory for fourth stage LPT blades.