An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the 49 year-old Captain had a total of 20,000 flying hours of which 9358 hours were on type. The flying experience of the First Officer and the Relief First Officer was not documented. It was established that, with the First Officer acting as PF, the Captain as PM and the Relief First Officer occupying one of the supernumerary flight deck seats, a strong smell of fumes had been evident on the flight deck during the initial cruise descent about an hour before the ETA. This had been quickly followed by cabin crew reports of fumes in both front and rear of the passenger cabin and the Relief First Officer had entered the cabin to confirm the intensity of the fumes there. The corresponding ‘Smoke Fire or Fumes’ Checklist was actioned with the First Officer donning his oxygen mask first followed, after an increase in the intensity of the fumes, by the Captain and finally by the Relief First Officer upon his return to the flight deck. Whilst the Checklist was being actioned, further reports of fumes in the cabin continued and there was no further change in their intensity on the flight deck. It was decided that the flight should be continued to its intended destination and an “urgency message” was transmitted to ATC and a NITS brief was then given to the Cabin Service Manager. Soon after this brief had been completed, “haze” was reported in the vicinity of Door 2L and the ‘Smoke Removal’ Checklist was actioned, although with no significant effect on the fumes’ intensity. An uneventful autoland was completed at Heathrow and, after an external aircraft inspection by the RFFS found nothing of concern, the aircraft taxied to its gate and normal passenger disembarkation followed. Two days later, shortly after release to service following engineering action not documented by the Investigation, an “oily smell” became apparent after the left engine had been started and the aircraft returned to the gate and was again taken out of service. After engineering work including replacement of the APU and various components in the aircraft air conditioning system, a ground run was carried out but fumes were again detected and this time, the left engine was identified as the source. This finding prompted an inspection of the engine in accordance with the Boeing ‘Fault Isolation Procedure’ for ‘oil fumes / smoke in the cabin’. Based upon the information available, it was decided that the parallel procedure for ‘fuel fumes / smoke in the cabin’ was not applicable. After no evidence of oil was found in the left engine compressors, the left engine bleed air supply was isolated by locking the corresponding Pressure Regulating and Shut-Off Valve (PRSOV) closed and the aircraft was released to service again in accordance with the MEL. The next flight - outbound to Seattle five days after the initial event - was uneventful but the next day, as the aircraft passed 8000 feet