Speed (Vref) was 115 KIAS. A Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems was available. Based on recorded flight data and interviews with both pilots, the Investigation concluded that the final part of the approach had been unstabilised. The data showed that both airspeed and glide path angle had "varied to a significant degree" as the aircraft neared the runway, and both pilots recollected that it had been necessary to correct both altitude and glide path angle when PAPI became visible indicating that the aircraft was too low. It was noted that "given that an altitude which is too low is perceived as a more hazardous position than the opposite, it is easy for an altitude adjustment to result in an overcorrection that leads to a reverse situation in which the aircraft will be too high". This occurred and at a late stage in the approach, the aircraft was both too high and too fast with "the scope for further correction of these parameters probably insufficient". It was considered that "(more) effective crew cooperation supported by a coherent concept for stabilised approach would have led to the approach being abandoned and a go around commenced". It was found that although the Operator used the expression “stabilised approach” in its manuals, there was no guidance which would allow this concept to be applied in practice. It was also noted that "the manuals also lack instructions for when an approach is to be abandoned". It was established that touch down had occurred about half way along the 1590 metre runway 16 with excessive speed. The First Officer had retarded the throttles to idle and initiated thrust reversal whilst handing over control of the aircraft to the commander. Having taken over, the commander began braking and selected maximum reverse propeller pitch. However, it was not possible to stop the aircraft or reduce its speed sufficiently to allow it to exit the runway under normal directional control at the usual place near the end of the runway. An attempt to make this 90° right turn onto taxiway 'A' resulted in loss of directional control and the aircraft exited the right hand side of the runway at an approximate 45°angle before almost immediately entering snow which was up to 40 cm deep. This rapidly slowed its progress and it finally stopped with the nose 6/7 metres beyond the taxiway edge in the position shown on the diagram below. It was found that the Operator had no procedures for correcting runway performance calculations for contaminated surfaces. It was also found that although there had been no recording of any technical defects in the Aircraft Technical Log, a number of such defects were known to both the flight crew and the Operator's Technical Department. These included inoperative right hand propeller de icing, defective right hand side cabin lighting and missing pitot covers. In respect of the first of those, the Investigation was of the opinion that "the fact that the commander made the decision to carry out the flight