The cause of true Vortex Ring is two-fold. In all flight circumstances there is a degree of airflow circulation at the tips of the blades where the air forced downwards aerodynamically rotates around the aerofoil tip and forms a vortex; this happens with all aerofoils including fixed wing aircraft wings. The vortex generated increases drag and reduces lift. If a helicopter is descending rapidly there is an increased upflow of air at the rotor tips and this rapidly increases the strength and size of the vortices. This reduces lift and aerofoil efficiency at the tips of the blades and requires more engine power to overcome the drag. Because the rotor blades are turning (as opposed to fixed on an aeroplane) the vortex travels with the blades and the vortex is formed into a “doughnut” shaped ring at the outer edge of the rotor disc. Additionally, as the rate of descent increases, there is an increased upflow of air at the blade roots. The speed of the inboard sections of the blades is much slower than the tips. As rate of descent increases it is possible for the upflowing air to modify and increase the local angle of attack at the root end such that the root end of the blade stalls. If collective pitch is further increased when the aircraft is in this state the angle of attack along the entire length of the blade is increased. The effect of this will be to increase the extent of the tip vortex which extends further in from the tip. Consequently, the loss of lift at both ends of the blades increases and the area around the middle portion of the blade, that is actually generating lift, reduces. Total lift is reduced and the helicopter accelerates downwards. This acceleration increases the upflow of air, which aggravates the stalled condition. In the extreme, it is possible that the entire length of the blades no longer produces any lift at all. The effects of all these factors is increased when the helicopter is at high all up mass, because more power is required to maintain a given flight condition, and is more insidious when operating downwind, as the visual illusion of speed when downwind effectively masks the reduction of forward airspeed.