and another recent Airbus runway excursion incident in Norway served to “indicate that the Airbus procedures are difficult to relate to Norwegian winter operations'.” The report also noted that at the time of the investigation, AIBN had already begun a special investigation into “Winter Operations and Friction Measurements” as a result of a series of 24 events over a period of 8 years involving slippery runways and the measurement and reporting of runway surface coefficients of friction. This ongoing wider investigation was noted to have already led to the issue of 4 immediate general safety recommendations to the Norwegian CAA. In respect of the asymmetric thrust which had resulted from the setting of a similar thrust lever position for both engines, it was concluded that: During the 6 min stop while waiting for extra sanding in front of the aircraft, ice was probably forming on the No. 1 engine Low Pressure Compressor (LPC) blades, the LPC guide vanes and the Fan Exit Guide Vanes (FEGV). Relatively more fan icing was considered to have accumulated on the left engine fan blades during this time because the right engine was shielded from the prevailing wind by the fuselage whereas the left engine was not and was also running slightly above idle after being so selected in an attempt to assist the turn on to the runway. It was therefore believed that the ice in the No. 1 engine led to restricted air flow within the compressor causing asymmetric thrust. The Investigation also considered that circumstances of the investigated event had confirmed that: AIP Norway information governing winter maintenance of runways is outdated. the Norwegian practice of sand gritting on loose slush, wet or dry snow on top of ice or compact snow does not provide the expected aircraft braking coefficient” and. the practice of measuring runway friction coefficient on wet conditions provides erroneous coefficients of friction. The Investigation made Significant Findings as follows: Due to icing in the No. 1 engine resulting in asymmetric thrust, the aircraft veered. to the left during engine acceleration. Due to an extremely slippery runway, with a CF much lower than the measured. and reported friction number of around 30 (MEDIUM), the actual runway friction was too low for nose wheel steering and for braking. Airbus Industrie’s concept of basing aircraft take off and landing performance on. “Fluid Contamination” and “Equivalent to Wet Runway” is misleading and not substantiated by scientific research. AIBN investigations and Norwegian experience show that “fluid contaminations” very often result in POOR braking action, contrary to the present belief of some organisations. The Norwegian practice of measuring friction on compact snow or ice covered by. loose dry snow, wet snow or slush may be outside the approved acceptable conditions for the measuring devices. The Investigation resulted in the issue of four Safety Recommendations as follows: that MyTravel Airways UK review their OM Part A related to these types of operations. [SL 2007/25T]. that MyTravel Airways UK review their training requirements for operations on