An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN) with DFDR and CVR data available. It was found that the First Officer, who had only recently qualified on the aircraft type, had been designated as PF despite recognition of the potentially challenging departure conditions by the aircraft commander It was noted that before and after the accident, the wind had been light and variable along the length of the runway averaging about 6 knots with good visibility in light Snow and an air temperature around minus 4-5°C. The flight crew were aware prior to departure that the runway surface was covered with dry snow overlying sanded ice giving and during taxi out were informed by ATC that the braking coefficients for runway 35 were 32/32/30 and therefore satisfied the minimum permitted braking action of “MEDIUM” under the MyTravel Airways SOPs. It was found that there had been no abnormal aircraft handling issues during the taxi out but as the First Officer had tried to turn the aircraft round on the runway, there had been no response to nose wheel steering input and so he had stopped the aircraft to allow the aircraft commander to take over. When he was not able to turn the aircraft either, the aircraft held position for some 6 minutes whilst extra sanding of the surface took place which resolved the problem. With the aircraft eventually aligned for take off, DFDR data showed that the thrust levers had been advanced, with no pause for stabilisation, to a Throttle Lever Angle (TLA) of 33.75° and without following the available engine fan ice shedding procedure. The achieved EPRs of the two engines had been different with 1.34 on the right but only 1.11 on the left. Left engine N2 had also been lower than that on the right engine. Both thrust levers had been retarded to idle at a ground speed of 10 knots as the aircraft began to deviate from the runway centreline and this deviation increased as ground speed rose to a peak of 22 knots before deceleration began. Braking was then initiated as the aircraft left the runway. The aircraft had come to a stop in snow and soil at an angle of approximately 40° to the runway centre line and with the nose and tail of the aircraft respectively 35 metres and 12 metres from the edge of the 45 metre wide runway. It was established that at the time of the accident, the runway used had been covered with approximately 6 mm of loose dry snow overlying sanded ice. The Investigation noted that UK CAA did not permit operations on runways contaminated with frozen deposits and considered that UK pilots would not routinely experience such conditions. It also noted that Operator Procedures for contaminated runway take offs had been based on the Airbus premise of a “fluid contaminated runway” which was judged to be a “very uncertain (concept) based on insufficient scientific documentation”. It was considered that the investigated accident