There are three major causal factors for fuel starvation occurrences: Pilot factors. These are the most common cause for fuel-related occurrences. Fuel Mismanagement. This occurs when the pilot forgets to switch fuel tanks when necessary, or switches to the wrong fuel tank, or just doesn’t monitor the fuel burn during a flight. Much of the time, the problem stems from a lack of understanding of the fuel system itself. Lack of familiarity with the aircraft, or lack of experience on the particular aircraft type. Distractions. There have been aircraft accidents in the past in which the pilots allowed a fuel starvation event to occur while preoccupied with something else, like fixing a landing gear problem or becoming disoriented. The adage applies here: Aviate, navigate, communicate — in that order. Troubleshooting or allowing yourself to get distracted by other people or events can lead to fixation on that particular problem or event and can cause the pilot to completely disregard other important aspects of the flight — like fuel management.. Fuel Mismanagement. This occurs when the pilot forgets to switch fuel tanks when necessary, or switches to the wrong fuel tank, or just doesn’t monitor the fuel burn during a flight. Much of the time, the problem stems from a lack of understanding of the fuel system itself.. Lack of familiarity with the aircraft, or lack of experience on the particular aircraft type.. Distractions. There have been aircraft accidents in the past in which the pilots allowed a fuel starvation event to occur while preoccupied with something else, like fixing a landing gear problem or becoming disoriented. The adage applies here: Aviate, navigate, communicate — in that order. Troubleshooting or allowing yourself to get distracted by other people or events can lead to fixation on that particular problem or event and can cause the pilot to completely disregard other important aspects of the flight — like fuel management.. Mechanical Problem or Failure. Very rarely, there is actually a fuel leak or a problem with the fuel system that can cause fuel starvation. In these cases, early recognition is key to dealing with the problem. Monitoring the actual fuel burn and the status of the fuel system is essential. The most commonly occurring technical factors are: Component failure (most frequently a problem with the fuel lines, fuel gauges, filter or carburettor) Malfunctioning fuel system (most frequently caused by a vapour block or a faulty fuel pump). Component failure (most frequently a problem with the fuel lines, fuel gauges, filter or carburettor). Malfunctioning fuel system (most frequently caused by a vapour block or a faulty fuel pump). Design-associated factors (such as owner’s manual details, fuel system and engine control design) when combined with pilot factors (e.g. lack of familiarity with the aircraft) may sometimes lead to fuel-related events.. A dedicated study made by the ATSB in 2002 (see Further reading) has found that there are some specific aspects of fuel-related events that may arise from the types of operations or pilot experience: In