All senior managers have an implicit (if not explicit) accountability for the safety performance of their organisation, yet their professional training and background rarely provides the specific knowledge and skills necessary to meet this responsibility. To carry out their safety responsibilities effectively, senior managers require specialist education in safety and human factors. First level supervisors in any organisation have an important influence on safe behaviour in the workplace, executed through the variety of responsibilities or ‘sub-roles’ they perform. The competence to perform effectively in these different roles needs to be actively developed. Team Resource Management (TRM) training can be a powerful Safety Culture improvement enabler. A properly designed, implemented and sustained TRM program is an important safety initiative for any ANSP. Accidents and other safety occurrences are, however, only the ‘tip of the iceberg’ in regard to understanding the reliability of the ATM system. Relatively common everyday situations (e.g., problems, complexities, threats) and controller re-actions to these (errors, adaptations, improvisations etc.) can provide valuable insight into inherent weaknesses, even though no reportable event occurs. Direct observation of controllers performing their everyday work is a recently developed technique for understanding better the nature of threats, errors and safety-related risks in the ATM system. Safety observation schemes have been developed recently to capture information about the ‘normal’ operational environment and everyday operator behaviour. An example of such a scheme in ATM is Competence assessment scheme, NATS Day-2-day observation and the Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS). Based on aviation’s Line Oriented Safety Audit (Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA)), NOSS is designed to capture, and learn from, the threats to safety that arise during everyday operations. A confidential reporting system can be a useful way to reinforce a positive Safety Culture. Such systems complement mandatory reporting processes, and allow safety lessons to be learnt from occurrences that may otherwise remain unreported. Although safety occurrences are unfortunate and costly, they are a valuable opportunity for an ANSP to learn about its vulnerabilities. The amount learned from an event is dependent on the quality of the safety occurrence investigation process used, and the investigation team resources. The team debriefing after an incident is another important way to learn from the event, at the local and organisational levels. The primary aims of the incident debriefing are to understand what happened, to learn from this, and to implement the lessons learned at team level with the objective of preventing the incident from happening again. Global lessons for the ANSP, or even the industry, may emerge from the debriefing, and should be communicated through appropriate channels. It is important that the debriefing be conducted as an open and ‘blame-free’ discussion, consistent with a Just Culture philosophy. Each team member should be allowed and encouraged to express their point of view. Feedback to individuals should be constructive - “what would you do differently next time” - not critical or directive (“don’t make that mistake again”). It may also be that a ‘near miss’ has caused some distress to those involved