passengers or cabin crew, possibly including injuries”. The Investigation considered that although the fact that the double spring failure had been the first such occurrence in more than 30 million aircraft type flight hours and therefore fell into the applicable definition of an ‘extremely remote’ occurrence probability, “nevertheless, as locking springs remain in service in potentially corrosive environments, it is important that appropriate maintenance and inspection procedures are in place to ensure that double-spring failures do not occur”. One Safety Issue was therefore indentified as being that “the maintenance inspection programme for the locking springs would have been unlikely to detect the corrosion cracking in the locking springs prior to their failing, and that there was no required preventive maintenance of the locking springs to limit the extent of corrosion damage”. It was considered that the decision to divert to Palmerston North was an appropriate one and that the deceleration and directional control of the aircraft after touchdown in the absence of engine power, nose wheel steering and normal braking (which follow from the actions in the ‘landing with abnormal gear indication’ checklist) was well handled. However, recorded data from the flight showed that the response of the crew to the ‘gear unsafe’ indication had not fully followed the correct and trained procedures. Although the required ‘landing gear gravity extension’ and ‘landing with abnormal landing gear’ checklists were eventually followed, the crew had initially responded by recycling the landing gear without any evidence that they had comprehensively assessed the potential consequences of this, which could have been expected to identify that the landing gear may have become stuck at an intermediate position. It was considered that such a ‘comprehensive assessment’ would have also involved a consultation with the operator for which there would have been ample fuel endurance and time. It was concluded that although this deviation had not affected the outcome, in other circumstances such recycling might have made matters worse. The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: The unsafe condition of the landing gear was caused by the dual failure of the two landing gear locking springs to hold the right hand landing gear in a down and locked position.. The two right main landing gear locking springs failed because of corrosion cracking, likely initiated by salt.. The severe corrosion environment in which the aeroplane operated increased the likelihood of corrosion occurring.. It could not be determined whether one locking spring failed before the other, or whether they failed simultaneously.. The maintenance inspection programme for the locking springs would have been unlikely to detect the corrosion cracking in the locking springs prior to their failing.. There was no required preventive maintenance of the locking springs to limit the extent of corrosion damage.. The crew’s decision to divert to Palmerston North Aerodrome was sound and the preparation for the emergency landing was well conducted and in accordance with company procedures.. The recycling of the landing gear several times before the emergency landing was outside documented procedures,