[Reproduced from the Official Report] It was also noted that the complete landing gear assembly was also subject to inspection every 5,000 flight hours as part of each ‘C Check’. But this “was a visual inspection and did not require the removal of components”. The most recent of eight ‘C Check’ inspections of the failed locking springs was found to have occurred in mid-2016 following which the side brace assembly had accumulated 1,420 flight hours and 1,456 flight cycles. In total in the 14 years since its original installation in the previous aircraft, the side brace had accumulated a total 35,829 flight hours and 36,366 flight cycles. An independent specialist examination established that both locking springs had failed due to “stress corrosion cracking followed by fatigue initiated corrosion” with the cracking then propagating until the spring was no longer capable of supporting the load and failure occurred. The fracture surfaces of the two springs were almost identical but it was not possible to determine whether they had failed simultaneously. This examination also noted that although the springs were made of stainless steel, they would not have been immune to salt-induced corrosion and stress cracking. One of the failed springs was, on request, forwarded to the OEM along with another, still-intact but higher life spring taken from another aircraft in the Mount Cook fleet for comparison. The OEM advised that the failure of the spring was attributable to “intergranular corrosion that then expanded by stress corrosion cracking followed by fatigue” and that their inspection of it had identified both chlorine and sodium, suggesting that the onset of corrosion may well have been attributed to the operational environment. ATR and the spring OEM advised the Investigation that they had records of 19 previous locking spring failures, all of which had involved the failure of only one of a spring pair. It was noted that whilst the failure of both springs would have resulted in a large sideways force whilst there was little or no downward force on the wheels and would thus have triggered - as intended by design - the ‘gear unsafe’ indication as long as the aircraft remained airborne. However, once the aircraft was on the ground with its full weight on the wheels, collapse of the gear leg was no longer possible. The manufacturer’s ‘system safety assessment’ for the failure of a single locking spring in service was that it would have ‘no safety effect’ because the failure of one spring “did not induce additional stress on the remaining spring". However, the corresponding assessment for a double spring failure was ‘major’ for which the applicable definition was “a condition which would reduce the capability of the aeroplane or the ability of the crew to cope with adverse operating conditions to the extent that there would be, for example, a significant reduction in safety margins or functional capabilities, a significant increase in crew workload or in conditions impairing crew efficiency, or discomfort to the flight crew, or physical distress to