An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC). The CVR was removed from the aircraft and the QAR was downloaded. When the CVR data were subsequently downloaded, it was found that although the crew had tripped the corresponding CB before leaving the aircraft, the first few minutes of relevant data had been overwritten because this CB had been reset when the aircraft was later removed from the runway. It was noted that the Captain, who was a current Training Captain with the operator had a total of 5,500 hours flying experience of which over 2000 hours were on type. He had joined the operator four years earlier as a First Officer and been promoted to Captain in September 2015. The First Officer, who was designated as PF for the flight, had 3,107 hours flying experience of which 1,870 were on type, and had joined the operator in October 2013. The senior member of the two-person cabin crew was undergoing a routine line check conducted by a supernumerary cabin crew trainer. The flight had proceeded uneventfully until the landing gear was selected down during the approach to runway 02 at Nelson, following which the status indication for the right main gear showed red rather than the expected green on both the primary and secondary indicators. After making a go around and being unable to resolve the problem, the flight declared a ‘PAN’ and advised an intention to divert to Palmerston North which had a longer runway available. After making this transit at 15,000 feet, the Captain took control and, after further unsuccessful attempts to get an indication that all landing gear legs were locked down, made a visual daylight approach to runway 07. On touchdown leading with the left main gear, the power levers were closed and the aircraft was brought to a stop approximately 500 metres prior to the end of the 1900 metre-long runway on a heading of about 10° left of the centreline. The right main gear outer tyre was found deflated and a skid mark showed that it had skidded about 150 metres before bursting. The passengers were subsequently disembarked from the aircraft and taken to the terminal by bus. An examination of the right main landing gear assembly found that two locking springs which are intended to pull the secondary alignment brace into an over-centre locked position had broken and this locking mechanism had not fully engaged (see the illustration below). It was noted that the complete right main landing gear assembly involved had originally been fitted to another of the operator’s ATR72 aircraft during manufacture in 2002. The applicable maintenance schedule required that a full overhaul should occur after the first of either 18,000 cycles or 8 eight years and after completion of this overhaul, the assembly had then been refitted to a different aircraft - the one involved - in November 2009. The right main gear side brace assembly in its extended position showing the locking springs.