Once advised of the event more than 24 hours after it had occurred, the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB) began an Investigation into the circumstances. By this time, relevant data from the aircraft CVR had been overwritten but relevant CCTV footage was available. The 42 year-old Captain who was acting as PF for the flight had a total of 12,193 hours flying experience all but 229 hours of which were on type and he had flown 105 hours in the preceding 90 days. The 50 year-old First Officer with him had a total of 6,706 hours flying experience of which 4,298 hours were on type. The 34 year-old controller involved had been rated to operate at Changi for almost six years. As the aircraft was taking the taxi route shown in the illustration below and shortly after the change from GND to TWR frequency, the flight was issued with a takeoff clearance from runway 20L (‘runway 3’) by the Changi East Tower controller as it approached the holding point. Once lined up, the crew stated that the edge lights had been on and since centreline lighting was not a company requirement for night takeoff, a rolling takeoff in visibility recorded as greater than 10 km had followed. Company night takeoff requirements also included that runway end lights were illuminated but this was not checked. The taxi out route taken by the aircraft (not to scale). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the First Officer had subsequently stated that he had considered suggesting to the Captain that the absence of centreline lighting should be queried with ATC before taking off but had instead “waited to see what the Captain would do” after which the opportunity to do so had passed. After becoming airborne, the crew noticed that the edge lighting was actually off and advised this and the absence of centreline lighting to the controller who then switched on the runway lighting, all of which had, confirmed by CCTV, previously been off. The operator’s procedures required that the runway end lights must be illuminated for a night takeoff but this was not verified. The controller had forgotten to switch on the runway lighting and this omission was not then detected. It was found that controllers’ judgment of what constituted “the hours of darkness” as a basis for deciding when to switch on aerodrome lighting for night operations could be very subjective which could result in lighting systems within different areas of responsibility being switched on at different times. It was also assessed likely that expectation bias had provided the basis on which the controller had concluded that the runway lights were all on and also the basis on which the pilots concluded that the runway edge lights were on. The pilots involved were both based in Singapore and familiar with operations from the airport and could therefore have been reasonably expected to regard runway use at night with the centreline lighting off to have been unusual and