worthy of a query to ATC prior to takeoff if encountered. It was also noted that despite the fact that operator procedures required the runway end lights as well the runway edge lights to be on for night takeoffs, this was not been discussed.. Controllers were expected to use their judgement as to when to switch on taxiway and runway lighting during the day/night transition so that they were on during “the hours of darkness”. At the time of the takeoff, the moon had not risen and sunset had occurred 55 minutes prior to the takeoff. The corresponding taxiway lighting had been selected on 34 minutes prior to sunset but the controller had then forgotten to switch on the runway lighting.. The installed lighting on runway 02L/20R was as follows: Bi-directional edge lighting with the beams aligned with the runway edges (this was different to the edge lighting installed on runways 02L/20R and on 02C/20C which was omni-directional and could therefore be seen from the control tower. Bi-directional centreline lighting Runway end lighting. Bi-directional edge lighting with the beams aligned with the runway edges (this was different to the edge lighting installed on runways 02L/20R and on 02C/20C which was omni-directional and could therefore be seen from the control tower.. Bi-directional centreline lighting. Runway end lighting. The effect of bi-directional edge and centreline lighting was such that controllers in the Changi East Tower (CET) would be unable to see this lighting within approximately 500 metres either side of their TWR cabin (see the illustration below). It was, however noted that controllers “may see those lights that are further away from this section” although they “may not be easily discernible”.. The field of view of the runway edge lights from the CET (not to scale). [Reproduced from the Official Report] A taxi trial with the same aircraft type stationary at the threshold of runway 20L and the centreline and runway edge lights off showed that it was unlikely that: the runway 20L edge lights could appear ON when they were OFF; the blue taxiway edge lights near the threshold of runway 20L could be misidentified as white runway edge lights; the lights from the airport vicinity could have been mistaken as runway edge lights.. the runway 20L edge lights could appear ON when they were OFF;. the blue taxiway edge lights near the threshold of runway 20L could be misidentified as white runway edge lights;. the lights from the airport vicinity could have been mistaken as runway edge lights.. The routine assessment of the runway 02R/20L lighting system prior to the opening of this new runway in November 2020 was found to have included flight checks to confirm the suitability of the runway lights for flight operations but there was no requirement to consider whether the edge lights could be seen - or could be easily seen - by controllers in the CET. It was found that a cursory view from the CET of the centre portion of the edge and