centreline lights at night was similar whether the lights were on or off and this may not have been recognised by controllers during the relatively short period since the runway had opened.. In conjunction with the opening of the new runway, a new A-SMGCS had replaced the previously used Airfield Ground Lighting Control and Monitoring System as the means to provide control and indication of airfield lights to controllers by integrating lighting control/indication and the positions of aircraft and vehicles into a single system and display. However, it was found during the Investigation that just a quick glance at the display by a controller would not allow them to discern whether the runway lights were on or off and that they would need to look more closely at the display.. Although the runway lighting system was in full compliance with ICAO standards, the risk assessment apparently failed to consider the difference between the omni-directional lights installed on the two original runways and the bi-directional lights on the new runway. It therefore did not consider whether the on/off status of the new runway’s edge lights could be easily determined by visual reference or establish a method to achieve this.. There had been no controller feedback to the ANSP about any difficulty in discerning runway 20L lighting status on the A-SMGCS display despite the existence of multiple reporting channels including a confidential voluntary internal hazard reporting system and an industry-wide aviation confidential reporting system. It was found that controllers did not appear to have recognised “the safety hazard” which their inability to see the bi-directional edge and centreline lights at the central part of runway 20L represented.. The Conclusions of the Investigations were formal statements based on the above findings. Safety Action taken during and known to the Investigation as a result of the event was noted to have included the following: JetStar Asia as interim action prior to an intended OM amendment, issued a Flight Standing Order to remind pilots of the need to: ensure that runway lighting configuration is correct and complies with the operator’s minimum requirements for that particular runway for night operations and/or low visibility conditions. seek clarification from ATC before takeoff is commenced if the runway lighting configuration is not what is expected.. ensure that runway lighting configuration is correct and complies with the operator’s minimum requirements for that particular runway for night operations and/or low visibility conditions.. seek clarification from ATC before takeoff is commenced if the runway lighting configuration is not what is expected.. The Changi ANSP required the lead controller at CET to inform the Changi Tower Watch Manager when the aerodrome lights within CET area of responsibility have been switched on/off at sunset/sunrise. a table of sunrise/sunset timings, extracted from the Singapore AIP, has been provided to controllers. installed an alert system both at CET and at the Changi TWR which will activate near sunset as a reminder to controllers to switch on the aerodrome lighting.. required the lead controller at CET to