the constant descent angle of 3° (the inertial path) with a maintained green indication of the armed automatic landing mode regardless of the actual aircraft position in relation to the runway when the aircraft systems had detected that the glideslope signal was missing (after the false glideslope signal "capture") which generated the correct annunciations including aural and visual cautions.. the absence of a red warning in the case of a "false" glideslope capture and the transition to the inertial mode trajectory which would require immediate intervention on the part of the flight crew.. the lack of monitoring of the aircraft position in relation to the approach chart by the flight crew, including monitoring by means of the Navigation Display (ND), engaged in ‘MAP’ mode.. the flight crew's failure to follow the Airline's Standard Operational Procedures (SOPs) regarding the initiation of a go-around in the event of ‘AUTOPILOT’ (which indicates that it is switching to inertial mode) and EGPWS ‘GLIDESLOPE’ Alerts during the automatic CAT II landing at heights below 1000 feet when there was “no visual reference in respect of either the runway environment or with the lighting system)”.. the delay in initiating a go-around when no visual reference had been established by the applicable decision height (DH) of 99 feet agl with such action only taken at 58 feet agl.. A total of 13 Safety Recommendations have been made at the completion of the Investigation as follows: that the Top Management of Aircraft Operators draw the attention of the flight crews to the necessity of flying the procedure detailed on approach charts, of adhering to the criteria for a stabilised approach and landing and of monitoring distance and altitude when crossing reference points (FAF, LOM, LIM) during ILS approaches, especially ICAO CAT II and CAT III approaches. [5.1]. that the Top Management of Aircraft Operators provide the flight crew training which clarifies that in case of an absence of the required visual reference with the runway environment, a go-around must be initiated no lower than the established decision height/altitude. [5.2]. that the Top Management of Aircraft Operators conduct additional training on CRM and interaction in the case that one pilot "fears" that an approach (or other stage of flight) cannot be safely continued when the other crew member does not have the same concern as well as providing additional training on the actions required when the "minimums" annunciation is made. [5.3]. that the Top Management of Aircraft Operators conduct the theoretical and (if required) practical training for flight crews operating aircraft manufactured by the Boeing Company (all models) on the recognition, order and specific features of the conduct of flights of the autopilot switching to inertial mode during the descent on the glideslope (and) to consider the applicability of this recommendation to aircraft manufactured by other companies. [5.4]. that ATC service personnel, in respect of the pertinent equipment availability, inform flight crews on significant altitude deviations from values established by the approach charts, especially for ICAO CAT II and