visual reference and announcing a go around. DFDR data indicated that at 58 feet agl, and half a second after 'FLARE' mode had activated, the TOGA switch was pressed and thrust began to increase. Some 3½ seconds later, ground/obstruction impact began 930 metres beyond the end of the runway. Impact at up to 6g led to aircraft break up and a post crash fire which began in the central fuselage area and subsequently consumed most of the structure. The Cause of the Accident was formally determined by the Investigation as “the lack of control by the crew of the aircraft position in relation to the glideslope during an automatic approach conducted at night in weather conditions suitable for an ICAO CAT II approach and not performing a go-around in due time after a significant deviation from the instrument approach procedure chart which led to a controlled flight impact with terrain (CFIT) at the distance of approximately 930 metres beyond the end of the active runway”. A total of 12 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: the insufficient pre-flight briefing of the flight crew members for the approach to Bishkek regarding the approach charts, as well as the non-optimal decisions taken by the crew when choosing the aircraft descent parameters, which led to the arrival at the established approach chart reference point at a considerably higher flight altitude (than prescribed).. the lack of effective crew action to ensure descent required to comply with the approach procedures achieved so that it arrived at the established approach chart reference point at the required altitude despite the flight crew being aware that the actual aircraft position was higher than that required by the applicable chart.. the lack of the requirements in the Tower controllers' job instructions to monitor for significant aircraft position deviations from the established chart procedures when technical equipment for such monitoring was available.. the excessive psycho-emotional stress of the flight crew due to the complicated approach conditions (night time, CAT II approach, long working hours) and their failure to correct flight altitude deviations over a long time period. Additionally, the stress level could have been increased due to the crew's (especially the Captain's) highly emotional discussion of the ATC controllers' instructions and actions despite the fact that the ATC controllers' instructions and actions were in compliance with the established operational procedures and charts.. the lack of monitoring by the flight crew of the crossing established navigational reference points (the glideslope capture point, the LOM and LIM reporting points).. the flight crew's failure to conduct the standard operational procedure which calls for altitude verification at the FAF/FAP, which is stated in the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) and the airline's OM (although the Jeppesen Route Manual used by the crew did not show a FAF/FAP on the runway 26 ILS approach chart).. the onboard systems' "capture" of the 9° false glideslope beam.. the design features of the Boeing 747-400 aircraft type regarding the continuation of an approach in automatic mode with