CAT III approaches and, in case of conditions requiring compliance with Low Visibility Procedures, to consider making the corresponding amendments to the job instructions of air traffic controllers. [5.5]. that ATC service personnel finish the provision of the Met Report to crews before an aircraft reaches the LIM. The repetitive provision of the already-provided Met Report should be avoided, especially if the flight crew is in the process of conducting an ICAO CAT II or CAT III approach and landing. [5.6]. that ATC service personnel consider the practicability of an additional requirement in ATC specialists' job instructions to request the flight crew to confirm capturing both the localiser signal and the glideslope signal ("fully established" status) after crossing the FAP for flights conducted in low visibility conditions. [5.7]. that the Boeing Company and the FAA consider the practicability of improving the algorithm of glideslope capture and of the implementation of a warning in the case of a "false" glideslope capture. [5.8] NOTE: Other certifying authorities and aircraft design companies are invited to consider the applicability of these recommendations taking into account the actually applied algorithms.. that the Boeing Company and the FAA consider the practicability of changing the autopilot logic in order to prevent occurrences of continuous inertial glideslope descent (in LAND 3 or LAND 2 modes) in cases when the approach path does not enable a landing in the appropriate zone of the runway. [5.9]. that the Boeing Company consider the practicability of amending the operational documentation (FCOM, FCTM) in order to provide more detailed description of the inertial path flight mode. [5.10]. that the Boeing Company consider the practicability of amending the operational documentation (FCTM and the B-747 TM) in order to eliminate the discrepancies in the provided actions recommended for the crew in case of "AUTOPILOT CAUTION" annunciation triggering. [5.11]. that Aviation and the Aerodrome Administrations analyse the acceptability of construction activity in the immediate vicinity of aerodromes and, in case of findings, take appropriate decisions in cooperation with the pertinent authorities. [5.12]. that the Aviation Administration of the Kyrgyz Republic considers the practicability of amending aeronautical information provision regarding the publishing of a note on the possibility of increasing the safe altitude following an associated instruction from an ATS unit. [5.13]. A Preliminary Report detailing initial progress in the collection of factual information in respect of the Accident and detailing six Interim Safety Recommendations was released on 24 March 2017. The Investigation was completed on 17 February 2020 and the Final Report was then published.