and 3400 feet (from which ILS GS descent should then begin at 3.2 nm) as the associated target altitude, the DFDR recorded LOC capture. At this point, there was just less than 3 nm to go to this final descent point. All three APs were engaged in LOC capture followed by gear down and flap 20 with speed continuing to reduce through 190 KCAS. As the 3.2 nm final descent point was reached, the aircraft was still 600 feet above it and only reached and levelling at it with 'ALT HOLD' mode engaged nearly 2 nm further on (see the achieved vertical profile in the illustration below). The ILS GS indication was showing a maximum fly-down deflection and although the GS mode was armed, the GS was not captured. Soon after the aircraft passed over the Outer Marker (approximately 2.1 nm from the threshold) whilst still level at 3400 feet QNH (the charted procedure altitude for this position being 2800 feet QNH), TWR passed the final RVRs as 400/325/160 metres, gave the Vertical Visibility as 160 feet aal and issued a landing clearance. About 10 seconds after this and with approximately 1.1nm to run to the threshold, the false upper lobe of the glideslope signal was captured and the aircraft automatically initiated descent on it with a vertical speed of up to 1425 fpm. The aircraft began to follow this approximately 9° descent profile at 160 KCAS which took it along the extended and actual runway centreline. The Investigation concluded that once this descent began, the glideslope displays would have been “fluctuating between +/- 4 dots" and noted that 15 seconds after the false glideslope had been captured, 'AP CAUTION' and 'FMS FAULT 2' annunciations had begun. These annunciations were thereafter continuously recorded without any crew response until almost the end of the flight. The Investigation noted that the FAULT 2 annunciation meant that, as the aircraft approached the intended landing runway threshold, the AP/FD system had determined that it could no longer be tracking the ILS GS. This would not only have led to the EICAS 'AP CAUTION' but also to an aural MASTER CAUTION, the removal of the FD command bars from both PFDs and the appearance of a yellow line through the FMA (Flight Mode Annunciator) GS annunciation on both PFDs. In this situation, in common with all other Boeing aircraft types, the AP remains engaged and the aircraft follows an inertial flight path which defaults to a 3° descent profile. This continues until either a valid GS signal is detected, the crew activates TOGA or ground proximity triggers the 'FLARE' mode. As the aircraft approached the upwind end of the runway, five activations of the EGPWS Mode 5 'GLIDESLOPE' were recorded in a 7 second period and soon after this, the aircraft over flew the upwind runway threshold at about 110 feet agl. The 100 feet agl EGPWS auto callout was followed by the First Officer calling 'Minimums' and the Captain responding that there was no