An Investigation was carried out by the Air Accident Investigation Unit (Belgium) - AAIU (Be). No flight recorder was installed but data sent by the UAV to the Ground Control Station (GCS) were available. It was noted that the UAV involved, called an 'Oculus' by VITO, was a fixed wing design capable of automatic take-off, flight plan execution and automatic landing according to a previously-loaded flight plan which could be controlled up to a radio range of 50 km. It had an empty weight of 45 kg and a MTOW of 55 kg and was fitted with a 12 hp engine which enabled a Vno of 92 knots and an operational ceiling of 11,800 feet. It was noted that the designer UAVN was "a privately-owned, Spanish company which had been developing flight control systems, autopilots and ground control stations since 2004" and was registered with AESA, the Spanish CAA, as a "Qualified UAV Operator". In 2015, VITO had taken delivery of two of these 'Oculus' UAS after various difficulties in systems integration during manufacture had been resolved. The original 900 MHz radio communications frequency was supposed to have been changed with VITOs agreement to 2.4 GHz instead of the original 900MHz. However, when the system was inspected after the crash, it was found that "the system was actually working on 2.312 GHz, a frequency reserved for the Belgian Public Broadcasting Organisation RTBF". The UAV required two operators, an "Internal Pilot" located in a van with no direct line of sight to the UAV to control the flight path using a computer and a (back up) "External Pilot" in visual contact with the UAV who, if required, is able to control the aircraft in 'MANUAL' mode. The 43 year-old "External Pilot" had a total of 25 hours experience with the same and a similar UAV and had been an active flyer of radio-controlled model aircraft for over 25 years. For just over a year prior to the accident, he had also been the holder of a PPL with SEP rating. It was established that the intention had been for the UAV to fly a predetermined route within the 3nm radius TSA around Weelde aerodrome which extended up to 4,500 feet amsl. The flight was being made for test purposes and was intended to last about an hour using a route pre-programmed into the autopilot. No payload was being carried on the flight but subject to its successful completion, a further flight with a camera system on board was planned. A full tank of fuel - 11.9 litres - was loaded. No anomaly was detected during pre flight check of the UAV but there were nine interruptions of communication including two long duration (over 5 seconds) instances but this was "considered normal by the crew" who stated that they had "physically stood between the antennas, blocking the transmissions and the interruptions were only temporary". A Flight Plan was filed with call sign VITO 0200 and the SSR squawk 1414 was assigned. After