flight, it would have been possible to achieve deployment of the parachute.. The fact that the accident aircraft was equipped with a transponder was extremely useful in mitigating the risk of the loss of control of the UAV.. The original UAVN design, the Atlantic UAV, was flight tested in order to demonstrate emergency procedures. However, the VITO 'Oculus' versions had been extensively modified and there had been no subsequent flight testing of emergency procedures except to validate the activation of the 'HOLD' mode. Since the software fault was introduced during these modifications, a re-run of the emergency procedures flight test "would have allowed the early detection of the flaw in the logic in a controlled environment".. The Cause of the investigated event was formally documented as follows: "A series of interruptions to the communication between the ground station and the aircraft due to the disconnection of an antenna cable inside the aircraft which caused the autopilot to initiate the automatic landing procedure. A flaw in the autopilot logic software then caused the aircraft to interrupt the automatic landing sequence and continue flying on a south south-westerly heading after Bingo Time was reached". Five Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The interruption of communication between the ground station and the aircraft that occurred during pre-flight was not identified by the crew as a potentially serious problem - the crew stated they considered it as a positive check. [Operational Factor]. Not all safety features were selected before the flight; the use of the automatic parachute was not selected before the flight. [Operational Factor]. The manual parachute deployment was not commanded when the crew realised that the 'SAFE' mode had not worked as expected. [Operational Factor]. The autopilot was not originally designed for the incorporation of a transponder, requiring the development of a software solution in order to open up another communications port in the autopilot to connect the transponder into the setup. [Technical Factor]. The acceptance procedure after the different modifications to the autopilot software was insufficient to identify the change in the logic. [Technical Factor]. Safety Action was taken during Investigation as a result of the event by the airframe manufacturer UAVN who stated that they had "revised their software validation process to include a check for AP software logic failures under specific communication loss conditions". Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that UAVN reviews the BINGO time logic, as it features the inherent danger of losing control of the UAV should a communication problem arise after the landing is interrupted and the BINGO time has elapsed. [BE-2017-0004]. that UAVN reviews the design of installed safety features to ensure that the essential ones are selected ‘on’ by default and require an action from the operator to be de-activated. [BE-2017-0005]. that the Belgian CAA reviews the requirements for in-flight demonstration in order to extend this requirement when a modification is applied to an UAV of a proven design. [BE-2017-0006]. that the Belgian CAA should,