take-off in AUTO mode, there was a short loss of communication (more than 1 second but not more than 5 seconds) above the WP1 (see the first illustration below) but the programmed flight path was maintained until above WP3 when a communication failure warning re-appeared. In response, the Internal Pilot switched the AP to its 'HOLD' mode, which was supposed to result in the aircraft maintaining a specific altitude and following a circular pattern around the location where the mode is engaged. This action was successful so it was decided that the UAV would be landed by switching to 'LAND' mode. However, soon afterwards, "the system notified a complete loss of communication" and it became impossible to manually take over the controls. ATC were immediately notified of the situation. The loss of communication should have resulted in an automatic reversion of the AP to 'SAFE' mode which should cause the aircraft to "fly to a pre-defined safety altitude before switching to LAND mode" which should then result in an automatic landing. At first, the aircraft, which was in visual contact, appeared to follow the expected procedure but "the landing flight phase was interrupted several times and the aircraft was observed to be flying away from the aerodrome and then coming back but half an hour after take-off, it was seen to take up a south south-westerly heading (199°), begin a climb and visual contact was lost" (see the second illustration below). ATC were advised of the development and began to track the aircraft. It climbed to 4,000 feet and maintained the same 199° track through the Brussels CTR/TMA and overhead Charleroi Airport towards France. ATC "started diverting traffic and informed the civilian and military ATCs of the aerodromes on the flight path of the UAV to allow for necessary action in order to prevent collision or mishap (and) the only noticeable incident during the flight was a loss of separation with an airliner departing from RWY07 at Brussels" which brought the two aircraft to within 4.5nm laterally and 800 feet vertically. Belgian military aircraft were despatched to track the UAV, which although it was observed to be maintaining a constant track (see the illustration below), appeared to be continuously describing a 'phugoid’ altitude oscillation. Once the French border had been crossed, the French Air Force took over the tracking. When the useable fuel on board was exhausted, the engine stopped and the UAV began to descend. It finally crashed in a field near Dizy-le-Gros in northern France approximately 110 nm from Weelde after 69 minutes airborne. It could be deduced that the inability of the pilots to recover the aircraft once there had been a "long" loss of communication was the consequence of failure of the control mode to automatically change to 'SAFE' mode when there was a long loss of communication. The other potentially relevant safety feature was the ability to activate the installed parachute so that it would automatically deploy in the event of loss of communication (or