in this case of entry to 'SAFE' mode - unless the remote operator resets the exceeded Bingo Time, which was impossible without communication with the GCS – the AP inhibits entry into 'LAND' mode. Thereafter, the aircraft began its continuous climb to 4,000 feet, the maximum achievable altitude in the prevailing configuration, at Vne (97 knots) and then levelled off at that altitude at which point the observed phugoid motion began. Once the engine stopped, the AP decreased attitude as necessary to maintain airspeed above the stall speed during the glide descent and continued to control the aircraft until the crash landing which ended the flight. The cause of the eventual engine failure was not determined but it was considered possible that it had overheated and seized up. It was noted that at the time of the accident, there was no applicable regulation permitting the operation of UAVs so that "all UAV flights were forbidden to the exception of those specifically authorised by the Belgian Civil Aviation Authority". It was found that VITO had been so authorised for one year periods beginning on 1 February 2013, 2014 and 2015 but although a further renewal had been applied for in January 2016, the requested extension had not been approved at the time of the accident. Previous authorisations had included a comprehensive list of conditions which had included that only VLOS (Visual Line of Sight) operations were permitted and that "radio communications must occur in accordance with the requirements of the Belgian Institute of Postal Services and Telecommunications (BIPT)". In its analysis of the factual findings, the Investigation made a series of observations including the following: The (lapsed) Belgian CAA authorisation document held by VITO did not cover flights for any purpose except "scientific purposes" whereas the purpose of the accident flight was training and testing, a necessary adjunct to the achievement of the primary purpose.. The radio frequency which should have been used for communications between the GCS and the UAV - 2.4 GHz was not the subject of a specific authorisation and the BIPT was not aware of the intended use. The frequency was within a band allocated for "free" use but such use was conditional on a specified maximum power output which the system exceeded. In any case, as previously found, the actual frequency being used was within a band allocated for public broadcasting.. The (lapsed) Belgian CAA authorisation held by VITO was found to refer to the Operations Handbook for the aircraft without formally requiring that flights must be performed in accordance with it.. The Pilot Operating Handbook does not include a detailed procedure on how to operate the emergency parachute manually. Although this requires communication from the GCS, "the command can be actioned on the GCS console even when communications are interrupted" so that it would be sent as a priority if communication were to be re-established even briefly. This means that as the signal was briefly re-established a few times during the first part of the