engine failure). However, this capability had to be enabled before flight and it was found that this had not been done. The Investigation found no obvious defect in the GCS and the recovered UAV was powered and the loss of communication confirmed using both a directional and a non-directional antenna. However, when "the UAV parachute cover was opened to gain access to the UAV radio box, it was found that the cable between the radio and the antenna was disconnected". Further testing using the antenna cable and then the radio taken from the other VITO 'Oculus' aircraft proved that the radio on the crashed aircraft was also inoperative. It was noted that because disconnection of the antenna causes the radio to emit continuously at full power, this will eventually cause its failure. It was found that throughout the flight, the on-board computer had sent correct data to the ground station - pitch, roll angle, low rpm warning (engine stopped), maximum mission (Bingo) time reached and 'UAV on ground'. Testing of the AP and the communications system demonstrated that both had been fully functional. In particular, it was found that it was not possible to interrupt the communication between the ground antenna and the UAV by positioning a person, or car between them or if the GCS dish antenna was pointed in the opposite direction to the location of the UAV. It was therefore concluded that "the communication interruptions during the pre flight check on the day of the accident indicated that the antenna connection was already faulty". Examination of the connection between the radio and the antenna cable found that the crimping of the brass sleeve into which the antenna cable connector had been inserted had not been properly performed - crimping of the sleeve had occurred only at the cable end so that "only a small portion of the extremities of the braid was pressed between connector and sleeve" - see the illustration below. The consequence of this manufacturing fault would have been an increasingly unreliable connection. Failure to achieve recovery when the attempt to switch from HOLD mode to LAND mode, which resulted in an automatic change to SAFE mode, was found to be attributable to an "undetected logic fault" introduced at some point during the system software modifications. These had been required to add a transponder with consequences which may also have been affected by post delivery "adjustments" performed by VITO personnel in order to "improve automatic precision landing capabilities”. When the eventual complete loss of control occurred, this same logic fault was also found to have prevented 'SAFE' mode automatically changing to 'LAND' by causing a continuous switching from 'LAND' to 'SAFE' mode and interrupting what would otherwise have been a successful recovery at least twice. Then, when the 20 minute pre set Maximum Mission (Bingo) Time had been reached, SAFE mode was entered for that (different) reason. This time, the next attempt to change to 'LAND' mode resulted in permanent activation of 'SAFE' mode because