The event was investigated by the Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU) Germany. Both Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were successfully downloaded and replayed - but value of the FDR data was limited by the small number (22) of recorded parameters. Relevant ATC radar and voice recordings were also available. It was established that after an overnight flight, the aircraft, with the commander as PF was the first to approach Dusseldorf that morning. As the aircraft continued descent, ATC advised that runway 23L could be expected and that an initial braking action measurement had found good braking action on the full length but as it had started to snow, a further measurement would be made and communicated before the aircraft landed. As the aircraft continued towards the airport under radar vectors, the controller advised a surface wind which equated to an approximate 2 knot tail wind component and a cloud base of 500 feet agl with surface visibility 1500 metres in snow showers. Surface temperature and dew point were both very close to 0°C. By the time landing clearance was given at approximately 1000 feet agl, the promised second braking action run had been completed and the result, still medium on the full length, passed to the crew. ATC also advised that the IRVR for the landing runway was now 900/1100/1100 metres. Based on the CVR recording and the statement of the aircraft commander, it was considered that none of the flight crew “had doubted the braking action given by the controller”. The ELW was 283 tonnes (close to the MLW) and the landing was made with Flap 30 and autobrake set to medium which would, as calculated by the crew, have ensured a landing within the available runway length with the use of thrust reversers if the actual braking action had been medium even with the prevailing 2 knot tail wind component. Touchdown was estimated to have occurred within the TDZ at a speed 6 knots above Reference Speed (Vref) after a stabilised approach had been flown. However, even though the ground spoilers deployed on touchdown and the thrust reversers had been activated promptly, the rate of deceleration steadily decreased during the first 20 seconds. Despite this and speed calls from the First Officer and the Flight Engineer, the PF selected reverse idle in line with routine procedure during a landing. Almost immediately, having realised that the ground speed was still too fast, he had reselected maximum reverse and commenced manual braking. The aircraft overran the end of the runway and the Runway End Safety Area and collided with the Instrument Landing System (ILS) antenna and the runway 05 approach lighting before coming to a stop on grass some 580 metres beyond the end of the runway. The impact of engines 2 and 3 with the localiser antenna resulted in engine failure and indications of fire in both engines. Fire drill action by the crew resolved fire in the No 3 engine but fire continued