- and was externally visible - in the No 2 engine. The nose landing gear of the aircraft was found to have opened and pushed aside the concrete lid of a cable manhole with the result that one wheel of the nose landing gear was destroyed. When the crew attempted to escape from the aircraft by using the forward left hand door, the slide inflated inside the aircraft rendering the exit unusable. Instead, the crew awaited clearance from the attending emergency services personnel before evacuating via the E & E bay in preference to the crew overhead escape hatch which would have required rope use. Boeing provided the Investigation with an analysis of the actual deceleration of the aircraft (see the graph below) which determined that, given the normal touchdown speed and normal arming and deployment of deceleration devices, the actual braking action whilst the aircraft had been on the runway and the paved overrun had been equivalent to ‘poor’ rather than the reported ‘medium’. This finding supported the runway braking action run carried out shortly after the overrun, which found poor breaking action along the whole length of the runway. An aftercast of the weather conditions showed that the aircraft had touched down during a very short period of heavy snow which marked the height of the snow shower as it passed over the airport. The Investigation found that the conduct and communication of the runway friction testing carried out prior to the accident had been in accordance with prevailing procedures. Nevertheless, it was considered that “this accident emphasises that under the prevailing weather conditions and the existing friction coefficients the friction tester used is appropriate for the planning of winter services but is not reliably usable for flight operations”. It was noted that this view “confirms the findings which the Norwegian Accident Investigation Board which is exclusively about the 2011-published study by Norwegian AIB and (the conclusions of) the ICAO Friction Task Force determined in the meantime.” The Investigation formally determined that the Cause of the accident was the fact that the braking action values reported to the crew did not correspond with the runway conditions which had changed because of the heavy snowfall since the last measurement. The following Contributory Factors were identified: The high dynamics of the weather changes. The lack of a measurement method providing reliable braking coefficient values under all weather conditions.. The Final Report was completed on 18 October 2013 and published in December 2013.