The first generation of EFB hardware-software systems was defined by reference to three levels of functional sophistication starting with Class 1: Class 1 EFB Systems did not require NAA airworthiness approval. They had to be stowed for takeoff and landing and are limited to providing supplemental information only.. Class 2 EFB Systems required a limited NAA airworthiness approval. Although considered to be a portable electronic device, an entry in the Aircraft Technical Log was required to remove a Class 2 EFB from the aircraft. It could be connected to aircraft power and to the aircraft’s data link port and could exchange data with aircraft systems, enabling it to make interactive performance calculations.. Class 3 EFB Systems were installed aircraft equipment requiring an Supplementary Type Certificate or a certification design approval as well as NAA Airworthiness approval. Depending on the model, it could be connected to the Global Positioning System (GPS) or Flight Management System and it could be able to combine GPS position with the locations and speed vectors of other aircraft and graphic weather information into a single, detailed moving map display.. The EFB Classes 1, 2, and 3 were later eliminated and a simpler concept of portable and installed equipment was introduced, to harmonize with the ICAO and to accommodate increasingly complex systems integrating both installed and portable equipment: EFB equipment components supporting EFB applications are installed when they are incorporated into aircraft type design, or as a proper alteration.. All other components supporting EFB functionality are considered portable, regardless of how often they are removed from the aircraft.. In order for portable EFB hardware to support EFB applications, installation of at least some components may be required, depending on requirements for positional integrity (e.g. installed mounts), continuity of power and data connectivity. Airworthiness regulations do not apply to portable EFB components other than for specifications associated with the installed components (i.e. mounting, power, and data connectivity).