on the illustration below). The ground track of the abandoned attempt to land off the first approach. [Reproduced from the Official Report] When the missed approach was advised to the TWR controller, he responded by saying that he thought that the aircraft wing tip had contacted the runway and the requested inspection subsequently confirmed the presence of glass debris prior to the displaced threshold. The Captain took control at an unspecified point during the missed approach and the subsequent repositioning to a second approach was without further event with a normal landing following half an hour after the rejected one. A post flight visual inspection found damage to the leading edge and lower surface of the left wing near to the wing tip. The First Officer’s misidentification of the long ago closed runway 26 as the landing runway 25 clearly took no account of not only the multiple bright white ‘X’ markings on it (14.5 metres by 36 metres) but the fact that it was clearly almost midway between the much longer runways 27 and (especially) 25 which inspection of the aerodrome chart would have shown clearly met at their far ends. The fact that the senior Captain in command did not immediately recognise the error or take over control when low level manoeuvring which was about to be attempted would not necessarily complete the realignment before the A/T automatically set the thrust to idle at 50 feet agl was not explained by the crew statements to the Investigation. These statements also did not make it clear whether the over-reading mis-set altimeters had played any part in the decision to continue an attempted corrective manoeuvre so close to the ground. It was noted that having recognised that more could be done to reduce the risk of erroneous visual manoeuvring to runway 25 below the offset approach MDA, the airport operator had, five months prior to the investigated event, installed a PAPI to the north of runway 25 with its axis offset 5° to the south and had previously added the wording “AEROPORT PARIS LE BOURGET” along the length of the former runway as shown on the illustration below. Overall, it was concluded that although the situation at Le Bourget was such as to make an approach there challenging for some pilots, the requirements of safety regulation were met in full. An aerial view of the closed runway between active runways 27 ad 25 at Le Bourget. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Four potential Contributory Factors were identified as leading to the activation of the aeroplane’s angle of attack protection systems on final approach and then to the aeroplane’s left wing colliding with the runway right side lighting: The late decision to attempt to intercept the centreline of runway 25 when the aeroplane had been previously aligned on a disused former runway. This manoeuvre substantially increased the angle of attack and the bank angle at a low height whilst the thrust of the engines was automatically reduced on descending below the