An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). Data from the FDR and the 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded and used to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the Captain had 7,278 hours total flying experience which included 1,596 hours on type and the First Officer had 1,820 hours total flying experience which included 1,195 hours on type. This crew had operated the same aircraft the previous day and on conclusion of that duty had verbally reported that the aircraft moved to the right without any brake or engine reverse, also during taxi. This comment was entered into the Aircraft Technical Log by engineering but could not be replicated during a rolling test and no related fault with the nose landing gear was identified. However, one of the brake units on the right main landing gear was replaced prior to releasing the aircraft to service after its back plate was found to be hot after the test. The accident flight was the first flight the next day. After an uneventful descent and approach to Zurich, the aircraft touched down normally on runway 14 but soon after the nose landing gear wheels had come into contact with the runway approximately 1,050 metres from the runway threshold, both nose wheel tyres had, unknown to the crew, come off their wheels causing the wheel hubs to contact the runway surface. The Captain recognised that the steering was not functioning correctly and as landing gear vibrations increased, the First Officer advised ATC of a problem and possible hot brakes, that they would try to vacate the runway expeditiously and would like the fire service to attend as a precaution. The Captain then managed to use asymmetrical engine power and asymmetrical braking to steer the aircraft to turn right onto RET ‘H1’ and stop clear of the runway. The nose landing gear was subsequently found to have slid on both wheel rims for a little over 800 metres before the aircraft could be stopped. The fire service arrived at the aircraft shortly afterwards and examined the brakes for overheating with no findings and the First Officer asked ATC to arrange for a runway inspection since he suspected that runway damage may have occurred. The requested inspection found one of the nose landing gear tyres on the runway just over 2000 metres from the runway threshold. It was subsequently established with the help of video recordings that after both tyres had separated from the wheel rims, the left tyre had become jammed between the two wheel rims and it was the right wheel tyre which had completely detached and been found on the runway. Both nose gear tyres had only a single abraded area on their running surfaces indicating that both wheels had ceased rotating and although the sequence of events during the landing could not be detailed, the tyre damage was considered to clearly indicate local overstressing suggesting that the nose landing gear was not centred at touchdown