and so the nose wheels were unable to rotate freely. After a detailed examination of the nose landing gear assembly, it was found that the valve input lever on the hydraulic Differential Control Selector Valve (DCSV) had been installed the wrong way round rotated through 180° about the longitudinal axis - see the comparative installation below. This meant that the angle ‘α‘ of the adjustable rod (annotated on the diagram of the assembly above the photographs in the comparative illustration) was misaligned and was subject to mechanical strain. However, once incorrectly installed, the adjustable rod did not exhibit any misalignment and the deflection of the nose landing gear wheels corresponded to inputs at the tiller with no more than a 1/2° difference. The effect of this installation error in service had been both excessive deflections of the nose landing gear in response to steering tiller inputs and abnormal stiffness of the nose wheel steering. It was found that the DCSV had been fitted to the aircraft seven months prior to the accident and that between then and the accident, which had included over 500 landings, there had been no entries in the aircraft Technical Log about the nose wheel steering function except the potentially related report made the day before. A routine ‘A’ Check had been performed just over three weeks prior to the accident. In the light of this period of continued operation during which evidence of “pre-existing technical defects on the nose landing gear” and the lack of functional test after replacement of the DCSV, it was considered that “inadequate maintenance of the nose landing gear” must be considered as a factor leading to the accident. It was especially noted, in respect of the engineering work carried out in response to the report made the day before the accident that it was “remarkable that the incorrect control inputs did not come to light on the occasion of the rolling tests which were performed”. Two previous cases in which the DCSV valve input lever had also been installed inverted were identified, one in 2009 and another in 2015 whilst the Investigation was in progress. Both indicated that the freely rotatable design of the lever had, as in the Zurich event, contributed to incorrect installation. The Investigation formally determined that the Accident was “attributable to the fact that during landing the nose landing gear was not centred and so the two nose gear wheels could not turn freely (and that as a result) it was no longer possible to exercise control via the nose landing gear steering system, as the nose landing gear was substantially damaged”. The Probable Cause of the accident was recorded as the interaction of two factors: a valve input lever of the differential control selector valve which had been fitted to the nose landing gear in an inverted state (rotated through 180°);. inadequate maintenance of the nose landing gear.. A Contributory Factor was identified as “the fact that the valve input lever can be attached incorrectly,