4 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the FAA should ensure that Pratt & Whitney considers the following: The revision of Service Bulletin JT8D 6452 making it mandatory within a given time-frame, thereby upgrading the Compliance Category. The re-design of the installation and shimming procedures used in engine manifold assembly so as to remain foolproof to prevent incorrect installations. [2015-001]. The revision of Service Bulletin JT8D 6452 making it mandatory within a given time-frame, thereby upgrading the Compliance Category.. The re-design of the installation and shimming procedures used in engine manifold assembly so as to remain foolproof to prevent incorrect installations. [2015-001]. that Dana Airlines should ensure that: Any remarks or deviations from Company Standard Procedures noted by the Training Captain conducting Trainee Line Training must be addressed before final checkout as a Line Captain. All training procedures are in compliance with the approved Company. Any remarks or deviations from Company Standard Procedures noted by the Training Captain conducting Trainee Line Training must be addressed before final checkout as a Line Captain.. All training procedures are in compliance with the approved Company. Operations Manual, SOPs and Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations. [2015-002] that the Nigerian CAA should: closely monitor the work processes, ethics and conduct of foreign Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities approved to overhaul and repair Nigerian-registered aircraft, airframes, powerplants, propellers or equipment. ensure that oversight of foreign MROs includes, but is not limited to, a review of track records, reputation and audit reports by the appropriate national regulatory authority before the approval or renewal of a Nigerian CAA authorisation occurs. ensure that for any checkout of a new line Captain, a type-rated Nigerian CAA Inspector must be involved as an observer. [2015-003]. closely monitor the work processes, ethics and conduct of foreign Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities approved to overhaul and repair Nigerian-registered aircraft, airframes, powerplants, propellers or equipment.. ensure that oversight of foreign MROs includes, but is not limited to, a review of track records, reputation and audit reports by the appropriate national regulatory authority before the approval or renewal of a Nigerian CAA authorisation occurs.. ensure that for any checkout of a new line Captain, a type-rated Nigerian CAA Inspector must be involved as an observer. [2015-003]. that the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) Quality Assurance Management (QAM) process should ensure that all Air Traffic Controllers strictly adhere to the ethics of their profession which includes providing assistance to flight crew in emergency/critical situations. [2015-004]. The Final Report was published on 13 March 2017.