in the fuel must be approved by aircraft and engine manufacturers. The frequency of treatment and the dilutions prescribed by the aircraft and engine manufacturers must be adhered to. The aircraft maintenance schedule or programme should be amended to include the exercise in accordance with the aircraft and engine manufacturers’ requirement. [2013-001]. that Dana Airlines should ensure that for all its flight operations with MD-83, a minimum of 2000lbs of fuel must be maintained in the centre fuel tank of the aircraft on landing at any destination, while AIB investigation goes on. [2013-002]. that Dana Airlines should ensure that: an adequate background check is conducted (prior to) the employment of foreign airline Captains and (other) safety critical employees. Such checks should include review of cases of revocation, withdrawal and suspension of licences by regulatory bodies in the applicant’s current or historical employment records where applicable. any newly employed foreign Captain must fly with a competent Senior First Officer who is familiar with Nigerian Airspace and routes for at least the first 100 flight hours, to enable the new Captain to be conversant with the operations of the airlines within Nigerian Airspace. [2013-003]. an adequate background check is conducted (prior to) the employment of foreign airline Captains and (other) safety critical employees. Such checks should include review of cases of revocation, withdrawal and suspension of licences by regulatory bodies in the applicant’s current or historical employment records where applicable.. any newly employed foreign Captain must fly with a competent Senior First Officer who is familiar with Nigerian Airspace and routes for at least the first 100 flight hours, to enable the new Captain to be conversant with the operations of the airlines within Nigerian Airspace. [2013-003]. that the Nigerian CAA should: as an essential aspect of its oversight function review CPL / ATPL / issue / renewal / validation forms to include a background check with a view to discover cases of revocation, withdrawal or suspension of flight crew licences issued to applicants by any other regulatory authority. Validate foreign licences only after all confidential details have been received from previous employers and appropriate regulatory authority including satisfactory aero-medical reports and a return of due diligence form/document carried out by the airline. include an appropriate declaration which obliges (licence validation) applicants to declare all relevant information as requested in the questionnaire/form. [2013-004]. as an essential aspect of its oversight function review CPL / ATPL / issue / renewal / validation forms to include a background check with a view to discover cases of revocation, withdrawal or suspension of flight crew licences issued to applicants by any other regulatory authority.. Validate foreign licences only after all confidential details have been received from previous employers and appropriate regulatory authority including satisfactory aero-medical reports and a return of due diligence form/document carried out by the airline.. include an appropriate declaration which obliges (licence validation) applicants to declare all relevant information as requested in the questionnaire/form. [2013-004]. At the conclusion of the Investigation, a further