respective dispatch facilities. Investigators could not determine why this flight crew did not use these valuable in-flight services as its fuel situation became progressively critical. Communications During the flight, the crew was aware of the fuel situation but did not express their concerns promptly and clearly to ATC. When the crew requested priority handling, they had already exhausted the reserve fuel they needed to reach the alternate airport. To help ensure sufficient fuel to complete a safe landing, standard phraseology should have been used to declare an emergency, rather than priority handling. The first officer’s use of the term “priority” may have resulted from his training, where the term appeared in the manufacturer’s procedures manuals and in the published airline procedures. Regarding the context of the situation, none of the controllers involved in the handling of the aircraft considered the request for priority or the comments about running out of fuel to be significant or to actually constitute a request for emergency handling. The en route controllers believed that the crew meant that the flight could only hold 5 minutes more and would then have to divert to its alternate, and therefore they handled the aircraft routinely. Investigation revealed that this created confusion within the cockpit as to whether they were being handled routinely or given priority as an emergency would have called for. When asked what phraseology controllers would immediately respond to when a flight crew indicated a low-fuel emergency, controllers replied “mayday,” “pan, pan, pan” and “emergency,” but not “priority.” Investigators concluded that the communications from the controllers and the handling of the aircraft were correct, considering the information they had received from the flight crew. Nevertheless, the investigation report expressed concern that the controllers did not place any significance on the word “priority” because controllers are in fact required to provide priority handling. Controllers share the responsibility for safe flight, although their primary responsibility is for separation of aircraft. ATC is also required to clarify any confusing transmissions that might affect the safe operation of aircraft under its control. In this case, several indications of non-routine matters should have prompted the controllers to ask about the nature of the problem that caused the request for priority. Had they asked, the confusion that apparently existed within the cockpit might have been alleviated. After the missed approach, intra-cockpit conversations indicate a total breakdown in communication between the pilots in their attempts to relay the situation to ATC. The captain repeatedly told the first officer to advise ATC they had an emergency. It is obvious from recorded radio transmissions that the first officer failed to convey the message that the captain intended, and investigators determined that the captain’s limited command of English likely prevented him from effectively monitoring the first officer’s transmissions. Much of the pilots’ failure to communicate effectively resulted from limitations in their use of English and in their knowledge of standard ATC terminology. But investigators also pointed out shortcomings in the intra-cockpit communications, spoken in their native