in the same area adjacent to the forward mechanical stop bolt from the same apparent cause. It has also been noted the AMM procedures for adjustment of the mechanical stop bolt “do not currently draw any specific attention to this critical area”. It has therefore been concluded that such damaged wiring could be present more widely on this aircraft type and that since other all variants within the wider Embraer E-Jet family have a similar control column design, these could be similarly vulnerable. Unrelated to the wire chafing problem, removal of the Captain’s pitch trim switch from the control column yoke disclosed witness marks which indicated that this switch had been installed in an inverted position. It was noted that pilot reports of similar flight control problems on similar Embraer aircraft several years ago had been found to be consequent on similarly incorrectly installed pitch trim switches and that in response, Embraer had in 2015 issued SBs recommending that a support should be installed in the control column yoke to prevent this happening and that this should be done not later than 7,500 flight hours or 36 months from the date of SB issue. However, neither the Brazilian (ANAC) nor the US (FAA) safety regulator had decided to mandate this action via an AD and the modification had not been incorporated on the aircraft involved in the investigated event. Whilst it has not yet been established whether this finding is related to the control difficulty event currently being investigated, “the NTSB is concerned that an inverted switch installation resulting in pitch trim operation opposite to that expected by a flight crew could lead to confusion, delaying appropriate recognition and response to increased control forces”. Finally, at this early stage in the Investigation, it has already become clear that “the adverse effects of excessive nose-up trim were masked by expected airplane orientation during climb” with little warning before control forces became, according to the crew involved, “almost unmanageable”. As such they were understandably perceived as a pitch trim runaway with no ability to refer to the QRH for guidance after completing the initial memory action from the drill believed to be applicable. This has led the NTSB to be concerned that “in the event of high control forces resulting from a pitch trim malfunction, flight control failure, or other system anomaly” in a similar phase of flight, pilots may find it difficult to respond quickly to the situation. In this respect, the Investigation noted that contrary to the Republic Airways’ ‘Pitch Trim Runaway’ checklist in which only the first action was designated as a memory item, in the corresponding Embraer checklist, the second item, operating the cut-out switches for both Pitch Trim systems, was also designated as a memory item. This difference was considered to have placed the crew in a much more difficult position when seeking to recover control in the presence of high control forces since they had to rely on their general understanding of the pitch trim system