An Investigation by the NTSB was commenced and while the cause of the difficulties reported by the flight crew has not yet been determined, the investigation has identified a number of safety issues. A summary of the findings in support of ten Safety Recommendations made to the Brazilian Safety Regulator in respect of the operation of these aircraft globally and to the FAA in respect of their operation by US carriers in particular has been published. It was established that the Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight, had been unable to engage the AP as the aircraft climbed through approximately 2,200 feet QNH and had identified a concurrent pitch trim-related flight control issue which was making it difficult to prevent an excessive pitch attitude developing. He stated that he had initially responded by pressing and holding his control column AP/TRIM DISC button, the single memory action which begins the ‘Pitch Trim Runaway’ QRH drill and asking the First Officer do the same to the button on his control column. Neither pilot noticed any change in the pitch condition and they “continued to have difficulty holding the nose down” during which time subsequent examination of the FDR data confirmed that the stabiliser did not move when these disconnect buttons were pushed and held as the system design intends. The crew reported that they had both needed to use both hands to counter the unwanted pitch-up and that this had “involved such effort that neither felt that they could reach for the QRH to troubleshoot the problem”. Having declared an emergency to ATC because of this control difficulty, the aircraft was eventually able to be trimmed using the First Officer’s trim switch and a landing back at Atlanta was achieved without further problems about 15 minutes after the emergency had been declared. FDR data confirmed that the control difficulty had corresponded to a period during which the aircraft had been in a mis-trimmed condition. The Investigation is continuing but examination of the aircraft and the system fault encountered has already identified that undetected wire chafing in the control column was involved. Placing this finding, itself of concern, in a wider context, two additional “areas of concern” have already been identified in respect of the application of SBs related to the pitch trim switch and with the content of the current non-normal checklist for unintended operation of the pitch trim system. The wire chafing itself had occurred where the Captain’s control column passes through the floor of the flight deck and involved “chafed insulation around the wires connecting the horizontal stabiliser actuator control electronics to the Captain’s pitch trim switch and the AP/TRIM DISC button" which it was determined had resulted from contact with the incorrectly positioned “pigtail” of the forward mechanical stop bolt safety wire (see the illustration below). A targeted inspection of other aircraft of the same type by both the operator involved in the event under investigation and a different one has since found similarly damaged wiring