engine equipped Boeing 767 airplane thrust reverser systems to evaluate electrical and mechanical anomalies and failure modes that can allow directional control valve pressure to be applied to the reverser EXTEND port. The certification review should include subjecting the valve to the engine's vibration spectrum concurrent with introduction of intermittent pressure spikes to the valve pressure port. The certification review should also determine the adequacy of the thrust reverser system safeguards when the hydraulic isolation valve is open to prevent uncommanded thrust reverser extensions. (A-91-45). Amend the Boeing 767 Flight Operations Manual on aircraft powered by the PW4000 series engine to include in the section, "Reverser Isolation Caution Light," a warning that in-flight reverser deployment may result in severe airframe buffeting, yawing, and rolling forces. (A-91-46). Pending completion of a certification review of the thrust reverser system, establish operational procedures to be followed upon illumination of the Reverse Isolation Caution Light (REV ISLN) that will enhance the controllability of the PW4000 powered Boeing 767 should a secondary failure result in the in-flight deployment of a thrust reverser. Actions should be taken to achieve an appropriate combination of airspeed, altitude and thrust settings that will minimize control difficulties in the event that the reverser subsequently deploys. Also consider the inclusion of a procedure to pull the fire handle if this occurs. In lieu of implementation of revised operational procedures, operators may be directed to deactivate thrust reversers until the certification review is completed and the reliability of the system can be adequately assured. (A-91-47). Examine the certification basis of other model airplanes equipped with electrically or electro hydraulically actuated thrust reverse systems for appropriate safeguards to prevent in-flight deployment of reversers and ensure that operating procedures are provided to enhance aircraft control in the event an of inadvertent in-flight reverser deployment. (A-91-48). The Findings of the Investigation included that: the physical evidence at the crash site showed that the left engine thrust reverser was in the deployed position.. the scatter of wreckage indicated that the aircraft had experienced in-flight breakup at a steep descent angle and low altitude.. although thrust reverser system certification required that the aircraft should be capable of continued safe flight and landing under any possible position of the thrust reverser, wind tunnel tests and data used in the simulation of this accident demonstrated that aerodynamic effects of the reverser plume in-flight during engine run down to idle resulted in a 25 percent lift loss across the wing and that controlled flight could not be maintained unless full control column and full rudder corrective action were applied within 4 to 6 seconds after a thrust reverser deployment.. although hypothetical hydraulic system failures that could cause the thrust reverser to deploy were identified, no specific component malfunction was identified that caused an uncommanded thrust reverser deployment on the accident aircraft.. The original design of the B767/PW4000 thrust reverser system required multiple failures for the reverser to deploy in-flight. As a direct result of testing and engineering re-evaluation accomplished after