An Investigation under the provisions of Annex 13 was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Committee of the Thai Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Investigation found that “flight operations appear(ed) to have been routine until five minutes and forty five seconds after the cockpit voice recorder (Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR)) recorded the sounds of engine power being advanced for takeoff. At this point a discussion ensued between the crew members regarding an event later identified as a crew alert associated with a thrust reverser isolation valve. The crew discussed this alert for some four and one half minutes. The Quick Reference Handbook (Quick Reference Handbook (QRH)) was consulted to determine appropriate crew actions in response to the alert. No actions were required, and none were identified as being taken. Ten minutes and twenty seconds into the flight the co-pilot advised the pilot-in-command of the need for rudder trim to the left. The pilot-in-command acknowledged the co-pilot's statement. Fifteen minutes and one second into the flight, the co-pilot stated "ah reverser's deployed." Sounds similar to airframe shuddering were then heard on the CVR. Twenty nine seconds later the CVR recording ended with multiple sounds thought to be structural breakup.” It was noted that the thrust reverse system of the PW4000 series engines which were installed in the aircraft incorporated a hydraulic isolation valve (HIV) and a directional control valve (DCV) in the engine pylon. An inappropriately positioned HIV is indicated in the flight deck by a reverser isolation valve (REV ISLN) amber caution light on the control pedestal below the throttles. The CVR showed that the flight crew had observed this REV ISLN caution light lit about 9 minutes prior to the reverser deployment and one of the flight crew observed that the light subsequently came on repeatedly. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) damage caused by the ground fire which followed the crash impact was severe and it was impossible to extract any information from the recorder. The investigation noted that similar losses of recorded data had been the case in several other accidents both prior to and subsequent to the subject accident. The Technical Standard for FDRs at the time of the Investigation was noted to have required resistance to heat exposure from flames at 1100°C for 50% of the recorder for 30 minutes. The investigation considered that “thermal damage to the tape recording medium was most probably the result of prolonged exposure to temperatures below the 1100°C testing level but far in excess of the 30 minute test duration.” In the absence of FDR data, recovered non-volatile memory from the left engine electronic engine control (EEC) showed that at the suspected point of reverser deployment, the aircraft was at an approximate altitude of 24,700 feet, a speed of Mach 0.78 and that the engine was developing climb power. During the course of the Investigation, on 3 July 1991, the NTSB issued four Safety Recommendations to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to: Conduct a certification review of the PW4000