An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was noted that the aircraft had not been fitted with a Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and neither was required to be fitted under the prevailing regulations. There was provision for the generation of METARs for Oshawa but TWR ATC had advised, approximately 11 minutes before the landing, that there was a layer of cloud at about 100 feet agl and surface visibility was about 800 metres. The crew had subsequently had requested a Runway Condition Report (RCR) and just over two minutes before landing, TWR stated the RCR had just been completed and gave the runway as “snow-covered and slippery underneath” and gave landing clearance. It was established that after radar vectors from ATC, the aircraft had commenced a straight in LLZ back course/DME approach to runway 30 with the First Officer as PF. During this approach, still in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC), the First Officer had difficulty maintaining track and at between 3 and 4 miles from touchdown, the aircraft commander had taken over as PF. The approach thereafter after was stable and upon obtaining visual reference approximately 70 feet above the applicable MDA, a slight realignment onto the runway extended centreline was made. Touchdown with 15 flap selected was found not to have occurred until about one-third of the way down the 1220 metre runway. After selection of full reverse pitch, which was contrary to AFM limitations, deceleration was less than expected and after between 5 and 8 seconds of full reverse, a go around was called and maximum take-off power set. As the end of the runway approached, the aircraft was rotated to a take-off attitude and had became airborne in Ground Effect but it had been impossible to transition to a sustained climb in free air before the control was lost and the aircraft impacted terrain approximately 170 metres beyond the end of the runway. It was noted that the flap 15 approach, which the crew would have been aware would result on a longer landing roll than a full flap (30) approach, was in compliance with an Operator Instruction prohibiting full flap approaches. However, although this was current, it was based on aircraft manufacturer advice that had been withdrawn some two months earlier. In the light of the contaminated runway conditions, it was considered that the flight crew would have been aware of the need for an early touchdown but it concluded that they “most likely did not reference the AFM performance chart ‘Effect of a Slippery Surface on Landing Distance Required’ to determine that landing the aircraft on the 1220 metre, snow-covered runway with flap-15 was inappropriate”. The Investigation also concluded that “with the runway end lights rapidly approaching, (the Captain) called for a go-around at a point on the runway where it would have been prudent to continue full braking and remain on the ground”. In summary, it was considered that the flight crew had made a number