responded “no restriction”. The Captain followed up with a request to the controller to “block altitude 3,000 feet above and below for traffic avoidance” to which the controller responded by asking what altitude was required and the Captain replied with “five thou” which was approved. There were no further radio transmissions from the aircraft. The First Officer expressed concern that the aircraft was descending and as the aircraft passed 3000 feet with a 10,000 fpm recorded rate of descent, he made his final nose up stabiliser trim input one minute after taking over as PF with the pitch trim at 0.3 units. There were no more radio transmissions from the aircraft and three seconds later, EGPWS ‘TERRAIN’ and ‘SINK RATE’ Alerts and the sound of the overspeed warning were recorded. As MCAS again began an automatic pitch down input, the DFDR recording stopped and the aircraft disappeared from radar. About 35 minutes later, a boat in the vicinity reported finding floating debris about 33 nm from Jakarta on a bearing of 056° and this was subsequently identified as from the accident aircraft. This and all other wreckage subsequently recovered confirmed that a high energy impact had occurred. The previous day, it was found that prior to its departure for Jakarta from Denpasar, the left AoA sensor on the accident aircraft had been replaced in order to see if this action would rectify an intermittent recurring problem with ‘SPD’ and ‘ALT’ failure flags appearing on the Captain’s PFD. Previous attempts to rectify this fault had not been successful but the aircraft had continued in service even though signs that the two instrument indications concerned had been evident prior to takeoff. The sensor replacement was the appropriate fix but unknown to the engineer installing it, the new sensor has not been correctly calibrated by the US-based overhaul agency approved to recondition it by OEM Collins Aerospace. It was also found that the newly installed sensor should have been checked for correct function once installed, which would have detected its unserviceable condition but this mandatory check had not been carried out as a precondition for release to service. The Captain of the subsequent flight from Denpasar to Jakarta was aware that the sensor had been replaced. During the departure briefing, he had advised that he would be PF and included mention of the AoA sensor replacement in the briefing. DFDR data showed that the stick shaker had activated during rotation and had thereafter remained active throughout the flight. The Captain had initially maintained the normal 15° pitch and the takeoff thrust setting before handing over control to the First Officer and announcing “memory item airspeed unreliable”. A cross-check of the two PFDs with the standby instrument showed that the left PFD had the problem and the Captain then selected the right side FD so that the First Officer, now PF, would have a normal flight instrument display. The Captain directed that acceleration and flap retraction should continue as normal with the First Officer