following the FD command and re-trimming the aircraft as required. The Captain reported then noticing that, with the flaps now fully retracted, as soon as the First Officer stopped trim inputs, the aircraft began automatically trimming nose down. After three of these automatic trim occurrences, the First Officer stated that the control column was too heavy to hold back and the Captain declared a PAN to ATC advising instrument failure and requesting to remain on runway heading which was approved. The controller asked if they wanted to return and received a ‘Standby’ response. The Captain then moved the electric stabiliser trim switches to CUT OUT which solved the problem and he decided to continue and complete the flight without engaging the AP and continuing to rely for pitch trim on the manual elevator trim wheel. Three Abnormal Checklists were completed - ‘Airspeed Unreliable’, ‘ALT DISAGREE’, and ‘Runaway Stabiliser’ noting that none of these included a requirement to “land at the nearest suitable airport” but aware that the aircraft was no longer RVSM compliant. When climb clearance to FL 380 was given en route the Captain decided to declare a ‘PAN’ due to instrument failure and having requested a non-RVSM cruise instead of the cleared FL 380, was given FL 280. The controller then requested more details of the instrument failure and was informed that there had been “an altitude and autopilot failure” and asked to relay to the Jakarta controller a request for an uninterrupted descent. The flight was completed without further event despite the fact that both the Civil Aviation Safety Regulations (CASR) Part 91.7 ‘Civil Aircraft Airworthiness’ and the Lion Air Operations Manual Part ‘A’ General contained an explicit requirement that the pilot in command “must discontinue the flight when un-airworthy mechanical, electrical, or structural conditions occur”. However, the Captain stated that his decision to continue had been based on the absence of a requirement to “land-at-the-nearest-suitable-airport” in any of the three Non-normal Checklists which had been completed. He also stated that he had felt confident to continue because the aircraft was controllable after the action taken and forecast weather conditions for the route and the destination were good. Nevertheless, the Investigation concluded that “the decision to continue with the stick shaker active was … highly unusual”. On arrival in Jakarta, the Captain then made an Aircraft Technical Log Defect entry stating “IAS (Indicated Air Speed) and ALT (altitude) Disagree and FEEL DIFF PRESS (Feel Differential Pressure) light”. He also reported the defective condition using the Company’s electronic reporting system as follows “Airspeed unreliable and ALT disagree shown after takeoff, Speed Trim System also running to the wrong direction, suspected because of speed difference, identified that CAPT instrument was unreliable and handover control to FO. Continue NNC of Airspeed Unreliable and ALT disagree. Decide to continue flying to CGK at FL280, landed safely runway 25L.” However, it was noted that he had failed to report the continuous stick shaker activation or his de-selection of the stabiliser trim which