had stopped the repetitive automatic pitch down activations. It was noted that unlike the 737-800 and 900 aircraft which made up most of the Lion Air 737 fleet, the 737-MAX 8 did not have the AoA Disagree Alert, which was the only way a prescribed Non-normal Checklist could have solved the problems caused by the faulty sensor. In the absence of sufficient information for the potential seriousness of the defect to be recognised and its cause identified and rectified, the contracted maintenance organisation’s duty engineer had flushed the left Pitot Air Data Module (ADM) and the static ADM to rectify the IAS and ALT disagree and then performed a successful system ground operation test. He had also rectified the Differential Pressure problem by cleaning the electrical connector plug of the elevator feel computer and then carrying out a satisfactory system ground test. The aircraft was on the ground overnight for just over 7 hours prior to the accident flight departure. It was evident that crew had initially reacted to the increasing force on the control column and when, with the flaps up, they were faced with the uncommanded stabiliser trim-instigated MCAS pitch-down when using the control column to move the elevator in manual flight, “the longer response time for making electric stabilizer trim inputs was understandable”. During both the accident flight and the preceding one, the flight crew had not consistently trimmed out the resulting column forces as had been assumed by Boeing. It was noted that “any out of trim condition which is not properly corrected would lead the flight crew into a situation that makes it more difficult for them to maintain the desired attitude of the aircraft […] during multiple MCAS activations”. During the accident flight, a range of faulty inputs arising from presence of the faulty AoA sensor included IAS DISAGREE and ALT DISAGREE on the PFDs and the ‘Feel Differential Pressure’ light as well as continuous stick shaker activation once airborne. The noise from the latter could well have compromised the ability to hear the distinctive sound of the spinning stabiliser trim wheel spinning during periods of MCAS operation. This overall context for their actions would have increased the flight crew’s workload and obscured the underlying (MCAS) problem. This would have made it less likely that they would arrive at a resolution during the initial or subsequent automatic aircraft nose down stabiliser trim inputs such as following the runaway stabiliser procedure or continuing to use sufficient corrective electric trim to counter the MCAS effect and maintain level flight. The failure of the First Officer to do this during the final minute of the flight eventually resulted in control column forces which exceeded 100 pounds, well above the 75-pound limit set by the applicable regulation (14 CAR 25.143). It was noted too that pulling back on the control column would normally interrupt any electric stabiliser nose-down command, but with the MCAS operating on the 737-MAX, that control column cut-out function is disabled. The Investigation concluded that