An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian NTSC. The DFDR was recovered on 1 November 2018 but the CVR was not located and recovered - detached from its ‘pinger’ - until 14 January, despite an intensive effort in what was at times very poor underwater visibility. A separate report ‘Underwater Search for Flight Recorders' was subsequently published and is included as Appendix 6.1 on pps 232-244 of the Final Report. Relevant data were subsequently recovered from both recorders. No signals were heard from the ULB installed on the forward side of the nose pressure bulkhead and it was not recovered. Initial progress in the Investigation was provided in a Preliminary Report which was published on 28 November 2018 and included two Safety Recommendations: that Lion Air should ensure the implementation of the Operations Manual Part ‘A’, subchapter 1.4.2. (which requires the pilot in command to discontinue the flight when un-airworthy mechanical, electrical, or structural conditions occur) in order to improve the safety culture and to enable pilots to make a proper decision to continue a flight.. that Lion Air should ensure that all operational documents (such as the weight and balance sheet which did not show the correct crew complement for the accident flight) are properly completed.. These have since been addressed. It was noted that the 31 year-old Captain, an Indian national, had a total of 6,028 hours flying experience including 5,176 hours on type and that the 41 year-old First Officer, an Indonesian national, had a total of 5,174 hours flying experience including 4,286 hours on type. In both cases, not all the ‘on type’ hours were gained on the specific type variant involved in the accident. It was also noted that at the time of the accident, Lion Air were operating a total of 115 Boeing 737 aircraft, mainly 737-800 and 737-900 but including 11 examples of the 737-MAX 8 variant. The flight crew pre flight briefing did not include reference to the aircraft Technical Log defect entry made after the aircraft had arrived in Jakarta from Denpasar the evening before and the action taken to clear it. The only airworthiness matter mentioned was an outstanding ADD in respect of the unserviceable ADF. The takeoff would be in daylight and the weather was noted as “good”. With the Captain as PF, takeoff was commenced from runway 25L without any apparent recognition by either pilot that (according to the DFDR) whilst still on the ground, the left PFD was showing a -1°pitch attitude and the right PFD was showing a +13° pitch attitude. DFDR data also showed a 21°difference in the AoA between the left and right sensors which continued until the end of the recording. The 80 knot indicated speed crosscheck was normal. As the auto callout of V1 occurred, the pilots’ airspeed indications were within 3 knots of each other but the low speed barber pole appeared on the Captain’s PFD airspeed indication as the overspeed barber pole bar appeared on the VR mark. Rotation