had the flight crew been made aware of MCAS, they would have been better able to mitigate the consequences of multiple activations in the accident scenario. Without this understanding of continuous MCAS re-activation after each release of the electric stabiliser trim switch, it was considered that the flight crew had run out of time to find a solution before the repetitive MCAS activations, without fully re-trimming the aircraft, placed the aircraft into such an extreme nose-down attitude that recovery was eventually no longer possible. It was noted that the First Officer’s inability to perform memory items and locate the only initially applicable Non-normal Checklist (NNC) for ‘Unreliable Air Speed’ in a timely manner was considered to indicate that he was insufficiently familiar with the NMS and it was found that this weakness had been previously noted in his training records. It was concluded that the failure to complete the relevant NNC had made it more difficult for the crew to understand the problem they were facing and how to respond. It was also concluded that the reappearance of (the First Officer’s) difficulty in aircraft handling identified during training during the accident flight indicated that the Lion Air recurrent training process was “not effective”. It was observed that the failure to declare at least a ‘PAN’ to ATC meant that ATC had not prioritised or simplified the control of the flight which would have reduced crew workload because the number of instructions to manoeuvre given would have been minimised. The Findings of the Investigation in respect of MCAS and its role in facilitating the accident included the following: MCAS is designed to function only when the autopilot is not engaged, the flaps are fully up and there is an abnormally high AoA. As the development of the 737-MAX 8 progressed, the MCAS function was expanded to low Mach numbers and increased to a maximum MCAS command limit of 2.5° of stabiliser movement.. During the required Functional Hazard Analysis (FHA), unintended MCAS-commanded stabiliser movement was considered by Boeing to be a failure condition with a ‘Major’ effect if it occurred in the normal flight envelope. Boeing reasoned that such a failure could be countered by using the elevator alone and also that contrary stabiliser trim is available to offload column forces and that stabiliser trim cut-out is also available but not required to counter failure. This assessment of ‘Major’ did not require Boeing to more rigorously analyse the failure condition using Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA) and Fault Tree Analysis (FTA), since these are only required for failure conditions classified as ‘Hazardous’ or ‘Catastrophic’.. FMEA would have been able to identify single-point and latent failures which have significant effects as in the case of MCAS design. It also provides significant insight into means for detecting identified failures, flight crew impact on the resolution of failure effect, maintenance impact on isolation of a failure and corresponding restoration of a fully functioning system. Boeing’s FHA assessment was based on the applicable FAA guidance