seconds and as an EGPWS “AIR SPEED LOW" alert activated, the left indicated airspeed was 306 knots and the right 318 knots with the controller, in response to a request, advising that the indicated ground speed on their display was 322 knots. Flap 5 was selected and the Captain moved the stabiliser trim in the nose up direction for 5 seconds which increased the pitch trim to 4.8 units. The left control column stick shaker then reactivated and continued until the end of the recording. The DFDR rate of climb was about 1,500 fpm and the pitch attitude was about 3° nose up. The flaps reached position 5 and the DFDR recorded on the Captain’s PFD low speed barber pole and overspeed barber pole merging with the First Officer’s PFD, recorded as having the overspeed barber pole at 340 knots and the low speed not visible. Intermittent 1-2 second automatic nose down trim inputs began to occur and the Captain continued to respond with short inputs of nose up trim. The First Officer advised that he had still not located the Unreliable Airspeed Checklist, although he did eventually find it. By now the aircraft was remaining in the vicinity of 5000 feet with the displayed left and right altitudes continuing to vary by up to 500 feet with continuing altitude alerts as it varied. Approximately 2½ minutes after the flaps had been selected to 5°, they were reselected first to position 1 and then to position zero without any discussion. When they reached zero, the first of a continuing series of MCAS-activated automatic nose-down trim inputs began. These were countered by the Captain responding with nose up stabiliser trim inputs which kept the pitch trim at between 5 and 6 units but after 20 such activations and corresponding responses over little more than 5 minutes, the Captain asked the First Officer to take control. By this time, after observing that the aircraft was maintaining approximately 5000 feet, the controller had instructed the crew to maintain this altitude and continued to vector the flight generally downwind left for runway 25L before transferring it to Arrival Radar where the controller, having been advised by the First Officer of their “control problem” instructed them to “prepare for landing” on that runway. The First Officer confirmed “I have control” and continued to respond to the MCAS pitch down activations but failed to use enough nose up stabiliser trim input to maintain the 5-6° trim units which the Captain had done. As the First Officer’s response to a continuing sequence of automatic pitch down interludes, the pitch trim steadily reduced and as the aircraft descended, airspeed increased. The Captain asked the Arrival controller for permission to proceed to waypoint ‘ESALA’ (north east of the airport - see the ground track illustration below) for weather avoidance and this was approved. The Captain then transmitted that “the altitude of the aircraft could not be determined due to all aircraft instruments indicating different altitudes” to which the controller