began and as the nose gear lifted off the runway, the DFDR recorded activation of the left control column stick shaker which then, apart from one 20 second interval, continued for the rest of the flight. Four seconds after takeoff, with the initially recorded 7° pitch up and a 1000 fpm rate of climb, the First Officer called “Indicated Airspeed Disagree” with the DFDR-recorded left side at 164 knots and the right side at 173 knots. The ‘IAS DISAGREE’ message which had prompted the call remained until the end of the recording. The First Officer questioned what the problem was and asked the Captain if he intended to turn back but got no response or other acknowledgement. Following gear retraction, with the recorded altitude displayed on the Captain’s PFD at 340 feet and the recorded altitude displayed on the First Officer’s PFD at 570 feet, the First Officer called “Altitude Disagree” and the Captain acknowledged. Less than a minute after takeoff, the flight had been transferred to Terminal East radar and re-cleared to FL270. The First Officer then asked the controller to confirm the aircraft’s altitude as shown on their radar display and was told 900 feet. At that time the DFDR recorded 790 feet on the left and 1,040 feet on the right. The Captain called for the memory items for unreliable airspeed but received no response. Instead, the First Officer asked the Captain what altitude he should request and suggested to the Captain that he should fly towards downwind, but this “was rejected by the Captain” who told the First Officer to request a re-clearance to “any holding point” which he did. As the aircraft turned left, the controller responded by asking what the problem was and was told a “flight control problem”. The controller did not acknowledge the flight crew request to go to a holding point and subsequently stated that they only remembered that the crew had reported a problem. Still less than two minutes after takeoff, a request was made and approved to climb to 5,000 feet on a radar heading of 080°. An EGPWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ was annunciated and the DFDR recorded a momentary roll reaching 35°. Flap retraction was continued and as the flaps reached the fully retracted position, automatic nose down stabiliser trim was active for about 10 seconds, which decreased pitch trim from 6.1 units to 3.8 units. The Captain then called for flaps 1 and the as this selection took effect, the DFDR recorded the stabiliser trim moving nose up for 5 seconds which slowly increased the pitch trim to 4.7 units. As the flaps were still travelling to position 1, the aircraft suddenly descended about 600 feet at up to 3,570 fpm with the DFDR-recorded the pitch trim at 4.4 units. The flaps then reached position 1 and the left control column stick shaker stopped briefly with the left AoA recording 18° nose up and the right AoA recording 3° nose down. Automatic nose down then activated for 8