but was not required based on the FHA classification of ‘Major’.. If the probability of an undesirable failure condition is not below the maximum allowable probability for that category of hazard, redesign of the system should be considered. If the uncommanded MCAS failure condition had been assessed as more severe than ‘Major’, then the decision to rely on data input from a single AoA sensor should have been avoided.. Boeing did not submit the required documentation and the FAA did not adequately oversee Boeing’s ‘Organisation Delegation Authorisation’ (ODA). Because the updated analysis was not included in the stabiliser Safety System Assessment (SSA) document, FAA flight control systems specialists may not have been aware of the design change.. Boeing considered that since MCAS function is automatic, the procedure required to respond to any MCAS function was no different to existing procedures. Crews were not expected to encounter MCAS in normal operations, therefore Boeing did not consider the failure scenario seen on the accident flight. The investigation believes that the effect of erroneous MCAS function was startling to flight crew experiencing it.. The 737-MAX should have included the intended ‘AOA DISAGREE’ alert message functionality as installed on 737 NG aircraft. Boeing and the FAA should ensure that new and changed aircraft designs are properly described, analysed and certified.. The absence of an AoA Disagree message made it more difficult for the flight crew to diagnose the failure and for maintenance to diagnose and rectify the failure.. The safety assessment of aircraft systems is based on 14 FAR 25.1309 which sets out the requirements for the design and installation of systems. These requirements include the analysis of effects and probabilities of single, multiple and combined failures of systems. It assumed that flight crew would correctly respond to flight conditions in case of such failures. Human error is not included in the probability analysis, even though the flight crew is often used as a means to demonstrate mitigation of a possible failure condition.. When performing safety assessments to comply with 14 FAR 25.1309, Boeing followed the procedures set in FAA AC 25.1309-1A and SAE ARP 4761 as the AMC. When doing the analysis, Boeing assumed that all flight crew are completely reliable and would respond correctly and appropriately to the non normal situations in an appropriately timely manner. During both the accident flight and the one prior to it, some of these assumptions were incorrect, since the flight crew responded in a different way from that which was expected.. 14 FAR 25.671 (c) requires that probable malfunctions of the flight control system must be capable of being readily counteracted by the flight crew. This necessitates that normal flight crew should be able to readily identify problems and respond quickly to mitigate them. However, during the accident flight multiple alerts and indications concealed the actual problem and made it difficult for the flight crew to understand and mitigate it.. The Flight Standardisation Board (FSB) process for the Boeing 737-8 (MAX) used airline line pilots to