and (critically) also on the assumption that the flight crew were highly likely to respond correctly and within 3 seconds. The assessment concluded that each MCAS input could be controlled with by using the control column alone and then re-trimming to zero column force whilst maintaining the desired flight path.. During FHA, the simulator test had never considered a scenario in which MCAS activation allowed the stabiliser movement to reach the maximum MCAS limit of 2.5°. Repetitive MCAS activations without adequate trim reaction by the flight crew would make the stabiliser move to its maximum deflection and escalate the flight crew workload so the consequences of failure effects should have been reconsidered and their combined flight deck effects evaluated.. In the event of multiple MCAS activations with repeated electric trim inputs by flight crew without sufficient response to return the aircraft to a trimmed state, the control column force to maintain level flight could eventually increase to a level where control forces alone may not be adequate to control the aircraft. Such a cumulative mis-trim could not be countered by using the elevator alone which is contrary to Boeing’s assumption during the FHA.. The existing NNC procedure for a stabiliser runaway was not highlighted in the context of MCAS activation consequent upon sensor malfunction and there was no immediate indication available to the flight crew to be able to directly correlate the uncommanded nose down stabilizer with that response. The assumption of relying on trained crew procedures to ensure that memory item responses would be forthcoming was inappropriate.. Boeing considered that the loss of one AoA and an erroneous AoA as two independent events with distinct probabilities. The combined failure event probability was assessed as beyond extremely improbable, hence complying with the safety requirements for the Air Data System. However, the design of MCAS relying on input from a single AoA sensor, made this Flight Control System susceptible to a single failure of AoA malfunction.. During the single and multiple failure analysis from the air data system worst case scenario of “failure of one AoA followed by erroneous AoA”, Boeing concluded that the effect would be hazardous until the flight crew recognised the problem and took appropriate action to mitigate it. However, since no training or the guidance for actions to be taken in such a situation was provided, the effect category should have remained hazardous.. Since the Flight Control Computer (FCC) controlling the MCAS is dependent on a single AoA source, the MCAS contribution to cumulative AoA effects should have been assessed.. The MCAS software uses input from only one of the available AoA sensors. Certain failures or anomalies of the AoA sensor corresponding to the master FCC controlling the Speed Trim System (STS) can generate an unintended activation of MCAS. Anticipated flight crew response including aircraft nose up (ANU) electric trim commands (which reset MCAS) may cause a flight crew difficultly in controlling the aircraft.. An MCAS architecture with redundant AoA inputs for MCAS could have been considered