help ensure the requirements are operationally representative. The FAA and OEMs should re-evaluate their assumptions for what constitutes an average flight crew’s basic skill and what level of systems knowledge a ‘properly trained average pilot’ has when encountering failures.. In the accident flight, the system malfunction led to a series of aircraft and flight crew interactions which the flight crew did not understand or know how to resolve. It is the flight crew response assumptions in the initial design process which, coupled with the repetitive MCAS activations, turned out to be incorrect and inconsistent with the FHA classification of ‘Major’.. Nine Contributory Factors - actions, omissions, events, conditions, or a combination thereof which, if eliminated, avoided or absent, would have reduced the probability of the accident or mitigated the severity of its consequences - were identified. They were presented in chronological order and not to show the degree of contribution: During the design and certification of the Boeing 737-8 (MAX), assumptions were made about flight crew response to malfunctions which, even though consistent with current industry guidelines, turned out to be incorrect.. Based on the incorrect assumptions about flight crew response and an incomplete review of associated multiple flight deck effects, MCAS’s reliance on a single sensor was deemed appropriate and met all certification requirements.. MCAS was designed to rely on a single AoA sensor, making it vulnerable to erroneous input from that sensor.. The absence of guidance on MCAS or more detailed use of trim in the flight manuals and in flight crew training, made it more difficult for flight crews to properly respond to uncommanded MCAS (activations).. The ‘AOA DISAGREE’ alert was not correctly enabled during Boeing 737-8 (MAX) development. As a result, it did not appear during flight with the mis-calibrated AoA sensor, could not be responded to by the flight crew and was therefore not available to help maintenance identify the mis-calibrated AoA sensor.. The replacement AoA sensor that was installed on the accident aircraft had been mis-calibrated during an earlier repair. This mis-calibration was not detected during the repair.. The investigation could not determine whether the installation test of the AoA sensor was performed properly but the mis-calibration was not detected.. Lack of documentation in the aircraft Technical Log about the continuous stick shaker activation and use of the Runaway Stabilizer Non Normal Checklist meant that (relevant) information was not available to the maintenance team in Jakarta nor was it available to the accident flight crew, making it more difficult for each to take the appropriate actions.. The multiple alerts, repetitive MCAS activations, and distractions related to numerous ATC communications were not able to be effectively managed. This was caused by the difficulty of the situation and (sub-optimal) performance when manually flying the aircraft, executing Non Normal Checklist procedures and flight crew communication, which led to ineffective application of CRM and ineffective workload management which had previously been identified during pilot training and had reappeared during the accident flight.. Safety Action as a result of