of specific attention during the analysis of the route” but noted that pilots could access a video to familiarise themselves with the airport which advised that takeoffs there are performed “with limits” in respect of tailwind component, the maximum permitted EGT, the possible impact of tolerances accepted for the outbound leg from Paris, and the need to request a particular departure runway in advance to assure its availability. It was found that this video “makes no mention of the influence of the rotation rate on take-off performance or of the difficulties in arbitrating between the rotation rate and the risk of tailstrike”, the latter having been a particular focus of attention by Airbus in respect of the A330/A340. It was noted that since 2007, no previous Air France ASRs had related to any concerns about takeoff performance or a long takeoff at Bogota but also, more generally, that prior to the investigated event the prevalence of long takeoffs was unknown since such events were not detected by the company OFDM programme, although this had been recommended by the EASA OFDM Working Group in 2014. However, it was stated that at the time of the investigated event, work had recently commenced to develop a long takeoff indicator event on “various Fleets operated by Air France” and this detected another very similar event which occurred on 6 April 2017. This event was reported to the BEA and is currently also the subject of a BEA Investigation. Once available, the new OFDM event was retrospectively applied to initially all previous A340-300 Bogota takeoffs for which data was still available and then generalised to all A340-300 takeoffs. This showed that “a considerable proportion” of previous A340-300 takeoffs had recorded a rotation rate lower than that assumed in the (Airbus-generated) EFB takeoff performance software which used the AFM performance model. The illustration below was created from the data and shows that the average rotation rate (blue curve) reached during all these A340-300 takeoffs was less than 2° per second whereas the AFM performance calculation model used 1° per second for 1.7 seconds and then 3.1° per second (green curve) with the investigated takeoff (red curve) showing a much lower rotation rate than both of these. A comparison of average rotation rates achieved during Bogota takeoffs by Air France and Lufthansa showed that these were very similar - around 1.8° per second in both operators. In respect of the investigated takeoff, it was noted that an initial input of 2/3 sidestick pitch up then held “would not have permitted the takeoff performance expected by the AFM to be reached”. The Investigation found that Airbus had been aware of this difference between A330 sidestick deflections being made during takeoff in normal operations and those which would be needed to reach the certified performance of the aircraft and had “reiterated that [...] a continuous rotation rate of 3° per second is best adapted to takeoff performance while avoiding tailstrike risks”. In respect of the Flight Crew Training Manual