carried out by the BEA. It was considered that differences in reconstruction of the takeoff phase by the three organisations “could be explained by both the choice of data to be read out and their sampling frequency” with different biases thereby introduced. It was accepted that this had made the accurate determination from the data of main wheel lift off, variations in rotation rate and tailstrike margin difficult and noted that such difficulties “had already been observed by the EASA OFDM Working Group". However, it was noted that in March 2014, the Group had produced a good practice guide which showed that relatively ‘simple’ indicators could be set up to detect unusual takeoffs in terms of takeoff distance or rotation time such as the distance between wheel liftoff and end of runway and the time between initial nose-up input and wheel liftoff. The Investigation reviewed the type certification process as applied to the Airbus A340, noting the initial certification was conducted in accordance with JAR 25 which required that “the takeoffs performed to determine aircraft performance must not require the use of exceptional piloting techniques or vigilance”. It was noted that the equivalent EASA requirements in AC 25-7 state that their intent “is to establish takeoff performance representative of that which can reasonably be expected to be achieved in operational service” and (in summary) specify that: It must be possible for the procedures used during such flight tests to be consistently executed in service by crews of average skill.. Such procedures must use methods or devices that are safe and reliable and include allowances for any time delays in their execution that may reasonably be expected to occur in service.. Under no circumstances must there be any use of exceptional piloting techniques, such as use of higher control forces or higher pitch rates than would occur in operational service, to generate unrealistic takeoff distances.. It was noted that when asked about the existence of definitions for a conventional rotation technique and exceptional piloting technique, the EASA had responded by stating that “there (are) no specific criteria to define a conventional rotation technique in the regulations and that the JAR 25 paragraph quoted [...] means that the pilots must be able to repeat without difficulty, the procedures drawn up by the manufacturer”. It was noted that in addition to Bogota, five of the other airports served by the Air France Airbus A340 fleet were “considered limiting in terms of takeoff performance” - Antananarivo, Montreal, Niamey and Saint-Martin. It was also noted from a study of Air France A340 pilot initial and recurrent training documentation that no “specific attention” was given to rotation technique and that “likewise, the rotation technique is not the subject of specific attention in flight proficiency checks”. Further, an examination of the training records of the crew involved “did not reveal any comments about the take-off rotation technique of these pilots during checks and training”. Air France advised that “the take-off limitations (at Bogota) were not the subject