crossing the boundary is also a situation when a controller provides ATS in an airspace they are not supposed to, similar to the transfer too early situation.. In case of poor radio coverage, it is possible that the transfer of communication cannot be effected thus leading to a loss of communication (and possible separation infringement in RVSM airspace).. Wrong frequency – a wrong frequency given to (or read-back by) a pilot may result in various complications depending on the circumstances, e.g.: Later-than-normal check-in on the new frequency (due to the need to switch back to the previous one). Even if no further complications arise, the workload for both the executive and the planner controllers of the accepting sector is increased. Controllers in the accepting sector not being aware of the flight crew's intentions (e.g. if they were cleared for a direct flight shortly before the transfer). Controllers in the accepting sector not being able to issue urgent instructions to the flight crew. Prolonged loss of communication if the pilot is unable to switch to correct frequency for a long time, for example pilot unable to establish contact on the previous frequency to obtain the correct next sector frequency.. Later-than-normal check-in on the new frequency (due to the need to switch back to the previous one). Even if no further complications arise, the workload for both the executive and the planner controllers of the accepting sector is increased.. Controllers in the accepting sector not being aware of the flight crew's intentions (e.g. if they were cleared for a direct flight shortly before the transfer).. Controllers in the accepting sector not being able to issue urgent instructions to the flight crew.. Prolonged loss of communication if the pilot is unable to switch to correct frequency for a long time, for example pilot unable to establish contact on the previous frequency to obtain the correct next sector frequency.. Sector skipping – sector clipping (an aircraft passing through a sector within a very short period of time, usually less than a minute) usually results in the controllers' desire to skip the “short” sector and avoid unnecessary frequency changes. Sometimes however, the definition of “short” becomes too stretched and a sector is skipped when it should not have been (e.g. a controller not spotting an aircraft there because of its dull colour representation).. Workload too high – this may cause incomplete situational awareness or lower-priority actions (e.g. transfer of control) being neglected, which, in turn, may lead to: Transfer of control too early or too late (not when appropriate but when time permits) Wrong assessment of the situation (inability to spot a potential conflict) Not finding time to perform a coordination Reduced quality of hear-back (the controller transfers the aircraft and moves to the next task not really hearing the pilot's read-back).. Transfer of control too early or too late (not when appropriate but when time permits). Wrong assessment of the situation (inability to spot a potential conflict). Not finding time to perform a coordination.