An Investigation was carried out by the Danish AIB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from both the SSDFR and the SSCVR. It was noted that " the weather at the time was VMC and did not influence sequence of events". It was noted that the flight had been uneventful until the flight crew selected the landing gear down during the approach at Aalborg and failed to get the expected 'down and locked' indication for the right MLG. ATC were informed and a go around to 2000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings was commenced from 1100 feet QNH. The QRH was consulted and the alternate landing gear extension procedure was followed. When the right MLG indication still showed it to be unsafe, a MAYDAY was declared. Further attempts to obtain a locked down indication were made but without success and the aircraft was put into a holding pattern in order to reduce the amount of fuel on board and to allow an opportunity for the aircraft commander to brief the passengers and for them to be prepared for an emergency landing. There were only seven unoccupied passenger seats and it was decided to use them to reseat those passengers in rows 6, 7 and 8 on the right hand side of the aircraft in order to get them away from the immediate vicinity of the right engine propeller. A second approach to runway 26R was then commenced. As soon as the flaps were selected to 10°, the landing gear warning horn began to sound; this continued for the remainder of the flight. During the landing the left MLG contacted the runway just ahead of the right. The latter collapsed very soon after runway contact had occurred and as a result, the right wing and propeller blades (still turning under flight idle power) dropped into contact with the runway, resulting in substantial engine damage due to inertial overload to the forward section. Directional control was lost and the aircraft departed the runway to the right onto grass and came to stop on a heading of 340°. All six right hand propeller blades struck the runway; three were found completely separated from the hub, the remains of the other three were found attached to the hub and as scattered debris. Two blades penetrated the passenger cabin structure, one completely via the window adjacent to seat 8F which then hit the opposite cabin wall above seat 8A and the other partially at seat 7F before becoming embedded in the adjacent fuselage structure. A passenger seated in 8C was hit by the first blade. It was concluded that the reseating of the passengers from the right hand side in rows 6, 7 and 8 on the initiative of the crew had reduced the number of passenger injuries. Although the overall cabin structure remained intact, the passenger cabin suffered substantial damage and propeller-related debris was widespread. Visibility in the cabin was very poor after the accident due to dust and/or smoke and this hindered