a LDG GEAR INOP caution light. However, the AFM had several such conditions in Appendix H.. Both the QRH and the AFM assumed that the Alternate Landing Gear Extension procedure would be successful.. Neither the QRH nor the AFM referred to an appropriate checklist if this procedure was unsuccessful.. Neither the QRH nor the AFM made any mention of shutting down the engine on the side with the unsafe MLG leg.. Neither the QRH nor the AFM contained procedures in the “Landing Gear” chapter to reseat passengers at the affected side.. In respect of the direct loss of airworthiness that was discovered to have been the immediate Cause of the Accident, the Investigation found that: Due to severe corrosion of the threaded connection between the right MLG retraction/extension actuator piston rod and rod end, the separation of the actuator piston rod and rod end caused the malfunctioning of the right MLG.. When selecting the landing gear to the down position, the landing gear was released from the landing gear up-lock hook.. Due to the separation of the rod end from the actuator piston, the right MLG extended in an undamped free fall condition.. The kinetic energy (generated) caused the failure of the stabiliser brace link joint lugs.. This failure rendered the stabiliser brace incapable of safely locking the right MLG in down position.". Five Causal Factors were identified: There were no specified inspection tasks for inspection of the MLG retraction/extension actuator and rod end either in the Maintenance Review Board report or in the Maintenance Requirement Manual (AMM) in so far as “L”, “A” and “C” checks.. The right and left MLG retraction/extension actuator piston and rod end were made of noble martensitic stainless steel and the less noble 4340 steel material, respectively.. Severe corrosion in the threaded connection between the right MLG actuator rod and rod end.. Separation of the right MLG retraction/extension actuator from the actuator piston rod end.. The failure of the right MLG stabiliser joint lugs.. The SAS maintenance organisation subsequently undertook a DHC8-400 fleet inspection and found that 26 out of 40 MLG retraction/extension actuator rod ends inspected had loose jam nuts. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident findings included the issue by Transport Canada on 12 September 2007 of an Emergency Airworthiness Directive applicable to all DHC8-400 aircraft requiring that before further flight "a Detailed Visual Inspection (DVI) be must be accomplished on the Main Landing Gear (MLG) system, the MLG Retract Actuator Jam Nut and the MLG Retract Actuator and corrective actions (taken) as necessary". EASA replicated the essential details of this AD for compliance by European Operators in an Emergency AD issued the following day. Revisions to the detail in these initial ADs requiring that inspections similar to the initial one must be undertaken at prescribed intervals "until terminating action becomes available" were subsequently issued by Transport Canada and EASA. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency