passengers seated in the middle of the cabin as they sought to find their way to the nearest emergency exit. Passengers also reported that the combination of daylight and dust and/or smoke not clear of the floor made the fluorescent tape on the aisle floor - intended to substitute for an emergency escape lighting system - difficult to see. When they left the flight deck, the pilots reported being unable to see the rear of the cabin because of the continuing effect of dust and/or smoke. An emergency evacuation was initiated by the Cabin Crew ahead of the same command from the flight deck. All occupants were out within 72 seconds of the aircraft coming to a stop on the grass, comfortably within the certification requirement of 90 seconds. It was noted that the commander had chosen to make the 'brace' call to the passengers himself and to do so 10 seconds rather than the usual one minute before the expected touchdown. This was done to reduce the chance that some passengers might look up during the landing on the basis that "passengers could hold their breath and tighten their muscles for 10 seconds but hardly for one minute". It was reported that the passengers had all responded as instructed 10 seconds before the landing. The Investigation noted that this alternative procedure had "prolonged the time of situation awareness" for the passengers and considered that "this new procedure should be open for discussion." Video evidence showed that during the ground roll/slide, sparks and flames had appeared briefly when the aft right fuselage made contact with the runway but ceased when the aircraft skidded off into the grass. A momentary fire also occurred in the right engine following a major engine case separation as the propeller struck the runway but this too went out by itself before the aircraft came to rest on the grass. The airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services, who had been in position prior to the landing, had arrived at the aircraft half a minute after it came to rest. They had seen smoke coming from the right engine and had briefly applied foam to reduce the possibility of fire until the smoke quickly ceased. A review of the formalised abnormal procedure responses available to the pilots was carried out. It was noted that the crew did not refer to the generic Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) checklist which dealt with an emergency landing with both engines operating. However, in respect of the specific malfunction encountered, an "unsafe landing gear", it was found that neither the QRH nor the manufacturer’s Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) contained a procedure - although the AFM did contain a checklist covering landing gear malfunctioning. The fact that in this type of aircraft, the consequences of an MLG collapse on landing could be significant meant that this finding was of concern. It was also found that: The QRH had only one condition as header in the alternate landing gear extension checklist., the presence of