An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and downloaded but it was found that the FDR was unserviceable because its magnetic tape was broken and that relevant CVR data had been overwritten. It was noted that “the lack of data from the FDR and CVR significantly constrained the determination of the aircraft approach profile and the details of the sequence of events” and had also made it impossible to assess CRM issues and the respective roles of individual crew members. A recording of radio communications between the flight and Sokoto TWR was available and showed that all radio communications had been normal. The 52 year-old Captain, who was PF for the accident flight, had a total of 13,805 hours flying experience of which 1,331 hours were on type and the 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 977 hours flying experience of which 649 hours were on type. The 66 year-old Flight Engineer had 21,205 hours flying experience of which 2,379 hours were on type. He also held flight engineer type ratings on the Douglas DC10 and the Boeing 707. All flight crew were Nigerian nationals. It was noted that the flight was a Hajj charter flight and that the original intention had been to make a direct flight from Kano to Jeddah but this was then modified to include a stop at Sokoto, which was only about 40 minutes flying time from Kano, to pick up more passengers. Although the Captain had confirmed the availability of fuel at Sokoto, he had decided to uplift additional fuel before departing from Kano. The flight was made at FL180 and on initial contact, Sokoto ATC advised that an ILS approach to runway 08 could be expected with the wind calm, the visibility 10km and the only cloud being FEW CB to the north west of the airport with a base at 2,500 feet aal. Descent to FL 065 was subsequently given and the flight was instructed to report when 25 DME from the airport. Subsequent re-clearance was then given to 3,500 feet QNH and for the 08 ILS approach. On arriving overhead the SOK VOR/DME, the flight reported field in sight and requested for straight-in visual approach to runway 26 to which ATC responded with “no objection, report final runway 26”. Two minutes later, ATC cautioned that the approach lighting for runway 26 was of Low Intensity and after a further three minutes, the flight reported on an 8 mile final and was cleared to land with the wind still reported as calm. During the final part of the approach, intentionally flown at a 2½° approach angle, the aircraft collided with the 08 ILS LOC antenna and the runway 26 approach lighting system and touched down 100 metres short of the threshold of the 3000 metre-long runway. It then continued onto the runway and initially came to a brief stop before taxiing to the apron. During