After receiving notification of the accident seven days after it had occurred, the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB) commenced an Investigation. By the time of notification, relevant data on the FDR and CVR had been overwritten but QAR and recorded ATC radar data were available. It was noted that the 41 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 6,787 flying hours including 4,544 hours on type and that the 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,275 flying hours including 992 hours on type. It was established that assessment of the flight crew at the time of the turbulence episode was that although it had justified a check with the senior cabin crew as to the situation in the cabin after it had occurred, the effect as experienced in the fight deck had not been considered severe. The flight crew had also previously observed crossing traffic above their level at a distance sufficiently distant (approximately 20 nm away) for the Captain to judge that a wake turbulence encounter was not likely and that it was therefore not necessary to put the seat belt signs on as a precaution. The aircraft type could not be discerned and had initially been detected on the TCAS display and then almost immediately visual contact was obtained. No corresponding traffic information was received from ATC. Data from the QAR indicated that the wake encounter had led to an almost instantaneous variation in vertical acceleration between extremes of +0.19g and +1.39g with little associated change in the attitude of the aircraft. The A320 had been on an approximately south westerly track and the crossing aircraft, a Boeing 747-400F being operated by China Airlines, had been on an approximately north easterly track but with essentially opposite tracks offset by 22° - see the illustration below. By the time the wake turbulence was encountered, which was very close to the point where the track of the 747 had crossed the subsequent track of the A320 one minute and 40 seconds earlier, the two aircraft were 13.3 nm apart. The member of cabin crew who fell was in the rear galley at the time and was preparing for cleaning after in-flight service had finished. She reported having had no time to grab something around her for support and had fallen down after “feeling as if both her feet floated in the air” before hitting her buttock hard against the floor. Although suspecting that only bruising had occurred, in the days following, there was no trend of improvement in the initial level of pain and a hospital medical examination seven days after the event disclosed a fracture to the lower spine. The atmospheric conditions in the area where the turbulence occurred were examined and it was concluded that the prevailing high pressure and weak (5-10 knots) upper winds would have been conducive to slow decay of wake vortices. The Investigation noted the content of the 2017 EASA Safety Information Bulletin on ‘En-route