“one reason for carbon brakes being more exposed than steel brakes is the higher porosity of the carbon disc surface” which extends drying time because more water can be absorbed by the discs. The occurrence of previous similar frozen brake events on other large business jet aircraft types including one on a Bombardier BD700 Global Express were noted to have prompted the issue of Safety Information Bulletins by the EASA, the FAA and Transport Canada alerting operators to the frozen brakes risk. At the same time, it was found that on request from the EASA, Dassault had produced (and subsequently revised, most recently in January 2021) a Significant Event Review (SER) on frozen brakes on the Falcon fleet which concluded that “the freezing of one or more brakes has never led to critical consequences” and that “in the case of multiple tyre burst, skidding on the wheel rim provides significant braking”. It was noted that although the AFM for the Falcon 900 had been approved by the EASA, the corresponding “Operational Documentation” (“Crew Operational Documentation for Dassault non EASy” (abbreviated to “CODDE 2”)) including the Normal Procedure Checklists was required to be “reviewed” by an NAA during an operator approval process. The Investigation found “specific inconsistencies between the CODDE 2 and AFM normal procedures” in respect of the use of the brake heating system. A comparison of the relevant part of the CODDE 2 and corresponding AFM content led to the conclusion that “the interaction on application of the brake heating system between the AFM normal procedures" (“as necessary”), the CODDE 2 “Flight procedures” (“it is recommended”) and the related “Operations on contaminated runways” represented grounds for “subjective flight crew decisions”. This was considered true even for a type-experienced crew such as the two Captains in the investigated event. It was considered that in the CODDE 2 “Flight procedures” for situations where a brake heating system is installed, the parallel use of the words ‘recommended’ and ‘as necessary’ “might have downgraded and diluted the preventive flight safety effect of these specific procedures". Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency in cooperation with Dassault modify in a more directive and explicit manner the AFM Normal Procedures (including the use of the brake heating system) and that the aircraft manufacturer accordingly modifies the ‘Crew Operational Documentation for Dassault non EASy’ (CODDE 2) in respect of the brake heating system. [DK.SIA-2021-0001]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency in cooperation with Dassault re-evaluate the initial airworthiness ‘Post-Failure Situation Sheet’ for blocked wheels and the continued airworthiness ‘Significant Event Review’ for frozen brakes. [DK.SIA.2021-0002]. The Final Report was issued on 29 November 2021.