impossible. A veer to the left began with a perception by the pilots that no braking capability was available. However, as the speed reduced, directional control was regained without leaving the paved surface and due to their suspicion that the aircraft had been exposed to a deflated tyre, they decided to vacate the runway and stop to await an inspection. This found that three of the four main gear tyres had failed with their wheel rims damaged as a result with only the inner right wheel tyre remaining inflated (see the illustrations below). The left main gear hydraulic brake unit lines and the left main gear bay door were also damaged. Disintegration of the three wheels had also caused superficial damage to the runway and exit taxiway surfaces. The damaged Left Main Gear. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The damaged Right Main Gear. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that had the same event occurred on a narrower runway than the 60 metre wide one at Kangerlussuaq, then “the potential loss of all hydraulic pressure at an early stage, or a more severe loss of aircraft directional control, could potentially have resulted in a runway excursion and consequently an accident”. An extensive examination of the aircraft brake units both on site and subsequently led to the tyre bursts being attributed to the ingestion of melted snow during takeoff from Vienna. This then froze during the flight and prevented the brake discs from freely rotating during the subsequent landing at Kangerlussuaq. The flight crew failed to eliminate this freezing by only operating the brake heating system for approximately three minutes rather than the recommended minimum of ten minutes on departure (or until the top of climb) and did not activate it at all during the descent inbound. This resulted in touchdown with three out of four blocked brakes and consequent tyre failures. It was considered that the origin of the frozen brakes was the failure of the crew to follow the recommended procedure for use of the brake heating system which when selected on uses a bleed of heated air from the airframe anti-ice system to direct such air at the two main landing gear assemblies. It was found that this system is an option which is only installed if the purchaser of a new aircraft requests it. The corresponding checklist entries for its use after takeoff or in descent were found to be limited to “as required” accompanied by a footnote ‘caution’ in the descent checks reading “when the brake heating system is used (if installed): the minimum required N1 with two or all engines operating must be increased by 1%”. After any use during descent, the system was required to be switched off in the subsequent approach checks. The brakes involved were carbon brakes which it was noted “are more subject to freezing” than older steel brakes with the AIB “unaware of scenarios with blocked steel brakes at touchdown due to ice”. It was further noted that