A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board (AIB) of Denmark. The AIB removed the SSFDR and the SSCVR from the aircraft. After downloading and playback, SSFDR data were of good quality and useful to the Investigation, but as the SSCVR had not been stopped after landing it did not include that from the Vienna departure which had been overwritten as a result of the recorder not being isolated after the landing at Kangerlussuaq. It was also found that the recording of the Cockpit Area Microphone (CAM) was unusable throughout because of “severe pollution of the signal due to a very poor dynamic of the sensor”. It was noted that the 45 year-old Captain in command was a Dutch licence holder who had a total of 6,774 hours flying experience including 2,700 hours on type of which 2,400 hours had been accumulated at the operator involved. The 43 year-old Captain acting as First Officer was an Austrian licence holder with a total of 5,352 hours flying experience which included 1,500 hours on type all of which had been accumulated at the operator involved. Approximately 90 minutes prior to departure, personnel towed the aircraft out of a hangar and positioned it to the general aviation area. The surface temperature was MS01. When they arrived at the aircraft, the pilots observed “light contamination on the aircraft and the beginning of light precipitation” and decided that de/anti icing was required. The aircraft was taxied to a remote de icing stand where Type I and Type IV fluid treatment was performed. The crew reported noting “a few millimetres of snow/slush within the General Aviation area” and “light contamination of snow/slush on the remote de-icing stand” but otherwise the taxiways were reportedly clear of any frozen deposits as was runway 16 from which a standing start takeoff was performed six minutes later. Once airborne, the airframe anti-icing system and the brake heating systems were selected on but after approximately three minutes climb including passing through a thin cloud layer, both systems were selected off as FL080 was approached. The remainder of the flight en-route was uneventful and on initial radio contact with destination APP, the flight was advised to expect radar vectors for the runway 09 LOC approach with a possibility of a visual final approach in benign weather conditions apart from the MS15 temperature and MS20 dew point. The runway surface was reported as having a 25% cover of 3 mm of “compacted or rolled snow” and 10% cover of 3 mm of ice with a measured braking action of 0.85 by Tapley Meter which was equivalent to ‘good’. Although visual contact with the runway was obtained it was decided to complete the LOC approach which was stabilised. The brake heating system was not selected on as part of the descent checks being marked (as for use after takeoff) merely “as required”. On touching down on the 2,810 metre-long 60 metre-wide runway, it immediately became clear that directional control was