reference required below MDA was lost nor for the failure to use the windshield wipers in rain. In respect of the attempt to commence a go around below 20 feet agl, the Investigation noted that the Boeing 737 FCTM states that an automatic go around initiated at 50 feet is likely to result in a further 30 feet of descent before the climb begins and that ICAO Doc 8168 states that "the pilot reaction time for the required control input is approximately 3 seconds". It was considered that "the investigation data showed that a series of errors occurred during the approach….such as the absence of callouts, lack of monitoring and (lack of any) crosschecking (of ) both the lateral and vertical path, especially below MDA". As the additional factor of deteriorating visibility was added at low altitude, such a lack of CRM was "potentially more dangerous" and the Operator's CRM principles for managing threat and error were ignored. The Investigation examined the effect of the ARFF deployment in the context of the re-opening of the airport for some 30 minutes following the initial closure during which time three aircraft up to and including an Airbus A330-300 that had been cleared to take off and six others up to and including an Airbus A330-200 had been cleared to land. CCTV evidence showed that the majority of ARFF capability was committed to the rescue operation during this time and that requirements of the normal RFF cover - Category 9 - were therefore not available. It was noted that shortly before the evacuation was completed the airport was closed again, this time for an hour. It was found that no update on the prevailing RFF category had been issued during the rescue operation. An Interim Report was issued on 13 May 2013 and included three preliminary Safety Recommendations as follows: that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should emphasise to pilots the importance of complying with the descent minima of the published instrument approach procedure when the visual reference cannot be obtained at the minimum altitude.. that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should review the policy and procedures regarding the risk associated with changeover of control at critical altitudes or critical time.. that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should ensure that pilots are properly trained during the initial and recurrent training program with regard to changeover of control at critical altitudes and or critical time.. These were not re-stated in the Final Report since by the time the Investigation was completed, new and updated Recommendations had been formulated. On completion of the Investigation, it was concluded that the following Contributing Factors had led to the accident: The aircraft flight path became unstable below minimum descent altitude (MDA) with the rate of descent exceeding 1000 feet per minute and this situation was recognised by both pilots.. The flight crew's loss of situational awareness in regard to visual references once the aircraft had entered a rain cloud during the final approach below minimum descent altitude (MDA).. The PIC decision