to make a go-around occurred at an altitude which was insufficient for the go-around to be executed successfully.. The pilots of accident aircraft were not provided with timely and accurate information on weather conditions despite the fact that the weather around the airport and particularly on final approach to the runway in use was changing rapidly.. 14 new Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should ensure that all pilots must be competent in hand flying and covered during pilot initial and recurrent training program.. that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should emphasise and ensure pilot monitoring skills are embedded in the pilot training program and SOPs.. that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should review and ensure the effectiveness of current CRM training program and CRM practices.. that PT. Lion Mentari Airlines should review and ensure the effectiveness of current Safety Emergency Procedure particularly evacuation procedure.. that PT. Angkasa Pura I (AP I) (the State Agency responsible for Airport Operations in Eastern Indonesia) should evaluate the ARFF residual response capability based on the involvement of the ARFF at the airport in this rescue operation.. that Angkasa Pura I should ensure that the notified RFF Category of the airport corresponds to the actual capability and should be reduced or operations temporarily suspended if the normally notified category cannot be maintained.. that the BKMG (the Indonesian Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysical Agency) should implement the requirements of ICAO Annex 3 on the observation and reporting of visibility.. that the BMKG and AP I should evaluate the current information distribution. system to ensure the latest weather information distributes to the pilots representing the ICAO Recommendation. that AirNav Indonesia should ensure that that awareness of the actual RFF category at airports is maintained.. that Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) oversight should ensure that all air operators achieve effective training programs for pilots to be competent in hand flying are covered during pilot initial and recurrent training.. that DGCA oversight should ensure that pilot monitoring skills are embedded in the pilot training program and SOP of all air operators.. that DGCA oversight should ensure the effectiveness of current CRM training program and CRM practices at all air operators.. that DGCA oversight should ensure that all air operators (periodically) review the effectiveness of their current Safety Emergency Procedures, particularly evacuation procedure.. that DGCA oversight should ensure that ARFF response time capability, including downgrading due to actual fire fighting and rescue activities, is correctly notified.. The Final Report was released on 1 September 2014.