An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian KNKT (NTSC). The aircraft SSFDR and SSCVR were recovered and successfully downloaded. Analysis of this data allowed the Investigation to confirm that "there were no issues with the aircraft and (that) all systems were operating normally" and the focus then turned to the pilots. It was established that the aircraft commander was a 48 year old Indonesian with 15,000 hours experience who had been qualified on the 737NG since 2007. The 24 year old Indian First Officer had 1,200 hours flying experience, the majority on the aircraft type. Both pilots were familiar with operations into Bali. The Approach flown was a VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) to runway 09 for which the prescribed track was over the sea and was offset from the runway centreline by 4°. The Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems lights were illuminated and the elevation of the threshold of the 3000 metre long runway was 11 feet. The runway lighting was serviceable but not on. The aircraft had been sighted by the TWR controller at 1300 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings and given a landing clearance. Initial examination of the available recorded data confirmed that the descent had been essentially in accordance with what would have been expected for an aircraft following the procedure both before and initially after the required visual transition made not later than MDA. Having continuously flown slightly above the procedure until the AP and A/T were disconnected at MDA (465 feet), the rate of descent had then slightly exceeded 1000 fpm for 10 seconds. However, the descent had remained well outside the envelope which would have triggered any Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Alert or Warning - see the first diagram below. On the other hand, the same recorded data showed that the track flown after MDA had been reached had maintained the offset procedure track when the latter was designed to facilitate a visual realignment with the extended runway centreline not later than MDA. The result was that a slow deviation to the right of the extended centreline developed from which there was no corrective or other deviation prior to impact. The second diagram below illustrates this track deviation. The approach was flown with the First Officer as PF using LNAV and VNAV. There was no mention of MDA as it was passed. Between 300 feet agl and 200 feet agl, heavy rain was audible on the CVR recording and at approximately 150 feet agl, the aircraft commander took control as PF with the First Officer acknowledging "your control…..I can't see the runway". After the EGPWS height call out 'TWENTY', the aircraft commander had called a go around and one second later, impact with the water occurred. The aircraft stopped facing to the north about 20 metres from the shore and approximately 300 metres to the south west of the beginning of runway 09. TWR were informed by one of the pilots in a aircraft awaiting take off on