runway 09 that an aircraft had crashed into the sea near to the 09 threshold and the crash alert was activated. The airport was closed to provide unrestricted access for ARFF vehicles to reach the adjacent shoreline which they did five minutes after impact. Most of the passengers left the aircraft through the right hand overwing exit and the forward right door as these were the exits nearest the shore once the aircraft had ceased moving. Within 45 minutes of the impact, all occupants had been evacuated. The aircraft remained semi-submerged in shallow water (between 2 and 5 metres in depth) throughout this time. It was concluded that all damage subsequently found to the aircraft was "consistent with post accident impact with the sea floor, coral reef and sea wall". Although the Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) current at the time had not contained any short term trend of deterioration and the airport CCTV recording showed that the 09 approach had been clear four minutes prior to the approach, a report from the pilot of an aircraft that made an approach 5 nm behind the accident aircraft was noted to have stated that they could not see the runway at MDA and had therefore flown a missed approach. One of two aircraft waiting to take off from 09 reported that, at the time of the accident approach, it was raining and the surface visibility was between 1000 metres and 2000 metres with the accident aircraft evident on the Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) display at a range of 3nm but not visible. A recording from airport CCTV nearby confirmed a significant deterioration in visibility during the four minutes prior to the impact as an area of heavy rain moved across the approach. The Investigation noted that the airport was not being provided with a system of visibility observation and reporting to the standard envisaged in ICAO Annex 3. The aircraft commander stated that "the decision to continue the approach while it was raining, was based on his observation that a dark area on the right side of the final approach track was relatively narrow and he expected to be able to see the runway (again) shortly after passing through the rain". He also stated that when the aircraft entered cloud at 300 feet, the outside environment became "totally dark" by 200 feet and added that "this was his first experience flying into such conditions". Analysis of the way the approach was flown noted that the transition from automatic to manual flight at MDA had resulted in considerable inappropriate variation in both the rate of descent and aircraft pitch contrary to the general principle that airspeed on approach should be maintained by use of power and vertical speed maintained by flying attitude. The Investigation concluded that an examination of the FDR data "indicated that (this) basic principle of jet aircraft flying was not adhered to". No explanation could be found for the failure to go around as soon as the visual