SOP.. Non-implementation of proper cockpit resource management (CRM) procedures.. Latent failures were identified as including: Inadequate risk management strategy by the flight crew as a result of deficient airline procedures and training for landings under wet/contaminated runway conditions.. Deficiencies in airline organisational processes regarding effective and efficient monitoring of the implementation of appropriate procedures.. The Cause of the Accident was determined as “an underestimation of the degradation of weather conditions (heavy rain, visibility and strong wind on short final and landing) and the failure by the crew to initiate a missed approach which was not consistent with the company’s SOP”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Non-compliance to SOP in meeting crew competency and complement.. Ineffective two-way communication between the ATC and DAN363 during final approach prevented the flow of technical information on runway surface condition and other relevant meteorological information essential to safety.. Failure of the crew to crosscheck the prevailing wind and also to obtain landing clearance from the ATC during final approach after contact with ATC was restored.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Dana Airlines should review the guidelines for developing, implementing, reinforcing, and assessing CRM training programmes for both flight and cabin crew members as contained in the DANA Airline Operations Manual Part D (Training) sections 2.9.5 - 2.9.5.5 and ensure that the CRM programme conforms to the provisions contained in the Nigerian CARs at Part 8.10.1.12. [2019-011]. that Dana Airlines: Amend its Operations Manual Part D section 2 “Flight Crew Training and Checking Programme”, subparagraph 2.5.2.4 Line Training Under Supervision, to state that: All flight crew members will operate a minimum number of sectors and/or flying hours, whichever comes later, under the supervision of a nominated Check Pilot shall be part of the operating crew and be in command.. The normal minima for Line Flying under supervision (in addition to any base training) will be: Captains and First Officers on type 50 hours (minimum 20 sectors). Captains and First Officers non-reducible transiting to a new aircraft type 100 hours (minimum 30 sectors). For pilots with more than 500 hours on type and recent experience of an equivalent jet in the area of operations, the above criteria may, at the Flight Training Manager’s discretion, be reduced by up to 40%. A risk identification, assessment and reduction processes should be conducted in a structured proactive and systematic way so that it cuts across all relevant personnel, rather than relying on the crew decision-making abilities when it comes to complying with SOP. [2019-012]. Amend its Operations Manual Part D section 2 “Flight Crew Training and Checking Programme”, subparagraph 2.5.2.4 Line Training Under Supervision, to state that: All flight crew members will operate a minimum number of sectors and/or flying hours, whichever comes later, under the supervision of a nominated Check Pilot shall be part of the operating crew and be in command.. The normal minima for Line Flying under supervision (in addition to any base training) will