On 20 February 2018, a Boeing MD-83 (5N-SRI) being operated by Dana Airlines on a scheduled domestic passenger flight from Abuja to Port Harcourt as DAN36A3 veered off the side of the landing runway after touching down at night in reduced runway visibility during heavy rain and ended up 300 metres beyond the end of the runway. None of the 49 occupants were injured in the accident or the subsequent emergency evacuation but damage to the aircraft was substantial and there was impact damage to ground lighting and navigation aids. The AFRS arrived whilst the evacuation was taking place and it was completed without any injuries. As well as “substantial” damage to the aircraft, some runway 03 approach lights were broken as was the ILS LOC antenna and the “ILS light stand”. A calculation of the landing performance for the accident flight with the aircraft as configured was made and it confirmed that made by the crew. It showed that even in the environmental conditions which had been present (including a 19 knot tail wind component) and assuming a runway with at least the minimum required surface friction, if the aircraft had crossed the threshold at 50 feet agl and then touched down firmly in the TDZ, that it should have come to a stop 2,070 metres past the threshold leaving 930 metres of runway ahead of the aircraft. The pilots stated that “the runway had experienced recent rain before arrival, and after touchdown looked and felt contaminated with flood of water that did not drain well”. In the usual absence of any hard evidence as to what the water depth might actually have been, the possible effect of the condition of the runway surface was examined and it was noted that although the responsible authority, the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), claimed that necessary monitoring and maintenance had been taking place, they had not provided any detail on this and stated only that it was “supervised by the airport authorities and conducted by field engineers and other airfield operations personnel”. The Investigation found that runway friction testing at Port Harcourt was carried out by a contractor and noted that a 2018 CAA Audit of the airport had recorded that “the FAAN claimed to have conducted the last friction test on runways 03/21 in 2012” but did not provide any documentary evidence to support this claim. It was found that “there was no record of any corrective maintenance action on the runway” prior to the accident although the most recent validation of the extent of rubber deposits on runways 03/21 as “satisfactory” had been made in December 2017. During their initial inspection of the flight deck, the Investigation Team discovered that two overhead panel CBs were tripped, those protecting the anti skid test and COM 2 which was taken to indicate that both were therefore likely to have been inoperative during the landing. The tripped COM 2 CB would have explained the First Officer’s inability to communicate with TWR