but no evidence was found as to why it had tripped. The absence of anti skid on a rain-soaked runway was likely to have contributed to the difficulty of stopping the aircraft on what remained of the runway after touchdown and it was surmised that since the anti skid self-test operates automatically when the main landing gear extends, this is when it had most likely occurred. The loss of directional control near to the end of the runway was noted as having been potentially a consequence of viscous aquaplaning which “often occurs […] where rubber deposits are present, usually in the touchdown area where (even) a thin water film can significantly reduce the coefficient of friction”. In such circumstances, it was observed that “the effects of even minor differential manual braking are likely to be greater” and that any reduction in nose landing gear wheel adhesion “directly limits both steering input options and the usual directionally-stabilising effect of the nose landing gear”. It was also noted that “transverse scuff marks found on some of the tyres also indicated that they had been subjected to a skid” and that the offset between these marks on the nose gear and main gear confirmed the aircraft had been in a slight yaw to the left as it left the runway centreline. Relevant guidance on approach and landing in the MD80 FCOM and the Dana Airlines OM Part ‘B’ was reviewed and it was concluded that the conduct of the final stages of the approach and the landing in the observable conditions had been contrary to a range of applicable SOPs. It was also noted that and the accident had occurred in the presence of ineffective CRM in a situation where the Captain had been overloaded and the very inexperienced First Officer was a less effective PM than greater experience might have facilitated. However, it was also observed that “in the absence of information and training about un-grooved and wet/contaminated runways, there is a risk that the flight crew will not carry out the appropriate landing techniques under these conditions”. Overall, it was considered likely that the flight crew had not considered that the situation warranted a go around, had “believed that the entire approach was stabilised” and with the runway in sight had simply “disregarded the presence of high winds and the other deteriorating metrological conditions”. The Investigation took the view that on encountering a situation which required the flight crew to “adapt to rapidly changing weather conditions”, a series of active and latent failures related to flight management which had been “multiple and interactive” could be identified. Active failures identified included the following: Underestimation of weather conditions due to lack of information from ATC.. Wrong pairing of crew using a First Officer who was yet to be released to operate unsupervised on a Public Transport flight with a Line Captain.. The Captain was overwhelmed by open discussions with the First Officer relating to the flight, approach and landing procedures.. Non-adherence to company