be: Captains and First Officers on type 50 hours (minimum 20 sectors). Captains and First Officers non-reducible transiting to a new aircraft type 100 hours (minimum 30 sectors).. All flight crew members will operate a minimum number of sectors and/or flying hours, whichever comes later, under the supervision of a nominated Check Pilot shall be part of the operating crew and be in command... The normal minima for Line Flying under supervision (in addition to any base training) will be: Captains and First Officers on type 50 hours (minimum 20 sectors). Captains and First Officers non-reducible transiting to a new aircraft type 100 hours (minimum 30 sectors).. Captains and First Officers on type 50 hours (minimum 20 sectors).. Captains and First Officers non-reducible transiting to a new aircraft type 100 hours (minimum 30 sectors).. For pilots with more than 500 hours on type and recent experience of an equivalent jet in the area of operations, the above criteria may, at the Flight Training Manager’s discretion, be reduced by up to 40%.. A risk identification, assessment and reduction processes should be conducted in a structured proactive and systematic way so that it cuts across all relevant personnel, rather than relying on the crew decision-making abilities when it comes to complying with SOP. [2019-012]. that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should conduct Friction Tests and de-rubberisation of all active runways under their control in compliance with Part 12.6.4(d) of the Nigerian CARs 2007 in accordance with NCAA advisory circular NCAA-AC-ARD014 issue No.1. [2019-013]. that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should monitor surface friction test schedules on all operational runways on a more frequent basis, including the build-up of rubber on all runways, and perform rubber removal operations as required, in accordance with Part 12.6.4(d) of the Nigerian CARs 2007. [2019-014]. that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should ensure that a comprehensive maintenance plan for runways in all airports under its control is developed and ensure that there is effective record keeping for every detail of maintenance carried out. [2019-015]. that the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) should amend the Manual of Air Traffic Control (MAT-C) Vol. 1, 2nd edition Chapter 4, “Windshear” Section 1, sub section 1.5 to include “Low Level Windshear Advisory,” to state that Tower controllers should issue the LLWAS advisory “Low Level Windshear Advisories in Effect” whether or not the facility is equipped with an ATIS. The advisory should continue to be transmitted by ATC, relative to all runways in operation at the airport, until either the information is confirmed to be on the ATIS, or the prescribed 10-minute time limit from the time the alert was issued has been reached. [2019-016]. that the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) should ensure that the Manual of Air Traffic Control (MAT-C), Chapter 4, “Windshear” Section 1, sub section 1.5 is appropriately revised to include “Low Level Windshear Advisory” to require controllers to select for display all sensors on the LLWAS (if installed at the airport)