the attention of the flight crew. Company culture was later shown not to encourage cabin crew to discuss operational matters with the flight crew. Furthermore, two pilots among the passengers did not react either. They mentioned later that “professional courtesy” prevented them from making any judgment on the captain’s operational decisions.. From all these events, the following contributing factors can be identified: Inadequate communication;. Press-on-itis;. Ineffective tools and equipment;. Incorrect procedures and instructions; and,. Inadequate training.. Individual factors include: Preoccupation;. Erroneous perception;. Incomplete knowledge; and,. Distractions.. Furthermore, the accident investigation pointed out that inadequate organizational processes and latent organizational faults were the root cause of most of the risky behavior exhibited by the flight crew. Three distinct organizations were found to have “contributed” to the latent organizational faults that led to the accident. The accident investigation identified the operator, the regulatory agency and the operator’s parent company. The operator The accident-investigation commission found not only that these latent organizational faults generated errors, but also that they created a working environment in which violations would have been unavoidable if employees were to do their jobs. These latent organizational faults included: Ambiguous procedures. Flight, maintenance and dispatching procedures were incomplete for flight in cold conditions, takeoffs on contaminated runways and deicing. Most procedures were derived from piston-engine aircraft operations and tacitly accepted by employees.. Inadequate manuals. The airline did not produce its own flight crew operating manual (FCOM). Some pilots used other airlines’ FCOMs. They were complete, but differences between them could have created confusion. For example, in relation to MTOW, there were no tables in the FCOM for contaminated runways.. Inadequate training. The commission found that takeoffs on contaminated runways and contaminated wings were interpreted differently by pilots. Crew resource management (CRM) training had not yet been instituted, another significant deficiency in training.. Crew rostering. Both pilots were very experienced but were new to the type.. Company culture and a merger. The airline had been acquired by another airline. The two companies were very different, and the merger was difficult. The purchased airline was clearly the loser. The company takeover and a long pilots’ strike were still on employees’ minds. The fact that the captain came from the airline that was bought and the first officer from the purchaser did not promote cooperation between them.. Company takeovers are usually stressful for employees. In the case of the purchased company, frequent changes in management, poor morale and operational mistakes resulted and affected flight safety.. Most managers from the purchasing company had run a charter airline in the northern part of the country’s regulated air transport market. The purchased company was a scheduled airline in the southern, nonregulated market.. The quality and the training of the company’s dispatchers were inadequate because management did not realize their importance. Their performances were significantly degraded under circumstances such as bad weather due to bad planning and organization.. The new airplane type had recently been introduced. The airplane program manager was not experienced and was overloaded as