The founding idea of ASIAS is that the federal government and aviation stakeholders — given a conducive environment and ground rules — will see benefit from cross-querying de-identified aggregate data distributed across airline network servers and related data on government servers. This idea propelled stakeholders toward early concentration on known-risk monitoring; directed studies implemented by decisions of ASIAS Executive Board; benchmarking, research and development of analytical tools; and vulnerability discovery. At their beginning, the ASIAS Issue Analysis Team — FAA employees, contractors and specialists seconded by the aviation industry — typically applied text-mining tools and data-mining tools to manually or automatically discover risk trends, atypical events, exceedances and aberrations within their expanding networks of databases. Their work produced clearly valuable results from data fusion — often computer-rendered as graphics that reveal otherwise undiscoverable safety insights. Each participant in ASIAS signs a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that, in effect, enables exchanges of de-identified safety data, limits disclosure of proprietary information, and offers exclusive access to unique ASIAS products. Best-known examples of its directed studies and projects from the late 2000s included: A directed study of terrain awareness and warning system (TAWS) alerts;. A directed study of traffic-alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS II) resolution advisories (RAs);. The capability to compare airline-level TAWS alerts and TCAS RAs with experiences of all other participants — called benchmarking — and the capability to benchmark specific-airline experience against aggregate experience; and,. Sharing experiences utilising data showing unstabilised approaches.. Since the 2007 launch of ASIAS, The Center for Advanced Aviation System Development at the MITRE Corp., a federally funded research and development center, has provided the high-level architecture, synthesized databases and conducted flight data analysis of air carrier operations as a trusted intermediary between the participating airlines and the FAA. ASIAS also soon evaluated and helped to refine advanced text-mining algorithms — some based on the open source Mariana software developed by the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and other software used by participating airlines — for automatic classification of millions of operational safety reports. “Airline-level analyses of TAWS alerts would not have come up with the issue of inaccurate minimum vectoring altitudes [MVAs] around our airports … yet several MVAs were not appropriately designed, and a couple of key elements weren’t addressed,” one ASIAS leader said at the time. “So the FAA reworked those MVAs to make them more appropriate for the surrounding terrain.” Data-fusion signatures quickly proved to be valuable for checking many airports for TAWS-alert anomalies. In February 2019, the U.S. Congress requested that the FAA “accelerate the ASIAS capabilities, including fusion, next generation of ASIAS architecture, and expanding general aviation safety elements,” and summarize the latest initiatives in a status report. In March 2020, this public report published by FAA Administrator Steve Dickson described the most recent accomplishments and challenges of ASIAS capability acceleration. “ASIAS analysts are starting to leverage Fusion to support directed studies, and it will be used to develop integrated metrics to identify and monitor risks and