community to evaluate potential changes in the NAS and proactively mitigate and monitor risks as changes are introduced into the system.” As Fusion data (including surveillance radar data, digital flight data, safety reports, and weather information) in ASIAS are currently merged through a manual and laborious process, the ASIAS 2.0 architecture will automate this process as a sustainable and enduring capability moving forward, the FAA said. Pending results of its recent design reviews, the FAA plans to purchase components of the new ASIAS 2.0 technology platform, with initial operational capabilities to follow starting in calendar year 2021. Imminent Projects The FAA’s report to Congress also argues that ASIAS quickly must “adopt new artificial intelligence capabilities including machine learning, predictive analysis, advanced data mining, and other methods to leverage state-of-the art advances in technology. “Future advances will build upon the ASIAS 2.0 architecture and Fusion technology to provide increased access to data and analytical tools, improving the agility of the program and encouraging innovation. … To succeed during this period, ASIAS leadership is working to increase the quality of safety analysis products by utilizing Fusion-based analysis and new general aviation analysis capabilities, and to reduce the timeframe required for analysis by investing in the ASIAS 2.0 architecture platform.” In November 2020, ASIAS also emphasised how critical ASIAS 2.0 will be in a market survey of potential technology vendors. “The new architecture will replace the legacy system of non-integrated silos of information,” FAA said. Automated collection, processing, fusing, and mining of massive volumes of aviation data are considered essential to replace the outdated manual methods still used, the survey’s introduction said. “[ASIAS 2.0] will include tools for data visualization, data analysis, anomaly detection, trend detection, statistical and inference models, and others,” FAA said. “ASIAS must have a data fusion capability … joining extremely large, complex and non-homogeneous data, such as voluntary pilot and controller text reports, digital flight data, radar, weather, and other sources to build a comprehensive understanding of the flight environment and situational context for individual and aggregate flight operations.”