aircraft while on the approach to land resulted in the aircraft neither touching down within the ‘touchdown zone’ nor at or close to the centreline of the runway because it was inappropriately aligned.. According to the DFDR read out, the PIC applied left rudder immediately after touchdown to bring the aircraft back to centreline. The PIC provided left rudder input for approximately 19.6 seconds reaching a peak recorded value of 25.7679 inches (left rudder pedal forward). However, either the left rudder pedal input was insufficient or it was necessary to also use the left wheel brakes (which were not applied initially) to prevent the aircraft from veering off the right hand edge of the runway due to inertia.. Seven Contributory Factors were also identified as: Flight Crew Human Factors: The flight crew decision not to hold in the vicinity of the airport for the weather to clear before commencing the second approach for landing. The flight crew decision not to go around from the second approach.. The flight crew decision not to hold in the vicinity of the airport for the weather to clear before commencing the second approach for landing.. The flight crew decision not to go around from the second approach.. Weather Factors: Reduced visibility during the approach due to the prevailing rain and thundershower. Slant visibility restricted pilot vision and resulted in a late sighting of the runway.. Reduced visibility during the approach due to the prevailing rain and thundershower.. Slant visibility restricted pilot vision and resulted in a late sighting of the runway.. Maintenance Factor: The right main landing gear tyres being retreads may have been less able to sustain the shock and resulting major damage after hitting, one after another, the nine manholes/handholds adjacent to the paved runway surface.. The right main landing gear tyres being retreads may have been less able to sustain the shock and resulting major damage after hitting, one after another, the nine manholes/handholds adjacent to the paved runway surface.. Airport Factors: It was observed that there was increased risk of damage to the aircraft from striking hard vertical surfaces (the isolation transformer concrete pits for runway lighting system) which were close to the runway shoulder. The many manholes/handholds (in excess of nine) which were located too close to the runway edge, having the approximate dimensions 5 feet (length) x 4 feet (width) x 2 feet (depth) with sharp vertical edges protruding above the ground surface by about 4-6 inches, adversely contributed to the severe damage to the aircraft tyres as they rolled over them at high speed.. It was observed that there was increased risk of damage to the aircraft from striking hard vertical surfaces (the isolation transformer concrete pits for runway lighting system) which were close to the runway shoulder.. The many manholes/handholds (in excess of nine) which were located too close to the runway edge, having the approximate dimensions 5 feet (length) x 4 feet (width) x 2 feet (depth) with sharp vertical edges protruding above the ground