right main gear wheels departed the paved surface onto the adjacent “grassy-mud” surface. The aircraft then turned left to track “almost parallel” to the runway with the right main gear around 2 metres from its edge for a further 470 metres during which time the right main gear assembly ran over a series of nine concrete cable-laying pits, each about 1.5 metres by 0.6 metre in size, covered with iron sheets and protruding above the ground by 10/15 cm which resulted in significant impact damage to all six tyres and their wheels. The aircraft then fully regained the runway surface and continued on it for about 1500 metres whilst gradually tracking back to the centreline before turning onto the RET which began 830 metres from the end of the 3,200 metre long runway and subsequently stopping near its junction with the parallel (southern) taxiway. Runway and taxiway surface damage caused by right main gear wheel rims was found from the point where that gear assembly returned to the runway until the final stopping position, a total distance of 1980 metres. The excursion was not visible to the TWR controller because of the poor visibility and they therefore gave the usual frequency change to GND after seeing the aircraft clear the runway. In the absence of any report from the 777 crew, it was only after another aircraft, a Jet Airways Boeing 737-800, had landed two minutes later and reported “scattered debris on the right edge of the runway” that the controller became aware of anything untoward having occurred. They then immediately suspended further use of the runway and ordered a runway inspection. This then confirmed that the 777 had been involved in a runway excursion and so the controller then despatched the emergency services to the stationary 777. Damage to the right main landing gear was found to include all six tyres “partially and/or completely torn and damaged with wheel hubs broken and exposed with the entire wheel-well having grass-mud deposition”. The brake assemblies of some wheels were also damaged with a number of cables detached from the wheel assembly and minor damage was found to the right inner flap and the right engine exhaust area had ingested “grassy mud”. It was noted that the runway had centreline lighting which, like all the other runway and approach lighting, had been working normally. The flight crew stated they had been aware that the aircraft had touched down near the right hand edge of the runway but that they had not been aware of the excursion which followed despite the right main gear impact with significant obstructions. They stated that only when the aircraft began “juddering mildly” as they slowly regained the runway centreline had they recognised that right main gear tyre failure must have occurred. The Investigation noted that retread tyres were fitted to the aircraft. The Cause of the excursion was formally documented as ‘Flight Crew Human Factors’ as follows: The flight crew’s inadequate coordination during manual handling of the