surface by about 4-6 inches, adversely contributed to the severe damage to the aircraft tyres as they rolled over them at high speed.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Thai Airways’ Flight Crew Simulator Training should include and emphasise: Landing with a cross wind component, in rain/thundershower with poor visibility conditions and a wet runway surface. Piloting technique while flying manually with cross wind component, rain / thundershower and poor visibility conditions yet making a landing in the vicinity of the ‘touchdown zone’ and on the runway centreline. Pilot decision making on whether or not to commence an approach in marginal weather conditions. To be prepared to initiate a go around at any time during an intended approach and landing should it be considered appropriate in the prevailing conditions.. Landing with a cross wind component, in rain/thundershower with poor visibility conditions and a wet runway surface.. Piloting technique while flying manually with cross wind component, rain / thundershower and poor visibility conditions yet making a landing in the vicinity of the ‘touchdown zone’ and on the runway centreline.. Pilot decision making on whether or not to commence an approach in marginal weather conditions.. To be prepared to initiate a go around at any time during an intended approach and landing should it be considered appropriate in the prevailing conditions.. that the Bangladesh Airport Operator should upgrade the radar equipment in use so that it can show the weather phenomena in the vicinity of the airport to assist aircraft vectoring by approach controllers during difficult weather conditions.. that Thai Airways should ensure that its maintenance reliability programme monitors the in-service reliability of retread aircraft tyres.. that the Bangladesh Airport Operator should consider locating drains or any other underground electrical systems installation, particularly for those to be installed with concrete encasement, manholes and handholds as far as practicable from the edge of runway and/or designing them with chambered or tapering edges.. The Final Report was published on 27 March 2019.