An Investigation was carried out by the Bangladesh Aircraft Accident Investigation Group (AAIG). Relevant recorded flight data was available from the FDR and the CVR which were both removed from the aircraft. A Preliminary Report detailing initial progress with the Investigation was published on 23 August 2018. It was noted that the 40 year-old Captain had a total of 12,000 hours flying experience of which all but 220 hours were on type. The 36 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,437 hours flying experience of which 1,762 hours were on type. The 34 year-old TWR Controller had a total of 5 years’ experience as a controller and the 41 year old APP controller had a total of 10 years’ experience as a controller. It was established that an initial ILS Cat 1 approach to runway 14 at Dhaka had been flown with the First Officer as PF. On 6½ nm final, the aircraft had been transferred to TWR and on checking in had been cleared to land and advised that the surface wind was 230°/11 knots and that the runway surface was wet. The actual weather conditions at the time included a visibility of 2000 metres in “moderate to heavy rain” with a 900 foot cloud base and FEW CB at 2,500 feet. Neither pilot obtained visual contact with the runway and they subsequently stated that they had commenced a go around “from the MAP”. FDR data showed that the aircraft had descended to 79 feet agl before beginning the go around. The crew requested and received radar vectors towards a second ILS approach and three minutes after reporting a go around from the first approach, the aircraft was reporting established on the 14 ILS LLZ at 10 nm, this time with the Captain having taken over as PF. After reporting fully established on the ILS, the aircraft was transferred to TWR and cleared to land with the surface wind at 250°/10 knots onto the wet runway. At this time, unknown to the crew, a SPECI was issued which materially differed from one issued ten minutes earlier only by the change of present weather from RA (rain) to TSRA (thunderstorm rain). The crew subsequently reported having sighted the approach lights with “the Captain then sighting the runway followed by the First Officer just prior to minima at 135-145 feet agl” during what was stated by the Investigation to have been “moderate to heavy rain”. The AP was disconnected at 135 feet agl and the aircraft was then de-crabbed and the right wing banked into wind to compensate for what was estimated as having been an 8 knot crosswind component with left rudder applied to counteract the resultant drift. Touchdown with the right main gear first then occurred ahead of the TDZ (touchdown zone) just 175 metres past the threshold with an estimated 15° right bank and to the right of the runway centreline. A drift right on the 45 metre wide runway continued for approximately 230 metres until the