The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) recognises national safety oversight responsibilities within States’ obligations under the Chicago Convention. ICAO has responded to the need to formalise arrangements for the establishment of national safety oversight systems, and to supplement these with regional arrangements to derive maximum safety benefit from collective action. Accordingly, to support these twin initiatives, ICAO has published: ICAO Doc 9734 Part A - The Establishment and Management of a State’s Safety Oversight System, and. ICAO Doc 9734 Part B - The Establishment and Management of a Regional Safety Oversight System.. Both give comprehensive guidance information to support the development of safety oversight. In addition, ICAO has established its Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme, with the aim of verifying, through formal audits, States’ safety oversight arrangements and capabilities. Audits cover all applicable regulations related to safety oversight by a State, as well as the procedures, the resourcing of functions and other implementing arrangements needed to implement the eight Critical Elements (CE’s) of a State’s Safety Oversight System as defined in ICAO Document 9734-A. These elements may be summarised as: CE 1 - Primary Aviation Legislation. CE 2 - Specific Operating Regulations. CE3 - State Aviation System and Safety Oversight Functions. CE4 - Qualified Technical Personnel and Training. CE5 - Technical Guidance, Tools and Provision of Safety Critical Information. CE6 - Licensing, Certification, Authorisation and Approval Obligations. CE7 - Surveillance Obligations. CE8 - Resolution of Safety Concerns. The ICAO Global Aviation Safety Plan (GASP): 2014-2016 called for all States to have implemented effective safety oversight capabilities by the year 2017. The ICAO Global Aviation Safety Plan: 2017 - 2019 set as an objective that all States have least 60% implementation of the eight CEs of a state oversight system by 2017 and that States with greater than 60% implementation should implement a State Safety Programme (SSP) (SSP). The 2017-2019n GASP set as a mid-term objective that all States implement SSPs by 2022. This requires all Member States to have the resources as well as the legal, regulatory and organizational structures necessary to fulfill their fundamental safety oversight obligations. These are required to ensure the issuance and oversight of approvals, authorizations and certification of aviation service providers, as well as personnel licensing, in accordance with relevant ICAO SARPs.