The Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) determined that the conflict had been an ICAO Category ‘A’ Runway Incursion and a Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Safety Office of the Administration. Relevant FDR data and CVR data from the A320 were successfully downloaded but relevant CVR data from the A330 was overwritten after it was not secured. In excellent visibility, an inbound A330 had cleared landing runway 36R with a left turn onto taxiway H4 and was transferred to the 36L runway control frequency where it was cleared to cross central taxiway ‘B’ and continue to the runway 36L holding point. Seven seconds after this instruction and before reaching the holding point, the flight was re-cleared to continue on H4 across the runway to the apron. There was no precautionary crew check that the runway was clear before beginning to cross but as the aircraft emerged further onto the runway six seconds after crossing the holding point, its crew realised that the A320 they had earlier observed stationary at the beginning of runway 36L was actually taking off. FDR data from the A330 recorded a rapid increase in thrust and a consequent increase in ground speed to 25 knots in 4 seconds by the time it was 10 metres into the crossing in order to complete it more quickly. Concurrently with this response, the runway controller made two calls to stop which were not responded to. The departing A320 with the First Officer as PF had been initially instructed to line up and wait for a full length takeoff from the 3,300 metre-long 60 metre-wide runway 36L (see the aerodrome diagram extract below) and entered the runway from taxiway H7. After subsequent receipt of takeoff clearance, it was commenced with V1 set to 146 KIAS. The A320 crew only detected the A330 beginning to cross when accelerating through 110 KCAS and approximately 1600 metres into their takeoff roll. As the acceleration continued and V1 got closer, the PF First Officer initially responded by pulling the side stick to achieve a recorded 5.54° nose up and applied brakes. The aircraft pitched up and the NLG left the ground for one second but the side stick pressure was then released and the NLG contacted the ground again. The Captain took control and pulled the side stick to the mechanical stop for maximum nose up pitch and simultaneously moved the thrust levers forwards from the FLEX/MCT detent into the TOGA detent. Within two seconds, the aircraft rotated to a recorded 8.44°. As the First Officer also pulled back on his sidestick, a dual input alert was triggered. The aircraft became fully airborne with about 250 metres to go to the intersection. By the time the A320 flew over the A330, it had still not fully cleared the runway and the vertical separation from the A330 vertical stabiliser was subsequently computed as 19 metres and the wingtip to wingtip horizontal separation as 13 metres. An extract from the Shanghai Hongqiao