Aerodrome Diagram. [Reproduced from the AIP] Examination of the recorded ATC data found that the A330 had been cleared to cross runway 36L at H4 by the same controller who subsequently gave a takeoff clearance to the A320, having forgotten about the earlier crossing clearance. The A320 crew did not notice that this clearance could conflict with their takeoff clearance. The fact that the A330 crew decided to speed up rather than stop when already partly on the runway despite the controller’s repeated instruction to stop was considered appropriate but their failure to routinely make a precautionary visual check before beginning to enter an active runway even with a clearance to do so meant they had “blindly trusted the ATC instructions given and was poor airmanship”. The A320 Captain’s takeover of control and decision to initiate a maximum rate climb rather than attempt a rejected takeoff was considered appropriate given the 4 seconds in which “the First Officer's actions showed he was hesitant to make a decision seeing the other aircraft in front of them”. The circumstances which led the controller involved to issue conflicting clearances were examined. It was found that the controller assigned to the TWR position when the A320 was instructed to hold short of runway 36L had then decided he needed to take a toilet break. The Assistant Controller nearby who was fully qualified as a TWR controller therefore took over. However, he remained in his Assistant’s seat and was observed to operate without donning a headset. He issued the A330 with a crossing clearance and instructed the A320 to line up and wait. Although he had access to the electronic clearance recording system and access to ground surveillance radar and the VHF control panel, the Assistant Controller was found to “have had difficulty grasping the real time traffic dynamics”. In addition, no hand over procedure between the two controllers was conducted and it was also noted that the height of the Assistant Controller’s seat was lower than the Tower Controller's seat which resulted in incomplete external visual observation with the pillars between the windows of the Visual Control Room obstructing the view onto the south end of runway 36L. When the A320 began takeoff, the Assistant Controller who had just issued its takeoff clearance was found to have been “querying with other controllers present whether they had their radio volumes turned fully up”. Distracted by his own weak radio problem, he had briefly left his seat to have the suspect equipment radio replaced. When the observer on the A320 flight deck subsequently queried the presence of another aircraft entering the runway ahead, the controller was observed to have “changed his posture and began to keep an eye on the dynamics near H4” and had issued and repeated a “hold position” instruction to the A330 twice without “paying the necessary attention to the situation" and “did not recognise the conflict between the two aircraft”. Shortly afterwards, the assigned TWR Controller returned to his seat but initially