An Investigation was carried out by an Indian AAIB Committee of Inquiry. Data from the SSFDR was available but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten because the crew did not file a corresponding 'Flight Safety Report' until 11 hours after the occurrence. The radio communications equipment of the aircraft was subsequently checked and found serviceable. The Captain, who had been PM for the occurrence flight had accumulated "around 8,000 hours" total flying experience and had been an Air India Check Captain on A320 family aircraft for the previous four years. The First Officer had "around 2,800 hours" total flying experience, type experience unspecified. It was established that after a departing aircraft had reported a suspected bird strike, a runway inspection had been initiated in accordance with prescribed procedures and an aircraft ahead of the one which subsequently continued to land without clearance had been instructed to go around and had done so. At this time the A319 was on the approach radar frequency and had been cleared to make an ILS approach to the runway. When the A319 was between 8 and 10 nm from touchdown, an instruction to change to TWR was given and correctly acknowledged but the aircraft did not thereafter check in with TWR or respond to the controllers calls, including several instructions to go around and landed just over four minutes after the crew had last spoken to approach radar to acknowledge their frequency change. The First Officer stated that having noticed after landing that the approach radar frequency was still active on COM1, the Captain had changed this to the GND frequency. On being asked by the GND controller the reason why they had landed without clearance, the crew response given was "communication failure". Fortunately, the driver of one of the inspection vehicles, who had already recovered one bird carcass from the runway was continuing the inspection when they saw an aircraft on short final for the same runway and having alerted the driver of the other vehicle inspection vehicle on their discrete VHF frequency, both vehicles were able to clear the runway onto taxiway N5 before the aircraft touched down. The A319 crew subsequently reported seeing the two vehicles on the runway as they passed 900 feet aal and that the Captain had then briefed the First Officer that if the two vehicles had not cleared the runway by DA (230 feet) a go around would be flown. They stated that as the vehicles then vacated the runway as the aircraft passed 500 feet agl, and there was no visual warning signal from ATC not to land, they continued. The First Officer added that their action in completing the approach and landing was in accordance with the applicable radio communication failure procedure. Despite the crew claiming to the contrary, FDR data showed there had been no attempt by either pilot to transmit on any frequency between the completion of the acknowledgement to approach radar to change frequency to TWR and their transmission