Aerodrome Controllers were conversant with the Radio Communication Failure Procedures for the en-route phase of flight but were not aware of Radio Communication Failure Procedures of aircraft on final approach". The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was that "after being handed over to Tower, the flight crew did not communicate with the ATC on any of the frequencies and continued to land whereas it was instructed to go around by the Tower due ongoing runway inspection". A Contributory Factor was also identified as "fatigue on the part of flight crew". Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the DGCA should develop a fatigue risk management policy under the Safety Management System, wherein Operators may be asked to: Implement processes and procedures for evaluating information on fatigue-related incidents and evaluating their effects. Develop procedures for reporting, investigating, and recording incidents in which fatigue was a factor. Formalise education/awareness training programs. Create a crew fatigue-reporting mechanism with associated feedback for monitoring fatigue levels.. Implement processes and procedures for evaluating information on fatigue-related incidents and evaluating their effects.. Develop procedures for reporting, investigating, and recording incidents in which fatigue was a factor.. Formalise education/awareness training programs.. Create a crew fatigue-reporting mechanism with associated feedback for monitoring fatigue levels.. that the Airport Authority of India (AAI) (as ANSP) should lay special emphasis on Radio Communication Failure when an aircraft is on final approach track, during the refresher course.. that Mumbai Airport should carry out a safety assessment of the risk associated with runway inspection with two jeeps in consultation with the Airport Authority of India (AAI).. The Final Report was completed on 30 April 2016, published in hard copy form on 6 September 2016 and released online on 27 July 2017.