to GND after landing. It was noted that the radio failure squawk 7600 had not been selected. It was noted that Air India procedures for Airbus A320 series aircraft radio communication failure were examined and it was noted that COM 3 was required to be always selected to 121.5 MHz and monitored. It was also noted that the ATC Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for RTF involving vehicles carrying out a runway inspection included switching the runway edge lights on and off in quick succession to indicate that a quick vacation of the runway was required. The Investigation noted - and the crew commented - that the flight concerned and the previous outbound sector to Abu Dhabi had been partially conducted during the Window of Circadian Low (WoCL). In the light of the available hard evidence and the statements made by both pilots, the Investigation considered that there had been two possible explanations for the loss of two-way communication between the aircraft and ATC, either the Captain failed to change the frequency on COM 1 after acknowledging the instruction to do so or he had inadvertently changed it to some other frequency. It was considered that "the first possibility is most probable". It was further considered that whilst "nothing untoward happened in the present case", there had definitely been an "unsafe situation" and that there had been a number of ways in which this could have been addressed: The TWR controller could have handed the flight back to the radar frequency once the aircraft was not responding on the TWR frequency.. The TWR controller could have selected 121.5 for communications once the aircraft was not responding to their repeated calls on the TWR frequency.. ATC could have asked the inspection vehicles to vacate the runway much earlier than they did.. Once it was established that the aircraft was not responding on the TWR frequency, an attempt could have been made to contact the aircraft on the radar frequency.. Either pilot could have taken "appropriate RCF action" once there was no communication with ATC.. The Investigation considered the question of flight deck CRM and concluded that "in the absence of any recording of the conversation (between the two pilots) and relying on their statements and the sequence of events, it can be seen that there was a breakdown of CRM in the cockpit during the critical phase of flight" and that "excessive fatigue of the crew....might have contributed to this lack of desired level of airmanship and loss of situational awareness". In respect of all aspects of the performance of the two pilots, the potential effect of fatigue attributable to operating over the WoCL was reviewed and it was noted that "it is a well established fact that fatigued individuals are more prone to fixations, low situational awareness and poor decision making" and that this would have had the potential to compromise flight deck CRM. In respect of the ATC response to the loss of communication, it was found that "both the