If the purpose of the observer's presence however is adequately explained to them, most aviation professionals will accept the presence of an observer whilst they are working. A proven way to communicate the purpose of NOSS observations, and indeed of the overall NOSS project in an organisation, is to seek support for the project from both the management of the ATS provider and the controllers' association for the unit or area concerned. When the management of the ATS provider and the controllers' association are both seen to be supporting the NOSS project, the potential for acceptance by the controller workforce is greatly enhanced. One way to make the bilateral support visible is through a letter, signed by the highest appropriate executive in the ATS provider and the president or chairman of the controller’s association, which outlines the purpose and provides an overview of the NOSS project. ATS provider organisations considering conducting a NOSS must realize that the support of the controllers' association is crucial to the success of the NOSS. If, during the preparatory stages for a NOSS, a change were to occur in the leadership of the association or in the management of the ATS provider, it would be advisable to reaffirm that support through a new joint letter. 3. Voluntary participation Participating in a NOSS observation, be it as an observer or as an observed controller, shall be strictly on a voluntary basis. If a person is a suitable candidate to become a NOSS observer, that person must have the option to accept or decline that responsibility. Similarly, controllers must have the option to allow or refuse a NOSS observer to be present during their shift. Refusal of a candidate to observe or of a controller to participate in a NOSS observation must be non-jeopardy for those individuals. No record of the person's identity must be made; the only thing that the NOSS observer may communicate to the project manager is the reason (if known) why the person declined to participate. Note. The NOSS trials conducted in 2005-2007 suggest that normally the number of controllers who refuse to have a NOSS observer present can be expected to be low. There were a few cases where controllers declined the presence of an observer because they had already been observed once or twice before in the same NOSS period. Other than that, the preparedness of controllers to be observed for NOSS purposes was universally high. 4. De-identified, confidential and non-disciplinary data collection The identity of the controllers who are on duty during a NOSS observation is not recorded. The only information recorded is the position where the observation takes place and the time when the observation starts and ends. The date on which the observation takes place is not recorded. The identity of the observer is not registered on the observation form with the narrative that is submitted by the observer. All data from NOSS observations must be considered confidential by the organisation. Data collected during a NOSS programme must