loss of visual reference and came to the conclusion that plan continuation bias compounded by confirmation bias was probable. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The company standard operating procedures require an approach speed of Vref + 5 knots; however, this is being interpreted by flight crews as a target to which they should decelerate, from 120 knots, once the aircraft is below 500 feet. As a result, the majority of examined approaches, including the occurrence approach, were unstable, due to this deceleration.. Due to ambiguity in the guidance and uncertainty as to the required speeds during the approach, the crew did not recognise that the approach was unstable, and continued.. On the approach, the pilot flying reduced power to idle to reduce the approach speed from 122 knots toward 101 knots at 200 feet above ground level. This steepened the aircraft’s vertical path.. The rapidly decreasing visibility resulted in the airport environment and the precision approach path indicator lights becoming obscured; as a result, the steepened vertical profile went unnoticed and uncorrected.. Although the loss of visual reference required a go-around, the crew continued the approach to land as a result of plan continuation bias.. The terrain awareness and warning system did not alert the crew to the aircraft’s proximity to the ground once the aircraft was below 50 feet, possibly due to the rapid rate of closure. This lack of warning contributed to the crew not being aware of the aircraft’s height above ground.. Due to the uncorrected steepened vertical profile, loss of visual reference, and lack of normal terrain warning, the aircraft contacted the surface approximately 450 feet prior to the runway threshold.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If guidance provided to flight crews allows for large tolerance windows, and crews are not trained to recognise an unstable condition, then there is a continued risk that flights that are unstable will be continued to a landing.. If approaches that require excessive deceleration below established stabilisation heights are routinely flown, then there is a continued risk of an approach or landing accident.. If crews do not report unstable approaches and operators do not conduct flight data monitoring but rely only on safety management system reports to determine the frequency of unstable approaches, there is a risk that these issues will persist and contribute to an accident.. Safety Action eventually taken by Jazz Aviation "as a direct result" of the investigated event has included significant modifications to the stabilised approach criteria specified in the AOM. By 1000 feet aal, airspeed must now be trending towards the Target Speed of 120 KIAS or the bugged VApp - whichever is higher - and by 500 feet aal, speed must be stabilised at the bugged VApp with deviations up to +10/-5 knots only acceptable if the airspeed is trending toward the bugged VApp. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 4 January 2017 and it was