An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from the FDR but as the crew failed to trip the CB protecting the 30 minute CVR after the accident, relevant data was lost. Data stored on the NVM from the aircraft TAWS was also recovered. It was found that the Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had been employed by Jazz Aviation for 17 years and had accumulated over 12,000 total flying hours including 9,000 hours on the Company's DHC-8 aircraft. The First Officer had been employed by Jazz Aviation for 2 years and had accumulated 6,630 flying hours including over 1,300 hours on the Company's DHC-8 aircraft. It was established that the flight crew had been aware of the likelihood of marginal weather conditions at their destination when the Captain conducted the approach briefing shortly before the top of descent and he had included the possibility of a go around on that account. The applicable Vref was determined as 96 knots and the corresponding Vapp as 101 knots. When ATC issued descent clearance to 5,000 feet QNH, they noted the then-prevailing weather conditions and requested that the crew report when they had the destination aerodrome in sight for a visual approach. However when ice crystals subsequently reduced in-flight visibility, the crew requested a VOR/DME approach to runway 30 rather than a visual approach and were so cleared. Once below 3,000 feet QNH, the aircraft cleared the area of ice crystals and the runway could be seen. However, a significant snow shower was also visible approaching the aerodrome from the west and, having reported this to ATC, the flight was cleared to deviate as necessary from the VOR approach maintaining visual reference. Descent was continued visually on a 3° vertical profile and 5nm from touchdown, ATC advised of a "line of weather currently rolling across the runway" which had led to RVR (recorded near the western edge of the runway) decreasing to 335 metres. At 1,000 feet and just inside 3nm from touchdown, landing clearance was given with the recorded RVR now 300 metres. With airspeed at 148 KCAS, the flaps were selected to 15° and engine torque, which had been at or near flight idle since 1,500 feet, was increased to 25%. The aircraft had remained on an appropriate vertical profile with adjustments to engine torque in response to a gusting headwind and by 500 feet, airspeed had reduced to 122 KCAS - noted as still 21 knots above Vapp. At 200 feet, the Captain "began to reduce toque to idle and, as a result, the airspeed began to reduce rapidly". Although nose-up pitch "was gradually increased […] the vertical path steepened due to the decreasing airspeed and resultant ground speed reduction" and the aircraft descended below the 3° vertical path. The crew reported that "at some point below 200 feet" they had "lost visual reference to the ground due to the approaching weather system of blowing snow" but had nevertheless continued