by power reduction as necessary". In order to to determine if the speeds flown during the investigated approach were an exception to those of normal operations, "the remaining 285 flights recorded on the occurrence aircraft’s FDR were examined for similar SOP deviances". It was found that "84% of recorded flights exceeded the 10-knot allowable tolerance over the required Vref + 5 knots below 500 feet" as measured at 400 feet with the average speed at that point being Vref + 22 knots. This data confirmed that a constantly decelerating approach was habitual. It also confirmed that although "the majority of recorded flights were outside of the criteria for a stable approach" none of them resulted in a go around. The Investigation found that soon after the event under investigation, although not as a result of it, Jazz Aviation had modified AOM references to "stabilised approach factors” to include the comments that stabilised airspeed is normally equal to the bugged approach speed and that deviations of +10/-5 knots are acceptable if airspeed is trending towards VApp. The Investigation examined the data from the second fleet aircraft FDR which recorded flights made subsequent to promulgation of these changes but found that "in terms of speed exceedance and approach deceleration, the results were similar to those from the occurrence FDR". These findings led to "the TSB's determination that there appeared to be a systemic deviance from stabilised approach SOPs, particularly the recorded airspeeds at 400 feet" and this was communicated to the operator. The response was that "it was the pilot's responsibility to understand that the target speed of 120 knots […] would be an inappropriate speed to maintain below 500 feet with a briefed bug speed of 96 knots" and that "as long as it is not excessive, Jazz considers a speed reduction from an SOP target speed (of 120 knots to 500 feet) to the minimum manoeuvring speed (Vref + 5 knots) to be stable". It was noted that Jazz Aviation had had a Transport Canada-approved SMS since June 2009. However, they had not taken any steps to establish an OFDM programme for their DHC8-100 fleet (nor for their DHC-300 fleet) due to uncertainty about their future nor had they substituted any other process for monitoring the effectiveness of or compliance with their stabilised approach procedures. It was also noted that as the result of an earlier Investigation into a 2011 accident, the Board had already made a Safety Recommendation (A14-01) to Transport Canada to "require operators to monitor and reduce the incidence of unstable approaches that are continued to a landing". Action by Transport Canada in response to this Recommendation to date was noted and it was further noted that the Board looks forward to gaining a better understanding of "what measures airlines have implemented and assess whether they are effective in addressing the underlying safety deficiency associated with Recommendation A14-01". The Investigation considered the likely motivation for the violation which had occurred when the final approach was continued after