the approach. When the TAWS auto callout at 20 feet occurred "torque was increased towards 30%" and two seconds later, the aircraft "contacted the ground" approximately 140 metres prior to the runway threshold at a speed of 94 KCAS. This ground was covered in approximately 20 to 30 cm of snow. As the aircraft contacted the ground, FDR data showed that it had been in a level pitch attitude and that contact had involved a peak vertical acceleration of 2.32g. Following this premature touchdown, the NLG struck and damaged an approach light situated 90 metres prior to the runway threshold. The pilots reported having "heard a thump, but had not seen the light and were unsure what had caused the noise". The aircraft came to a stop on the runway and "the flight crew assessed the ground visibility as very poor, due to the blowing snow". Since they were uncertain as to the status of the aircraft, TWR were asked to organise an external inspection before taxiing was attempted and also a bus to take the passengers to the terminal. However, "when the emergency vehicles arrived and assessed the condition of the aircraft, no significant damage was noticed [and] the flight crew elected to taxi the aircraft to the gate" to disembark the passengers and this was accomplished without further event. Damage to the aircraft was subsequently found which required replacement of the NLG assembly and its bay doors and since both MLG assemblies had exceeded load limits, they also had to be replaced. It was noted that the most recent recurrent training received by both pilots had been three months earlier and had included "practising rejected landing and missed approach procedures following loss of visual cues at 100 feet" which they had completed "without recorded difficulty although neither could remember the specifics of the rejected landing training event". It was found that the Jazz Aviation AOM stated that once on the inbound track of a non-precision approach, the landing gear should be extended, the flaps set to 15°, the landing checks completed and airspeed reduced to 120 knots. A different section of the AOM stated that "under normal conditions in visual meteorological conditions, the aircraft shall be in a stabilised approach by 500 feet height above aerodrome" and specified that such an approach requires that both forward and vertical speed be stable and that airspeed should be Vref + 5 knots to 500 feet and then reduce gradually to achieve Vref at touchdown". The AOM also required "a missed approach if the runway environment is lost to view below minimums" and indicated that "failure to achieve or maintain a stabilised condition is the basis for a missed approach". It was further found that "the flight crew’s understanding of the appropriate airspeeds for normal operations" at the time of the investigated approach was 150 knots in descent to 500 feet then 120 knots from 500 feet to 200 feet and then Vref + 5 knots to touchdown, to be "achieved