told him the result i.e. “that they would make it, as a matter of fact”. After hearing this, the First Officer stated that he had unsuccessfully “tried to reverse the Captain’s decision by requiring another reading of the QRH Non-normal Checklist in order to confront him with the last item in that checklist” which he regarded as “binding”. He could not recall any discussion with the Captain of en route airports in terms of suitability for a precautionary landing. The failure was found to be due to the malfunction of the engine’s fuel pump which had run dry after lubrication by fuel had ceased. The fuel filter downstream of the pump was found to be clogged with swarf and fragments originating primarily from the pump but this filter problem was a consequence rather than the cause of fuel pump failure. Likewise, the fuel nozzle filter was also not the cause of pump failure. It was concluded that whilst the reason for the fuel pump running dry could not be determined, it was clear that the accumulation of debris created directly by its malfunction were the cause of the fuel starvation. The Investigation reviewed all relevant procedures, regulatory requirements and guidance and concluded that all pointed to the fact that a “nearest suitable airport” diversion should have been flown. There was extreme concern that the Captain involved was unable to recognise his decision-making failure or the unduly authoritarian way he had exercised his command which had been completely contrary to the operator’s CRM Assessment Handbook policy which he had personally signed off in his capacity as the Flight Operations Post Holder. It was concluded that the Captain’s “defective decision-making process” had not only endangered the safety of his own aircraft but had also decreased the safety of other air traffic. It was concluded that it had been impossible to satisfactorily prove what level of influence the management culture in Smartwings had on the decision-making process of the Captain. It was also not possible to satisfactorily prove whether or in what way the Captain had been influenced in his in-flight decision-making process by “corporate financial aspects linked with the re-entry of the aircraft into operation after an engine failure”. It was therefore considered that “it cannot be rationally inferred why there was a discrepancy between the following of stipulated obligations when exercising the functions of an aircraft commander and the Captain’s personal decision to continue single engine operation all the way to Prague”. Certainly, “the Captain’s decision-making process was not in accordance with the binding procedures stipulated in the OM”. The Cause of the Serious Incident was formally recorded as "the defective decision-making process of the aircraft Pilot-in-command after the loss of one of the power units as the said decision-making process was not compliant with the QRH and FCTM (Flight Crew Training Manual) procedures which are mandatory”. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Smartwings, based on the flight performance and the persisting conviction