An Investigation into the Serious Incident was carried out by the Czech Air Accidents Investigation Institute (AAII) Commission which comprised four members and acted in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles. It “based its investigation on two internal Final Reports delivered by Smartwings”. The first of these was Final Report (revision 0) issued on 5 September 2019 and the second was Final Report (revision 3) issued on 6 February 2020. It was noted that various information about the flight was contained in statements given by the flight crew and the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM), company engineering personnel and on duty air traffic controllers. Transcripts of relevant ATC communications were also available. It was noted that “the evaluation of safety and operational aspects of air traffic urgency communication was provided by the Czech ANSP” and the Commission evaluated the evidence in relation to the “particularly serious faults on the part of the flight crew”. On arrival at Prague and prior to the commencement of an Investigation, attending engineers, aware of the en route engine failure, removed the Digital Flight Data Acquisition Unit (DFDAU) which was subsequently passed to the Investigation. They took no action to isolate the CVR and subsequently claimed that such action required the “supervisor’s” authority which they did not have. It was also noted that the Captain did not instruct them to do so or take such action himself and its relevant data was therefore overwritten. The 53 year-old Training Captain in command, who was also the aircraft operator’s Flight Operations Post Holder, had 20,980 hours flying experience of which 8,065 hours were on type. He was also a 737 Type Rating Instructor (TRI) and Type Rating Examiner (TRE). The 35 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the flight, was an Airline Transport Pilot's Licence (ATPL) holder with a total of 3,400 hours flying experience which included 2,488 hours on type. The flight involved was the second of the day for both pilots and followed an outbound Prague-Samos sector followed by a quick turnround. The TOW was 66.7 tonnes, well within the MTOW which was in excess of 70 tonnes. A reduced thrust takeoff from runway 09 at Samos and the subsequent climb were uneventful with both engines operating normally. However, after reducing engine thrust very slightly on reaching FL 360 with both engines briefly stabilising, the left engine N1 began to decrease and it then flamed out. Less than two minutes later, with the speed having reduced to a recorded 226 KCAS with only right engine maximum continuous thrust (MCT) set, it became necessary to begin a descent. This was commenced without ATC contact having been achieved and without offset but eventually the need to descend “for technical reasons” was communicated and a request to descend to and continue the flight planned route towards the intended destination at FL 240 was approved. Once the airspeed increased sufficiently in the descent, a relight of the left engine using autorotation was attempted but was not successful. Once