level at FL 240, a second attempt to restart the left engine using cross bleed air was made but this was also unsuccessful. Just over half an hour after the left engine had stopped, the Captain advised the company OCC by ACARS of the engine failure, the two unsuccessful attempts to restart it and his intention to complete the intended flight but he did not also communicate this information to ATC. It was noted that there were no weather considerations which would have ruled out a diversion to a range of suitable airports but no assessments of such diversion possibilities were made either immediately after the failure or as the flight continued towards Prague. There was a lack of clarity about how fuel endurance on one engine operating at MCT was calculated and it was not recorded on the operational flight plan and when asked, the Captain “did not remember the final reserve fuel figure used for trip pre flight planning". He stated that he had been aware that the procedure in the Performance Chapter in the OM ‘B’ stated that in the event of engine failure, “the pilot shall reach a reserve airport at best within one hour” but stated that “one hour is not considered mandatory”. Shortly after entering Czech airspace and making contact with Prague ACC, the Captain declared a ‘PAN’ and confirmed that all that was required was a RFFS “Local Standby” for arrival. After 2 hours 40 minutes airborne, all but 20 minutes of it with only one operative engine, the flight touched down on runway 06 at Prague. It then cleared the landing runway onto taxiway ‘B’ where it stopped and the right engine was shut down. Company engineers were the first to board and all passengers were subsequently bussed to passenger arrivals. The Investigation noted that when the Captain was asked whether he could, in retrospect, now see some of his mistaken judgements which he would like to explain, he replied “when looking back and assessing my flight performance, I am convinced that flight safety was not jeopardised”. In his written statement, he also said that “his decision-making had not been affected by financial aspects (and) that his reasoning was operation-oriented - if he could make it to the airport without breaching anything nor endangering anybody and with the fuel he had, he saw no reason why not to fly as far as to the final destination”. The First Officer stated that the Captain alone had determined that FL 240 was appropriate in order to achieve “Long Range Cruise Altitude Capability” - the Investigation subsequently calculated that FL 220 was the correct level. The First Officer also stated that he had asked for the implementation of the Non-normal Checklist procedure and it had been followed. However, he qualified this by stating that the Captain did not tell him that they would be continuing to Prague until after he had finished talking to the OCC and had not shown him the calculations made, just