90% N1, the speed of the efflux over the ground directly below the tailplane and in line with the engines would have reached a maximum of approximately 190 knots. It was also found that "the static pressure of the air within the jet exhaust directly below the tailplane at ground level was equal to the ambient static pressure" so that the passage of the efflux was not generating any suction. A further study was made of the potential suction effects of air intake to the left engine as the aircraft had been taxied into position using 40% N1 on the left engine to achieve the right turn onto the centreline as the engine was likely to have been passing over the central part of the blast pad. It was found that in calm conditions, the static pressure on the ground ahead of the engine intake was the same as ambient pressure but that in the presence of a 5 knot crosswind component, it was likely that a vortex generated in front of the inlet would have applied a 0.2 psi suction force to the ground. The prevailing surface wind velocity at the time was recorded as 140º (M) at 7 knots which equated to a crosswind component of approximately 6 knots. It was noted that the 0.2 psi suction was slightly more than the equivalent measure derived from weight per surface area for a 6cm asphalt depth so that, provided any adhesive force there might have been between the base of the asphalt layer and the material beneath were ignored, the applied suction might have been sufficient to start to lift the failed asphalt surface. Previous events in the ICAO "Accident Database" in which jet blast damage to runway surfaces during take off had been accompanied by damage to the aircraft which had been the source of the damage were reviewed by the Investigation but it was found that no formal Accident Investigation in accordance with the principles of Annex 13 had taken place and that as a result, "very little information is available about what caused the asphalt surfaces to delaminate". However, the publication of an ANSV Report into an accident to an Airbus A320 at Treviso in 2002 was noted - in this case, tailplane damage not dissimilar to that sustained by G-DOCT occurred but significant damage was also caused to the one of the hydraulic systems and the corresponding warning led to a rejected take off. Conclusions arrived at on the basis of the findings of the Investigation included the following: The damage to the tailplane would have had minimal aerodynamic effect, but the elevator was missing a section almost 1 metre long and this would have reduced the elevator’s effectiveness.. Further elevator surface loss could have prevented rotation and resulted in an aborted takeoff beyond V1 speed and a potential runway overrun. A more severe outcome could have resulted if the elevator’s structure had been compromised to the point where the aerodynamic loads in flight caused