further elevator damage and possible separation. The change in the elevator’s aerodynamic and mass properties could also have made the elevator more susceptible to flutter.. The cumulative effect of occasional aircraft taxiing loads may have weakened the blast pad surface making it more vulnerable to the effects of jet blast and/or to engine intake suction effects. A blast pad should be designed in a similar way to a stopway (which may function as one) but if they are not as strong as a stopway then a clearly evident marking scheme must identify them.. There is no requirement to alter the takeoff technique in order to achieve a safe departure provided all specified performance criteria are satisfied. Setting and then briefly holding full thrust against the brakes may have contributed to break up of the affected area of the blast pad whereas a rolling take off would have resulted in the tail of the aircraft being clear of it before a potentially damaging level of thrust had been applied.. The provision of lead-on lines does not take account of the provision of runway performance data for take off and additional guidance is necessary.. Safety Action including the following was noted as having been taken during the course of the Investigation: the UK CAA reminded all licensed aerodromes of their responsibility to identify and clearly mark pavement ancillary to runways such as blast pads which may not be able to take the weight of the heaviest permitted aircraft and stated that any replacement blast pads should adopt the thickness recommended in the ICAO Aerodrome Design Manual. It also carried out a survey of blast pads, turn pads and other similar surfaces at UK aerodromes and found eight where "closer attention is going to be paid and potential redesigns considered".. the Aberdeen Airport Operator (BAA) installed a completely new blast pad at both ends of the runway with a 10cm depth and capable of accommodating a Boeing 767, the most critical aircraft. All other UK airports also operated by BAA have been reviewed and it has been found that no remedial action in respect of blast pads is required.. British Airways has provided its 737 pilots with additional clarification on the use of recommended take off procedures in line with the corresponding content of the Boeing 737 FCTM.. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should consider amending Annex 14 to include requirements for paved blast pads that will ensure that they cannot be damaged by the engine inlet suction, the engine jet blast or the taxiing loads of the most critical aircraft. [2007-023]. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should review the requirements of Annex 14 to ensure that runway surfaces, stopways and other adjacent areas susceptible to high-power jet blast cannot be damaged by the engine inlet suction or the engine jet blast of the most critical aircraft. [2007-024]. that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) should consider