An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was successfully downloaded; data from the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been overwritten during the subsequent flight. The pilots of the next aircraft in line for departure saw "two large sections of asphalt, the largest section estimated to be 2 m by 3 m, slowly lift and disintegrate as the aircraft started its takeoff roll" and reported this to ATC. Having heard this, the Commander of the departed aircraft asked if the observing crew had seen any damage to his aircraft and were told that they had not. In the light of this information, and in the absence of any evidence of abnormal handling, he decided to continue the flight. No evidence which might have suggested damage was detected during the remainder of the flight and it was only after a routine engineering inspection at the destination after the crew had left the aircraft that significant damage to left tailplane and left elevator, as illustrated below, was discovered. At Aberdeen, pieces of the damaged elevator were found in the grass area behind the Runway 16 threshold close to the extended centreline with the most distant being 132 metres from the threshold. Most of the damage to the blast pad (also sometimes referred to as an erosion strip), which was an 8.4 metre long asphalt surfaced area extending well beyond both edges of the 45 metre-wide runway, consisted of the complete break up of the material comprising its 13 metre-wide central section. Most of the asphalt was found in the grass beyond the blast pad, some as far as 20 metres away, with the rest piled up loose in its damaged area or on the adjacent runway surface. The largest piece found within the area of the damaged blast pad was approximately 1.8 metres by 1.5 metres, 6 cm thick and weighed approximately 340 kg. The surface below the missing asphalt was found to consist of "stones and dirt with almost no bitumen residue". Some of the stones from this surface were found on the runway. It was noted that most of the bitumen sealing between the end of the runway and the blast pad had detached with the asphalt. An abbreviated form of runway inspection was found to have been carried out two minutes prior to the departure under investigation and a full runway inspection some 6/7 hours earlier during the hours of darkness. Using FDR data, a reconstruction of the ground track used by the aircraft was made. This indicated that, having determined that a full length take off with high thrust applied prior to brake release was appropriate for the take off, the aircraft commander had taxied the aircraft onto the runway by taking the main landing gear close to the end of the runway before completing the 125ยบ right turn necessary to get the aircraft lined up on the runway centreline. Left engine thrust up to 40% N1 was used to