on lines was reviewed noting that the transition which had been made onto runway 16 had required "slightly more than a 90º turn". The Operator's performance calculations for the aircraft type were found to be based on alignment distances provided by Boeing which ranged from 10 metres for a 90º turn to 18 metres for 180º turn based on a minimum 'safety margin’ of 3 metres between the edge of the runway threshold and the most proximate main landing gear wheel. The Investigation calculated that the minimum attainable alignment distance required to position the aircraft main landing gear approximately 10.5 metres from the threshold would have required the outer left main wheel to run along the edge of the threshold before the right turn onto the centreline was commenced. In this position, the aircraft tailplane would have been directly over the blast pad. It was also calculated that if the aircraft had followed the marked lead-on line, "its main wheels would have been about 66 metres from the threshold" by the time it was aligned with the centreline. The Operator was found to have published information to its pilots on TORA to the effect that "alignment distances are incorporated into the takeoff performance calculation" although this was found not to specify the exact distance from the beginning of the TORA from which it was assumed that an aircraft would start its takeoff run from. It was noted by observation that aircraft routinely did not follow the lead on line when entering runway 16 - which had a TORA/ASDA of 1829 metres. The applicable Operations Manual guidance was found to state that "The rolling take off procedure is recommended for setting takeoff thrust" and that such a procedure "expedites takeoff and reduces risk of foreign object damage". No other techniques were described in the relevant Operations or Training Manual but it appeared that the practice of standing starts (full thrust applied against the brakes) when departing from 'limiting runways' was, in practice, widespread. The Boeing FCTM was found to give slightly more detail in respect of the procedure for applying takeoff thrust and to include the following remarks: Flight test and analysis prove that the change in take-off roll distance due to the rolling takeoff procedure is negligible when compared to a standing take-off.. Brakes are not normally held with thrust above idle unless a static run-up is required in icing conditions. A standing take-off procedure may be accomplished by holding the brakes until the engines are stabilised, then release the brakes and promptly advance the thrust levers to take-off thrust. It was noted that the aircraft commander had "believed, in the absence of any information to the contrary, that the performance restrictions imposed on the aircraft’s takeoff were due to runway length" whereas "in the event, the restriction was actually due to obstacle clearance requirements during the climb out". The potential effect of jet efflux on the integrity of an asphalt surface was considered and it was estimated that at