achieve the right turn, at which time that engine would probably have been over the blast pad. Once on the centreline, the aircraft had held position with the brakes applied for a minute. Prior to brake release, engine thrust was in line with normal procedures to "approximately 40% N1" to allow engine stabilisation and then, after three seconds, the increase in thrust was resumed, reaching 95% after 14 seconds, and 100% 2 seconds prior to brake release. The history of the blast pad was reviewed and it was found that it had "probably" been constructed during the early 1990's with the central section - part of which had disintegrated in the investigated event - having been subsequently re-surfaced at an unrecorded date, possibly in 1992 after an overrun in the 34 direction. The depth of the damaged asphalt was found to have varied between 4.5cm and 6.5 cm. The blast pad was not marked in any way which might have reminded pilots that it was not intended to take the weight of any aircraft permitted to use the runway. The applicable UK CAA regulatory guidance on 'Licensing of Aerodromes' CAP 168 9th edition, was found not to include any guidance or reference to blast pads or erosion strips. ICAO Annex 14 was also found to lack any such references, although it was noted that the need for blast pads to be able to "accommodate an occasional passage of the critical aircraft for runway pavement design" was noted to appear in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Aerodrome Design Manual Doc 9137. This Manual also recommended that the minimum surface thickness for blast pads associated with a runway such as the one involved should be 7.5cm and that they should be 60 metres long. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) guidance on blast pad capability and asphalt surface thickness were noted as similar to those of ICAO. The Airport Operator's own 'Airport Planning Standards' document was found to state that blast pads should be provided for runways used by jet aircraft and should be 30 metres long but that "there are no particular strength requirements" other than that "the surface should be sealed to prevent flying debris" and that "it needs to be able to support the passage of airport vehicles". The fact that the aircraft commander had deemed it necessary not to follow the marked taxiway lead on line onto the runway centreline prompted the Investigation to examine the basis on which such lines are marked. It was found that the applicable UK CAA publication on visual aids, CAP 637, which is based on ICAO Annex 14 Chapter 5, stated that lead on/off lines should ensure safe clearance for the largest aircraft permitted to use a runway provided the 'cockpit' of that aircraft is kept on the centreline although there is no mention of any requirement for pilots to follow such lines. The effect on take off performance in terms of the declared TORA/TODA/ASDA and the reduction in distance attributable to lead