work may be necessary, but as an intermediate step a new appendix (Appendix N) provides additional guidance aimed at improving the overall consistency of runway incursion data and a better understanding of runway collision risk. Aerodrome vehicle driving operations are an ongoing hazard for safe runway operations. A number of new recommendations and associated guidance would further strengthen the existing comprehensive barriers, if implemented. The use of synthetic trainers (simulators) to train airside drivers is bringing economic and operational benefits to some airports. Control and management of aerodrome works in progress/contractors are given more prominence in EAPPRI V3.0; additional aerodrome design considerations are also promoted. Operational safety studies continue to show that the H24 use of stop bars can be a powerful runway incursion prevention barrier. Previous editions of EAPPRI included H24 stop bar use in Guidance Material but in this version the practice is elevated to Recommendation status for aerodrome operators and air navigation service providers to consider. Regulators and national aviation authorities have an important role to play in setting the national tone as far as runway safety and runway safety promotion is concerned. New Recommendations ask national authorities to strengthen this activity and their oversight of operators’ SMS. This document recognises the proliferation of aeronautical information (e.g. NOTAMs) that pilots, in particular, are expected to assimilate. New Recommendations call for improvements of Aeronautical Information Management (AIM) and the simplification of the way it is presented. The aspiration to present aerodrome NOTAM information in a digitised, interoperable exchange format (i.e. graphical display) should be continued. Emerging technologies such as those associated with Remote Tower Operations (RTO) present opportunities and threats as far as maintaining the safety on and around runways is concerned. Similarly, authorised remotely piloted aircraft (RPAS) or ‘drones’ need to be accommodated on and around aerodromes whilst ensuring the continuation of safe operations. Other technologies on the ground (in ATC and/or on the aerodrome) as well as those on board aircraft are becoming increasingly available.