It was considered that this was why visual inspection is still the primary method used at most airports, including Madrid. The Investigation adopted a position on various aspects of the Airport and ATC emergency response to the event including the following: Although ATC was made aware of debris on the runway six minutes after the takeoff, they did not know if it had come from the 767 or a previously departing aircraft and so did not pass this finding to the aircraft crew until 1 hour 45 minutes later, after maintenance personnel had confirmed that the recovered FOD was indeed from the 767.. The most critical moments of the flight were assessed as having been the first twelve minutes during which the aircraft crew reported their initial inability to climb, had not established the extent of their manoeuvring ability and had not yet had time to assess the likely timing of a return to land. Whilst many aspects of the response of the TWR and sector controllers involved were assessed as positive, it was considered that the TWR had been too slow to communicate the emergency to the airport authorities and had notably failed to request an immediate runway inspection after witnessing a visibly significant event (not necessarily a tyre explosion) at rotation. The latter was not required in the ANSP ENAIRE’s ‘Emergency Response Plan’ which was found to only prescribe runway inspections for an engine failure emergency and a landing gear emergency in the after landing case. It was noted that the offer by the ‘Runway and Apron Service’ to carry out a runway inspection six minutes after the takeoff when they became aware that the runway was being “reserved for the possible emergency landing of the aircraft” by ATC was not accepted. It was concluded that had an early return to land occurred, “it could have generated additional problems” due to the extensive FOD contamination subsequently confirmed which most certainly made the runway unfit for use.. Although TWR promptly communicated the alert of an “emergency” to the wider airport community, the terminology used to transmit this information was assessed to have been “inadequate” because it used only the ambiguous term ‘emergency’ which alone did not facilitate relevant decision-making. The consequence of this was that it was half an hour before the alert status was upgraded from the ‘local’ level and raised to the ‘general’ level. However, it was accepted that in the case of the investigated event, this “generalised choice of terminology” did not have any actual consequences for the airport because of the several hours which elapsed before the aircraft returned.. It was considered that although the flow of information about the emergency from the TWR to the airport was not ideal, “the information transmitted...was managed correctly, activating the appropriate alert phases and levels according to the information available (and) the resources mobilised were appropriate for each phase”. It was concluded that “the transmission of information between the emergency services was also adequate” and noted that by