the time the aircraft eventually landed, everything necessary was in place.. The first direct advice from the flight crew to ATC that the aircraft had experienced a “tyre explosion” was to the Madrid ACC sector which took over control of the aircraft after takeoff. Although the controller who was informed of this may have assumed the TWR controllers were already aware of it, they did not proactively inform the TWR anyway and it was noted that such communication was not required under the ENAIRE procedures for Emergency Response.. Whilst it was recognised that the (very experienced) Madrid ACC sector controller involved was presented with a difficult traffic management task, the fact that the aircraft flew very low over the centre of Madrid was assessed to have “generated a risk that, in other circumstances, could have had consequences for people and populations”. However, given the reported capabilities of the aircraft at the time and the possibility at that stage that an early return to land may become necessary, it was considered that the only obvious option was the turn south given and was “deemed to have been a good one”. Nevertheless, it was noted that at the time, the sector “didn’t know what type of failure had occurred or how it was going to evolve (non-contained failures, secondary failures, separation of parts, emergency landing, etc.)”. It was also recognised that “controllers cannot see the geographical location of population centres on the radar display”.. The Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “the presence of a sharp foreign object (FOD) on runway 36L which punctured the aircraft’s number 5 tyre on the left main landing gear and resulted in an explosion of the tyre and other secondary failures including the left engine". Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that AENA, as the provider of the Runway and Apron Service at the airport, should study the possibility of improving the procedure for the detection of foreign object debris on the runway. [REC38/21]. that ENAIRE, as the provider of the air navigation services for the airport TWR, should incorporate this accident into its ongoing training plans to reinforce the importance of using the correct terminology when conveying alert situations to the airport in order to ensure the appropriate action plans are activated. [REC39/21]. that ENAIRE, as the provider of the air navigation services for the airport TWR, should assess the possibility of including the requirement to carry out a runway inspection whenever an emergency is declared shortly after take-off into the Emergency Response Plan. [REC40/21]. hat ENAIRE, as an air navigation service provider, should assess the possibility of incorporating information of the causes of tyre explosions in the Emergency Response Plan, including the instruction that, whenever a tyre explosion is reported, regardless of the flight phase, a runway inspection must be carried out at the airport of origin. [REC41/21]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 30 June 2021 and then released online simultaneously