The Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) carried out an Investigation. Relevant data was downloaded from both the FDR and CVR and combined with recorded ATC data. It was noted that the 52 year-old Captain had a total of 25,000 hours flying experience which included 13,349 hours with Air Canada and 1,300 hours on type and the 35 year-old First Officer had a total of 6,500 hours flying experience which included 619 hours with Air Canada, all on type. After uneventful flight preparations and taxi out to runway to runway 36L, a flap 5 takeoff commenced and was normal until three seconds after passing V1 (158 KIAS) which was one second after VR (160 KIAS) and at a ground speed of 176 knots. Footage from the airport surveillance cameras showed that a tyre on the left rear wheel of the left main landing gear (tyre number 5) had exploded resulting in the adjacent engine ingesting several shredded tyre tread fragments. A flame was immediately evident from the engine and as rotation then began, a second flame from the engine was seen (see the illustration below). Passing V1+5, rotation begins with a second flame from the left engine after tyre debris had been ingested. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The takeoff was continued and once safely airborne at 171 KIAS (V2 being 166 KIAS), the crew began the shutdown of the malfunctioning left engine by first disconnecting the A/T. A MAYDAY call for engine failure was made and shortly after this, the engine shutdown was completed. The aircraft remained on runway heading until it climbed above the prescribed acceleration altitude of 2,850 feet QNH and then, having levelled off at 3,000 feet QFE (1,000 feet agl) turned southeast towards the NVS VOR as per their company single engine emergency procedure (see the first illustration below) which was designed to ensure that high terrain on the SID track being followed was avoided by requiring a straight ahead climb out to 5nm followed by a left turn to track to the NVS VOR (see the second illustration below). The crew advised ATC that they were flying on one engine and were unable to retract the landing gear or climb any further and ATC responded by instructing the flight to turn south onto a radar heading of 160° which then took them directly over the Madrid city centre (see the track on the second illustration below). The company prescribed ‘engine failure on take-off’ procedure (broken orange line and the SID (a solid red line towards high ground). [Reproduced from the Official Report] On this track, nine minutes after takeoff, the crew managed to retract the landing gear using the QRH procedure “Gear Lever will not move up” which overrides the gear lock which the tilt sensor damaged by tyre debris impact had not allowed. Retraction of the flaps then followed and it became possible to increase the speed to 230 KIAS. The track followed from takeoff on runway 35L to