FOD included “wheel fragments of different sizes, the smallest measuring a few centimetres in thickness and length and the largest being over a metre in length” as well as honeycomb material which was subsequently identified as part of the left engine inlet cowling. Detached tyre fragments were also subsequently recovered from the interior of the left engine and an inspection of runway 32L after the 767 landed also found several pieces of tyre debris. A boroscope examination of the failed left engine found significant damage to the Fan/booster (Low Pressure Compressor (LPC)) module, the Core High Pressure Compressor (HPC) module and to both the High Pressure Turbine (HPT) and High Pressure Turbine (LPT). A comprehensive examination of the recovered tyre fragments confirmed, with certainty, that the No 5 wheel tyre failed as a result of being punctured by a sharp object, which penetrated from the outside in and managed to pierce through the tread and almost the whole of the tyre casing. It was demonstrated that “at the moment it punctured the tyre, the object was at an inclined angle (and) was approximately 1½ mm wide and 7cm long”. It was noted that the fact that the FOD involved had affected one of the rear rather than one of the front wheels of a two axle bogie was not unusual with the most feasible explanation for this being that the item involved is initially lying flat on the runway but is then lifted by the wheel on the front axle of the bogie which is immediately ahead and projected backwards resulting in an inclination from the horizontal sufficient to result in penetration of the wheel immediately behind. The Investigation was not able to establish whether the causal FOD was on the runway and had gone undetected during the routine runway inspection conducted shortly before the takeoff or whether it had originated from one of the three aircraft which had taken off after it but before the 767 and it was considered that either was “equally possible”. All aspects of the crew’s handling of the emergency were considered exemplary. The limitations of routine visual runway inspections as carried out at the airport in detecting small items of FOD were acknowledged, given that they are “visual and performed by one person from a moving car that can travel up to 60kph/37mph and covers areas up to 30 metres wide”. It was considered that whilst this does not completely prevent the detection of smaller objects which are sometimes detected, “the general conclusion is that visual inspection methods are not entirely effective because of the limited human capacity to spot them”. Having said that, it was recognised that whilst the most common type of hazardous FOD is small metallic objects with dimensions similar to the one that caused the investigated event it appeared to be generally accepted that “hazardous FOD only accounts for a small percentage of all FOD found on runways and that in 80% of cases it does not affect aircraft operations”.