landing on runway 32L. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Twelve minutes after getting airborne, the aircraft reached 5,000 feet QNH and was instructed to head towards TOBEK, where it then flew 12 extended holding patterns over the next hour. The crew then advised that they would need 3 more hours airborne to get down to an acceptable landing weight (the aircraft had no fuel jettison facility) and would now be able to climb further and continue holding as required at any navigation point. Accordingly, the aircraft then flew to d20 on 140° radial from the PDT VOR (36 nm from the airport) and flew 18 further extended holding patterns at an altitude of 8,000 feet for 90 minutes. The aircraft then positioned so that the flaps and landing gear could be extended for inspection by a Spanish Air Force aircraft to confirm the extent and location of any visible damage after which both were retracted again and the aircraft returned to the PDT-based hold and completed a further 8 extended holding patterns. The aircraft then began an uneventful approach to runway 32L from 8,000 feet QNH and made a 20 flap landing ten minutes later. Once it had come to a stop on the runway, airport RFFS began cooling the brakes with fans. This was necessary for almost an hour after which the aircraft was able to taxi under its own power to its allocated parking stand where normal passenger disembarkation followed. The aircraft was confirmed to have sustained significant damage to the left main landing gear (specifically to the outer rear wheel of the four-wheel two-axle bogie) and the left engine (both internally and to its external fairings) with superficial impact damage to the fairing of flap number 3, to various panels located above the left main gear and to the landing gear tilt proximity sensor which had been moved outside its normal limits by debris impact. The failed tyre (see below) was confirmed to have been correctly inflated to 220 psi and fully serviceable prior to departure. It was still attached to the landing gear but about 60% of its total surface material (casing and tread) had disappeared entirely, with the bead visible in some places. The casing of the remaining 40% was intact but the tread had disappeared. The left main landing gear outer rear wheel (wheel no. 5) following its removal. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that after a routine inspection of runway 36L had been completed shortly before the 767 took off, there had been three uneventful departures of narrow body aircraft from the runway, all with longer takeoff rolls than the 767 (to be expected since they could be expected to have used reduced thrust rather than the full thrust used by the 767). A runway inspection after the takeoff then found “multiple pieces of wheel and debris” scattered over approximately 1,400 metres of the runway used by the 767 for departure which was then removed by a sweeper. The observed