An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board. There was concern that the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had continued to run after the event so that the communications relating to it had been overwritten, despite the existence of an operator procedure describing the option to trip the controlling circuit breaker during a flight. Recorded flight data was, however, available. It was established that en route from the terminal gate to the runway, the aircraft had been de-iced on an apron specifically designated for that purpose. ATC had then given an instruction to taxi to the departure runway 36C via taxiway ‘A’ which was against prescribed direction of travel (see the diagram below) It was noted that there were two parallel taxiways adjacent to runway 36C, ‘A’ and ‘B’, with taxiway ‘A’ located furthest to the east. Whilst the aircraft was taxiing to the beginning of the runway, ATC suggested that if ready on reaching, the aircraft could take a shorter route to the take-off runway via entry W8 and this offer was accepted. Soon afterwards, the aircraft turned right on W8 and whilst between taxiway ‘A’ and taxiway ‘B’ received ‘line up and wait’ and then take off clearances in quick succession. It turned right again onto taxiway ‘B’ and after a short pause began a standing start take off. At first, the runway controller failed to realise what had happened but when they realised, they decided not to order the aircraft to stop the take-off because it had already gained too much speed and there was no risk of collision ahead of it. Once the aircraft was safely airborne and in the climb, ATC advised of the taxiway take off and were informed by the crew that they were unaware of this. Subsequently, it was found that another aircraft had been taxiing on Taxiway ’B’ in the normal direction and had been approaching the left turn onto the section which the KLM aircraft was using for take off to taxi along it in the opposite direction. As the KLM aircraft passed at a high ground speed from taxiway ‘B’ to the continuation of the parallel taxiway designated taxiway ‘D’ in front of the other taxiing aircraft, the latter aircraft had been 280 metres away from the intersection, a distance which was estimated to have been equivalent to approximately 30 seconds of taxi time. Air traffic control informed the crew of the incident while the aircraft was climbing. The crew informed air traffic control that they were unaware they had taken off from a taxiway. Performance calculations carried out as part of the Investigation found that in the prevailing circumstances, a distance margin of 340 metres would have been available in the event that the aircraft had used the runway from intersection W8 and then rejected the take off at the calculated V1 speed. The total available length of the parallel taxiway as actually used from the W8 intersection was greater than the runway distance available, so that