the margin using the taxiway would have been slightly larger. However, the taxiway was only half as wide as the runway. Since the event had occurred in a complex airport environment to a crew based there and who were thus open to complacency, the Investigation considered various aspects of this ‘human factors’ context including the following: If pilots who are broadly familiar with a complex airport do not habitually validate their actual ground position against a chart then when the limits of actual familiarity are approached in good visibility, the risk of errors which might be a more obvious risk in poor visibility is raised.. Lighting at Amsterdam meets all International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) standards but some runway entries and exits do not have green centreline lights, as in the case of entry W8.. The thin layer of snow which was present on W8 impeded crew awareness of their position.. The lights of Runway 36C were inconspicuous at the location where the navigation error occurred but the taxiway lights were clearly visible.. The fact that green taxiway centreline lights are all illuminated at all times the lighting system is in use rather than selected to correspond to a cleared taxiway route as applies at some other airports with complex taxiway networks.. The Investigation noted that neither the Airport Operator nor the ANSP had carried out any risk assessment of taxiway use. The instruction to taxi to runway 36C via taxiway ‘A’ meant that taxi was against the prescribed direction of travel as promulgated in the AIPs and by definition the aircraft would then have to cross taxiway ‘B’. Whilst ATC may override normal taxiway directional if this is deemed “necessary” , it was considered that the crew error could not have occurred if instructions to taxi via taxiway ‘B’ had been given in the absence of any necessity to do otherwise. A review was also carried out of the prevailing arrangements for the transfer of departing traffic from Ground Control to Runway Control. It was noted that there was a requirement that “an aircraft may be transferred from the ground controller to the runway controller if there is no longer any room for error on which taxi route the aircraft should follow”. However, it was concluded that the application of this procedure was open to interpretation by individual controllers. In the particular case of tactical deviations from the promulgated directional use of taxiways, it was considered that ATC should specifically monitor aircraft position and use progressive instructions to avoid misunderstanding and possible error, whereas in the investigated case, take-off clearance had been issued to the aircraft before it had crossed taxiway ‘B’ The Conclusions of the Investigation were that the event was attributable to the flight crew’s lack of awareness of the aircraft ground position and that following factors played a role in this: The flight deck crew’s workload had increased after they had accepted the shorter route. As a result the crew had to enter changes in the