flight management computer and had less time to visually check the aircraft’s position at the airport from the cockpit.. The crew were not using a ground movement chart as they felt they were sufficiently familiar with their home base, Schiphol;. The pilot in command was distracted by communications between the air traffic controller and a Boeing 747 taxiing in front of the aircraft that had taken a wrong route.. It was also concluded that the failure of ATC to intervene and prevent the occurrence could be attributed to the following: The air traffic controller was forced to shift his attention to another aircraft and assumed that the PH-BDP crew would follow his instructions correctly.. After having received take-off clearance, the aircraft was no longer monitored until an air traffic control officer in the air traffic control Tower saw it take off from the taxiway.. Safety Action taken by KLM was noted as was the absence of similar action by the other parties involved. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that (airport operator) Amsterdam Airport should prepare a risk assessment of air traffic taxiing near take-off and landing runways in collaboration with air traffic control and implements the outcomes in its procedures, unless the risk assessment shows otherwise. that (airport operator) Amsterdam Airport changes the infrastructure so that all taxiways made available to air traffic control have green centreline taxi lights indicating the route(s) to be followed only.. that (ANSP) Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) prepares a risk assessment of air traffic taxiing near take-off and landing runways in collaboration with the airport and implements the outcomes in its procedures;. that (ANSP) Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) ensures - until such time as the risk assessment has been completed and the resulting outcomes have been implemented - that entries without green centreline taxi lights are no longer used during darkness if an aircraft is required to taxi across a taxiway.. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) (should) increase the minimum recording time of the cockpit voice recorder (Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR)) in order to better safeguard recorded data for the purpose of incident and accident investigation.. The Investigation was completed on 21 December 2011 and the English language version of the Final Report: Take Off From Taxiway / Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is now available.