An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was noted that the Incident had not been reported promptly to the TSB and that the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had not been secured which had both resulted in the loss of evidence which would have been beneficial to the Investigation. It was established than after transfer from the Whitehorse sector of Edmonton ACC to Whitehorse TWR, an ILS approach to Runway 31L had been hand-flown by the aircraft commander in IMC using the HUD. On initial contact with destination ATC, which was non-radar, no current position or estimate for arrival was given or requested but TWR had asked for a call at 10nm finals and advised that sweeping was in progress and this call was acknowledged. It was noted that just prior to this, the TWR controller had relieved a colleague in position. No 10 nm report (or a level-passing call requested to be made on Box 2 by the ACC controller at transfer) had been made and the aircraft had landed at Whitehorse approximately nine minutes later. The Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) issued shortly after the landing reported a vertical visibility of 600 feet, horizontal visibility of 1200 metres in light and drifting snow with an RVR of 1370 metres. The flight crew stated that they had established the required visual reference to the runway at approximately 300 feet aal and about 100 feet above the prescribed DA. Once visual reference was acquired: “…The First Officer and then the Captain observed the two sweeper trucks operating near the beginning of the portion of the runway located before the displaced threshold. The First Officer reportedly advised the Captain that there were trucks on the runway and, perhaps unassertively, that the flight had not received a landing clearance. Neither pilot observed vehicles in or beyond the normal touchdown zone and neither called for a go-around. The Captain, knowing that the flight had been cleared for an approach, believed the sweeper trucks were holding until the flight landed and elected to continue with the landing which was accomplished without further incident.” The Investigation noted that the landing threshold for Runway 31L was displaced by 430 metres feet. The two vehicles seen were both towing snow sweepers and were operating in tandem. The Investigation established that they had finished a sweeping run of the full length of the runway in the 13R direction and one truck had reversed direction in the turn area on the displaced threshold whilst the other was beginning to do so when the driver had observed an aircraft on very short final. The aircraft’s altitude over the beginning of runway surface was calculated to be 126 feet agl and the Investigation estimated that the aircraft cleared the trucks by about 110 feet prior to a normal landing in TDZ about 730 metres past the two sweepers. The Investigation found as follows in respect of Causes and Contributing Factors: Communication transfers between Edmonton ACC and Whitehorse tower did