not take place in accordance with the Inter Unit Arrangement between the two facilities, resulting in a wide variation in aircraft position at the time of the communication transfer.. The relieving tower controller did not establish the position of (the incident aircraft) on initial contact. The relieving tower controller assumed that (the incident aircraft) was 45 nm from the airport and this resulted in an inaccurate assessment of the flight time left prior to the aircraft’s arrival.. Information that (the incident aircraft) would have to hold was not communicated to the relieving tower controller during the position transfer briefing and the flight progress strip did not contain holding information, a fix reference or an airport ETA for (the incident aircraft). This reduced the opportunity for the relieving tower controller to establish accurate initial situational awareness and allowed the 45 mile from airport assumption to persist.. The mental models of the flight crew and the Whitehorse tower controller were not aligned; the flight crew believed the Whitehorse controller knew their location when tower communication was established and their current position was not requested.. The First Officer handled all (the incident aircraft) ATC communications following the decision to conduct an HGS approach, and several communication errors subsequently occurred. The pattern of communication errors was consistent with task saturation.. Whitehorse Tower’s instruction to call 10 miles final became a prospective memory task with no relevant memory reminder cue for the First Officer. As well the significance of the instruction to report 10 miles final as a cue for the relieving tower controller to remove the trucks from the runway and issue the landing clearance was not recognized by the flight crew; thus the call was missed.. The relieving tower controller relied entirely on the instruction for (the incident aircraft) to report 10 miles final to establish situational awareness prior to the aircraft entering the Whitehorse Control Zone. When the crew of (the incident aircraft) did not comply with the instruction to report 10 miles final the relieving tower controller did not receive the necessary trigger to issue a landing clearance.. The flight crew’s perception that the approach clearance meant there was no equipment on the runway demonstrated a misunderstanding of the difference between an approach clearance and a landing clearance relative to the status of the active runway.. The flight crew’s perception was that there were no vehicles or obstructions in the touchdown zone. The Captain, believing that the trucks were holding until the flight landed, elected to land without the flight receiving a landing clearance.. The following Findings as to Risk were also detailed: There were differences in how the relieving tower controller, compared to other Whitehorse tower controllers, routinely handled Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) arrivals which created the potential for situational ambiguity between controllers, especially during position transfers.. A PF’s attention resources may be fully occupied, due to moderate to high perceived workload, when hand-flying an approach using the HGS under IMC, resulting in a significantly reduced capacity to monitor radio