in respect of component operational life, safety assessment and chip detection, for example: Current certification specifications do not directly assess rolling contact fatigue and the safe life limitation does not consider rolling contact fatigue when addressing ways to prevent spalling.. Appendix ‘A’ to CS 29 does not specifically mention critical components nor does it make reference to a Critical Parts Plan or cover components subject to an unusual event while not installed on an aircraft.. Current certification specifications require gearboxes to be equipped with chip detectors but do not also specify any requirements for their performance or reliability when both the size and quantity of metal debris which must be detected and the probability of such detection occurring could be defined.. Following certification, there is less demanding requirement for continued operational reliability testing of large rotorcraft compared with the Extended Operations and All Weather Operations regime for fixed wing aircraft.. Continued Airworthiness.. It was noted that at the time of the planet gear development its failure (spalling) was regarded as a reliability issue rather than a primary safety issue. It was noted that between 2001 and 2016, 8 cases of outer race spalling and 21 cases of inner race spalling of second stage planet gears in EC 225 LP and AS 332 L2 Super Pumas had been recorded yet there had been no assessment of whether such spalling had occurred without prior indication of associated debris despite the fact that less than 10 % of these gears ever reached their intended operational time before being rejected during overhaul inspections or non-scheduled MGB removals due to signs of degradation. It was found that between the 2009 and 2016 Super Puma accidents, Airbus Helicopters had not routinely examined the removed second stage planet gears in order to understand the full nature of any damage and its effect on continued airworthiness, yet after such examinations begun following the 2016 accident, it became clear that the epicyclic module was frequently damaged by debris. The lack of systematic analysis, led also to a situation where the apparent difference in reliability between bearings sourced from the two alternative suppliers was not fully realised before the 2016 accident. Accident data availability.. The reason why data recording by the CVFDR had ceased abruptly within one second of the onset of the MGB failure - and 13 seconds before HUMS data recording stopped - was considered to have been the automatic operation of a switch which is designed to operate in the event of relatively low energy accidents in which electrical power from the battery bus is not interrupted in order to satisfy an airworthiness requirement for retention of CVR data. It was noted that this switch mechanically senses the level of acceleration in all three axes and stops the electrical supply to the recorder if 6g is exceeded as occurred almost immediately after the onset of the severe vibration which preceded rotor separation. It was also noted that the same premature termination of flight data recording for the