the second (upper) stage of the epicyclic module of the Main Gear Box (MGB). These were identified early on as of central interest. An illustration of a normal planet gear assembly in this MGB module viewed from below follows: The location of this planet gear assembly in relation to the rest of the MGB is shown below: The inner face of each planet gear wheel forms the outer bearing race which retains and self-aligns the internal assembly. This internal assembly consists of an inner race, two rows of barrel-shaped bearing rollers and two cages. The planet gears cannot be visually examined without a complete disassembly of the epicyclic module and the individual disassembly of the gear and its bearing. The two recovered planet gear pieces, which amounted to approximately half of the gear, are shown below. It was found that for “industrial reasons”, all second stage planet gear bearings were sourced from one of two alternative suppliers who each met the same Airbus Helicopters’ specification but within that exhibited potentially significant differences in the manufacturing process used. In-service experience was found to show that second stage planet gears with bearings from one of these suppliers, who were also responsible for the final surface finishing of the outer race which formed the inner surface of the Airbus Helicopters-manufactured gear wheel, were much more prone to spalling events and that the bearing which failed in the accident under investigation was from that supplier. It was found that sudden fracture of the planet gear wheel of which the recovered pieces were part had caused the abrupt seizure of the assembly. This seizure had led to the rupture of the whole epicyclic ring gear and shattered its conical housing which in turn led to a loss of structural integrity in the upper section of the MGB. This then led to forces on the main rotor which had pulled all three of the suspension bars apart and allowed the main rotor to separate from the helicopter. Detailed metallurgical examination established that fracture of the failed gear wheel had occurred due to fatigue initiated from a surface micro-pit in the outer race of the bearing which had then propagated subsurface whilst producing a limited quantity of surface particles until it eventually weakened the gear wheel sufficiently to cause the fracture. Spalls were found on the bearing surface centred along the line with maximum bearing contact pressure. It was considered that debris caught within the bearing had scratched one or more rollers and thereby created a band of local hardening and associated micro-pitting at the outer race. It was therefore possible to eliminate both mechanical failure or misalignment of another component and material unconformity as causes of the fatigue but it was not possible to establish a crack propagation rate beyond knowing that the crack must have developed within the most recent 260 flight hours since prior to that, the MGB had been inspected and repaired at Airbus Helicopters after being involved in a road transport accident