together with an enhanced inspection regime and instructions related to particle identification, had been considered by both the EASA and Airbus Helicopters to be an adequate safety response because they would “ensure early detection of spalling”. A test programme (the G-REDL test) was launched in order to consolidate the GREDL second stage planet gear failure scenario but the performance of the chip detection system and the particle flow in the oil system was not fully examined and understood until after the occurrence of the 2016 accident. It was also recognised that the differences in design and reliability between planet gear bearings sourced from the two alternative suppliers were not known to the 2009 investigation team but that they had concluded that a lack of damage on the recovered areas of the bearing outer race suggested that crack initiation had not been entirely consistent with the understood characteristics of spalling and that there was a possibility that subsurface cracks could progress undetected to a complete fracture. Overall, it was evident that the post-investigation actions following the 2009 accident had not been sufficient to prevent another main rotor loss and it was concluded that Airbus Helicopters “could have been more effective with regards to a possible scenario with limited spalling, assessing the effectiveness of the detection system and reviewing the MGB design features”. It was also concluded that the oversight of Airbus Helicopters by the EASA could have been more effective in respect of their implementation of Safety Recommendations and their general follow up of information presented in the Final Report of the 2009 Investigation. However, it was concluded that although the investigation into the 2009 accident had clearly established that its cause had been a fatigue failure in the same MGB component as in the subsequent accident, the earlier accident investigation should be regarded as “a turning point with respect to the continued airworthiness of the AS 332 L2 and the EC 225 LP helicopters”. Type Certification of the EC 225 LP Super Puma.. In view of the fact that the second stage planet gear was clearly a critical part in which structural failure leads to a catastrophic failure, the Investigation reviewed the certification process for the EC 225 LP. It was found that although compliance with the requirements then in place had been demonstrated for this component, it had been assumed that any rolling-contact metal fatigue which led to spalling would be detected prior to gear failure. The observed mode of failure in this accident - crack initiation and propagation with limited and undetected spalling - was not foreseen and is still not directly addressed by current certification specifications. The EASA has advised that a safe component life limitation has not been developed as a means to prevent spalling arising from rolling contact fatigue through the certification process, although it is “expected to be part of their threat assessment for new CS-29 certification projects”. Beyond this, it was concluded that there were more general opportunities to introduce more rigorous requirements