same reason had been identified during the UK AAIB Investigation of the 2009 accident and that this Investigation had produced a related Safety Recommendation (2011-045) to the EASA which has yet to be addressed. It was also a matter of concern that the Investigation had to divert considerable time and resources to obtaining access to design and certification documents from EASA and then wait for up to six months before receiving some of them. Because of protection of sensitive proprietary information, the AIBN was offered to study requested design and certification documents at Airbus Helicopter’s premises. Both these difficulties had influenced the progress of the Investigation. The EASA had issued a total of five ADs which covered the removal of planet gears with bearings supplied by one of the two suppliers, replacing the Operational Time Limit (OTL) with a reduced Service Life Limit (SLL), improving detection systems and intensifying maintenance checks. It was noted that the EASA had removed their flight prohibition on 7 October 2016 based on the agreed corrective actions package for return to service (RTS) between EASA and Airbus Helicopters (at that time the investigation was ongoing with important aspects open).. The two principal European NAAs overseeing Super Puma Operations, the Norwegian and UK CAAs, had kept their flight prohibitions of EC225 LP and AS 332 L2 operations in place until 20 July 2017 at which point they were lifted based on implemented safety improvements which had by then included an improved chip detection system.. Airbus Helicopters had: introduced an improved road transport container for MGBs which incorporated a g-recorder. initiated risk reduction measures by removal from service of the planet gears sourced by one of the suppliers, replacing the OTL with a reduced SLL, improving detection systems and intensifying maintenance checks (FFMP daily/max 10 FH).. introduced an improved road transport container for MGBs which incorporated a g-recorder.. initiated risk reduction measures by removal from service of the planet gears sourced by one of the suppliers, replacing the OTL with a reduced SLL, improving detection systems and intensifying maintenance checks (FFMP daily/max 10 FH).. It was noted that some safety issues identified by the Investigation had still not been fully resolved by the time it was completed. These included: Data, analyses and tests which had not conclusively proved that the planet gears still in service would not be at risk of developing subsurface and possibly undetectable fatigue cracks caused by surface damage. The reliance on the capability to detect and interpret metal particles of only a few square millimetres in the MGB oil system as the only way to prevent critical failures. Why the cracks in the outer planet gear race grew subsurface into the gear bulk material and ultimately resulted in a fatigue fracture while creating only limited spalling.. Data, analyses and tests which had not conclusively proved that the planet gears still in service would not be at risk of developing subsurface and possibly undetectable fatigue cracks caused by surface damage.. The reliance on the