in Australia in 2015. However, the Investigation found no evidence that might connect the fatigue cracking with the consequences of that accident. The following were the main issues considered: The absence of any prior awareness of impending bearing failure.. Although the helicopter had a chip detection system which was designed to detect spalling of any magnetic material and display this to flight crew, no such warning was annunciated and neither had any magnetic material been found on the chip detectors during prescribed routine maintenance checks. The Investigation discovered that 12 % of total free particles could be detected by the chip detection system and there were no system efficiency requirements. In any case, the cracks in the second stage planet gear had propagated whilst there was limited spalling. It was also found that the HUMS on the accident helicopter had not recorded any increase in vibration from any of the dynamic components it monitored and it was concluded that HUMS was unable to detect fatigue fractures propagation in second stage planet gears. Despite this finding, it was noted that Airbus Helicopters had advised the Investigation that “the primary method of detecting planet gear bearing degradation was by relying on the gears shedding metallic debris before failure, which would be indicated by the chip detection system”. The 2009 Super Puma rotor detachment accident.. It was noted early on that the source of the MGB failure sequence - in one of the eight second stage planet gears in the epicyclic reduction module of the gearbox - was the same as had occurred in the 2009 fatal rotor detachment of the AS 332 L2 Super Puma investigated by the UK AAIB. It was also noted that the MGBs fitted to both Super Puma variants were almost identical and that the failed planet gear bearing had been sourced from the same supplier as in the failure currently under investigation. The Investigation spent a considerable amount of time reviewing all the relevant similarities between the two accidents and examining the responses to many of the 17 Safety Recommendations made as a result of that Investigation. It was noted that it had been impossible to fully understand the cause of the earlier accident because the origin of the fatigue crack which occurred was in a section of the failed gear which, despite every effort, was not recovered. It was also noted that, unlike the accident now under investigation, in the case of the earlier accident there had been a prior indication of possible gear fracture when, 36 flying hours prior to its occurrence, the epicyclic chip had been found to have captured a magnetic particle. However, due to either a misunderstanding or miscommunication, the appropriate maintenance task, which would have involved the MGB being opened, did not follow. It was noted that as a direct result of the earlier accident, a ring of magnets between the epicyclic and main MGB modules was removed with the aim of enhancing the capability to detect chips, and this action,