An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). Recorded radar data was available showing the track of the helicopter almost up to the point of impact. The CVFDR was recovered from the tail section at the main wreckage site and both the voice and flight data were successfully downloaded at the UK AAIB. Data from the HUMS PCMCIA Card was retrieved and successfully downloaded and since these data continued to be recorded for approximately 13 further seconds after CVFDR recording ceased, they provided valuable information about the sequence of events as control was lost. Video evidence was also obtained from witnesses to the accident. It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain had joined the Operator in 2007 and had qualified on the EC 225 LP in 2015. He had accumulated 6,100 total flying hours which included 427 hours on type. His 57 year-old Co Pilot, who was PF for the accident flight, had joined the Operator in 1989 and was also qualified as a Captain on the EC 225 LP. He had accumulated 11,184 total flying hours which included 564 hours on type. It was established that the accident flight was the fourth sector that morning following an earlier round trip from Bergen to the Gullfaks B Platform and a second outbound sector from Bergen to the same platform. The rotors-running turnround time at the Gullfaks B Platform prior to departure on the accident flight was 12 minutes. A climb to cruise at 3,000 feet was made and then, as the coastline was approaching, a descent to 2,000 feet was completed. The helicopter had been flying level at 2,000 feet QNH and 140 KCAS for approximately one minute when, without any prior warning, significant vibration began and after a short time, during which the helicopter climbed about 120 feet, the main rotor separated from the rest of the helicopter and it began to descend following a ballistic curve towards the ground. Just under 40 minutes after take off, the main part of the helicopter fell onto Storeskitholmen, a small island near Turøy, 14 nm northwest of Bergen with smaller pieces of wreckage spread over a considerable area of both land and sea. The main rotor fell onto the adjacent island of Storskora about 550 metres to the north. Impact forces destroyed the rest of the helicopter, before the wreckage slid into the sea. Some of the fuel on board was released by the impact and ignited causing a fire around the impact point but this fire did not affect the wreckage. Since it rapidly became clear that there was absolutely no evidence that the actions or inactions of the flight crew or any other factor besides the airworthiness of the helicopter had any bearing on the circumstances which led to the accident, the Investigation therefore quickly began focusing on that alone. The recovered items of wreckage included two parts of a fractured second stage planet gear wheel from one of the eight such gears in