during the approach and guarantee the maximum possible fuel flow to the feed tanks should a go around become necessary. On the basis of the assembled evidence, the Investigation concluded the Probable Cause of the FEED LO LEVEL warnings was “frozen water in the fuel system” which “disturbed the operation of the ejector pumps and their fuel lines and obstructed the free flow of fuel from the main wing tanks to the engines' feed tanks”. Type Certificate holder BAE Systems advised the Investigation that 45 cases of ice accumulation-related fuel feed failures on Avro RJ aircraft had occurred between October 2005 and February 2010. It was noted that the frequency of such occurrences decreased when operators carried out fuel tank water drain operations more often, provided that the manufacturer-recommended minimum fuel temperatures were also observed during draining. However, they advised being unaware that other operators had also found the use of anti-icing additives to be a good way to prevent FEED LO LEVEL failures when conducting flight operations in cold conditions. The Investigation considered that “the cockpit culture on the occurrence flight manifested a very low cockpit authority gradient. The result was that, from time to time, the cockpit was bereft of leadership and good airmanship did not fully materialise”. In particular, in respect of failure to execute the failure-specific QRH checklist properly, the Investigation considered that when encountering abnormal situations, it was particularly incumbent on crew members to adhere strictly to the their instructions, noting that “checklist action is unconditional because the actual cause of an annunciated warning may be concealed behind a chain of events unknown to the flight crew”. The Investigation formally concluded that the Probable Cause of the event was “frozen water in the fuel system. This obstructed the transfer of fuel from the wing tanks to the engine feed tanks. As a result, the fuel level in three out of the four feed tanks began to drop”. It was noted that “the flight crew ignored the item on the warning check-list which commands the pilots to land as soon as possible”. Two Contributing Factors were identified as: the flight crew's action and decision-making style which demonstrated poor airmanship.. the layout of the emergency checklist concerning the failure is complex and verbose..