An Investigation was carried out by the Finnish Safety Investigation Authority. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was recovered and successfully downloaded but the relevant Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten because the related CB was not tripped after the flight. It was noted that both pilots were similarly experienced on the aircraft type and that the aircraft commander had been PF for the incident flight. It was also noted that the temperature on the day of the occurrence was cold, with surface temperatures of -23°C at Vaasa and -14°C at Helsinki. It was established that approximately 11 minutes after take off whilst climbing above FL200, an MWP Fuel System Alert had directed crew attention to a right engine feed tank low level warning (R FEED TANK LO LEVEL) near to which the right inner (number 3) engine fuel feed tank contents gauge was seen to be indicating well below the normal ‘full’. Crew completion of the prescribed QRH drill for this indication was found to have been subject to various interruptions which had led to some lines/items on the checklist being entirely omitted. The final line, which states that unless the warning clears arrangements should be made to 'land as soon as possible’, was specifically not actioned. The Investigation considered that, given its prevailing weather and runway conditions, “Tampere….would have been a suitable en route alternate”. This had also been the crew’s nominated alternate prior to departure from Vaasa. The Investigation noted that in this aircraft type, each of the four engines is supplied from its own ‘feed tank’ which will remain constantly full of fuel unless there is an interruption to fuel supply from the main fuel tanks. It was further noted that the checklist instruction to land as soon as possible had been included in the checklist in recognition of the fact that the cause of an interruption to the fuel feed to one engine might subsequently also affect the supply to one or more of the remaining engines. As the aircraft subsequently passed Tampere, the same warning as that had previously been annunciated for the right inner (number 3) engine feed tank occurred for the left inner (No.2) engine feed tank and although it initially cleared, it had returned again after approximately two minutes. The flight crew also detected that the fuel level had dropped in the right outer (number 4) engine feed tank. After this, a request to ATC for a “priority clearance” to land at the planned destination Helsinki was granted as requested but no emergency was declared. In response to this situation, Helsinki ATC issued an ‘emergency alert’ to the airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services. For the subsequent arrival, the flight crew were found to have intentionally made a normal 33 flap landing instead of the abnormal 24 flap landing prescribed in the warning-specific checklist because of invalid concerns about landing performance. It was note that the 24 flap requirement existed as a means to maintain an increased airframe pitch angle