An Investigation was carried out by a Technical Investigation Committee (TIC) appointed by the Bahrain Accident Investigation Board under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Transport. The designated TIC Chairman and appointed Investigator in Charge (IIC) was the accredited representative of the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). FDR and CVR data were successfully replayed and this and other evidence assembled were used to publish an Interim Factual Report on 27 March 2001. The TIC then proceeded with their analysis. It was found that the Captain involved had originally been a Lockheed Tristar Flight Engineer with Gulf Air and had subsequently spent most of his First Officer time on the Boeing 767. Two months prior to the accident, he had achieved his first command on the A320, since when he had accumulated 86 hours in command. He had been on days off and vacation in the period 31 July to 18 August inclusive. The First Officer had received his pilot training as a Gulf Air cadet and after obtaining his licence had accumulated 408 hours on the A320. It was found that the aircraft had been cleared for a VOR/DME approach to runway 12 at Bahrain but the crew had then misjudged the descent, At about 1nm from the runway, and still at an altitude of about 600 feet, a left hand orbit had been requested and approved. However, this orbit did not lead to suitable positioning for a landing and a go around was commenced. The Investigation considered all aspects of the approach and go around but noted that it was the failure of the Captain as PF to fly the go around properly that led to the loss of the aircraft. It was found that the go around had not been initiated in accordance with SOPs. DFDR data showed that TOGA thrust was applied at 544 feet agl but that rotation to 15° pitch up never occurred. Instead, pitch was initially held at about 9° until the flaps were re-configured and the landing gear retracted after which side stick input from the Captain decreased it to 6°. Such a shallow pitch up with TOGA thrust set led to a rapid airspeed increase. Also, instead of flying runway heading, a turn continued. When the First Officer called ‘speed, over-speed limit’ and reminded the Captain ‘Speed checks, flaps three’, he received the response ‘flaps up’ but there was no increase in the pitch attitude. Soon afterwards, at a height of 1058 feet agl, the Captain applied a nose down side stick input that was held for approximately 11 seconds which caused the aircraft to pitch down to the maximum allowable angle of 15°. It was concluded that “the most likely reason for (this) 11 second forward side-stick input by the Captain was that it occurred in response to his strong (but false) physical sensation that the aircraft was pitching up” and in conjunction with his failure to observe (or believe) the correct indications of pitch attitude on the instruments. It