was noted that it was “effectively this nose-down side-stick input that set in train the final sequence of events leading to the accident”. As a direct consequence of the prolonged nose down side stick input, the first GPWS ‘SINK RATE’ activation occurred, followed almost immediately by a ‘PULL UP’ warning. These alerts continued every second until surface impact occurred 11 seconds later. There was no obvious response by either pilot to the continued GPWS alerts. The Captain did make an 11.7° nose-up side stick input at this time but this was not believed to be such a response and in any case had only effected an upward pitch change of less than 7°, so that the aircraft had continued to descend. The last recorded pitch attitude was 6.3° nose down. The CVR showed that neither the Captain nor the First officer had verbalised any response to the sequence of GPWS warnings before impact and instead had continued to comment ‘gear up’ and ‘flaps all the way (up)’. It was noted that, although the persistent GPWS warnings “indicated a grave and imminent threat to the aircraft and continued to sound every second until the end", the CVR did not reveal any evidence that this dangerous situation was recognised by either the Captain or the First Officer. It was noted that the prolonged nose down side stick input made by the Captain which precipitated impact had occurred when, although the in-flight visibility was excellent, ground lighting was no longer in view and the aircraft was heading into an area of complete darkness. It was noted that such conditions are conducive to Somatogravic Illusion. In the absence of external visual cues, this illusion can arise as rapid forward acceleration creates a powerful pitch up sensation if this is not dismissed by reference to the display of pitch attitude on the aircraft instruments. This scenario, coupled with a failure of the First Officer maintain his own situational awareness and intervene, was considered to be the only conceivable explanation for the accident outcome. A total of twelve Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation Board as follows: that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should review whether safety oversight surveillance is adequate to ensure airlines’ timely compliance with all critical regulatory requirements.. [B-01-1] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should ensure that Gulf Air updates the crew resource management (CRM) programme, by integrating it in a Line Oriented Flight Training (LOFT) in accordance with DGCAM regulatory requirements, and consider implementing a Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) programme.. [B-01-2] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should ensure that Gulf Air reviews and enhances, in accordance with DGCAM regulatory requirements, the A320 flight crew training programmes to ensure full compliance with the standard operating procedures, and increase the effectiveness of the first officer. The training in ‘CFIT avoidance and GPWS responses’ should be augmented by including it in the recurrent training programme, with a detailed syllabus in accordance with DGCAM requirements. The Approach-and-Landing Accident Reduction