(ALAR) toolkit produced by the Flight Safety Foundation, with extensive airline industry input, could be a key element in the updated training programme.. [B-01-3] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should ensure that Gulf Air company’s training and evaluation of flight crew performance consistently meets the required DGCAM standards.. [B-01-4] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should consider requiring Gulf Air to include in its flight crew training programmes (initial as well as recurrent) comprehensive information on spatial disorientation.. [B-01-5] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should ensure that Gulf Air reviews and improves the functioning and utilisation of the A320 flight data analysis system, in accordance with DGCAM regulatory requirements.. [B-01-6] that the DGCAM, Sultanate of Oman should consider requiring Gulf Air to augment the accident prevention strategies and adopt programmes, such as the Procedural Event Analysis Tool (PEAT), and implement a comprehensive integrated safety and risk management programme.. [B-01-7] that Bahrain, Oman and Qatar should ensure that the civil aviation regulatory authority for Gulf Air (DGCAM), Sultanate of Oman, has the full and continuing support of the governments of those States in implementing regulatory compliance by the airline.. [B-01-8] that Bahrain, Oman and Qatar should ensure that the management of Gulf Air complies with civil aviation regulatory requirements effectively and expeditiously.. [B-01-9] that Civil Aviation Affairs, Kingdom of Bahrain should enhance guidance to air traffic controllers for addressing requests from pilots to execute non-standard manoeuvres (such as an orbit) during the final approach. When on final approach, requests from pilots to conduct non-standard manoeuvres should only be approved by controllers after they have ascertained the required safety parameters.. [B-01-10] that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should consider making the following as a standard applicable in all classes of airspaces: “a speed limit of 250 kts below 10,000 ft amsl”.. [B-01-11] that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should consider prohibiting non-standard manoeuvres (such as orbit) when an aircraft is on the final approach, unless safety considerations demand otherwise.. [B-01-12] The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the Chairman of the Bahrain AIB on 10 July 2002 and published online.