be lowered for any emergency evacuation, although since the same procedure requires that the engines and APU are shut down to avoid a hazard to evacuating passengers, electrical power is likely to cease before full flap deployment has been achieved. Embraer stated the ‘Flap 1’ takeoff setting - as set for the takeoff intended in the investigated case - provided a flap surface deflection of 7° which resulted in a height of the flap trailing edge above ground level which was in compliance with type certification. It was noted that although flap 5, which provides a flap surface deflection of 20°, had been selected before the engines were shut down, the cessation of electrical power when the engines were shut down soon afterwards had meant that the flap surface deflection had stopped at 7.2°, providing only a little less than the maximum allowable jump height. Previous AAIB evacuation incidents and corresponding safety recommendations were reviewed. It was noted that in their report on a 2002 Fokker F28 evacuation, the AAIB had recommended to the UK CAA and the JAA that “the design, contrast and conspicuity of wing surface markings associated with emergency exits on Public Transport aircraft should be reviewed with the aim of ensuring that the route to be taken from wing to ground is marked unambiguously”. When no action followed, the opportunity was taken in the report of a 2008 E195 evacuation to re-issue the same recommendation to the EASA. This organisation subsequently advised that “it had not identified any issues relating to overwing exit markings, and on that basis could not justify changing the existing specifications of CS 25.810(c) on markings for overwing exits”. In the course of the current investigation, the renamed European Union Aviation Safety Agency was invited to review the subject again and whilst taking no action advised that its representative had participated in a Spring 2020 meeting of the FAA’s ‘Emergency Evacuation Standards’ Advisory and Rulemaking Committee (ARC) which had decided to recommend that: “The FAA consider, in coordination with other Aviation Authorities, if changes need to be introduced to the requirements currently included in 25.810 with the scope to allow easier identification of the evacuation path by the evacuees and their faster and safer transition from the wing to the ground. The regulatory changes may involve a combination of one or more of the following options: Improvement of the marking that for each overwing exit describes the proper method of opening the exit (ref. 25.813(c)), to include, if the exit is over a wing, and the aircraft design does not include an off-wing assist means per 25.810(d), indication of the evacuation route on the wing.. improvement of marking visibility/design to facilitate better recognition by passengers evacuating through overwing exits of proper direction to exit from wing.. revision of the requirements under 25.810 to define conditions that would require an escape slide. Other factors may drive different recommendations for overwing exits (25.810(d)) verses non-overwing exits governed by 25.810(a).”. It was also understood that