aircraft via these exits commented that “the wing surface had been very slippery and one had fallen over and sustained a minor injury”. It was noted that “the overriding comment from those who had left via the overwing exits was that it was not obvious to them that they were meant to climb off the wing via the trailing edge” with the result that some had re-entered the cabin to seek an alternative exit route. The 61cm-wide walkway which was marked in black paint close to the wing root with arrows pointing towards the trailing edge was apparently not noticed by any of the passengers, a number of whom mentioned “a lack of instructions, support or guidance once they were out on the wing”. Other passengers who used the rear door exits reported having found the slides “very steep and been surprised by the speed at which they slid down them”. It was noted that unlike the front slides on this aircraft type, the rear slides do not “round out at the bottom” resulting in individuals sliding very fast onto the ground. This - and attempts by individuals to slow themselves down on the slides, were found to have been the main causes of reported injuries. It was noted that a number of passengers had suffered minor cuts and grazes and one elderly passenger who had used door 2R had sustained a broken ankle. The two cabin crew who used the rear slides reported that carrying, respectively, the megaphone and the first aid kit, had made it difficult to slow themselves down and one had sustained an ankle injury. The cabin crew reported that once all the passengers appeared to have left the aircraft and commenced a check of the cabin, they had “found several passengers stood on the wings unwilling to jump due to the height above the ground” and they were taken back into the cabin and subsequently left by the rear exit slides. The Investigation noted that although the pre departure brief to passengers sitting nearest to the overwing exits did include “mention of the height between the exit and the wing surface and instructions on the direction of evacuation”, it did not include telling passengers how they should get off the wing. It was also noted that the operator’s ‘Passenger Safety Cards’ available to every passenger did not make it clear that overwing exit users must slide off the wing and then jump to the ground, although the direction of evacuation to the rear of the wing was clearly indicated. The drop to the ground from the wing trailing edge with Flaps 1 set. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Use of the overwing exits without slides for emergency evacuation is covered by a requirement under CS 25-810 and FAR 25-810 that there shall be no more than 1.8 metres (5.9 feet) under CS 25-810 or 6 feet under FAR 25-810. In the case of the Embraer 195, this requirement is met by requiring that the flaps