A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB assisted by relevant recorded data from the FDR. Ninety three of the passengers completed AAIB questionnaires about their evacuation experience. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain had a total of 13,211 hours flying experience of which 3,069 hours were on type. Corresponding experience details in respect of the First Officer were not recorded. It was established it was the first flight of the day and that, following the aircraft operator’s normal practice for this aircraft type, the APU had been shut down as the aircraft entered runway 26 to backtrack and line up leaving the air conditioning packs supplied by the engines. During the backtrack, both pilots reported having become aware of unusual-smelling fumes, which the First Officer described as similar to “paint or white spirit”. Since there was a slight tailwind component during the backtrack, they put the smell down to exhaust gas ingestion into the air intakes. Once lined up, a brief discussion occurred about whether the fumes were decreasing and it was decided that they were. Once cleared for takeoff, the First Officer, acting as PF, initially advanced the thrust levers to 40% against the brakes and having confirmed normal engine indications, then resumed thrust increase, still against the brakes. As the engines reached approximately 55% N1 power, the First Officer “saw something out of the corner of his eye which he believed to have been a puff of smoke coming from an air conditioning vent” and retarded the thrust levers to idle. The fumes smell increased and it was reported that “smoke was visibly entering the flight deck”. The Captain set the park brake and asked the First Officer to switch off the engine bleed air and air conditioning packs. Both pilots then opened their flight deck side windows to assist in ventilating the flight deck noting that no EICAS messages or alerts were displayed. When the Captain spoke with the Senior Cabin Crew Member ( SCCM) by interphone, he was informed of similar conditions in the cabin and decided to order an emergency evacuation. The First Officer immediately selected flap 5 as per the evacuation SOP and notified ATC accordingly. The rest of the emergency evacuation memory actions were then completed. The airport RFFS attended and having been briefed by the First Officer through his open window, then assisted passengers on the ground as they exited the aircraft. All six emergency exits were opened and used during the evacuation. It was found that some passengers using the two overwing exits had become confused as to how they should get off the wing and onto the ground and that, as a result, a bottle-neck had formed in mid cabin. Two passengers who were able to jump down from the wing (there is no slide) helped others who followed but “several passengers commented that it was a very long drop to the ground and some landed awkwardly, sustaining minor injuries”. Many passengers who left the