the same FAA ARC would also be making another recommendation on the need to improve passenger briefing materials on egress from an overwing exit without slide or equivalent assistance. Neither of these recommendations were known to have yet been accepted by the FAA. Prior to completion of the Investigation, it was also understood that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency acting directly “intended to consider introducing a new AMC to identify acceptable guidelines and options for the measurement of the contrast between the marking of the escape path located over the wing and the background colour of the wing surface”. Overnight prior to the investigated departure, it was found that the No 1 engine of the aircraft had been given a routine compressor wash for which the relevant procedures are detailed in the Engine Service Manual (ESM). These procedures included a ‘post compressor wash engine drying procedure’ which contained a warning that “failure to adequately dry the internal engine airflow components after an engine wash can result in odour-in-cabin events” which may lead to rejected takeoffs or air turnbacks but they had not been followed properly. The Investigation found that although the hangar night shift did not have engineers available with the correct authorisations to complete the compressor wash task, it went ahead anyway based on a ‘can-do’ approach apparently prevalent through the operator’s engineering function. Both the engineer who assigned the task and the one who accepted it were found to be unfamiliar with it on the aircraft type concerned. In particular, the assigned engineer did not hold the necessary approvals to conduct high powered engine ground runs on the E195 and was therefore not qualified to carry out ‘compressor wash and engine dry-out procedure’. The assigned engineer certified the work as complete despite the fact that it wasn’t and the supervisory engineer signed the certificate of release to service following the compressor wash despite not holding the correct approvals to do so. The context for these actions by the two individuals involved was found to be a maintenance function with multiple organisational weaknesses and vulnerabilities which had been building up for some time. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: A lack of maintenance planning, training and control of resources led to an undesirable situation where a maintenance task was allocated to an engineer who was neither qualified nor competent to complete the task. A key step in the engine drying procedure was only described as ‘recommended’ and the engineer did not complete all the elements of the task. This resulted in residual cleaning solution remaining within the ECS system, causing smoke and fumes within the cabin and cockpit and leading to an emergency evacuation. The engine drying procedure has since been amended to require this step to be carried out. Due to the order in which the emergency evacuation vital actions were performed, the flaps had insufficient time to travel to the selected position. This resulted in an increased drop to the ground for