passengers evacuating via the overwing exits, with many reluctant to jump or slide off the wing. Additionally, despite the presence of a marked exit route on the wing with a non-slip surface, many passengers who exited via the overwing exits were uncertain where to go once out of the aircraft. Both of these factors increased the time taken for emergency evacuation to be completed. Safety Action taken in response to this event was noted as having included, but not limited to, the following: Embraer: In June 2020, the engine manufacturer updated Engine Service Manual subtask 72-00-00-410-004 to require, rather than recommend, that a high-power engine dry-out run is conducted after a compressor wash using detergent. Flybe: Updated the content of its briefing to passengers seated at the overwing exits of the E195 to simplify the terminology used, instruct those passengers of the need to be first out on the wing, informing them of the need to help and direct other passengers and highlighting that there is no escape slide attached to the overwing exits.. In respect of practices at its maintenance facility: Enhanced the control and tracking of maintenance ground support equipment to enable calibration expiry dates to be managed more effectively. Improved its maintenance planning procedures so that maintenance requirements are identified earlier in the working day to allow appropriate resources to be identified and allocated. Undertook a review of tasks performed within maintenance to identify specific training requirements with a view to developing appropriate training programmes. Introduced an engineer competency passport scheme to enable maintenance planning to allocate specific maintenance tasks to locations where the correct resources are available. Introduced additional simulator training for engineers to undertake engine ground runs and committed to reviewing the recency requirement for conducting engine ground runs. Introduced a process which verifies that engineers have the correct procedures, records, equipment and tooling, personnel requirements, approvals, replacement parts, environment and information before commencing any maintenance task. Committed to undertaking fatigue risk assessments for night shift maintenance personnel and initiated an engineer welfare programme. Updated its change management process to ensure that risk management keeps up with the changing nature of maintenance being at its main facility.. Enhanced the control and tracking of maintenance ground support equipment to enable calibration expiry dates to be managed more effectively.. Improved its maintenance planning procedures so that maintenance requirements are identified earlier in the working day to allow appropriate resources to be identified and allocated.. Undertook a review of tasks performed within maintenance to identify specific training requirements with a view to developing appropriate training programmes.. Introduced an engineer competency passport scheme to enable maintenance planning to allocate specific maintenance tasks to locations where the correct resources are available.. Introduced additional simulator training for engineers to undertake engine ground runs and committed to reviewing the recency requirement for conducting engine ground runs.. Introduced a process which verifies that engineers have the correct procedures, records, equipment and tooling, personnel requirements, approvals, replacement parts, environment and information before commencing any