The variant of the CFM56 engine installed on the aircraft was the -7B24 which is one of six -7B variants installed on Boeing 737NG aircraft. It was noted that the engine inlet, which is part of the airframe, “is an aerodynamic fairing that guides air into and around an engine (which is) attached to the front of each engine's fan case (and) is part of the nacelle, which houses the engine”. It was further noted “other nacelle components include the fan cowl and the thrust reverser”. The fan blade involved, one of 24, was found to have failed where at its dovetail join with the fan disc. In addition to the design of fan blades and their mountings inside the fan case, various manufacturing processes are also employed to reduce the vulnerability of blades to residual stress, to reduce surface erosion and to limit fan blade radial movement in normal operation. The latter helps to ensure that the axial (longitudinal) forces which might occur in the event of bird ingestion or a single FBO event will be transmitted to the hub and minimise their consequences. On the CFM56-7B, the engine inlet is attached to the fan case by 24 fasteners and consists of inner and outer barrels and an aerodynamic lip to create efficient airflow into the fan. An annotated longitudinal cross section of the CFM 56-7B engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the design of the -7B engine was jointly certificated by the FAA and the French DGAC and the resultant type certificates were issued in December 1996, the French one being replaced by an EASA equivalent in 2004. The aircraft type certificate was subsequently issued by the FAA in December 1997. The failed engine was installed on N766SW in October 2007 and at the time of the accident had accumulated 60,790 flight hours and 36,329 flight cycles since new and its 24-blade fan blade set had accumulated 62,852 flight hours and 38,152 flight cycles since new. The fan blade set had originally been installed in a different engine that was installed new on a different Southwest 737-700 in 1998. Although CFM56-7B fan blades were not certified as life-limited parts, and so their times and cycles were not required to be tracked, they stayed together as a set and so it was possible for the Investigation to create a history for them based on a review of relevant general maintenance records. Since 2007, no off-wing maintenance interventions relevant to the fan blade set had been recorded and the only on-wing maintenance performed on it was the recommended periodic re-lubrication of the dovetails during which the fan blades were visually inspected to assess the condition of their blade coatings. The most recent of these blade re-lubrications/inspections had been completed in November 2015. The only fan blade which failed during the investigated event was blade number 23 - all the other blades were variously damaged but still intact. Laboratory inspection of the dovetail of the failed fan