blade found that the coating was chipped and missing on the convex side of the dovetail and that this damage was centred about 5 cm aft of the dovetail leading edge on the convex side of the blade and spanned about 3.5 cm beginning at 1.3 cm from the leading edge. Further examination of this damaged area disclosed clear evidence of a fatigue origin and a region of axial progressive crack growth almost 6 cm long and up to 1.8cm deep was identified with evidence of related ductile overstress beyond this. According to the AMM, if a loss of coating is found, affected fan blades can be either replaced or remain in place subject to a reduced inspection interval depending on the amount and location of the coating loss. It was noted that “the loss of coating on fan blade No. 23 at the last re-lubrication was such that the blade could continue in service for 50 flight cycles or 75 flight hours, whichever came first” after which the blade must be replaced. The blade was found to have remained in service for a further 2,397 hours and 1,396 cycles, well beyond the stipulated removal limit. Nine of the other 23 intact blades were also found to have areas of missing coating. All were subject to further examination and cracks were found in six of them using various NDT methods. All these cracks had their origins in the same location as the failed blade. A re-evaluation by engine design authority CFM prompted by this accident found that the blade fatigue cracks identified “had initiated in an area of high stress on the dovetail and that the dovetail was experiencing peak stresses that were higher than originally predicted”. They also found that higher operational stresses were resulting from spalling of blade coating, higher friction levels when operated without lubrication or a shim, variations in coating thickness, higher loading than originally predicted at the dovetail surface/fan disk interface and losses/relaxation of blade compressive residual stress. The Investigation noted the subsequent occurrence of a similar blade root failure event in2018 which had been traced to a low cycle blade fatigue crack that had initiated in the blade dovetail. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to be as follows: A low-cycle fatigue crack in the dovetail of fan blade No. 23, which resulted in the fan blade separating in flight and impacting the fan case. This impact caused the fan blade to fracture into fragments that travelled further than expected into the inlet, which compromised the structural integrity of the inlet and led to the in-flight separation of inlet components. A part of the inlet struck the fuselage and created a hole, causing the cabin to depressurise. Safety Action taken by CFM International as a result of this accident and the investigation of it was noted to have included the following: An Eddy Current Inspection (ECI) of fan blade dovetails was added to the engine shop manual overhaul requirement in November 2016.