An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant data from the SSFDR and the SSCVR were successfully downloaded, although it was found that the SSFDR had stopped recording eight minutes after the engine stopped due to loss of electrical power. Attempts by the Investigation to find the cause of this loss of power were unsuccessful. Having found no evidence that any of the flight operations or ATC aspects of the response to the engine failure were other than expected, the documented Investigation was confined to the airworthiness issues raised by the engine failure. It was established that the failure, followed by considerable airframe vibration, had occurred 14½ minutes after the aircraft had been cleared for takeoff from New Orleans as the aircraft was climbing through 31,259 feet. FDR data showed in the 4 seconds following the recorded sound of the failure, the left engine fan speed had dropped from 99% to 39% and half a minute later the cabin altitude warning had been annunciated. By then, the Captain had asked the First Officer to declare an emergency (which was immediately done) and the crew had completed the applicable emergency checklist and commenced an emergency descent. Both pilots then donned their oxygen masks and ATC advised that Pensacola was about 70 miles away and a diversion to there was initiated. It was decided to maintain high speed in the descent despite continued airframe vibration. A few minutes later, the Captain communicated with the cabin crew to brief them and instruct that the cabin be secured, subsequently advising that there would be no need for an emergency evacuation on landing. Flight crew oxygen masks were removed once no longer required and ATC advised that an ILS approach to runway 17 at Pensacola could be expected. Approximately 21 minutes after the engine failure had occurred, the aircraft touched down at Pensacola. A detailed examination of the aircraft found that the left side fuselage hole (see below) measured 40 cm horizontally and up to 13 cm vertically and was located just below the cabin windows at seat rows 11/12 but no corresponding damage was visible to the interior cabin sidewall. Evidence of other debris impact damage was visible “on the left side of the fuselage, the left wing and the left horizontal stabiliser and the left winglet front spar was partially severed”. The fuselage hole and its external location. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In addition, it could be seen that most of the left engine inlet was missing and the part that remained was badly damaged - the illustration below shows the aft bulkhead remaining in place but the rivets connecting it to the attachment ring were sheared right around the ring. It was noted that a “Fan Blade Out” (FBO) event of the type which had caused the engine failure “consists of four phases - the impact phase, the engine surge phase, the engine rundown phase, and the wind-milling phase - during which the aircraft structure is subjected to various loads”.