An Investigation into the collision was carried out by the CIAIAC. It was established that both aircraft were only fitted with steering tillers at the left hand pilot position, which meant that prior to sufficient speed being reached on the planned take off roll for directional control by use of the rudder to be effective, both aircraft were being controlled by their respective commanders. It was noted that the stop bar had recently been moved further from the runway because of the planned introduction of Cat 2/3 ILS operations and that this action had reduced the minimum lateral clearance between an aircraft correctly parked at the stop bar and an overtaking aircraft maintaining the marked centreline. It was found that the aerodrome map for ground movement shown in the AIP on the day of the collision had the stop bar for runway 20 in the old position, whereas the airport reported that the location of the stop bar had been changed in October 2009 and that, although the information for publication in the AIP was sent on 19 August 2009, no such publication had occurred or any Notice To Airmen been issued to that effect. It was noted that although AENA had conducted a ‘Functional Hazard Assessment’ of the modifications associated with moving the runway 20 threshold, this assessment had not analysed risks associated with the airport infrastructure. It was noted that dimensions of the taxiway at Girona Airport were in compliance with the stipulations of ICAO Annex 14, as was the distance separating the runway and taxiway centrelines. It was established that the fact that the new stop bar position favoured positioning the stopped aircraft on right hand side of the holding area was not considered by ATC and they did not give specific instructions to the aircraft which was instructed to wait to stop at either end of the stop bar and “whether the passing manoeuvre took place to the left or right was undoubtedly considered irrelevant to the safety of the operation (and) controllers (were not) aware of the existence of a collision risk”. The absolute responsibility of the commander of a moving aircraft for the safety of that aircraft in respect of any fixed or stationary obstruction were note and it was concluded that the overtaking aircraft had “misjudged the distance separating both aircraft”. The documented Findings of the Investigation included that: The stop bar at the runway 20 threshold had been moved without the new location being published in the AIP.. As the Las Palmas-bound aircraft deviated to the right of the stationary Turin-bound aircraft in order to overtake it, the left wingtip of the former struck the trailing edge of the horizontal stabiliser of the latter.. If both aircraft had been in the positions where, in theory, they should have been during the takeover manoeuvre, the distance between the right edge of the horizontal stabiliser on the stationary aircraft and the left wingtip of the overtaking aircraft would have been 4.7 m.. The clearance