When a pilot reports a manoeuvre induced by an RA the controller should remember the following: The controller shall not attempt to modify the aircraft flight path until the pilot reports “Clear of Conflict”. The controller shall provide traffic information as appropriate. Pilots are very busy (Increased workload in the cockpit). Pilot would experience stress in the face of conflicting traffic, even if alerted through ACAS traffic advisories. TCAS II altitude data is more accurate than radar data. TCAS II evaluates the strength of an RA every second and will change it if necessary. In accordance with PANS-ATM (Procedures for Air Navigation Services - ICAO Doc. 4444, 15.7.3.3), once an aircraft departs from its ATC clearance or instruction in compliance with an RA, or a pilot reports an RA, the controller ceases to be responsible for providing separation between that aircraft and any other aircraft affected as a direct consequence of the manoeuvre induced by the RA. The controller shall resume responsibility for providing separation for all the affected aircraft when: the controller acknowledges a report from the flight crew that the aircraft has resumed the current clearance; or. the controller acknowledges a report from the flight crew that the aircraft is resuming the current clearance and issues an alternative clearance which is acknowledged by the flight crew.. Following an RA event, or other significant ACAS event, the pilot and the controller should file an air traffic incident report (AIRPROX). As controller, be ready to provide all necessary details to the pilot’s inquiry on the frequency immediately following the particular RA event. Based on the provisions of ICAO Doc 4444 (15.7.3.1), the procedures to be applied for the provision of air traffic services to aircraft equipped with TCAS shall be identical to those applicable to non-TCAS equipped aircraft. In particular, the prevention of collisions, the establishment of appropriate separation and the information which might be provided in relation to a conflicting traffic and to possible avoiding action shall conform with the normal ATS procedures and shall exclude consideration of aircraft capabilities dependent on the TCAS equipment. Procedures in regard to ACAS-equipped aircraft and the phraseology to be used for the notification of manoeuvres in response to a resolution advisory are contained in the PANS-ATM (Doc 4444), Chapters 15 and 12 respectively. The following phraseology is contained in Doc 4444, Para 12.3.1.2 Circumstances following an effective ACAS RA, pilot and controller RTF interchange: After a flight crew starts to deviate from any ATC clearance or instruction to comply with an ACAS RA:. PILOT: [callsign] TCAS RA; ATC: [callsign] ROGER; After the response to an ACAS RA is completed and a return to the ATC clearance or instruction is initiated:. PILOT: [callsign] CLEAR OF CONFLICT, RETURNING TO.. (assigned clearance); ATC: [callsign] ROGER (or alternative instructions); After the response to an ACAS RA is completed and the assigned ATC clearance or instruction has been resumed:. PILOT: [callsign] CLEAR OF CONFLICT (assigned clearance) RESUMED; ATC: [callsign] ROGER (or alternative instructions); After an ATC clearance