When known that an aircraft which is operating in the area of responsibility is experiencing an apparent RCF, be ready to: Provide air traffic services taking into account expected aircraft behavior (see section "What to expect" above).. As Area/Enroute controller: During the application of the 93 km (50 NM) separation, when an aircraft fails to report its position, take action within 3 minutes to establish communication. If communication has not been established within 8 minutes of the time the report should have been received, take action to apply an alternative form of separation. (ICAO requirements for applying longitudinal distance-based separation minima in an RNP environment not using ADS-C). Make use of other aircraft to relay messages when you believe aircraft is operating at extreme range or in conditions of poor propagation.. If attempts to restore two-way communications with the aircraft are unsuccessful, inform the appropriate military authorities. Keep the military authorities informed of action taken by the ATS unit as well as any further action intended.. As Tower controller: transmit an ARR (arrival) message: for a landing at the destination aerodrome: to all ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure; and to all other ATS units which may have been alerted; for a landing at an aerodrome other than the destination aerodrome: to the ATS unit serving the destination aerodrome; this unit shall then transmit an ARR message to other ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure.. for a landing at the destination aerodrome: to all ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure; and to all other ATS units which may have been alerted;. to all ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure; and. to all other ATS units which may have been alerted;. for a landing at an aerodrome other than the destination aerodrome: to the ATS unit serving the destination aerodrome; this unit shall then transmit an ARR message to other ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure.. to the ATS unit serving the destination aerodrome; this unit shall then transmit an ARR message to other ATS units concerned with the flight during the period of the communication failure..