required verification - the aircraft began to turn east towards Bogota where, unappreciated by the crew, there was another NDB ‘ROMEO’ with the same transmission frequency and the same identification as ROZO - ‘R’ - but some 130 nm distant. The crew realised that this unexpected left turn was contrary to their desired track and after discussion during which the speed brakes were selected to about 75% and then full and the aircraft heading reached 101°, the First Officer initiated a right turn back towards the airport 98 seconds after the left turn had begun. However, the terrain consequence of the deviation - leaving the valley floor, had not been appreciated and the continued steep descent with speed brakes fully deployed towards the initial procedure platform altitude of 5000 feet amsl was continued. Just over 3 minutes after passing over the ULQ VOR and just over 100 seconds after the right turn had begun, the aircraft was still descending at between 1000 and 1500 fpm with the thrust at idle and speed brakes fully deployed at a speed of 240 KIAS. Eleven seconds later, passing 8571 feet amsl, a continuous GPWS ‘PULL UP’ activation began. Within two seconds, the crew had promptly selected maximum thrust and in the space of three seconds, pitch had been increased to stick shaker activation at an attitude of 20.6° nose up. During this escape manoeuvre, the aircraft gained 436 feet from its lowest recorded altitude of 8,551 feet amsl before it struck trees near the summit of a 9000 feet high mountain ridge. The final recorded airspeed was 187 KIAS with a pitch attitude of almost 28° and a rate of climb of about 6000 fpm giving a climb angle of about 15°. The speed brakes remained extended throughout. The evidence assembled indicated that the aircraft had passed through the trees for about 300 feet after its tail had struck them first and appeared to have cleared the ridge without ground contact. However, having sustained catastrophic damage, it then crashed on the other side of the ridge, coming to rest in several pieces with a fire breaking out in the main fuselage section of the wreckage. In the context of crew confusion in use of the FMS once the intermediate waypoints had been automatically deleted by the selection of a direct track to the Cali VOR, the Investigation noted that “the evidence of the hurried nature of the tasks performed and the inadequate review of critical information between the time of the flight crew’s acceptance of the offer to land on Runway 19 and the flight’s crossing the initial approach fix, ULQ, indicates that insufficient time was available to fully or effectively carry out these actions” and that “consequently, several necessary steps were performed improperly or not at all and the flight crew failed to recognise that the airplane was heading towards terrain until just before impact”. In the absence of any evidence of relevant airworthiness or ATC issues, the Investigation concluded that “flight