An Investigation was carried out by the Aeronautica Civil of the Republica de Colombia. The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were both recovered and successful downloaded and Flight Management System data and ATC recordings were also obtained. It was established that the First Officer had been PF. It was noted that both flight crew were cross-qualified on the Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 and that both were experienced in operations on these two types, although no information on specifically 757 recency was recorded. It was also noted that whilst the Captain was familiar with Cali, the First Officer had not been there before. The airport is situated in a north-south valley at an ARP elevation of 3162 feet amsl with the highest mountains within 30nm of the airport being to the east and reaching 9000 feet amsl within 10nm of the extended runway centreline and exceeding 14000 feet amsl thereafter. The accident flight was expected to take just over three hours and had been delayed both on the gate and for take off at Miami, giving rise to an expression of concern by the Captain that the Cabin Crew rest period after a late arrival may delay the northbound flight the next day. As the aircraft approached Cali from the north, descending through FL230 with the AP engaged, the crew reported being 63 nm from Cali and ATC cleared the aircraft direct to the CALI VOR (situated south of the airport) upon which the PM selected ‘Direct To’ that beacon in the FMS. This had the effect, not appreciated by either pilot, that all intermediate waypoints were deleted, so that they would need to be re-input if subsequently required. Shortly after this, ATC advised that the surface wind at Cali was calm and asked if the crew would be able to take runway 19 (a VOR/DME approach) rather than runway 01 (an ILS approach). This offer was accepted as a Rozo 1 STAR which requires routing to the ULQ VOR, situated 34 miles north of the runway 19 threshold followed by a shallow intercept track to join a straight in final approach track to runway 19 at 12 nm from the threshold. This track passes over the ROZO NDB at 2.6 nm from the runway threshold. The aircraft passed the ULQ (TULUA) VOR tracking slightly right of the procedure at 288 knots in a steep descent with the thrust levers at Flight Idle and the speed brakes about 50% deployed. By this time, the aircraft was ‘getting ahead’ of the crew and the Investigation noted that neither pilot had realised that the ULQ VOR position had been deleted from the FMS Flight Plan until they had already passed it. Possibly not appreciating the position of the ROZO NDB as being so close to the runway, the Captain decided to select ‘Direct To’ it on the FMS which meant that it had to be re-input following the earlier deletion. However, when this was done - without the