crew actions caused this accident.” The Investigation also found that their positional awareness had not been helped by “numerous important differences (which) existed between the display of identical navigation data on approach charts and on FMS-generated displays” despite the fact that the same contractor (Jespersen-Sanderson) supplied both. In respect of the lack of awareness of terrain on the part of both pilots, the Investigation considered that the First Officer had relied on the Captain for such awareness and also proposed a number of other reasons for this deficiency in respect of both pilots: Cali was not included in the American Airlines list of South American airports for which special pre-approach briefing criteria were mandated.. The guidance given in the American Airlines reference guide and in training did not have sufficient impact to be recalled in a time of high stress and workload.. Both pilots had become used to flying in the vicinity of mountainous terrain and perhaps complacent in respect of the associated hazards.. Terrain information was not shown on the EFIS or portrayed graphically on the approach chart used.. Dark night conditions limited the ability to see the terrain.. In respect of the evident breakdown of Crew Resource Management, the Investigation considered that “the accident also demonstrates that even superior CRM programs, as evidenced at American Airlines, cannot assure that under times of stress or high workload, when it is most critically needed, effective CRM will be manifest”. It noted that neither pilot was able to recognise: that the use of the FMS was confusing and did not clarify the situation. the steps necessary to fly the approach successfully, even while trying to do so. the numerous cues available that illustrated that the initial decision to accept runway 19 was ill advised and should be changed. that they were encountering numerous parallels with an accident scenario they had reviewed in recent CRM training. that the flight path was not monitored for over a minute just before the accident.. It was also concluded that: ATC followed applicable ICAO and State rules and procedures and “did not contribute to the cause of the accident”.. The FAA had not overseen American Airlines’ flight crew operating into South America “according to the provisions of ICAO Document 8335, parts 9.4 and 9.6.33”.. American Airlines training policies did not include provision for keeping pilots' flight training records in a way which indicated any details of pilot performance.. Neither Boeing not American Airlines Operations Manual content response to GPWS Warnings mentioned the need to stow the speed brakes.. The Investigation formally determined that the Probable Causes of the accident were: The failure of the flight crew to adequately plan and execute the approach to runway 19 at Cali and their inadequate use of automation.. The failure of the flight crew to discontinue the approach to Cali despite numerous cues alerting them of the inadvisability of continuing the approach.. The lack of situational awareness of the flight crew in respect of vertical navigation, proximity to terrain, and