as closely as possible, the corresponding information on instrument approach charts. [A-96-98]. that the FAA should, until such time as common standards are developed for flight management system (FMS)-generated displays and instrument approach charts, require the Jespersen­ Sanderson Company to inform airlines operating FMS-equipped aircraft of each difference in the naming and/or portrayal of navigation information on FMS­ generated and approach chart information, and require airlines to inform their pilots of these differences. [A-96-99]. that the FAA should require pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 121 to have open and easily accessible the approach and navigation charts applicable to each phase of flight before each phase is reached. [A-96-100]. that the FAA should examine the effectiveness of the enhanced ground proximity warning equipment and, if found effective, require all transport-category aircraft to be equipped with enhanced ground proximity warning equipment that provides pilots with an early warning of terrain. [A-96-101]. that the FAA should require that all approach and navigation charts graphically present terrain information. [A-96-102]. that the FAA should require that approach charts to airports that do not have radar coverage available at the time of the publication of the chart prominently state, on the chart, that radar coverage is unavailable. [A-96-103]. that the FAA should, with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Member States, review the naming conventions used for standard instrument departures (SIDs) and standard terminal arrival routes (STARs), and urge member states with SIDs and STARs that do not follow the ICAO naming convention to rename them in accordance with the ICAO recommendation. [A-96-104]. that the FAA should develop, with air traffic authorities of member states of the International Civil Aviation Organization, a program to enhance controllers' fluency in common English-language phrases and interaction skills sufficient to assist pilots in obtaining situational awareness about critical features of the airspace, particularly in non-radar environments. [A-96-105]. that the FAA should revise Advisory Circular 120-51B to include specific guidance on methods to effectively train pilots to recognize cues that indicate that they have not obtained situational awareness, and provide effective measures to obtain that awareness. [A-96-106]. The background to these recommendations is contained in the covering letter to the FAA. As shown by the Recommendations, the NTSB were particularly keen to address across all jet aircraft types: the feasibility of auto stowage of speed brakes when full forward thrust is applied noting that only a minority of types currently had such a system.. the possible value of an angle of attack indication as a means to enhance the ease with which maximum pitch attitude could be maintained during a ground proximity or wind shear escape manoeuvre.. the retention of all waypoints in an active FMS flight even if ‘direct to’ is used.. inconsistencies between FMS-generated navigation displays and paper chart information.. inadequate criteria governing the portrayal of terrain on charts and maps supplied commercially.. STAR naming protocols not consistent with the corresponding Recommendation in ICAO Annex 11.. the effects of limited English language proficiency in ATC on the ability