demanding maximum thrust and climb capability.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that newly certified transport category airplanes include automatic speed brake retraction during wind shear and GPWS escape manoeuvres or other situations demanding maximum thrust and climb capability.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop a mandatory Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT) training program that includes realistic simulator exercises that are comparable to the successful wind shear and rejected take off training programmes.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the CFIT escape procedures of airlines operating transport category aircraft to ensure that the procedures provide for the extraction of maximum escape performance and ensure that those procedures are placed in operating sections of the approved Operations Manuals.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should alert pilots of FMS equipped aeroplanes to the hazard of similarly identified navigation stations when operating outside of the United States.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the pilot training record keeping systems of airlines operated under FAR Parts 121 and 135 to determine the quality of the information contained therein, and require the airlines to maintain appropriate information on the quality of pilot performance in training and checking programs.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should evaluate the possibility of requiring that flight crew-generated inputs to the FMC be recorded as parameters in the FDR in order to permit accident investigators to reconstruct pilot - FMS interaction.. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should urge Member States to encourage its pilots and air traffic controllers to strictly adhere to ICAO standards phraseology and terminology in all radio telecommunications between pilots and controllers.. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should evaluate and consider the adoption of the recommendations produced by the CFIT Task Force that has been created under the initiative of the Flight Safety Foundation.. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation should establish a single worldwide standard that provides unified criteria for providers of the electronic navigational databases used in Flight Management Systems.. that American Airlines should review their guidelines for ensuring that the flight crew preparation rendered by the training given at the Flight Training Academy is maintained throughout the different operational pilot bases by the standardisation of the evaluation criteria used by Check Pilots.. that American Airlines should address the analysis of flight crew performance recorded in flight crew training records in order to reinforce CRM and the individual aspects of flight training programs.. The Final Report of the Investigation (in Spanish) was received by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) on 27 September 1996 but does not contain all the Appendices issued at the time. An English Language translation of both the Main Report and all its Appendices was subsequently prepared at the University of Bielefeld, Germany under the direction of Professor Peter Ladkin. The Appendices to the Report were: APPENDIX A A Summary of the organisation of the Investigation APPENDIX B The CVR TRANSCRIPT APPENDIX C Instrument Approach Charts for Cali APPENDIX D Extract from the American Airlines