B757/767 Operations Manual covering the aileron and spoiler controls APPENDIX E Wreckage Photographs APPENDIX F FMS Route Pages prior to impact reconstructed from the Accident aircraft FMC NVM Only Appendix ‘C’ is included in the translated copy of the above-referenced translation of the Main Report. Following the release of the Official Report, and with the concurrence of the Columbian Aeronautica Civil, the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB), which had assisted with the Investigation, determined that it should also issue 17 further Safety Recommendations as follows and it did so on 16 October 1996: that the FAA' should evaluate the effects of automatically stowing the speed brakes on existing airplanes when high power is commanded and determine the desirability of incorporating automatic speed brake retraction on these airplanes for wind shear and terrain escape maneuvers, or other situations demanding maximum thrust and climb capability [A-96-90]. that the FAA should require that newly certified transport-category aircraft include automatic speed brake retraction during wind shear and ground proximity warning system escape maneuvers, or other situations demanding maximum thrust and climb capability. [A-96-91]. that the FAA should evaluate the Boeing Commercial Airplane Group procedure for guarding the speed brake handle during periods of deployment, and require airlines to implement the procedure if it increases the speed of stowage or decreases the likelihood of forgetting to stow the speed brakes in an emergency situation. [A-96-92]. that the FAA should evaluate the terrain avoidance procedures of air carriers operating transport category aircraft to ensure that the procedures provide for the extraction of maximum escape performance and ensure that those procedures are placed in procedural sections of the approved operations manuals. [A-96-93]. that the FAA should require that all transport-category aircraft present pilots with angle-of-attack information in a visual format, and that all air carriers train their pilots to use the information to obtain maximum possible airplane climb performance. [A-96-94]. that the FAA should develop a controlled flight into terrain training program that includes realistic simulator exercises comparable to the successful wind shear and rejected takeoff training programs and make training in such a program mandatory for all pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 121. [A-96-95]. that the FAA should require all flight management system (FMS)-equipped aircraft, that are not already capable of so doing, to be modified so that those fixes between the airplane's position and the one towards which the airplane is proceeding are retained in the FMS control display unit and FMS-generated flight path following the execution of a command to the FMS to proceed direct to a fix. [A-96-96]. that the FAA should inform pilots of flight management system (FMS)-equipped aircraft of the hazards of selecting navigation stations with common identifiers when operating outside of the United States and that verification of the correct identity and coordinates of FMS-generated waypoints data is required at all times. [A-96-97]. that the FAA should develop and implement standards to portray instrument approach criteria, including terminal environment information and navigational aids, on FMS-generated displays that match,