Navigation Services Company did not realise that the minimum radar vector altitude was occasionally violated when clearance to descend was issued.. Systemic Risk Factors which were neither causal nor contributory: The airspace structure around Zurich airport is complex, make it demanding for crews to use and for air traffic control officers to manage.. The airspaces around Zurich airport are, regarding their vertical dimension, designed in a way that relatively small mistakes can (soon) lead to dangerous situations.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation to address 'safety deficits'. Three were made in an Interim Report which was issued during the course of the Investigation in the spring of 2013 and were as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, if applicable in cooperation with the supervisory authorities of neighbouring countries in the vicinity of Swiss airports, establish airspaces in which only aircraft equipped with a functioning, activated transponder are permitted to manoeuvre (transponder mandatory zones - TMZs). These TMZs should include the control zones and terminal control areas and create vertical or horizontal buffer zones above or around these airspaces. [No. 466]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, together with the relevant aviation associations and, if applicable, in cooperation with the supervisory authorities of neighbouring countries (particularly those in the vicinity of major Swiss airports), take effective measures to ensure that general aviation pilots consistently respect controlled airspaces. [No. 467]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, together with the air navigation services company Skyguide, the relevant aviation associations and, if applicable, the supervisory authorities of neighbouring countries, develop measures to ensure that airspace violations by aircraft not equipped with a transponder can be systematically recorded so that the associated risks can be minimised. [No. 468]. Two further Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, together with the air navigation services company Skyguide, audit the 'anticipated clearance' concept and develop measures to guarantee that IFR flights adhere to a clearance given (and) do not (reach) altitudes or airspaces where they do not belong. [No 483]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, if applicable together with the supervisory authorities of neighbouring countries and (with the awareness) of the stakeholders involved, audit the airspace structure around Zurich airport and develop measures that make use of airspace easier (and) more (error) tolerant. [No 484]. The Final Report was completed on 21 January 2014 and approved by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) on 9 September 2014