flight." It was found that after landing at the Bohlhof glider airfield (from which he had earlier taken off) following the incident, the glider pilot "did not report the serious incident to the authorities or the club management". However, when, a few days later, "the flight data of all aircraft which had taken off from or landed at Bohlhof…on 11 August 2012 were inspected by the club management", he stated that he had "then informed the club management that he had been involved in the serious incident". It was found that he had been a member of the Bohlhof Gliding Club since 1968 "and was familiar with the airspace structure around the airfield". An analysis of the flights he had made between 15 June 2011 and 11 August 2012 showed "that he had flown into the (Zurich TMA controlled airspace) without verifiable clearance on at least five flights". It was noted that the glider involved had not been visible on primary radar and, since it was not equipped with a transponder, had also not been visible on secondary radar or triggered an Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) activation either. It was equipped with the FLARM collision avoidance system commonly carried by gliders in the area but only operative between aircraft carrying such equipment. Also, the glider was equipped with a navigation computer and an older generation Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation system which did not display maps or give aural and visual warnings when approaching airspace boundaries. It was noted that these more advanced systems would have given an aural warning of the form "one hundred metres below airspace Charlie" which would need to be acknowledged by the pilot to prevent constant repetition. The Investigation reviewed radar vectoring practices at ZRH APP in relation to the presence of the Temporary Reserved Area below the TMA which facilitated approaches to Bohlhof. It was noted that "operations at Zurich Airport have influenced the operation of Bohlhof glider airfield for quite some time, the first flight restrictions (having been) enacted in 1956". The Investigation reviewed ATC practice in respect of descent clearances in the TMA for aircraft being positioned for approach to runways 14 and 16 and noted that "according to the ATMM Switzerland…the vertical minimum distance from the base of the TMA for IFR aircraft is 500 feet" and that controllers have to "guarantee this minimum distance". In the case of this airspace, "this means that the limit below which an aircraft….may not descend is 5000 ft QNH when flying IFR, so thatif the ATCO issues an aircraft with an altitude which is lower than this limit, he must monitor the vertical flight path such that the aircraft does not descend below 5000 ft QNH". This requirement was not met in the case of the A340 involved in the investigated incident and further analysis of Zurich APP radar data indicated that this had not been an isolated instance. The Investigation established that the investigated serious incident was not an isolated case and