noted that "various dangerous convergences in connection with gliders have been recorded in recent years". Eight recorded similar conflicts in the controlled airspace around Zurich Airport were found have occurred between May 2008 and June 2011 and it was noted that "several lines of evidence suggest that there are a larger number of unreported cases in addition to these documented cases". The Investigation made the following Safety-critical Findings in relation to the context in which the investigated event had taken place: In recent years, airspace violations in relation to approaches to runways 14 and 16 at Zurich Airport by general aviation aircraft equipped with a transponder have been regular and relatively large in number.. On 13 August 2012, ANSP Skyguide informed the SAIB that a convergence had taken place between SWR 39 and a glider on 11 August 2012. After extensive preliminary clarifications, an investigation regarding a near collision was opened by the SAIB on 7 September 2012 and Skyguide was informed about it. Subsequently, their media department had to answer several press inquiries on the subject. However, the division of the company concerned with air traffic control paid no attention to the near collision and became aware of the seriousness of the event only after the air traffic control officer was interviewed by the SAIB in October 2012.. In the case of previous flights made by the glider pilot involved, as well as flights made by other glider pilots which were conducted in the terminal control area and the control zone of Zurich Airport, there had been airspace violations which were revealed only in the context of this Investigation.. The gliding club in which the glider pilot involved in the near collision was a member did not systematically record airspace violations made by its members and did not report events which were known to it to the appropriate authorities.. A systematic assessment of airspace violations as is the case for aircraft which are equipped with a transponder does not take place in the case of gliders and other aircraft which do not require a transponder. It can thus be assumed that there have been a considerable number of similar unreported airspace violations whose causes therefore cannot be determined.. The Investigation attributed the Cause of the near collision to the fact that a glider, without a respective clearance, was in airspace class C in which a commercial aircraft was directed below the minimum radar vector altitude. The Investigation also identified various Factors relating to the near collision: Direct Causal Factors: Lack of risk awareness on the part of the glider pilot.. The issue by the ATCO of a descent clearance to an altitude which was, in the airspace in which the clearance was given, below the minimum radar vector altitude for instrument flights, without monitoring (for) a possible violation.. Systemic Causal Factor: The absence of a compatible safety system for gliders, commercial aircraft and air traffic control which could have warned of the dangerous convergence.. Systemic Contributing Factor: The Air