An Investigation was commenced after delegation of responsibility for it was made by the German BFU to the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB). Sufficient recorded data relevant to the Investigation was available from ATC radar recordings. It was established that, with the Airbus passing 4700 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings for 4000 feet at 248 knots and about to join the Instrument Landing System (ILS) Localiser for runway 14 at Zurich, the augmenting crew member observing the approach from the central supernumerary crew seat suddenly saw a glider at the same altitude on a collision course. The operating crew were immediately alerted and the First Officer, designated PF took avoiding action. The Airbus was flying in accordance with its clearance from the Zurich APP controller but the glider was found to have entered the Class 'C' TMA in which the conflict occurred without permission. Recorded radar data showed that "a pronounced avoidance manoeuvre" by the A340 was made 5 seconds prior to the closest proximity and had involved "a maximum bank angle of 36 degrees to the left and an increase in attitude to approximately 5 degrees, which generated a normal acceleration of 1.6 g". It was found that 13 seconds before the closest proximity, the glider had begun "an abrupt right-hand turn as an avoidance manoeuvre". The two aircraft subsequently "passed at approximately the same height at a lateral distance of approximately 260 metres" (850 feet) ten seconds after the A340 had initiated avoiding action. The situation is depicted on the diagram below included in the Official Report. It was considered that the recorded flight paths of the two aircraft over the less than 15 seconds which had elapsed from the initiation of avoiding action until the position of closest proximity showed that "neither avoidance manoeuvre in isolation was decisive in avoiding a collision". It was also concluded that the dynamics of this encounter "clearly indicate(d) that that there are few opportunities for action to avoid a collision (when) in a relatively slow moving aircraft." In respect of the danger posed to large transport aircraft by airspace incursions undetectable to radar surveillance or Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS), it was observed that it was very difficult for the crew of a commercial aircraft to visually detect a potentially conflicting glider without prior warning since "it is almost impossible to detect small objects with low contrast to their background". It was considered that in the investigated incident, "detection of the glider was certainly helped by the fact that it was turning and that its bank angle changed abruptly, as humans can detect moving objects better than stationary ones". It was concluded that "the role of the observing pilot is likely to have been decisive." After the glider pilot had failed to file a report or come forward in response to appeals from the Investigation, he was eventually traced and was reportedly cooperative thereafter. He stated that his airspace incursion had been intentional because "while circling….I needed some height for the onward