To protect against engine damage due to contamination by frozen deposits, the following precautions should be taken prior to flight in weather conditions which are, or have recently been, conducive to their accretion within the engine: A thorough preflight inspection of the engine inlet is required to establish if any existing contamination is present. Note that the prevailing surface temperature of the components is as important as the prevailing Outside Air Temperature (OAT) and it is possible that snow or ice may have melted due to the heat of the engine and then refrozen at the bottom of the intake or in the case of some turboprop engines in other difficult to see places within the intake. Ensure that any engine air intake covers or blanks have been removed. Check the intake for presence of contaminants and if it appears that intake blanks or covers were not fitted whilst adverse weather prevailed, ensure that inspection of the intake is especially thorough. In the case of a fan jet engine, confirm free rotation of the fan. It only takes a small amount of ice at the bottom of the engine to prevent fan rotation. In the case of a fan jet engine, check the fan and (if they are visible) compressor blades for ice. Note that due to the airflow in a running engine, the ice will generally form on the back of the blades.. Ensure that any engine air intake covers or blanks have been removed.. Check the intake for presence of contaminants and if it appears that intake blanks or covers were not fitted whilst adverse weather prevailed, ensure that inspection of the intake is especially thorough.. In the case of a fan jet engine, confirm free rotation of the fan. It only takes a small amount of ice at the bottom of the engine to prevent fan rotation.. In the case of a fan jet engine, check the fan and (if they are visible) compressor blades for ice. Note that due to the airflow in a running engine, the ice will generally form on the back of the blades.. If contamination is present, it must be removed prior to engine start. Any loose ice or snow can be removed with a brush or broom. Any frozen contaminate adhering to the intake or to the fan or compressor blades must be removed using approved methods.. Once the engines have been started, the flight crew should use every means available to minimise contaminant buildup prior to takeoff: Ensure engine anti ice is selected on.. Use engine anti-ice as per manufacturer's guidelines. Engine anti-ice is normally turned on when the OAT is 10 degrees C or less and visible moisture is present. Pilots must be familiar with the Adverse Weather section of the Operating Manual for their particular type(s). Minimise ground time to the extent possible.. During taxi, increase the distance from the preceding aircraft to avoid having contaminants blown into the engines.. Perform the manufacturer's prescribed engine ice shedding procedure