"is not normally used to alert flight crews to the status of the gust lock system" and did not do this. Following brake release for take off, with a likely target EPR of 1.7, FDR data showed that the throttle levers were advanced manually to an EPR of "about 1.42 over a period of about 4 seconds". Then after an interval of about 5 seconds, the A/T was engaged and the EPRs began to increase again to reach their eventual maximum values of about 1.6 as the aircraft reached about 60 knots before beginning to drop to about 1.53 and stabilising as the PF said "couldn’t get (it manually any further).” A review of the available QAR data from previous flights over the previous 9 months found that, out of the 176 recorded takeoff events - all made by the accident aircraft flight crew - only 2 had been preceded by a complete flight control check. Data from each take off was examined to note the airspeed at the time that the elevators (and therefore the control columns) had begun to move aft during the takeoff roll and in all cases except for the accident takeoff, this occurred at between 60 and 80 knots. The data for the immediately preceding 20 flights was also examined to see how the accident flight crew had advanced the thrust levers during take off and it was found that in each case, this action had been continuous to the same final position with in each case a corresponding resultant 1.7 EPR (maximum thrust takeoff) set before engaging the A/T. It was noted that the AFM version of the 'Lineup' Checklist (although not the one recovered from the wreckage) is followed by a note that, at 60 knots during the take off roll, the pilot should confirm that "the elevators are free and the control yoke has moved aft from the full forward to the neutral position". The basis for this is that aft movement of the control yoke (column) should be evident as aerodynamic force on the elevators increases because of their 'at rest' position of about 13° trailing edge down. As the accident aircraft passed 60 knots, FDR data recorded the elevator (and therefore the control columns) as still at about the 'at rest' position. Calls of 'eighty', 'V1' and 'rotate' followed from the PM. One second after the 'rotate' call, the PF said "...lock is on." and then repeated this six times over the next 13 seconds. Five seconds after the first of these calls, FDR evidence indicated that one of the pilots had moved the Flight Power Shutoff Valve (FPSOV) (see diagram below for its location) to the 'on' position, considered to have probably been an attempt to achieve unlocking of the flight controls whilst the crew were still unaware of the 'on' position of the gust lock lever. It was noted that whilst this action would have removed hydraulic pressure from spoiler and primary flight control actuators, it would not