have had the desired effect on locked status of the elevator. About 11 seconds after the 'rotate' call with the aircraft having reached its maximum groundspeed of about 162 knots and with about 420 metres of the 2140 metre-long runway remaining, the FDR recorded the left and right brake pressures beginning to rise. There was no verbal communication between the pilots about rejecting the takeoff and only four seconds after the brake pressure increase were the thrust levers retarded. Normally this latter action would have led to the ground spoilers being deployed to assist deceleration but the earlier movement of the FPSOV had disabled them due to the consequent loss of actuator hydraulic power. Five seconds after reaching its maximum ground speed and one second after the PF says “I can’t stop it.”, the thrust reversers were deployed as the aircraft exited the runway onto the paved RESA at just over 150 knots. One second after reaching the end of the 311 metres of RESA at 105 knots and going onto the grass, CVR data recorded the first impact sound and FDR data ended shortly afterwards with the aircraft still moving at about 90 knots. Having passed through the perimeter fence, the aircraft stopped spanning a small river valley about 570 metres beyond the end of the runway. The ILS LOC antenna located about 200 metres beyond the end of the paved RESA was found to have been demolished along with a number of its support poles which had been severed 45cm above their bases. Blackened and charred grass between the LOC antenna and the finally-stopped position indicated that this impact had initiated the fire. A contract pilot stated to the Investigation that although he had flown with the accident PF some years previously and regarded him as a 'good pilot', he habitually "did not use a formal item-by-item checklist". The same pilot also stated that "when the gust lock was not disengaged before starting the engines, some pilots occasionally used the FPSOV handle to momentarily remove hydraulic pressure from the flight controls, which allowed the gust lock to be disengaged without shutting down the engines" but this comment was expressly not attributed to a specific pilot or flight crew. Examination of all the evidence available led the Investigation to conclude that the take off had been attempted with the gust lock lever (see the illustration below) in the 'on' position. A review of the crew actions noted that when the EPR did not reach the expected level because the throttle position was constrained by the resulting gust lock/throttle lever interlock, the PF had not immediately rejected the takeoff but had instead engaged the A/T. This had allowed the EPR to increase towards (but not reach) the target value and the thrust levers to move towards (but not reach) their normal position. Then, when the PF (must have) realised that the controls were locked, he "still did not immediately initiate a rejected takeoff". The Investigation concluded that "if the flight