crew had initiated a rejected takeoff at the time of the PF’s first 'lock is on' comment or at any time up until about 11 seconds after this comment, the airplane could have been stopped on the paved surface". Instead, initiation of a rejected takeoff was delayed to the extent that the accident became unavoidable. It was concluded that ineffective intra flight crew communication and non-use of the prescribed challenge and response Normal Checklists had been contributory to the failure to unlock the controls but also noted that oversight of the operation, including voluntary and independent assessments of operational safety had failed to disclose that such behaviour appeared to have been routine rather than exceptional for the crew concerned. It was also concluded that the gust lock/throttle lever mechanism did not perform as it was required to under generic type certification requirements and that had it done so, it would have prevented the aircraft from achieving any significant acceleration which would have led to "an unmistakable warning that would most likely have prevented the accident". The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to have been "the flight crew members’ failure to perform the flight control check before takeoff, their attempt to take off with the gust lock system engaged, and their delayed execution of a rejected takeoff after they became aware that the controls were locked". Three Contributory Factors in the accident were determined as: the flight crew’s habitual noncompliance with checklists.. Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation’s failure to ensure that the G-IV gust lock/throttle lever interlock system would prevent an attempted takeoff with the gust lock engaged.. the Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to detect this inadequacy during the G-IV’s certification.. Safety issues identified during the Investigation were as follows: the need for flight crew use of the challenge and response checklist execution.. the importance of using FOQA data analysis to define the scope of procedural noncompliance in business aviation.. the need to ensure that any objects along the extended runway centreline up to the perimeter fence are frangible.. the need to retrofit the gust lock system on all existing G-IV airplanes to comply with the existing certification requirement that the gust lock must limit the operation of the airplane so that the pilot receives an unmistakable warning if it is engaged at the start of take off.. the need for guidance on the appropriate use and limitations of the use of engineering drawings in a design review carried out to show compliance with regulatory requirements for aircraft type certification.. Five Safety Recommendations were made: that the Federal Aviation Administration should identify non-frangible structures outside of a runway safety area during annual 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 139 inspections and place increased emphasis on replacing non-frangible fittings of any objects along the extended runway centerline up to the perimeter fence with frangible fittings, wherever feasible, during the next routine maintenance cycle. (A-15-30). that the Federal Aviation Administration should, after Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation develops a modification of the G-IV gust lock/throttle