An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR, CVR and QAR were recovered from the wreckage and data from all three was successfully downloaded. The QAR data covered 303 hours of data on 176 flights. A Preliminary Report on the initial progress of the Investigation was published on 13 June 2014. The continuing investigation established that the 45 year-old aircraft commander and the 61 year-old Co-pilot were both qualified to act as pilot in command of the accident aircraft and constituted the usual flight crew for the operator's only G-IV. They "customarily changed seats between flights" with the pilot occupying the left seat acting as the commander. The 61-year old Co-pilot was also the Chief Pilot and Director of Maintenance for SK Travel. Both had been flying the accident aircraft type since it had been acquired by the operation seven years previously and both had, earlier in their careers, logged time on business jets other than the accident type. Available evidence indicated that the aircraft commander had been PF. The accident flight was being made to return the four passengers to Atlantic City from where they had arrived in the same aircraft flown by the same crew several hours earlier. The two pilots and the Cabin Attendant had remained with the aircraft. Once the passengers had boarded, the engines were started and the aircraft taxied to runway 11, reaching it about eleven minutes after the passengers had boarded. During this time, it was noted that the CVR had "recorded minimal verbal communication between the flight crewmembers, and there was no discussion or mention of checklists or takeoff planning" whereas the AFM "includes five checklists to be completed before takeoff: the Before Starting Engines checklist, the Starting Engines checklist, the After Starting Engines checklist, the Taxi/Before Takeoff checklist, and the Lineup checklist." The 'Starting Engines' Checklist included the requirement to disengage the gust lock, achieved by moving the gust lock handle on the pedestal between the pilots (see picture below) to the OFF (down) position. The 'After Starting Engines' Checklist included a check of the flight controls which is achieved by one of the pilots moving the elevators, ailerons, and rudder from stop to stop to confirm that they move freely and correctly. FDR data showed that "the flight crew did not complete a flight control check after engine start or at any time thereafter". As the aircraft turned on to the runway, the CVR recorded the pilots discussing the appearance of the “RUDDER LIMIT" caution on the Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS). Such an annunciation would be indicative of the rudder contacting its stops or "being prevented from reaching its commanded position, as would be the case if the rudder was commanded to move with the gust lock engaged". However, the AFM stated that this annunciation is advisory with no crew action required and it was noted that although it appeared because of the interaction of the engaged gust lock with the yaw damper system, it