Under the ICAO Technical Instructions, lithium batteries shipped as cargo attract standard dangerous goods status. Specific packaging requirements and maximum quantity per package apply according to classification. The classifications are: A Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) issued by the FAA on 8 October 2010 summarises the recent research that shows that lithium metal (non-rechargeable) and lithium-ion (rechargeable) batteries are highly flammable and capable of igniting during air transport. Ignition of lithium metal batteries can be caused when a battery short circuits, is overcharged, is heated to extreme temperatures, is mishandled (including being crushed or dropped), or is otherwise defective. (Around one in 10,000,000 is acknowledged to be potentially defective during manufacture.) Once a cell is induced into thermal runaway, either by internal failure or by external means such as heating, over-discharge or physical damage, it generates sufficient heat to cause adjacent cells to go into thermal runaway. The result of thermal runaway in a lithium metal cell is a more severe event as compared to a lithium-ion cell in thermal runaway. The lithium metal cell releases a flammable electrolyte mixed with molten lithium metal, accompanied by a large pressure pulse. The combination of flammable electrolyte and the molten lithium metal can result in an explosive mixture. Halon 1301, the suppression agent found in Class C cargo compartments, is ineffective in controlling a lithium metal cell fire. Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) 16004, issued by the FAA on 06 May 2016 informs the operators of the new Dangerous Goods/Hazardous Materials requirements contained in ICAO Technical Instructions (TI) for the shipment of lithium batteries. This SAFO also encourages operators to notify their customers who offer lithium battery cargo shipments of these changes. For shipments subject to the ICAO Technical Instructions, the following provisions, which are applicable to both cargo transporters and operators, became effective on April 1, 2016: SAFO 16004 also emphasizes that "the safe transport of hazardous materials by air requires compliance from both shippers and operators".