These are the type of batteries that most often feature in on-aircraft incidents. Often it is overheating, which eventually triggers ignition in equipment and batteries that, unknown to the user, are faulty in some way. However, various origins of overheating have been identified during investigations. There are two principal types of lithium battery. Lithium metal batteries and Lithium ion batteries. Lithium polymer batteries are a kind of lithium ion battery and so are also included in that category. Fires arising in the Lithium Metal type cannot necessarily be extinguished using fire suppression equipment currently carried on aircraft. For this reason, the maximum permitted lithium content of this type is much smaller than for lithium ion types. However, when installed in serviceable equipment, the risk of overheating is assessed as low for both types and they may, in most circumstances, be carried by passengers in either cabin or checked baggage. No spare or loose lithium batteries of either type are usually permitted in accompanied checked baggage. Lithium Metal batteries (also referred to as non-rechargeable lithium or primary lithium) are batteries that cannot be recharged and are designed to be thrown away once their initial charge is used up. They are often used in cameras and in other small personal electronic devices (PEDs). Consumer-sized batteries of these types - typically those containing up to 2 grams of lithium per battery (which includes all the usual non-rechargeable batteries for personal film and digital cameras such as AA, AAA, 123, CR123A, CR1, CR2, CRV3, CR22, 2CR5, etc. and flat/round lithium-button cells) are not usually subject to restrictions in personal-use quantities. Passengers are usually prohibited from carrying larger batteries of this type.. Lithium Ion batteries are also known as rechargeable lithium, lithium polymer, LIPO or secondary lithium batteries. They are always mains-rechargeable and are normally found in laptop computers, digital cameras, camcorders, cell phones, smart phones, tablet computers, and radio-controlled toys, and small remotely pilot aircraft, or drones. They may take the various forms including the standard AA, AAA, and 9-volt types. The degree of potential fire hazard from a lithium ion batteries increases in direct proportion to the amount of lithium it contains. However, since few batteries display this information, an approximate equivalence has been developed which links the watt-hours of battery power with the lithium content of these batteries. The watt hours (wh) which a particular battery provides can be checked by multiplying the placarded milliamp hours (mAh) by the placarded volts (V). Lithium content is approximately 8 grams per 100 watt hours. Most lithium ion batteries currently available to consumers have a power output below 100 watt-hours and the number of these that can be carried in passenger baggage when installed in equipment is not limited. A small number of very large / extended life computer laptop batteries and some batteries used for powering professional audio-visual equipment have ratings of up to 160 watt-hours and are usually restricted to a maximum of two per passenger. For lithium contents greater than this, there