These are the type of batteries that most often feature in on-aircraft incidents. Often it is overheating, which eventually triggers ignition in equipment and batteries that, unknown to the user, are faulty in some way. However, various origins of overheating have been identified during investigations. There are two principal types of lithium battery. Lithium metal batteries and Lithium ion batteries. Lithium polymer batteries are a kind of lithium ion battery and so are also included in that category. Fires arising in the Lithium Metal type cannot necessarily be extinguished using fire suppression equipment currently carried on aircraft. For this reason, the maximum permitted lithium content of this type is much smaller than for lithium ion types. However, when installed in serviceable equipment, the risk of overheating is assessed as low for both types and they may, in most circumstances, be carried by passengers in either cabin or checked baggage. No spare or loose lithium batteries of either type are usually permitted in accompanied checked baggage. It should be noted that some more complex issues may be raised if passengers are able to connect their battery powered equipment to an aircraft power source since such action usually has the concomitant effect of initiating a recharge of the battery supply. At the first hint of battery overheat – the equipment feeling hotter than usual or a ‘hot’ smell – the power cable should be disconnected and the equipment placed in view. As lithium ion batteries are rechargeable they represent the greatest number of batteries on a passenger aircraft. It is entirely possible for a single aisle airliner with 140 passenger seats to have in excess of 500 lithium batteries onboard. This presents a threat not only due to the number but also to the potential difficulty in gaining access during a thermal runaway/overheat. Regulators are updating guidance to crewmembers in the best actions to fight such fires. Movement of overheating electronic devices can cause adjacent cells to overheat resulting is high-energy expulsion of extremely hot gel and parts of the device acting as shrapnel. It is therefore imperative that adequate protection of the crewmember acting as the firefighter be provided. Only if adequate protection is available should a device be moved. Cooling an overheating device is the only way to stop the thermal runaway. Water or other non-alcoholic liquids in large quantity will be necessary. The crew must consider the potential collateral damage of a large amount of liquid. If, in their professional opinion, it is a safer course of action to move the device, protection of the firefighter and a clear plan of where to contain the device must be accomplished. During thermal runaway lithium batteries will emit significant amount of organic vapor (looking like smoke) it is a mucous membrane irritant and high flammable. In addition the odour of these fumes is noxious and very unpleasant. Containment of the device to eliminate fumes and the potential injury by additional cell discharge is essential.