repellant system but that it was not used at any time during the arrival and that the flight crew had been unaware of its availability. It was found that it had only been re-activated after a prolonged period of disconnection awaiting an available minor modification in the autumn of 2008. No evidence that Skyservice had informed their flight crews of the re-activation of the rain repellent system could be found by the Investigation. The Investigation made the following “Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors”: As the aircraft neared the threshold, the precipitation rate increased and the crew lost their visual cues preventing them from detecting and correcting the aircraft's right drift prior to touchdown.. When the aircraft transitioned into the flare, the Captain committed to the landing and believed a safe go around option no longer existed.. As the aircraft touched down in an established right turn, the combination of momentum, low tire cornering forces due to the contaminated runway and some form of hydroplaning, caused the aircraft to drift until it left the runway.. A combination of wet ground, reverse thrust, slope and wind resulted in the Captain being unable to manoeuvre the aircraft back on the runway until the speed was reduced enough to allow for better tire traction.. The Company’s lack of emphasis on the capabilities, operation and the re-activation of the rain repellent system likely contributed to the crew not using the system. The rain repellent system could have improved the forward visibility in the heavy precipitation.. The Final Report of the Investigation: Aviation Investigation Report A10F0012 was authorised for release on 19 January 2011. No Safety Recommendations were made. Comments on the Report by the French BEA and included as an Appendix to the TSB Report were made to the effect that the option to commence a go around in an A320 type aircraft existed at all times until reverse thrust was applied and noted that this had not been acknowledged by the Investigation.