An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was established that both flight crew were experienced on the aircraft type and that the aircraft commander was designated as PF. It was noted that the destination TAF for the ETA when en route had indicated thunderstorm activity and rain showers clearing to broken cloud at 1500 feet agl after the rain and that the corresponding alternate TAF was for Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) with light winds. It was noted that the flight crew had been aware that they would probably encounter reduced visibility nearer to landing but when the previous aircraft, a Boeing 737, called a go around, the reason for it was not given and no attempt was made to establish it from ATC, who also did not volunteer a reduction in visibility from 2000m to 1000m in the rain. FDR data showed that the Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach was stable until the autopilot had been disconnected at 200 ft aal after which tracking of the extended centreline had become erratic. The flight crew reported that the forward visibility had worsened rapidly in heavy rain and they had eventually lost almost all visual reference in the flare. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data showed that the threshold had been crossed at 20 feet agl followed by touchdown on the runway 195 m from the threshold with unintended drift. The aircraft commander reported considering that attempting a go around or balked landing while in a low-energy state would be a high-risk manoeuvre and so had continued with the landing. The Investigation appeared to accept the validity of that decision by quoting Transport Canada Commercial and Business Aviation Advisory Circular No. 0141 ‘Low Energy Hazards/Balked Landing/Go Around’ statement that “an attempt to commence a go-around or balked landing while in the low-energy landing regime is a high-risk manoeuvre”. After travelling for 518 metres, the aircraft had exited the right hand side of the runway at a speed of 130 knots and then travelled almost parallel to it for 532 metres before re-entering it at a speed of 40 knots 1310 metres from the threshold. Once the aircraft was back on the runway and appeared to the crew to be substantially undamaged, the aircraft commander decided to taxi in. It was noted that the surface adjacent to the runway edge was hard-packed grass with some gravel patches and a slight down slope away from the runway for drainage. It was not clear to the Investigation whether ATC had observed or understood that a significant runway excursion had occurred until the aircraft arrived on the gate. Once at the gate, aircraft damage caused by collision with runway edge lights, various other objects and debris was found to the tyres, the engine fan blades and some of the acoustic and ice impact panels on the right engine, one of the flap track fairings and the right hand air conditioning pack. It was established that the aircraft had been equipped with a serviceable rain