An Investigation was carried out by the Sudan Air Accident Investigation Central Directorate (AAICD). The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and downloaded. It was found that both pilots were experienced and that the Captain had been PF for the accident landing. It was noted that the aircraft had been released to service the previous day with the left engine thrust reverser inoperative and locked out in accordance with the Minimum Equipment List (MEL). It was also discovered that no regular checking of tyre pressures was taking place because the maintenance personnel wrongly believed that the aircraft was fitted with an on-board “Tyre Pressure Information System” (TPIS) which would have meant that the flight crew could be responsible for routine monitoring. However, no evidence was found that this circumstance had had any effect on the difficulty experienced in stopping the aeroplane. It was established that the aircraft had originally been en route from Cairo to Khartoum but had diverted to Port Sudan after being advised of adverse weather at Khartoum. After a 1 hour 15 minute stop at Port Sudan where additional fuel was loaded, it was reported that the weather conditions at Khartoum had improved and the aircraft had left Port Sudan for Khartoum. The approach to runway 36 at Khartoum was made using the VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) procedure because the Instrument Landing System (ILS) was awaiting calibration. The approach was stable and the final wind check given by the TWR was 320° / 7 knots, which was the Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) wind velocity reported almost an hour before touchdown since when the direction had varied considerably and slowly increased so that by the time the aircraft landed “the actual tailwind component was 15 knots”. It was found that at the time of the accident “there were no wind panel indicators in the tower for providing current wind velocity to arriving and departing traffic”. A review of weather observations showed that a thunderstorm with rain had recently cleared the aerodrome area and it was dry by the time the aircraft landed although the runway remained wet. FDR data showed that touchdown occurred on the main gear at 1.1g between 850 metres and 900 metres from the threshold of the 2981 metre long runway at a ground speed of 155 knots with immediate auto spoiler deployment. One set of spoilers was found not to have deployed when the system was activated but this was found, after a simulation based on the runway being “covered with water”, to have been the source of only 5 knots additional speed at overrun. Significantly, auto braking had not been selected. Manual selection of reverse thrust (right side only operative) followed five seconds later but “the aircraft skidded to the right after the thrust reverser was applied“ and 10 seconds after touch down, the deployed reverser was stowed and the thrust levers were set to idle, with differential braking used to regain the