centreline. With 780 metres to go before the end of the runway and the aircraft still at a groundspeed of 109 knots, the Captain had switched off the anti-skid and applied full braking on both pedals which led to the wheels locking. The aircraft left the runway 36 seconds after touchdown at a groundspeed of 76 knots and continued for a further 215 metres before coming to a stop. Apart from damaging some ground lighting, the aircraft did not encounter any significant obstacles or uneven terrain and came to a stop essentially intact and with all three landing gear assemblies still supporting the aircraft. Fire only became evident in the area of the inner right wing after it had stopped and, since the vertical and horizontal accelerations recorded during the overrun were considered to be insufficient to prejudice structural integrity, it was concluded that the origin of the fire was “very likely due to a fuel leakage between the right engine nacelle and the right wing root.” It was considered by the Investigation that this indicated that: the fire either began after the aircraft had stopped or it may have started within the engine following the deployment of engine No. 2 thrust reverser due to some fuel leakage. the fuel leakage feeding the fire was not the result of structural damage but was probably the consequence of a fuel tank puncture made by wing flexing as had been detected during the most recent ‘C’ Check and been rectified, or due to debris thrown up after impact with ground lighting or antennae, or by some parts thrown into the wing structure in the efflux directed by the operative thrust no 2 engine reverser.. In respect of the latter possibility, it was noted that “Airbus recommends stowing the thrust reversers at low speed so as to avoid any debris-caused problems.” Simulations conducted during the Investigation indicated if the wind velocity given to the crew by ATC on short finals had been representative of the actual wind then, despite the late touchdown, it should still have been possible to stop the aircraft on the runway provided braking had been applied throughout. The simulations also showed that the runway friction coefficient was poor which indicated that the runway surface was very slippery. Even though the crew had been informed that the runway was wet, “the Captain decided not to switch the auto brake on, which is strongly recommended by the flight manual”. The Investigation also reviewed the conduct of the evacuation and considered that, whilst the outcome had been largely successful, the manner in which it was ordered and conducted had indicated opportunities for improvement. The aircraft Captain stated that the evacuation had been difficult because of the speed at which thick smoke spread through the cabin and the need to use only the left side exits. He noted that the left rear exit (door 3L) could not be used because the height above the ground was too great but noted that although the