slide at the over wing exit (2L) was deployed, a lot of passengers used the left forward exit (door 1L) to evacuate, After carrying out interviews with the Cabin crew, the Investigation concluded that: Communication between cabin crew members was not adequate.. Personnel Protective Equipment was not used.. Passengers were not briefed on safety measures before and during the flight.. Hand luggage delayed the evacuation process.. The Investigation concluded that the response by the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services was inadequate and that this was due to poor training as well as to “communications (and) infrastructure issues”. It was considered that whilst the number of airport fire fighting and rescue vehicles was sufficient it was found that there had been an “acute shortage in fire fighting personnel” and no means of communication between personnel at the accident site and the fire station. It was also considered that “the response time was not in accordance with the standard” and that “participation of civil defence fire vehicles in fighting the crash fire (had) impaired the efficiency of airport fire and rescue vehicles”. It was noted that “the officers of the airport RFFS were not permanently appointed to their posts and that the Officer-in-charge “appeared to have little experience in aircraft accident fire fighting”. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the accident was: “ The long flaring distance (900 meters from R/W threshold) on a wet slippery runway without selecting Auto brake and with one deactivated engine reverse in such rainy conditions. The remaining available landing distance turned out to be too short to allow the captain to stop the aircraft before the end of the runway.” And that the Contributing factors were that: The wind information (given) was not appropriate as there was a tail wind at the time of landing.. The crew was not aware of the (excessive) aircraft ground speed and the tail wind.. Sixteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that Sudan Airways should strictly adhere to crew qualifications periodic training and evaluation for adverse weather conditions, abnormal and emergency procedures such as fire and evacuation multi crew (cockpit/cabin) training.. that Sudan Airways should revise and update aircraft maintenance schedules particularly in zones where structure is vulnerable to destruction and failure.. that Sudan Airways should reduce/stop aircraft maintenance cycles extensions, concessions and wavers.. that Sudan Airways should closely monitor and control approvals of Minimum Equipment Lists (MELs) and keep carried forward defects (ADDs) to a minimum. that Sudan Airways must meet the standard operation requirements for FDRs and CVRs as per Annex 6 to the Chicago Convention.. that the Sudan CAA should increase the number of fire fighting personnel and provide the necessary personal protective equipment.. that the Sudan CAA should train fire fighting officers and should make the necessary arrangement for them not to be transferred elsewhere.. that the Sudan CAA should ensure that no vehicles other than airport fire fighting and rescue vehicles should participate in aircraft accident fire fighting.. that