In general, the word correlation is used to denote some form of association. In air traffic control systems the term has a variety of meanings: This article focuses on the correlation of a system track and a flight plan. The RDP (radar data processing) system produces tracks that are visualised on a controller's situational display. The tracks contain limited information: There is no information about the aircraft intentions - e.g. planned trajectory, requested level, destination (and hence, top of descent), etc. which makes planning (conflict detection and solving, orderly flow of traffic) more difficult. There are basically two ways correlation is done - automatic and manual. Automatic correlation is done when the data from the system track (preferably Mode S callsign but also Mode C code) matches the data from an estimate (either a verbal one that was manually entered into the system or an OLDI ACT message). Note that the flight plan itself is not enough for automatic correlation. Manual correlation is done using a dedicated system feature, e.g. by clicking on a flight in a flight list window then choosing the "correlate" option and finally clicking on an uncorrelated track (regardless of its type - primary or secondary). When correlation is complete (either manually or automatically), the aircraft label changes and now contains many supplementary fields. Correlation (matching of an FPL and a track done by the software) is different from identification (matching of a track and an aircraft by the controller). The former is a system feature while the latter is an ATC procedure. The controller may identify an uncorrelated track using an appropriate method. Conversely, a correlated track may be considered unidentified if the controller has any doubts about the correlation being correct (e.g. due to a double SSR code). Correlation helps controllers with planning thus increasing their capacity (the ability to safely handle more traffic). All the above mentioned benefits may be substituted by other means of obtaining the information or performing the procedure. For instance, aircraft equipment, departure, destination, routing, etc. can be seen in the Flight Plan message and coordination may be done by phone. However, when available in the aircraft label, these features greatly improve the controller's situational awareness thus allowing them to focus on high level tasks such as conflict detection and the establishment of efficient flow of traffic. While correlation works smoothly most of the time, there are situations requiring extra controller attention: