release of an aircraft on a visual approach from APP to TWR was flexible, thus allowing TWR to resolve any conflicts with VFR traffic also in the CTR. It was noted that in respect of IFR traffic cleared for a visual approach by APP, the TWR controller “takes responsibility for providing visual separation within 5 nm of the (runway) threshold, but only to ensure that the runway is clear and available for each aircraft sequenced to land” in which case a clearance to is issued. Given that the origin of the conflict between the two DHC 8s was visual identification by the second DHC 8 crew of an Airbus A320 as a DHC 8, it was observed that “this may seem improbable given that the A320 is a low wing, twin-engine jet aeroplane while a DHC 8 is a high wing, T-tail, twin-engine turboprop aeroplane”. In respect of this error, it was also noted that: The pilots who made this error were visually ‘identifying’ an aircraft which was exactly the same as the one they were flying and being operated by their own airline in identical livery.. These pilots were also well aware of where aircraft would be when on each leg of the standard approach pattern when runway 34 at Wellington was in use.. They were locally based and had both made many previous approaches to the same runway, including visual ones.. Visual clearance from cloud was assured and the horizontal visibility was well in excess of the minimum required for flight by visual reference.. Both pilots confirmed that they were aware from passively monitoring other ATC clearances for traffic approaching the same runway that there were at least two preceding IFR aircraft in the approach sequence before they went visual.. The Investigation sought to examine the other “circumstances and factors that increased the likelihood of the event occurring and those that were intended to prevent the incident” and identified three Safety Issues that it was considered “could have the potential to adversely affect future operations” as follows: Although it was normal procedure at the time to provide IFR flights which had requested and been granted approval to conduct visual approaches in sequence behind other aircraft their position in that sequence, reporting that the aircraft to be followed was “in sight” - in this case wrongly - was accepted as sufficient. It was however noted that crews can always ask for this information.. Allowing a IFR flight approved to make a visual approach to change from APP to TWR based on their future position meant the APP controller was unable to establish immediate communication with a flight which was still “within their control sector” when the STCA occurred.. It was a matter of significant concern that neither of the flight crew involved took action after landing to isolate the 2 hour CVRs on their aircraft as required by both the State Safety Regulator and the SOPs of their operator.. Finally, in respect of aircraft operator SOPs relevant to the