DHC 8 made its initial call to TWR which went unanswered. When the call finished, the TWR controller immediately broadcast to the second DHC 8 (LINK285) “essential traffic on your left is a Dash 8 on a nine-mile final descending through 2,400 feet, maintain 3,000 feet.” There was no response to this call but it could be seen from the radar recording that the second DHC 8 had made a left turn within 10 seconds of that call. Five seconds after beginning this left turn, it then received a TCAS ‘CLIMB’ RA coordinated with a simultaneous TCAS ‘DESCEND’ RA on the first DHC 8. Both RA’s were followed but only the first DHC 8 advised ATC of their receipt of an RA as procedurally required. Recorded radar showed that after responding to the TCAS RA’s the two aircraft had come within 0.8 nm of each other horizontally and within 475 feet vertically. Both aircraft crews subsequently advised “clear of conflict” to ATC once the TCAS RA had ceased. The first DHC 8 was then instructed by TWR to continue to a landing and the second to change to a radar control frequency where it was subsequently repositioned onto final approach without further event. Both DHC 8 crews were stood down after completing their flights but neither ensured that the respective CVRs were disabled on their own initiative and, apparently, neither did their operator seek to confirm - by any method - that its own clear procedures in that respect had been followed. The issue of responsibility for safe separation of aircraft given visual approach clearances was central to the development of the loss of safe separation. The airspace involved was all Class ‘C’ and the weather conditions being reported at the airport at the time included a surface visibility of 20 km. The request for and approval of visual approaches was therefore not in itself causal. The requirements of ICAO PANS-ATM Doc 4444 Edition 16 in force at the time in respect of successive visual approaches were noted as stating that: “separation shall be maintained by the controller until the pilot of a succeeding aircraft reports having the preceding aircraft in sight. The aircraft shall then be instructed to follow and maintain own separation from the preceding aircraft.” In including this requirement, the New Zealand MATS (Manual of Air Traffic Services) stated that the controller is responsible for ensuring that “there is no possibility of incorrect identification” when giving clearance to operate by visual separation. In terms of the controller responsibility for separation between successive IFR flights granted visual approach approval, it was noted that whilst the APP controller was responsible for determining the traffic sequence and would also normally be responsible for separation between aircraft until landing, an exception to this existed when an IFR aircraft has been cleared for a visual approach and has agreed to follow a preceding IFR aircraft, in which case the flight crew of the following aircraft then take over responsibility for separation. The