An Investigation was carried out by the New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission. Whilst relevant data was downloaded from the FDRs of both DHC8 aircraft, all relevant CVR data from both aircraft was overwritten after neither recorder was stopped and removed before further use of the aircraft. Recorded ATC data from secondary radar, ADS-B tracking and controller traffic display screen imagery were available. The flight crew of the DHC8 aircraft which did not follow its clearance were recorded as a 44 year-old recently promoted PF Captain with a total of 4,200 hours flying experience of which 1,300 hours were on type, most obtained whilst a First Officer after joining the operator in 2016 until promotion three months prior to the investigated event. The flight crew of the other DHC8 aircraft was recorded as a 36 year-old Captain with a total of 4,000 hours flying experience of which 3,400 hours were on type and a 33 year-old PF First Officer with a total of 2,550 hours flying experience of which 500 were on type since joining the operator in 2018. Three aircraft all on IFR flight plans were making their approaches in sequence to runway 34 at Wellington. An Airbus A320 was first and was followed by the two Bombardier DHC 8-300s which had both requested and been granted visual approaches following a standard right hand pattern commencing with the downwind leg at the ‘TURAK’ waypoint followed by a right turn onto base leg and then right again onto finals (see the illustration below) Having observed that they had passed abeam the A320 on finals, the first DHC8 crew turned onto base leg. The second DHC 8 crew immediately followed this by advising APP that they were visual with the DHC 8 ahead and after then requesting a visual approach were so cleared. They were instructed to call TWR “when turning base”. The standard circuit to runway 34 finals for arrivals from ‘TURAK’. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Just over half a minute later, the first DHC8 turned onto finals and the second one turned onto base leg. Forty seconds later, the change to TWR by the second DHC 8 as instructed by APP had still not been made when both TWR and APP controllers received an STCA based on a collision risk for the projected flight paths of the two DHC 8s - see below the illustration of the controllers’ screens at that time. As can be seen, the STCA was generated by the projected (2 nm) flight path vectors of the two aircraft which were shown to intersect. The A320 (JST290),the first DHC8 (LNK235) and the second (LNK285) as the STCA occurred. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It appears that when the APP controller responded to the STCA, the second DHC8 was in the process of (belatedly) changing frequency from APP to TWR and there was no response. The APP controller then contacted the TWR controller by telephone and as the TWR controller was taking this call, the second