The following key principles are to be considered when establishing a voluntary reporting system within the generic framework of an organisation’s safety management system (SMS): Trust - The reporters must be certain that the information will not be used against them; otherwise they will be reluctant to report their mistakes. A positive Safety Culture in the organisation provides the foundations of a successful occurrence reporting system.. Non-punitive - The reporting person must be protected against legal, administrative or disciplinary sanctions, except in case of gross negligence, criminal activity or intent.. Inclusive Reporting Base - The systematic approach to safety management required that voluntary reporting be targeted at all aspects of aircraft operation, such as flight operation, cabin safety, aircraft maintenance, air navigation services, aerodrome operation, etc. Also, collecting information on the same occurrence from different perspectives provides for a complete analysis and understanding of events, and consequently of the hazards and their effects.. Confidentiality - Non-punitive systems should ideally be based on confidential reporting. The person reporting an incident must be sure that his identity and other information that may be used to identify involved other physical or legal personalities will not be disclosed. In some States legislation on access to information makes it increasingly difficult to guarantee confidentiality. This could limit the safety occurrence reporting to the minimum required for mandatory reporting. Voluntary does not necessarily also mean confidential. Independence - Ideally, the voluntary reporting system will be operated by an organisation that is separated from the State regulatory authorities. This organisation will collect and analyse safety reports and feed the results back to the regulatory authorities and the aviation community.. Ease of reporting - Submitting a report should be as easy as possible for the reporter. The reporting forms should be readily available to anyone wishing to file a report. They should be easy to compile, provide adequate space for narrative and make maximum use of the “tick off” format. The forms should encourage safety improvement suggestions, such as how to prevent reoccurrence of a hazard or deal with it.. Acknowledgment - To encourage further submission of reports the organisation should clearly communicate to its personnel that the voluntary reports are a valuable safety asset and acknowledge the efforts made by reporting persons. Whenever possible, feedback on the actions taken in response to a report shall be provided to the reporting person directly but also in the form of collective feedback to the reporting community.. Promotion - The de-identified information received from the voluntary reporting system should be made available to the aviation community in a timely manner. A variety of information dissemination methods should be used to achieve maximum exposure, for example monthly newsletters, periodic summaries, safety bulletins published on internet etc. Such promotional activity may help motivate people to improve further the reporting of safety occurrences - failure to do this will reduce the effectiveness and value of the system..