schedulers to ensure that they possess the required level of competence.. that the CAA Pakistan should mandate serviceability of EGPWS / GPWS / TAWS /Wind shear warning system (predictive or reactive) for all turbine-engined aeroplanes of a maximum certified take off mass in excess of 5700 kg or authorized to carry more than nine passengers, in the MEL of all operators.. that the CAA Pakistan should progress the availability and integration of a Low Level Wind Shear (LLWS) warning system with Automatic Weather Observation System (AWOS) at all airports.. that the CAA Pakistan should review the existing procedure for the issue of a Certificate of Airworthiness (C of A) and its validation by competent authority.. that the CAA Pakistan should progress the implementation of automated flight crew scheduling system by all operators.. that the CAA Pakistan should ensure that all operators submit their pilot selection and induction procedures / policy for formal approval by the CAA.. that the CAA Pakistan should require that regular flight safety meetings are held by Operators and their proceedings submitted to the CAA.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to ensure that they provide (appropriately) customised directly applicable aircraft documents for the approval of CAA Pakistan prior to the launch of flying operations.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to ensure that Operations Manual Procedures are strictly implemented by their pilots.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to ensure the completion of aircraft type variant ground and simulator training for pilots and then submit a corresponding compliance report to the CAA prior to the formal start of flying duties by pilots.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to re-emphasise to pilots the importance of strict compliance with Operations Manual, FCOM and QRH instructions / Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) recommendations.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to devise a mechanism where pilots share their views freely with appropriate supervisory levels in order to highlight deficiencies in their training which could affect the safe conduct of flights.. that all Operators in Pakistan are to devise a mechanism for the close monitoring / tracking of simulator training waivers / extensions for pilots.. The Final Report was released on 21 January 2015.