An Investigation was carried out by the Pakistan CAA Safety Investigation Board. The wreckage of the completely destroyed aircraft was found 4.2 nm from the runway 30 threshold, with no signs of a post impact aircraft fire present. There was minor property damage in the vicinity of the impact site but there were no ground casualties. The FDR and CVR were recovered and subsequently were successfully downloaded by the NTSB. The prelude to the accident was reconstructed on the basis of the available evidence. It was established that on departure from Karachi, with the commander as PF, the forecast for Islamabad was for a thunderstorm with gusting winds. There was also an off duty male member of Company cabin crew occupying the flight deck supernumerary seat in order to return to their home base. It was noted that the flight had been Bhoja Air's first evening flight on the route, with the possibility that this fact may have predisposed the commander against a weather-related diversion. The flight proceeded en route at FL310 without encountering any operational or maintenance abnormality and there was discussion between the pilots on Lahore as first alternate and Peshawar as the second as well as evidence of their full awareness of the overall prevailing weather situation. As the flight progressed, a squall line was observed ahead on the weather radar and it was noted that there were few if any obvious gaps in it. However, no other area of adverse weather was apparent. Lahore Approach cleared the flight to descend to FL200 on track and then transferred it to Islamabad Approach Radar which, after radar identification, gave descent to 9500 feet to initially follow a designated STAR but to expect radar vectors to an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to Runway 30 at Islamabad. Further descent clearances, eventually to an altitude of 3600 feet (approximatelty 1650 feet aal), followed. During descent, some turbulence was experienced but no adverse weather was encountered and there was no effect on flight path management with the AP and A/T engaged. As the aircraft received radar vectors, some lightning was seen and it appeared that the squall line was running approximately east-west across the general vicinity of the destination as the aircraft approached from the south. With the AP engaged and the aircraft level at 3600 feet, the ILS LOC was captured at about 6nm from touchdown. Twenty seconds later, with both APs now engaged, the ILS GS was also captured by which time the aircraft was configured with the landing gear down but with only flap 5 rather than the SOP flap 30 selected. By this point, there was evidence that the aircraft was already in 'moderate' precipitation and turbulence and within the extent of the adverse weather indicated over the airport on radar. As the GS was captured, a sudden short downdraft was encountered, following which recorded data indicated that the precipitation being flown through had suddenly changed from 'moderate' to 'extreme'. After just a few seconds, a second