sudden and much more severe downdraft occurred which triggered a reactive wind shear warning from the EGPWS as 1000 feet of altitude was lost in 4 seconds to bring the aircraft to 900 feet agl. No crew response was evident except calls from the First Officer to go around. As this downdraft moderated, both AP channels recorded disconnect. There was a delay in the take over of manual control and descent, with the aircraft now well below the ILS GS, continued with the A/T still engaged and set to hold 170 knots. As a second severe downdraft was then entered and two successive EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warnings occurred without the prescribed response from the crew. Then, as this downdraft dissipated quite suddenly, the increase in angle of attack led to a short activation of the stick shaker/stick pusher which was followed by only a pitch down input and, notably, a reduction in thrust which had already been reduced. A further brief stick shaker activation then occurred followed after a few seconds by the beginning of 6 seconds of PULL UP Warnings which ended with impact in approximately level attitude at high speed with both engines operating normally. Twenty seconds before impact, the aircraft had checked in with TWR on transfer from APP Radar but the crew had not acknowledged a landing clearance issued shortly afterwards. It was noted that "the weather conditions at the time of the accident were conducive to producing strong downdrafts and wind shear like conditions" and that surface weather reports at Islamabad had confirmed this. A simulation by Boeing using the FDR data was able to show that the aircraft flight path could be attributed to a combination of the recorded flight control inputs and the prevailing atmospheric conditions and that the "ineffective management of thrust, altitude and flight path in turbulent atmospheric conditions resulted in ground impact short of the runway" which would have been avoidable had the appropriate responses to the wind shear, pull up and stall warnings occurred. It was also considered that prior to the encounter with adverse weather, "it was evident from the Captain’s remarks (recorded on the CVR) that he had made up his mind to land at (Islamabad) irrespective of prevalent weather conditions during approach". It was found that the aircraft type training of both pilots had been inadequate and that in particular, the Operator had taken insufficient account of both the nature and extent of their previous experience in respect of the significant differences in the level of automation between the 'basic' 737-200 variant with which they were familiar and the '-236Advanced' variant which they had been flying on the day of the accident. Their "ineffective management of thrust, altitude, and flight path...despite knowing the associated dangers while operating aircraft into such a weather phenomenon" was attributed to this context. In addition, it was considered that as the commander got into increasing difficulty, the First Officer had lacked "the system knowledge, experience and confidence" to intervene which had