previously career-limited his rank. The formal Conclusion of the Investigation was that the accident was caused by “the ineffective automated flight deck management by the pilots in extreme adverse weather conditions”. It was considered that this was the result of various Contributory Factors including: inappropriate selection of the pilots as fit to operate on account of their inadequate experience of the aircraft variant being flown. lack of training and competence assessment for the -236A, an advanced version of Boeing 737-200 series. absence of formal simulator training for the First Officer in the handling of an automated flight deck. absence of a flight crew professional competence / skill-level monitoring system at Bhoja Air. Other Contributory Factors were identified as follows: the incorrect decision of the flight crew to continue the flight to the planned destination given their awareness of adverse conditions ahead. non-adherence to Boeing recommended QRH and FCOM remedial actions/procedures due to the non-availability of aircraft documents customised for the Boeing 737-236A, an advanced version of Boeing 737-200 series. the inability of the Pakistan CAA to ensure automated flight deck variance type training and monitoring requirements primarily due to incorrect information provided by Bhoja Air. poor overall management of flight operations at Bhoja Air. A total of twenty three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the CAA Pakistan should ensure that Flight Standard Inspectors monitor 100% of both initial and recurrent pilot simulator training.. that the CAA Pakistan should strictly monitor pilot proficiency along with their recurrent training compliances at operator level.. that the CAA Pakistan should ensure strict compliance of their directives / instructions by all operators.. that the CAA Pakistan should devise a mechanism for close monitoring / tracking of simulator training waivers / extensions for pilots.. that the CAA Pakistan should ensure that an operator has available all customised / applicable aircraft documentation before issue / approval of operations specifications.. that the CAA Pakistan should require the submission by Operators of a compliance report prior to the formal start of flying duties by pilots.. that the CAA Pakistan should require the submission by Operators of a compliance report in respect of the completion of aircraft variance type ground and simulator training prior to the formal start of flying duties by pilots.. that the CAA Pakistan should implement 100 % coverage of aircraft inspections in respect of new inductions / registrations by Flight Standards Inspectors who possess a type rating on the specific aircraft.. that the CAA Pakistan should implement the inclusion of wind shear, TAWS (EGPWS) and stall recovery exercises as mandatory items in the Pilot proficiency Check (PPC) during simulator training sessions.. that the CAA Pakistan should review the Licensing Circular (ASC) –1 / 2000 (issue one) dated 15 October, 2000 for inclusion of Boeing 737-236A aircraft variance type training.. that the CAA Pakistan should devise a mechanism for the strict monitoring / performance evaluation of pilots at newly-launched Operators.. that the CAA Pakistan should formally certify flight crew