According to the AIAA paper, Boeing’s design philosophy set priorities and boundaries for its airframe designers as follows: The design philosophy guided airframe designers on enhancing safety, learning to efficiently employ design resources, intelligently adopting technology improvements and providing “user-friendly airplanes” to airline operators;. The principal structural design requirements consisted of core elements with checklists and a roadmap guiding airframe designers to ensure that requirements at deeper levels of detail in the structures design requirements and criteria were met.. Airframe structural designs simultaneously had to satisfy competing and disparate requirements through one optimum solution created by the design team. The design philosophy focused on maximum inherent safety; superior structural performance (i.e., optimal weight and durability); and delivery of airframes with minimum costs of production and a long-term ownership experience for the operator.. Design philosophy also covered requirements of airframe fail safety (i.e., the ability to fly and land safely with significant structural damage). “Fail-safe designs provide inherent robustness in the event of damage from many possible sources, including fatigue cracking, corrosion, accidental damage, maintenance errors and discrete events such as engine bursts,” the paper said. “The main intent is the safe damage arrest and containment for a single high-load event when significant damage may exist. The premise is that the damage will be obvious in flight or readily detected by normal visual inspections on the ground following the event.”. The design philosophy also prescribed fail-safe features such as alternate/intermediate/adjacent airframe structural members that pick up load from failed members; crack-arrest features; substantial boundary members such as heavy frames; material toughness and slow crack-growth characteristics; and low stress levels.. The design philosophy required periodic application and revision of damage tolerance standards, including airframe-inspection intervals and methods. “In this way, it has become possible to relate detectable damage, damage growth and critical damage size to establish the proper inspection methods and frequency required to maintain safe operation up to and beyond the original design service objective,” the paper said. Widespread fatigue damage to airframes, to be avoided at all costs, was deemed one of the highest priorities industrywide and in Boeing’s design philosophy, according to the paper..