Drafting a plan to protect pilots from their natural human ability and tendency to misperceive is fairly simple to do; ensuring that all pilots apply the lessons when the solution goes against their gut-feelings is less simple to achieve. However, most pilots these days have been exposed (under simulation, and in many cases in reality) to situations where they readily misperceive the objective world. This “shock” can be enough to ensure that effective solutions are applied. A programme aimed at protecting pilots from misperception can include the following aspects. medical examinations to ensure that senses are not unduly limited or deteriorated. human factors training – basic human performance and limitations. planned simulator and classroom experience of various illusions. formal and contextual discussions and analyses of relevant accidents and incidents. development of procedures and/or practices for pilots to employ when “uncertain”. practice in using these procedures and practices in relevant scenarios. collection and analyses of human factors occurrences and incidents. continuing awareness and training programme updated from feedback.. In most commercial airlines many of these steps will be covered within licencing and training requirements e.g. Crew Resource Management (CRM) and Human Factors training and qualification programmes, as well as regular medical examinations. Procedures may exist to ensure that during critical flight periods and during emergencies one pilot is always monitoring the flight instruments. Some airlines may have introduced advanced training programmes (ATQP) where operational data (including human factors) is fed back with the specific intention of adjusting the flying training e.g. LOFT. To address the misperception of one’s own capabilities and fitness, then an airline will need to encourage regular self-assessment, personal feedback from trainers, supervisors and colleagues, and to integrate these principles into the application of CRM.