and, after the controller had broken off two other aircraft from an ILS approach to runway 18R, the flight was cleared to join the 18R LOC. The 737 did not reduce its speed properly and crossed through the LOC of both 18R and 18L at 250 knots as it passed behind a third aircraft. In an attempt to assist, the controller then issued a closing heading for the 18L LOC instead but the aircraft did not establish on this LOC either and was observed to commence a go around. The APP controller asked if the crew had problems with speed control but the response was a request for radar vectors to position for another ILS approach. The controller noted that because of its position and intention, the aircraft would need to climb to maintain MSA which on the projected track would soon change from 4,400 feet to 6,700 feet. The aircraft then turned onto a heading of 220º at a speed of 220 KCAS and took up a closing heading for the 18L LOC behind the second of two aircraft on the 18R LOC, intercepting it at a range of 11 nm at 4,300 feet. With 8 nm to run, the speed had reduced from 170 KCAS to 150 KCAS but the crew were understood not to be visual with the runway when it was transferred to TWR as it approached 4 nm. At a distance of 2½ nm, the aircraft was observed on radar to change from the 18L LOC to the 18R LOC and soon afterwards it "became apparent that it had gone around again”. It was decided that, for the safety of other traffic, the emergency aircraft would be diverted by air traffic control to the Getafe Air Base. It subsequently landed there on the 2,477 metre-long runway 23 some twenty minutes later without any further problems except continuing poor English language communication skills when talking to ATC. After shutdown, the Captain made a series of defect entries in the Aircraft Technical Log - the airspeed cursor flag which had not been entered before the flight, both APs inoperative and indicated failure of both the speed trim (stabiliser) and mach trim (elevator). It was noted that both of these trim systems require at least one of the two Flight Control Computers (FCC) to be operative and so were likely to have been secondary failures. From further entries in the aircraft Technical Log, it was found that these recorded defects were addressed as follows: the next day, an operational check of both APs as detailed in the AMM found that only the Captain’s AP (‘A’) was unserviceable - no fault was detected in the First Officer’s AP (‘B’). AP ‘A’ (only) was made the subject of an ADD which was of no consequence because neither AP was required to serviceable for the aircraft to be released to service provided ADD(s) were raised and rectification then followed within the specified ADD time limit.. Nine days after the AP ‘A’