After becoming aware of the event four days after it had occurred, the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC), after initial inquiries, opened an Investigation. Both the CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and downloaded but although the FDR data was of value, it was found that the event flight had not been recorded on the CVR for reasons that could not be determined. It was noted that the 56 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 13,598 flying hours experience including 4,309 hours on type, all of which had been in command. The 34 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,260 flying hours all but 260 hours of which were on type. A fault with the Captain’s airspeed cursor for which a warning flag was displayed on the corresponding EADI was found during the crew pre-flight checks. The MEL was checked and it was confirmed that dispatch with this fault was allowable and that raising an ADD would permit rectification to be deferred for up to three days. The Captain therefore decided to proceed with the planned flight but no defect entry was made which meant that dispatch under an ADD concession was not possible. A flap 5 takeoff from runway 14L with instructions to fly a RBO1U SID was subsequently made. It was not established with certainty which pilot was acting as PF but it was noted that it may well have been the First Officer since the flight departed having been set up for use of the First Officer’s AP and FD. It was also noted that if the Captain, given his training status on type, had considered that the left side EADI air speed cursor fault/flag (of which he was aware but had not recorded) may have been caused by an FCC (Flight Control Computer) fault on his side, he may have decided it would be a good idea not to use his AP during the flight and in any event, no attempts to engage the Captain’s ‘A’ AP (or FD, which is independent of the same side AP) were recorded at any time during the flight. However, at about 1,600 feet, an attempt to engage the First Officer’s ‘B’ AP in COMMAND mode lasting 8 seconds was recorded although thereafter there were no further such attempts. FDR data showed that very soon in the climb - around about the time the aircraft was likely to have entered cloud and would have begun to encounter relatively minor turbulence, above 2000 feet aal - the flight path became erratic in pitch with correspondingly erratic altitude and speed variations, especially so during turns. Soon after this instability began, ATC received a declaration of emergency and a request to return. However, the nature of the problem was not stated and it quickly became apparent that although both pilots held level 4 English Language endorsements, their spoken language skills were not sufficient for non-routine communications. The flight was transferred to APP