was made the subject of an ADD, FCC ‘A’, DADC (Digital Air Data Computer) ‘A’ and the AP ‘A’ Accessory Unit were replaced. As the AMM-required checks after replacement of an FCC or a DADC were not done, the deferred defect was extended.. The aircraft was then ferried from Getafe to Vilnius and, on 24 April 2019, a comprehensive troubleshooting was performed that involved checking the entire cabling installation in the area of FCC “A”. BITE was also used to run a test of the whole Digital Flight Control System (DFCS) and in particular the sensor values. This test showed that the hydraulic pressure switch for actuator “A” on the elevator was in the wrong position and both the actuator and the pressure switch were replaced. The elevator hydraulic pressure switch on the AP was also checked and the system tested, with no fault found. Following all these actions, the AP ‘A’ ADD was cleared. However, a subsequent flight test was affected by a transitory interruption to power for the left EADI and when it was restored, the AP, FD and A/T disconnected and the yaw damper remained off. Further troubleshooting was followed by replacement of the left Symbol Generator (SG) and a series of relays as per AMM guidance. After this, the AC generation system test was run and no fault was detected and following replacement of both IRUs as per Boeing’s recommendation, a further check flight was carried out with no faults found. It was evident from this that the defect rectification work had confirmed the existence of a significant fault with the Captain’s automatic flight control system but also that despite the defect entry stating that the First Officer’s AP had also been inoperative, it was found to be functioning normally after the investigated flight and no other faults found which would have affected normal flight control by automatic or manual means from the right seat position. Notwithstanding this, the Investigation also concluded that “the problems maintaining the basic flight parameters due to the absence of automatic control systems indicates that neither the decision making nor the cooperation between the crew were adequate”. It was also reiterated that even if both APs had been inoperative, the fact that it should be possible to fly the aircraft normally in any flight weather conditions without use of an autopilot was confirmed by the absence of any restriction on despatch with both APs inoperative except for CAT II approaches or use of any autoland capability. A depiction of the complete flight path based on FDR data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Cause of the event was determined as “the problems the crew had operating the aircraft in instrument flight conditions after losing both of the aircraft’s automatic flight systems”. It was noted that no Safety Recommendations were being made as a result of the Investigation because “all findings which could be the subject of a safety recommendation were already noted by the Operator in its report on the event”