only the wing slide carrier enter the airflow or a wing slide door open, neither are visible from the cabin. Therefore, in the case of a wing slide EICAS message, without any visible slide deployment, the crew are not able to establish the position of the wing slide door or the slide carrier. Should either of these enter into the airflow, the effect is an un-commanded roll which is exacerbated once the flaps reach a position of greater than 20. The current QRH procedure only recommends the use of flaps 20 for landing when the slide is confirmed as deployed, but still attached to the aircraft. The case where the wing slide EICAS message is generated but cannot be followed up with a visual confirmation of the wing slide door or carrier position by the crew is not covered. The Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The right over-wing slide carrier deployed in flight, allowing the slide to unravel possibly as a result of the crank handle with a reduced breakout friction progressively moving, over an indeterminate period of time, to an unsafe position. A Contributory Factor was possibly the loose number 6 screw jack in the flap system which resulted in vibration in the area of the crank handle. The insecurity of the lever went undetected whilst the maintenance panel was open due to the lack of alignment marks and unfamiliarity of the observer(s) with how the crank handle should look when correctly positioned. SB 757-25-0298 addresses locking of the compartment door and provides revised and clearer alignment placards for the lever. Two Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency, in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration and other regulators, implement a standardised system of door and emergency exit designations to reduce potential misunderstanding between aircraft crews and airport emergency services in the event of an emergency evacuation. (2015-022). that Boeing Commercial Airplanes amend the Quick Reference Handbook WING SLIDE alert procedures for Boeing 757-300 aircraft to make the instructions on the use of flaps 20 for landing applicable to all cases of WING SLIDE alerts. (2015-023). The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 13 August 2015.