An inspection by the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services and Company engineers found that the right over-wing exit slide had detached from the aircraft. The aircraft was then towed to a gate for normal passenger disembarkation. The slide was subsequently recovered. It was found that scheduled out of phase maintenance had been carried out on the right over-wing slide system in accordance with the applicable AMM procedures overnight immediately prior to the investigated event. This work was found to have been "carried out by more manpower than would normally be required...because it was considered to be an infrequent task and so was a good learning opportunity". Although there was no awareness of it at the time and it would have been difficult to detect if inadvertently and only slightly moved, the Investigation concluded that the crank handle which is used to release the slide bay door for maintenance purposes had not been fully down in the 'safe' position but was sufficiently engaged to hold the door in place to the extent necessary to prevent detection of an abnormal state by external visual inspection and the immediate activation of the EICAS advisory message which subsequently occurred. It was noted that an 757 SB, which had not at the time been applied to the aircraft involved but was mandated under FAA AD 2012-01-09, introduces a clearer crank handle closed position indication which would have reduced the possibility of its mis-position being overlooked by the engineers. It was also noted that an unrelated adjacent source of vibration and resonance may have led over time to a gradual movement upwards of the crank handle to the point whereby it eventually allowed the slide carrier and door to open with its locking devices in the released condition. Once open, the carrier would have been in the air flow with the slide itself now no longer restrained within its pack, so that it could eventually unravel in the slipstream and flail against the fuselage "until its attachment material failed allowing it to detach and fall to the ground". In the course of the Investigation, two operational aspects of the event were encountered which both became the subject of Safety Recommendations (see below): Exit identification. A discrepancy was found between the system used by the AFRS and the cabin crew to designate the exit doors of this aircraft. In the event of an emergency evacuation, had the AFRS needed to communicate information to the aircraft crew relating to the safety or otherwise of a particular exit, then it is possible that this information would have been communicated incorrectly. Since it is vital that this information be communicated in a clear and unambiguous manner, a standard system for referring to aircraft exits would reduce the potential for a misunderstanding but it was found that no such standardised system for exit door identification exists. 757 QRH response to the wing slide message. Should a wing slide unravel or deploy in flight, it is visible from the cabin. However, should