An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. FDR and 2-hour CVR data was downloaded and the FDR was found to have captured the entire flight but due to its duration, the CVR recording began just over an hour after takeoff. It was established that at a speed of around 70 knots on the takeoff roll with the First Officer as PF, a 'R WING SLIDE' Advisory Message had appeared on the EICAS. The aircraft commander had responded that the take off should be continued. The aircraft was stated to have handled normally during the takeoff, although FDR data showed that immediately after the aircraft became airborne, an average of 5.5º of left control wheel was required to maintain wings level, which it was considered would be consistent with the right wing slide panel - and possibly the slide carrier too - entering the airflow. As the flaps were retracted, the amount of control wheel input required for wings-level flight decreased and the crew decided to continue the departure and monitor the situation, taking the view that the advisory was probably false. The applicable QRH procedure was completed and required no further action in the absence of other related indications. The Cabin Manager was alerted and asked to check if anyone had heard or seen anything unusual in the cabin. However, after contacting Company Operations to alert them to the situation, a return to Gatwick was agreed. Since the message received was still considered probably false, Company Operations advised burning off fuel to get the aircraft down to minimum landing weight (MLW) and avoid an overweight landing. No emergency was declared and after 40 minutes in an extended holding pattern using a combination of landing gear, flap and speed brake to achieve a high drag and high fuel-use configuration, vectors to a normal approach to Runway 26L at Gatwick were commenced. Then, when the aircraft was on base leg in the descent to 3000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings at a speed of 188 knots with flap 20 selected, the Cabin Manager advised the crew that "some of the cabin crew and passengers (had) heard a number of bangs or felt a brief period of airframe 'shuddering' and two passengers (had) reported seeing a white object detach from the aircraft on the right hand side". The aircraft joined final approach with the AP engaged and shortly after flaps 30 was selected, the commander noticed that the control column was offset to the left and commented that the AP seemed to be 'struggling' to maintain wings level. He took manual control of the aircraft at 1400 feet QNH and reported that a “significant amount of left aileron”, which FDR data subsequently showed to have been an average of 20º, was required to maintain the centreline (about 25% of the maximum possible deflection), although the aircraft remained fully controllable. After landing following a 2 hour 6 minute flight, the aircraft was taxied onto the parallel taxiway and the engines were shut down.