During take-off and in initial climb controllers will be aware that flight crews have a high workload in general and that this will increase at certain points during the departure. Particular moments of increased workload will be when: • Selecting anti-icing systems ‘on’ (when icing conditions exist) and confirming that the systems respond correctly. • Changing altimeter pressure settings (eg from QNH to ‘Standard’ – i.e. 1013.2 mbs/29.92in) when cleared to climb to the first flight level, both pilots cross-checking that their altimeter readings agree and that the cleared flight level has been selected correctly. • Changing NavAid frequency. • At lateral turning points. • Making MCP selections and reconfiguring aircraft systems. • At thrust reduction and acceleration height. • Accomplishing checklists and alerting the other pilot when approaching cleared altitudes or flight levels. And throughout this immediate after take-off phase, the PF will be monitoring where the autopilot is taking the aircraft in terms of vertical and horizontal flight profiles, confirming that minimum and maximum speeds appropriate to the changing flap/slat configuration are not being infringed, and ensuring that altitude and/or flight level clearances are being observed. If proximate aircraft are being displayed on TCAS, one pilot will keep an eye on their symbols just to be satisfied that they are not likely to become a viable threat. Upon reaching the transition altitude the standby altimeters will be set to Standard pressure, and when the aircraft is cleared to a Flight Level the main altimeters will be set to Standard pressure. Making a mental note of such points of increased workload will aid controllers in providing minimum extra workload to flight crews with respect to issuing instructions during departure. It will often be the case that multiple items are required at the same time, e.g. when a turn, thrust reduction, acceleration and a frequency change coincide. When the items described above occur this requires one, or possibly both, pilots to be ‘heads down’ in the cockpit in order to physically perform the required actions. This therefore gives rise to issues with respect to that flight crew member physically being unable to monitor the aircraft. In order to appropriately navigate the aircraft during departure, the NavAids must be selected, identified and monitored appropriately. Note that a change of NavAid may be required at certain points, which may coincide with a turning point or other workload point as listed above. It is a legal requirement that NavAids must be identified before being used. If a change of NavAid is required during departure this therefore requires one of the flight crew to listen to the ident, which will increase their workload and decrease their ability to process other aural inputs. Note that in more modern aircraft the aircraft systems are able to identify NavAids and inform the flight crew when a NavAid is identified. This information is usually displayed in the bottom corner(s) of the Navigation Displays (NDs) and is such that when a NavAid is selected but not identified, the frequency