their ability to process other aural inputs. Note that in more modern aircraft the aircraft systems are able to identify NavAids and inform the flight crew when a NavAid is identified. This information is usually displayed in the bottom corner(s) of the Navigation Displays (NDs) and is such that when a NavAid is selected but not identified, the frequency (i.e. numbers, for example ‘113.55’) will be displayed, and when the NavAid is identified, the 3 letter ident (i.e. letters, for example ‘MCT’) will be displayed. This more modern system therefore requires the pilot to include such an ident display in his visual scan but reduces the aural workload, enabling crew and radio communications to be monitored more accurately. The flight crew duties and associated workload during a go-around are, in general, the same as those described above for the take-off and initial climb, although there are occasions when the workload will be greater during a go-around. The following is a description of a go-around with respect to the high workload issues: The point of initiating the go-around gives a high workload due to the many changes that occur at the same time e.g. flight parameters, FMA modes and reconfiguring the undercarriage and flaps. NavAids may also need to be re-selected almost immediately as appropriate to the navigation of the missed approach procedure.. Thrust reduction and acceleration may also follow in a short space of time depending on the height at which the go-around was initiated.. The missed approach initial stop altitude is often lower than that used for departure and may be reached in a short space of time, upon which FMA mode changes etc. will occur during the level off.. The missed approach route and hold may not be in the FMS and so may require much button pushing of the FMS in order to construct the procedure and hold.. Checklist items may become lengthy particularly where it is SOP to complete the ‘After take-off’, ‘Descent’ and ‘Approach’ checklists when a go-around has been flown.. There is also likely to be discussion between the flight crew as to the reasons for the go-around and the subsequent intentions, as well as communications with the cabin crew and passengers..