An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). It was noted that the aircraft was making its fourth flight of he day with the same flight crew. It was established that the take-off roll acceleration had been normal but that during rotation, the aircraft commander as PF had needed to apply “excess force” on the control column to get the aircraft airborne. Once airborne, it became clear that the elevator was not working as it should and full elevator deflection was necessary to maintain normal pitch for the initial climb. For a period, the First Officer assisted physically with elevator control and both flight crew informed the investigators that it was extremely demanding to maintain control of the aircraft with the response to pitch control inputs unevenly and "jerky". An Emergency was declared to ATC one minute after take off with the aircraft about 3 NM north of the airport and approaching 2,000 feet altitude. The control problems were considered by the Flight Crew to have diminished somewhat once the aircraft levelled out and turned back towards the airport and a successful visual return was accomplished. The Investigation considered that the damage to the leading edge fairings and the flange on the elevator main beam had resulted from abnormal movement when the elevator hinges became loose. It was also considered that the self-locking nuts on the centre and outboard elevator hinges “cannot have been tightened with the required torque, as they are not exposed to (any rotational) forces that could cause them to loosen.” It was noted that maintenance documentation for the aircraft indicated that these nuts had not been touched since the aircraft had been repainted in 1999 which “indicates that the installation carried out in France in 1999 was not according to specification” and that “it is most probable that the two nuts were only applied/tightened finger tight, without this being discovered.” Confirmation that the nuts on the centre and outboard bolts had been loose for a long time was considered to be the findings during the investigation of: Wear on the surface treatment of both bolts indicating that they had rotated and wandered sideways in the hole. Corrosion in the centre and outboard bolt holes indicating that there had been a loose connection allowing moisture ingress. The Investigation concluded that: “The control problems experienced by the crew during take-off and the rest of the flight began when the outboard of the three hinge bolts that attach the right elevator to the stabiliser loosened and fell out. As the centre bolt had fallen out at an earlier point in time without being discovered, the elevator was hanging in place only attached by the inboard hinge. The self-locking nuts that should hold the centre and outboard hinge bolts in place cannot have been tightened with the required torque.” It was also noted that: The elevator hinges are only visible during a DVI which is only performed at 8 year intervals and does not specify special