The decision to continue or to divert will be based, primarily, on the condition of the patient and the proximity of the planned destination. However, in some cases, it may be more prudent to divert to a location which is actually further away than the planned destination. This could occur in the case where the destination is remote with little or no medical support capability. There are numerous factors that the flight crew should consider when planning and executing a diversion. Given the potential urgency of a medical situation, the crew should start considering their options when first informed that there is a passenger with a medical issue. When choosing a diversion airfield, considerations can be listed under three primary categories; medical, operational and commercial. A partial listing for each of the categories is as follows: Medical How urgent is the situation? Is an immediate landing required or could a more suitable but further diversion be considered. What services will be required? Medical staff at airport, ambulance, hospital, specialist facilities - are they available at or close to the contemplated diversion?. How urgent is the situation? Is an immediate landing required or could a more suitable but further diversion be considered.. What services will be required? Medical staff at airport, ambulance, hospital, specialist facilities - are they available at or close to the contemplated diversion?. Operational Aircraft weight - is the aircraft below maximum landing weight? Will fuel dumping or an overweight landing be required? Aerodrome facilities - is the planned diversion suitable in terms of runway length (for both landing and the subsequent departure), approach capability and parking? Weather - is the weather at the diversion aerodrome suitable? Ground support - does the diversion airfield have the required ground support equipment (GSE) inclusive of steps, baggage handling capability, towing capability etc for the aircraft type. Customs - if required, are customs services available? Fuel - is fuel available? Crew Duty Day - will the diversion result in an inability for the crew to continue to planned destination?. Aircraft weight - is the aircraft below maximum landing weight? Will fuel dumping or an overweight landing be required?. Aerodrome facilities - is the planned diversion suitable in terms of runway length (for both landing and the subsequent departure), approach capability and parking?. Weather - is the weather at the diversion aerodrome suitable?. Ground support - does the diversion airfield have the required ground support equipment (GSE) inclusive of steps, baggage handling capability, towing capability etc for the aircraft type.. Customs - if required, are customs services available?. Fuel - is fuel available?. Crew Duty Day - will the diversion result in an inability for the crew to continue to planned destination?. Commercial Is it possible to divert to an airfield that is normally serviced by the Company? Which diversion choice will cause the least schedule disruption? Are replacement crew members available at the planned diversion? Should the crew be unable to proceed due duty day, is accommodation available for the crew