go around if an unstabilised approach developed “was not sufficiently ingrained by them” although these unstabilised approaches were all found to have continued to an uneventful landing. Landing Performance was examined and it was found that at the prevailing 55,000 kg ELW and 34° surface temperature, the required unfactored flap 30 landing distance on a dry runway with maximum manual braking and thrust reversers set to the normal detent 2 position was, even after allowing for the prevailing (out of limits) tailwind component, 1583 metres which is well within the LDA of 2170 metres. It was assessed that use of the autobrake set to maximum would have produced a similar result. It could therefore be concluded that the failure of the Captain to maintain sustained maximum braking was the immediate cause of the overrun. Given that the causes of the event were evidently to be found in the way the crew had conducted the approach and landing, the Investigation considered that it could have been avoided had it taken place in a “pressure-free environment” given that the crew had “several options available to correct the chain of events” which were summarised as follows: Although the notified runway in use was 07, there were no obstacles around the aerodrome that limited their use of runway 25.. Once lined up on finals for 07, the approach was obviously unstable well before reaching 500 feet aal and Company procedures clearly stated that the pilot monitoring must require a go-around if the approach is not stabilised.. Had consistent maximum brake pressure been applied either manually with brake pressure modulation avoided or by use of the autobrake set appropriately, the overrun could have been avoided.. If the CRM process taught in groundschool had been applied in the flight deck, a decision to go for any of the above mentioned options would have been more likely.. The formally-stated Cause of the excursion was “a high energy unstabilised approach followed by a landing with excessive speed in the presence of a tailwind component in excess of the operational limit exacerbated by inefficient use of the wheel brakes”. A Contributory Factor was identified as “a combination of deficiencies involving aspects of crew resource management and human factors which involved the nature of the Captain’s leadership, flight crew team work and the extent of the First Officer’s assertiveness”. Six Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Jordan Aviation should ensure that their Training and Flight Operations departments review and enhance the CRM training of the crew to raise their awareness of the importance of CRM skills. [REC 1]. that Jordan Aviation should ensure that their Flight Operations department increases its monitoring and evaluation of crew’s abilities in flight by conducting more frequent flight inspections and including the human behaviour, CRM and Human Factors findings of the inspection in the report and then forwarding this information to the Training Department. [REC 2]. that Jordan Aviation should ensure that its Flight Operations Department stresses the applicability of the unstabilised approach policy