and 165 KIAS, the latter 24 knots above the selected Vapp. No go around was called or flown despite the fact that the criteria for continuing the approach were comprehensively not met. The aircraft crossed the threshold at the correct ‘screen’ height but with the airspeed 15kts higher than Vapp and with the tail wind component still 16 knots. Main gear touchdown on the 2,170 metre-long 30 metre-wide runway occurred at 146 KIAS and 350 metres beyond the runway threshold. Deployment of the thrust reversers to idle was made immediately but achieved with slight asymmetry, the left engine reverser deployment lagging 3 seconds behind the right resulting in a small drift to the right of 2° to which the response was a 5 second left-side-only brake application. Full thrust reversers were deployed and manual braking began once the nose landing gear was down but this did not occur until 900 metres past the threshold. However, this left only 1,270 metres of runway ahead and the initially applied brake pressure represented no more than low to medium rather than maximum. As it became clear that the aircraft would not have slowed down sufficiently by the time the end of the runway where the exit taxiway was located was reached, brake pressure was increased to maximum. As the end of the runway paved surface was crossed at a slow speed onto soft ground, the aircraft was steered to the right and stopped parallel to and 10 metres to the left of the exit taxiway (see the illustration below). There were no indications of fire and the Captain did not order an emergency evacuation. External steps were brought to the right front door of the aircraft and the occupants were disembarked. The aircraft was then removed from the soft ground by towing it backwards using cables attached to both main landing gears as no suitable tow bar was available at the airport and once back on the paved surface, the undamaged engine No 2 was started and it was taxied to the parking area. In understanding why the unstabilised approach had been continued, the Investigation noted that the Captain had experienced delays on turnround at Timbuktu on previous visits which he attributed to non-availability of ground services and, in particular, very significant delays of up to 2 hours if refuelling was requested since fuel had to be obtained from a nearby air base. Delays of this duration would be liable to affect crew duty hours. The fact that the First Officer had failed to meaningfully monitor the Captain’s performance as PF and call exceedances and for a go around was also considered to be significant and categorised as “a lack of assertiveness” although without associated reference to the implicit challenge posed by a large difference in age and experience between the two pilots. Data from the FDR was used to examine some of the previous flights made by the same crew pairing and it became apparent that the carrying out of the mandated