An Investigation was carried out by the Civil Aviation Regulatory Commission of the State of the Operator, Jordan. Data from the SSFDR was downloaded and used to inform the Investigation but it was found that relevant data from the SSCVR had been erased. It was not determined whether this erasure was intentional or not. It was found that the 63 year-old Captain, who was PF for the incident flight, had a total of 9,000 flying hours on type and previous ratings on the Boeing 727 and Boeing 747 and the 30 year-old First Officer had 3,300 hours on type but no previous ratings. No total flying hours figure was recorded for either pilot. The crew also included a travelling loadmaster who was tasked with preparing each load and trim sheet for acceptance by the Captain. Since no evidence of any airworthiness issue which could have contributed to the event was found, the Investigation focused on the conduct of the approach and landing involved. It was established that a weather report for Timbuktu received prior to the top of descent had included a surface wind from 250° at 4 knots, a temperature of 34°C and a visibility of 5 km. The performance of a visual approach was found to have been the only option for the crew after the withdrawal of the runway 07 ILS three months prior to the investigated event since the aircraft was not equipped to fly the only remaining RNAV(GNSS) instrument approach procedures. However, the runway was equipped with DMEPAPI and limited approach lighting and the DME located on the aerodrome remained in service. Having checked in with Timbuktu TWR, the aircraft was subsequently cleared to land on runway 07 after reporting that the aircraft was on final approach and the runway was in sight at a range of 7 nm. At that point, the aircraft was fully configured for landing with flap 30 set and the Captain had briefed that he would fly the final part of the approach manually and use manual braking and maximum reverse thrust after touchdown. The ELW was 55,000 kg. At approximately 5 nm from the runway, the First Officer stated that he had noticed a tail wind component which significantly exceeded the 10 knot limit for landing on both the EHSI and the FMC and had advised the Captain accordingly and received an acknowledgement. The Captain did not recall this exchange. Data from the FDR indicated that the approach thereafter had been unstable throughout with thrust largely set to flight idle, an abnormally high rate of descent and a speed consistently more than 10 knots above the selected Vapp (141 KIAS). The whole approach was conducted in the continuing presence of a tailwind component which soon settled at 16 knots and remained there until touchdown. At around 4 nm, the AP was disconnected followed by the A/T. At the applicable Company Stabilised Approach gate for VMC at 500 feet aal, FDR data showed a rate of descent of 1540 fpm