In general, the word correlation is used to denote some form of association. In air traffic control systems the term has a variety of meanings: association of a primary and a secondary radar plot. association of several consecutive plots into a track. association of a system track with a flight plan. This article focuses on the correlation of a system track and a flight plan. The RDP (radar data processing) system produces tracks that are visualised on a controller's situational display. The tracks contain limited information: Position (latitude and longitude), track and groundspeed (calculated by the system). Level and SSR code (if the aircraft is equipped with a Mode C transponder). Callsign, selected level, heading, airspeed, and some other parameters (if the aircraft is equipped with a Mode S transponder). There is no information about the aircraft intentions - e.g. planned trajectory, requested level, destination (and hence, top of descent), etc. which makes planning (conflict detection and solving, orderly flow of traffic) more difficult. There are basically two ways correlation is done - automatic and manual. Automatic correlation is done when the data from the system track (preferably Mode S callsign but also Mode C code) matches the data from an estimate (either a verbal one that was manually entered into the system or an OLDI ACT message). Note that the flight plan itself is not enough for automatic correlation. Manual correlation is done using a dedicated system feature, e.g. by clicking on a flight in a flight list window then choosing the "correlate" option and finally clicking on an uncorrelated track (regardless of its type - primary or secondary). When correlation is complete (either manually or automatically), the aircraft label changes and now contains many supplementary fields. Correlation (matching of an FPL and a track done by the software) is different from identification (matching of a track and an aircraft by the controller). The former is a system feature while the latter is an ATC procedure. The controller may identify an uncorrelated track using an appropriate method. Conversely, a correlated track may be considered unidentified if the controller has any doubts about the correlation being correct (e.g. due to a double SSR code). Correlation helps controllers with planning thus increasing their capacity (the ability to safely handle more traffic). Availability of additional information in the aircraft label (depending on local implementation), e.g. equipment (RVSM status, RNAV equipment, etc.) aircraft type and WTC, number of aircraft (in case of formation flights) departure, destination and next point graphical representation of the future trajectory. equipment (RVSM status, RNAV equipment, etc.). aircraft type and WTC, number of aircraft (in case of formation flights). departure, destination and next point. graphical representation of the future trajectory. Better colour representation. With the additional information available, the system may use different colours to better represent the aircraft that are of interest to a particular sector so that these can stand out from the others.. Availability of electronic coordination. This can be achieved using system-specific features (for inter-sector