An Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). Progress was limited until the airplane wreckage was eventually found by local hunters on 30 August 2008 about 5nm south west of Bebi airstrip in hilly terrain at an altitude of approximately 3200 feet. It was spread over a sizeable area in a wooded valley. Investigators visited the site and recovered both the FDR and CVR which were taken to the UK AAIB and successfully downloaded. Since both recorders had sustained impact and severe fire damage, data could not be extracted from either in the normal manner and alternative techniques were employed. At the crash site they found a 200 foot-long wreckage trail and evidence of severe impact damage from a high speed impact as well as signs of post-crash fire. There was no evidence that there had been a pre-impact fire or any in-flight separation of the aircraft. It was established that the aircraft had departed Lagos on an IFR Flight Plan with just the two pilots and a staff passenger (who was qualified as cabin crew) on board. The Captain was PF. A climb to FL 250 was made towards Enugu but a track deviation from the filed flight plan then occurred and the aircraft took a slightly different route south of Enugu and towards a waypoint south west of Bebi situated on the Cameroon border. This departure from the filed flight plan was not properly communicated to ATC. It was cleared to descend initially to FL 160 by Port Harcourt TWR and then by Enugu TWR to descend to FL 050. It was noted that this latter clearance was invalid since it had been given when the aircraft had already left Enugu-controlled airspace which has a lateral limit defined by a 30 nm radius circle from ground level to FL 105. It became evident from CVR data that the crew were soon beginning to make use of GPS navigation and, having agreed and input a coordinate for Bebi, were attempting to locate the airstrip. FDR data showed that the aircraft had descended to FL 080 and then climbed back to FL090 within little over a minute. It had then maintained that level for another 12 minutes before beginning a descent to 3500 feet which took 4 minutes. Soon after reaching this altitude, the Captain was recorded as saying "we have to go down further". At 3.5 minutes prior to impact, both pilots were "still looking out for the ground and landmarks". Ninety seconds later, the approach checklist was begun and was complete after 22 seconds. One minute later (36 seconds before impact) the first GPWS 'Too Low Terrain' Caution activated followed 9 seconds later by "multiple GPWS warnings". After a further 16 seconds, a GPWS Hard Warning of 'TERRAIN TERRAIN PULL UP' began but there was no crew response. Six seconds later, the Captain uttered an expletive and the First Officer simultaneously shouted "climb" and after a further five seconds, the aircraft impacted terrain at