The disparity in the co-ordinates of Bebi Airstrip and of Obudu on the NAMA en route chart has been corrected by the issue of a new chart by NAMA. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that the Nigerian CAA (NCAA) and the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) should ensure that Bebi airstrip is certified and licensed with all available nav-aids made functional and effectively maintained with appropriate charts and correct coordinates.. that the NCAA should ensure that Airstrip operator services and maintains ILS and VOR/DME where installed and the Authority to provide Approach and Area charts for the Airstrip.. that All Search and Rescue Aircraft owned by Government agencies such as the Nigerian Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the Nigerian Air Force, Border Patrol and Police should be well equipped with specialised equipment suitable for efficient conduct of Search and Rescue missions. Such equipment should include: Rescue Hoist Emergency Floatation Kit Night-Sun Search light Auxiliary Fuel System for Extended Range Cargo Hook Stretcher System HF Radio Forward Looking Infra-Red System. Rescue Hoist. Emergency Floatation Kit. Night-Sun Search light. Auxiliary Fuel System for Extended Range. Cargo Hook. Stretcher System. HF Radio. Forward Looking Infra-Red System. that the NCAA should ensure compliance of AOC holders with NCAR Part 8.10.1.30 (the requirement for route checks to special airstrips at not less than 12 month intervals) and increase their surveillance.. that Wings Aviation Limited should enhance safety in their operations by developing an approved SOP which should include but not be limited to: Aircraft dispatch procedure CRM, Route and Recency checks for the crew in accordance with NCAR. 8.10.1.12 and 8.10.1.30. Operation in a hazardous environment (mountainous area). Aircraft dispatch procedure. CRM, Route and Recency checks for the crew in accordance with NCAR. 8.10.1.12 and 8.10.1.30.. Operation in a hazardous environment (mountainous area). and should also ensure that safety critical appointments are not concentrated in a multiple manner in the hands of a specific or particular person, so as to encourage checks and balances in their operations. The Final Report was released on 21 May 2015.