A Field Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the UK AAIB focused particularly but not only on the way in which the operation during which control of the UAV was lost had been authorised by the UK Civil Aviation Authority as safety regulator. CAA personnel were present at the viewing point for the demonstration flight during which control was lost but the operator failed to file a mandatory report (MOR) with the CAA until more than two weeks after it had occurred. When asked by the Investigation who had submitted the MOR, the operator was unable to say and it subsequently became clear that its contents were not a correct description of what had happened. Although a FDR was not ﬁtted or required to be, there was enough recorded video of a high enough resolution from the two cameras installed on the UAV and from video and still cameras on the ground to enable successful analysis of its ﬂight path during the event and derive its maximum achieved altitude and vertical speed during the subsequent terrain impact. The operator of the UAV was an Australian company called ‘Riotplan Proprietary Limited’ which traded as Alauda Racing and described itself as “an Australian-based designer and manufacturer of high performance electric aerial vehicles”. It had been in existence for three years at the time of the accident flight under investigation. The UAV involved was a radio-controlled and battery-powered quadcopter with a 95kg MTOW. It consisted of an aluminium frame to which the motors, controllers and battery were attached contained within a ﬁbreglass outer shell (see the illustration below) and was 3 metres long and 1½ metres wide. Each of its four 32-inch propellers was driven by a brushless DC motor powered from a 58.8 volt lithium polymer battery which was capable of producing 42-58 volts for “up to 8 minutes”. The UAV was controlled by a ground-based, hand-held transmitter which used a 915 Hz frequency and was stated to be capable of airspeeds of up to 43 knots. The ‘kill switch’, used by the remote pilot in the event that control of the UAV was lost, was powered by a dedicated power source and used a discrete communications channel to open a normally-closed relay which would cut power to the flight controller and cause the motors to stop. Flights of the UAV involved in the UK were supposed to take place in accordance with an authority in the form of an exemption from certain normally applicable requirements of the UK Air Navigation Order. This exemption had been issued by the UK CAA on the basis of an Operating Safety Case (OSC) submitted with the application which stated that “all operations were to be conducted in accordance with the conditions and limitations in their UAS OSC”. An exemplar model of the UAV involved. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The OSC stated that the company was “fully compliant with the pilot and UA licensing and registration requirements of their national regulator, the Australian