serviceable UAV in order to facilitate a demonstration flight which had been arranged for the following day. The remote pilot stated that on the day of the accident, all items in the pre-ﬂight checklist, including a test of the ‘kill switch’ were successfully completed. Around 200 invited guests were present to observe the demonstration with the majority of them on the roof terrace of an airport building overlooking the designated flight zone. Two members of the CAA UAS Unit who had been involved in assessing the company’s application for an exemption were also present but despite arriving 50 minutes prior to the demonstration time and asking to be present at the pre flight briefing, this request was not approved due to shortage of time and because “pre-flight checks had already commenced”. A NOTAM advising that the aerodrome would be temporarily closed for 30 minutes whilst the demonstration was in progress had been issued. After takeoﬀ, the UAV was flown along Runway 32 and then returned in the opposite direction. After just over a minute of flight, as the UAV was being turned close to the runway 32 threshold, it levelled oﬀ contrary to the remote pilot’s commands and “he realised that he had lost control”. The maintenance controller, standing next to him and assigned to operate the ‘kill switch’ then attempted to do so but this was unsuccessful and the UAV was then seen to enter an uncommanded climb which continued for 4½ minutes. The operating area for the demonstration on part of the aerodrome’s grass runway 32 as per the OSC. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The remote pilot then told the invited guests to “take cover”, which they did by re entering the building which had given them access onto the viewing terrace and he then informed the aerodrome Operations Manager, who was nearby, that the UA had had a “ﬂy-away”. The Operations Manager then asked the aerodrome FISO to warn any inbound aircraft to remain clear of the ATZ and the FISO also informed the en-route and London Gatwick ANSP of the potential for the UAV to enter Class ‘A’ controlled airspace directly overhead the aerodrome which had a base of FL 065. The VOR located on the aerodrome was also the alignment point for the London Gatwick holding pattern for south westerly arrivals at levels from FL 070. The UAV continued to climb more of less vertically whilst drifting slowly in a south-south-westerly direction. After climbing for about 4½ minutes and entering controlled airspace, it reached an estimated altitude of approximately 8000 feet before the power source was exhausted and it began a free fall that averaged 5000 fpm until crashing into a ﬁeld close to residential property some 875 metres from the takeoff point. Residents who saw the impact from their garden 40 metres away initially approached the accident site to investigate but on realising the size of the UAV, they called the police. The remote pilot and their assistants went to the accident site