Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA)” and had worked closely with “designated CASA representatives” since they began UAS flights. The company identified three “key personnel” relevant to the operation of their UAS, a ‘Chief Executive’, a ‘Maintenance Controller’ and a ‘Chief Remote Pilot’. All company employees except the Chief Executive and their “Executive Assistant” were described as “part time university students”. The latter was solely responsible for writing all operating procedures and consolidating them into OSC volumes and had also “managed the ANO exemption application to the CAA”. Each OSC volume was signed only by the Executive Assistant and there was no counter-signature by the Chief Executive, the Maintenance Controller or the Chief Remote Pilot. It was found in the 2½ months prior to the accident, there had been “at least six versions of each OSC volume” and noted that “although the accountable positions may have been aware of the changes, the absence of countersigning meant that this could not be conﬁrmed". The 22 year-old ‘Chief Remote Pilot’ held an Australian Remote Pilot Licence and was the Australian-domiciled operator’s only person authorised to operate UAVs up to 150 kg in weight in Australia. It was noted that there was no corresponding or otherwise applicable requirement for a similar remote pilot licence in the UK. The OSC stated that the Chief Remote Pilot was “responsible for all operational matters affecting the safety of operations” which included: ensuring that operations are conducted in compliance with the CAA. monitoring and maintaining operational standards and supervising other remote pilots who work under the authority of the operator. developing applications for approvals and permissions where required to facilitate operations. developing checklists and procedures relating to flight operations. It was found that the company had been invited to exhibit their UAV at a large public exhibition at a location close to Goodwood aerodrome and to put on some ﬂying demonstrations at both this aerodrome and on a golf course adjacent to the exhibition. Having arrived in the UK six days prior to the accident with two identical UAVs, company personnel set up a temporary workshop at Goodwood Aerodrome. They then “conducted an on-site familiarisation and risk assessment" and completed pre-ﬂight inspections of the UAV as detailed in their OSC. The day prior to the accident, the CAA issued the necessary exemption to the Air Navigation Order (ANO) following which a test ﬂight was made at the aerodrome the same day using one of the two available UAV for which the CAA were not present. This ﬂight terminated in a “hard landing” which damaged the landing gear and although this was required under the applicable regulations, the OSC and the ANO exemption, this accident was not notiﬁed to the CAA, the CASA, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) or the AAIB. The loss of power which caused the hard landing was subsequently traced to “a fault in a battery feeder cable connection”. The electronic control box was subsequently removed from the damaged airframe and ﬁtted to the remaining