where they carried out post-crash procedures which included making the battery safe and removing it. The total time airborne was 7 minutes and 10 seconds. Following the accident, the CAA informed the operator that the ANO exemption had been withdrawn. Despite a comprehensive investigation, it proved impossible to establish the cause of the loss of control but it was considered likely to have been “either radio frequency (RF) interference or a failure of the onboard control system”. Attention was therefore focused on the circumstances which had “set the conditions for” the accident and thus made it more likely to occur. It was noted during inspection of the wreckage of the accident UAV and the relatively undamaged second one that there was widespread evidence of “poor quality build and system installation standards”. The design and manufacture did not involve the use of any known industry or airworthiness standards and “there were no safety systems ﬁtted which could autonomously guide the aircraft to safety in the event of radio link loss, for example a return-to-home function”. It was concluded after examination that the circuit boards used in both the UAV and ‘kill switch’ control systems “were of poor quality and build workmanship” and that neither of these systems was “qualiﬁed to any industry environmental standard such as impact shock, vibration or temperature”. Overall, the UAS operator involved was considered to have “demonstrated little knowledge or understanding of appropriate industry standards, in particular, those relating to airworthiness and for developing electronic hardware and software”. In respect of the CAA ANO exemption approval process under which the accident UAS operation had been permitted, multiple deficiencies of relevance to public safety during such fights were identified including, but by no means limited to, a failure to adequately consider the efficacy of safety systems. It was specifically noted that if there is no guarantee that in the event of a loss of control, a UAV of such a substantial size as the one involved in this accident will remain within the permitted operational envelope, then neither the resultant hazard to individuals on the ground or to manned airborne aircraft are addressed and only providence remains. Overall, it was concluded that despite the CAA recognising that the UAS involved “was relatively unsophisticated in its design, had no redundancy and multiple single points of failure”, the level of oversight, processes and procedures used to grant an ANO exemption for this UAS operation had “proved to be inadequate”. In respect of a wide range of non-compliances with both the company’s own procedures and the explicit requirements of the ANO exemption issued, it was considered that the CAA lacked an appreciation of the role which systematically recorded UAV in-flight data could play both in “demonstrating the maturity and suitability of a UAS for the operation” and then tracking compliance with the conditions imposed as part of an Operational Authorisation. However, it was noted that the CAA did perform such operational audits on operations and check compliance with exemptions in the