operator’s staﬀ. The aircraft was unable to transmit telemetry to the remote pilot, so there was no means of monitoring the speed or height of the UA or ensuring that it remained within the limitations of the exemption.. * Several areas were identiﬁed where CAP 722 could be improved. For instance, there is currently no requirement for UAS to be ﬁtted with GNSS-based safety systems, data recording equipment or warning placards for high voltage stored energy systems to be installed. CAP 722 does not contain any guidance on how operational and safety zones should be deﬁned.. The CAA UAS Sector Team were relatively new to the role and had limited experience in dealing with airworthiness matters. As a result, no assessment was made of the operator’s ability to properly complete the OSC and no independent corroboration of information provided by the operator in the OSC was carried out. The OSC contained references to approvals granted by CASA which were not validated by the CAA UAS team.. No face-to-face meetings were held between the CAA and the operator. The CAA did not inspect the UAS before ﬂight or observe a ﬂight before granting the exemption. The CAA arrived 45 minutes before the ﬂight without prior arrangement to view or inspect the UAS. Their request to inspect the UAS was declined by the operator as pre-ﬂight preparations were already underway and the NOTAM closing the aerodrome to other traﬃc only provided a limited window of time for the ﬂight to take place. The CAA UAS Sector Team had no means to ensure that the operation of the UAS remained within the limitations of the exemption.. A total of 15 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Riotplan Proprietary Limited t/a Alauda Racing, amends its processes to ensure that it designs, builds and tests unmanned and manned aircraft in accordance with appropriate standards to ensure the safety of those who may be aﬀected by their operation. [2021-001]. that the Civil Aviation Authority update Civil Aviation Publication 722, ‘Unmanned Aircraft System Operations in UK Airspace - Guidance & Policy’, to require detailed evaluation of any Unmanned Aircraft Systems that use onboard systems to mitigate risks with Risk Severity Classiﬁcations of ‘Major’, ‘Hazardous’ or ‘Catastrophic’. [2021-002]. that the Civil Aviation Authority update Civil Aviation Publication 722, ‘Unmanned Aircraft System Operations in UK Airspace - Guidance & Policy’, to provide guidance on the planning, completion and documenting of Radio Frequency surveys to reduce the risk of Radio Frequency interference or signal loss when operating Unmanned Aircraft Systems. [2021-003]. that the Civil Aviation Authority require Unmanned Aircraft System operators, that use unmanned aircraft which rely on a radio link to operate safety systems, to provide Radio Frequency survey reports to the Civil Aviation Authority for review, to ensure they are suitable and suﬃcient. [2021-004]. that the Civil Aviation Authority update Civil Aviation Publication 722, ‘Unmanned Aircraft System Operations in UK Airspace - Guidance & Policy’, with guidance on how to deﬁne