an Unmanned Aircraft System’s operational and safety areas, using up-to-date maps, accurate trajectory analysis and human or automated safety system reaction times, to ensure a safe operation. [2021-005]. that the Civil Aviation Authority update Civil Aviation Publication 722, ‘Unmanned Aircraft System Operations in UK Airspace - Guidance & Policy’, to provide examples of Unmanned Aircraft System safety systems. [2021-006]. that the Civil Aviation Authority introduce requirements to deﬁne a minimum standard for safety systems to be installed in Unmanned Aircraft Systems operating under an Operational Authorisation, to ensure adequate mitigation in the event of a malfunction. [2021-007]. that the Civil Aviation Authority require Unmanned Aircraft System operations under an Operational Authorisation to be ﬁtted with a data recording system which is capable of demonstrating: compliance with the Authorisation’s conditions, safe operation and the logging of any failures which may aﬀect the safe operation of the Unmanned Aircraft System. [2021-008]. that the Civil Aviation Authority specify the minimum requirements for the monitoring of Unmanned Aircraft System high-voltage stored energy devices, to ensure safety of operation. [2021-009]. that the Civil Aviation Authority specify the minimum requirements for readily identiﬁable warnings and safety information on Unmanned Aircraft high-voltage stored energy devices to inform third parties of the potential hazard. [2021-010]. that the Civil Aviation Authority ensure that operators of Unmanned Aircraft Systems have an eﬀective Safety Management System in place prior to issuing an Operational Authorisation. [2021-011]. that the Civil Aviation Authority, before issuing an Operational Authorisation to operate an Unmanned Aircraft System they have not previously had experience with, carry out a physical examination of the Unmanned Aircraft System to ensure that it is designed and built to suitable standards, and observe a test ﬂight to conﬁrm operation in accordance with the Operating Safety Case. [2021-012]. that the Civil Aviation Authority update Civil Aviation Publication 722, ‘Unmanned Aircraft System Operations in UK Airspace - Guidance & Policy’, to include reference to the consequences of not complying with the conditions of an Operational Authorisation to operate an Unmanned Aircraft System. [2021-013]. that the Civil Aviation Authority adopt appropriate design, production, maintenance and reliability standards for all Unmanned Aircraft Systems with aircraft capable of imparting over 80 joules of energy. [2021-014]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency adopt appropriate design, production, maintenance and reliability standards for all Unmanned Aircraft Systems with aircraft capable of imparting over 80 joules of energy. [2021-015]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 18 February 2021.