case of “more complex” operations. The Cause of the loss of control was formally recorded as “a loss of link between the ground and airborne control” but the cause of this could not be determined. Eleven Contributory Factors that had set the conditions for the event and made an accident more likely were identified: The Alauda Airspeeder Mk II was not designed, built or tested to any recognisable standards and although the operator’s OSC, submitted to the CAA claimed it had been built to ‘the highest standards’, none were referenced.. A number of issues were identiﬁed with the design and build of the Airspeeder Mk II, including numerous single point failures. The assembly of the electronic ﬂight control system failed to meet relevant standards. The ﬂight control system was not capable of providing telemetry to the remote pilot and was not ﬁtted with a GNSS position monitoring system which could have enabled electronic safety measures, such as automatic return to takeoﬀ point or geo-fencing, to be used. There was no placarding to warn ﬁrst responders of the hazards of the high voltage stored energy device (battery). The Airspeeder Mk II did not have any data recording devices ﬁtted, which would have provided useful information about the conduct of the ﬂight.. The electronic ‘kill switch’ was manually operated. In the event of a loss of control the remote pilot would have to recognise that the UA was no longer responding to control inputs then communicate with the observer who would then activate the switch. The time delay in recognising a loss of control and operating the switch could result in the UA descending uncontrollably outside of the speciﬁed operating area.. A radio survey of the operating area was conducted for the ﬂight controller, but it was not carried out for the ‘kill switch’, which operated on a diﬀerent frequency. The radio frequency used for the ﬂight controller was not permitted to be used for airborne applications.. A ﬂight, on the day before the accident ﬂight, resulted in a heavy landing when power was lost which was not reported to the relevant authorities. The power loss was due to a faulty battery connector. The ﬂight control unit from this airframe was then transferred to the accident airframe without any detailed inspection.. Statements made by the operator and the ﬁndings of this investigation showed that they did not appear to have any knowledge or understanding of airworthiness standards.. The operator’s OSC provided the basis for the exemption issued by the CAA but systems speciﬁed in the OSC for the remote pilot to monitor battery condition and altitude were not installed. The map image used by the operator to deﬁne the operating area and safety zone was out of date and it did not accurately represent the dimensions of the runway that was being used as a reference point.. The safety zone deﬁned by the OSC and the maximum operating speed speciﬁed by the exemption did not consider reaction and communication times of the