An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the approach and landing at Perth and found that all three flight crew were experienced overall but all three had similar and relatively limited experience of the A340. The displaced threshold was required to facilitate the reconstruction of runway 06/24 and taxiway intersections at Perth airport (see the diagram below). Prior to commencement of the programme of work, the airport operator had issued a description of the intended works which was distributed to all operators using Perth including the operator of the incident aircraft. The work notified included the reconstruction of the runway 03/21 intersection with runway 06/24 with work to be scheduled between 0130 and 0930 on each working day which would involve the threshold of runway 21 being displaced by 1331 metres to the south and the Instrument Landing System (ILS) GS for runway 21 being unavailable. The effect of this displacement of the landing threshold would be to reduce the available runway length by almost 40%. A temporary precision approach path indicator (Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems) would be installed on the eastern side of runway 21 to provide visual guidance for a 3-degree approach to the new touchdown zone taking account of the position of the displaced threshold. It was stated that this temporary PAPI would be situated 395 metres to the south of the temporary threshold. It was further stated that “visual ground aids associated with the works would be supplied, marked, and located” in accordance with the requirements of the Aerodromes section of the Manual of Standards of the Safety Regulator, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA). It was found that this description of intended works had also included details of Notice To Airmen issue which it was advised would be initiated through the Australian NOTAM Office 48 hours before the commencement of each stage of the works. The NOTAM for Stage 3 of the works during which the incident had occurred included “details of the linear displacement of the threshold of runway 21 and that the displaced threshold would be marked by five green lights on either side of the runway and also with V-bar markers”. This NOTAM also advised that the runway 21 ILS GS would not be available and gave the location of the temporary PAPI with the advice that it would be set to “Stage 2” intensity with five minutes notice required to change this intensity to an alternative setting. It was noted that there was also a CASA ‘Manual of Operational Standards’ stated that “temporarily displaced thresholds on runways that do not display permanent threshold markings shall be marked by V-bar markers on each side of the runway” - which had been done. At the time of the incident, four red and white cone-shaped unserviceability markers were also in position over the threshold markings and four similar red-and-white cone-shaped unserviceability markers had also been placed diagonally