across runway 21 within its out-of-use section immediately to the north of its intersection with taxiway D. The initial part of runway 21 not available for landing and take off - between the permanent threshold and the intersection with taxiway D - was marked with four unserviceability crosses. However, from that point until the location of the displaced threshold, crosses of the same type were placed adjacent to the runway rather than along its centreline because this part of the runway 21 was still available for aircraft use when taxiing to the take-off point. The ANSP ‘Manual of Air Traffic Services’ was found to contain information on PAPI intensity settings with Stage 2 the preferred initial selection for fine, night, overcast conditions, Stage 4 the preferred initial selection for fine, day, overcast conditions and Stage 6 the preferred initial selection for bright, clear, day conditions. It was confirmed that the A340 flight crew had been supplied with the NOTAM about the runway 21 work in progress in their pre-flight briefing package. Their clearance to establish on a visual approach to runway 21 had been given when the aircraft was at about 4,000 feet. The flight crew subsequently stated that “although they were aware of the displaced threshold, they could not identify the displaced threshold markings during the approach”. They had asked TWR to confirm the location of the displaced threshold and had been (correctly) advised that it was to the south of the runway 06/24 intersection. The PF reported having then adjusted the flight path accordingly but “the crew then observed what they perceived to be a transverse white line across the runway just to the north of the intersection of runway 06/24”. Because this line was close to the intersection of runway 06/24 referred to by the controller, the crew reported assuming that it was the displaced threshold and, having seen that the runway beyond was clear of obstructions, the PF landed the aircraft just past the line. It was determined that the actual touchdown point of the aircraft was about 670 metres short of the V-bar marked displaced threshold and just over 1000 metres from the temporary touchdown zone for which the temporary PAPI was set. The PF reported having recognised at a late stage that line which had been mistaken for the displaced threshold was actually a series of cone-shaped unserviceability markers. One of these was found to have been run over and damaged by the aircraft but the aircraft itself was undamaged. The crew subsequently stated that “at no stage during the approach did they see any other markings that delineated the displaced threshold” and that “they could not distinguish the V-bar markers referred to in the NOTAM”. It was considered that “their perception that the unserviceability….markers were a line signifying the displaced threshold was probably heightened by the fact that it (marked the end of) the area of runway surface that was marked by unserviceability crosses”. In respect of the visual glide slope guidance provided