by the temporary PAPI to the correspondingly displaced TDZ, it was considered that the fact that the aircraft landed short of the displaced threshold meant that the final approach had been conducted below the correct approach slope without the corrective action which would be expected if the crew were aware of the PAPI. It was concluded that it was possible that the crew may not have been looking far enough down the runway to notice it. It was also thought that since “the PAPI was only set to Stage 2 in fine, daylight, overcast conditions, when Stage 4 was the optimum setting for those conditions” it may been insufficiently conspicuous as well as being “outside their area of concentration”. It was noted that there had been no request to alter the intensity of the PAPI setting during the approach. The Investigation sought to explain the flight crew error by reviewing the way a PF conducts an approach to land. This was characterised as “a pilot attempts to create a standard approach situation using information from, among other things, cockpit instruments, glide slope guidance and runway aspect and markings” and it was further suggested that “when a pilot sees the runway picture (they) expect to see during (their) scan of these inputs, any unobtrusive temporary markings outside the normal areas of concentration may not (provide a sufficient prompt to generate a response) to them”. It was further observed that “temporarily displaced threshold markings must compete with normal threshold markings, centreline markings, fixed distance and touchdown zone markings, visual glide path information and all the other visual inputs which tend to guide a pilot to a touchdown zone close to the approach end of the visual runway”. The corollary of this proposition was seen to be that “these existing cues must be disrupted and the temporary markings made obvious enough to direct the pilots’ attention to the displaced threshold.” The Investigation did not discuss the apparent lack of effective flight deck monitoring in facilitating the incident outcome. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that “in this occurrence, the temporarily displaced threshold markings and the light signals from the temporary PAPI on the Stage 2 setting were not of sufficient salience to compete with the other visual inputs to the crew. Consequently, the crew inadvertently misidentified the position of the displaced threshold”. It was noted that the ATSB had not received any other reports of aircraft landing short of the displaced threshold on runway 21 at Perth during the period in which the Stage 3 works were in progress. Safety Action The Airport Operator amended its procedure for daytime opening of the displaced threshold on runway 21 two days after the incident to require the temporary PAPI to be set to Stage 6 intensity when the runway lights were turned off at the end of each night. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 27 October 2005. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of it.