There are several ways in which the particular risk associated with non standard flights can be restored to the level which applies to whatever a ‘standard’ flight for an operator and/or the crew involved is. Not all will necessarily apply to an individual case but many probably will. The Company Operations Manual should include a definition of non standard flights appropriate to the normal business of the Operator. This should state that all standard operating procedures will apply unless specifically suspended, or supplemented, by a specific instruction.. A Flight Operations Risk Assessment specific to the generic task should have been carried out and remain valid prior to any non standard flight being operated. Everyone involved in the preparation and operation of any flight covered by the generic risk assessment must then work to its detailed assumptions and requirements. All points of significant detail should be cross checked by a qualified person as defined in the Risk Assessment.. For each type of non standard flight (except positioning flights with no non-standard tasks requested and flights without degraded or inoperative systems that would require specific procedures in addition to or instead of normal SOPs): the Operations Manual should contain a generic but comprehensive supplementary brief which covers the operation of each type of non standard flight. if the check schedule requires operation of intentionally degraded aircraft systems then a task-specific programme of initial and recurrent training should be mandated for the operating crew. flight crew allocated to operate the flight should be required to fly a similar detail in a simulator not later than their most recent simulator proficiency check unless a similar non-standard flight profile has been flown since that time. appropriate additional time should be rostered for pre-flight briefing for all those persons who will occupy flight deck seats. the role of any persons to be carried in the aircraft cabin but who will have access to the flight deck during the flight should be defined in writing and form part of the overall procedures for the conduct of the particular type of flight. supplementary or amended checklists should be provided if the sequence of flight crew actions will not follow that covered by sole use of the normal and/or non-normal checklists; the use of these checklists should form part of the simulator training detail.. the Operations Manual should contain a generic but comprehensive supplementary brief which covers the operation of each type of non standard flight.. if the check schedule requires operation of intentionally degraded aircraft systems then a task-specific programme of initial and recurrent training should be mandated for the operating crew.. flight crew allocated to operate the flight should be required to fly a similar detail in a simulator not later than their most recent simulator proficiency check unless a similar non-standard flight profile has been flown since that time.. appropriate additional time should be rostered for pre-flight briefing for all those persons who will occupy flight deck seats.. the role of any persons to be carried