recovery techniques outlined in the QRH, FCTM and the manufacturer’s training aid are effective and (their use) would have resulted in earlier recovery of the aircraft (to controlled flight)”. In respect of the 11-day delay before the flight data from the Incident flight was viewed (by a pilot representative rather than Company flight operations management) it was noted that in addition to loss of recorded data, this had also resulted in the continued service of both the aircraft and pilots involved. It was found that, since there was no requirement in the agreement between the Operator and the Pilots for the use of OFDM data that it should be de identified, it could actually have been reviewed on the day after the event, upon receipt of the pilot ASR. The Investigation identified the following Causal Factors: the aircraft decelerated during an instrument approach, to an airspeed significantly below the commanded speed, with the engines at idle thrust. Despite the application of full thrust, the aircraft stalled, after which the appropriate recovery actions were not followed.. the trimmed position of the stabiliser, combined with the selection of maximum thrust, overwhelmed the available elevator authority.. The Investigation also identified the following Contributory Factors: the autothrottle warning system on the Boeing 737-300, although working as designed, did not alert the crew to the disengagement of the autothrottle system.. the flight crew did not recognise the disengagement of the autothrottle system and allowed the airspeed to decrease 20 knots below Vref before recovery was initiated.. It was noted that since the investigated event, Safety Action had been taken by Thomsonfly by making significant changes to their OFDM procedures in particular and to other relevant aspects of their SMS. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Boeing, in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration, conduct a study of the efficacy of the Boeing 737-300/400/500 autothrottle warning and if necessary take steps to improve crew alerting. [2009-43]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency review the requirements of Certification Standard 25 to ensure that the disengagement of autoflight controls including autothrottle is suitably alerted to flightcrews. [2009-44]. that Boeing clarify the wording of the approach to stall recovery Quick Reference Handbook Non normal Manoeuvres to ensure that pilots are aware that trimming forward may be required to enhance pitch control authority. [2009-45]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 21 May 2009.