The 36 year old First Officer had only slightly more time on type after joining the Company the previous year from a DHC8-300 operator. In an analysis of the excursion, the Investigation came to the conclusion that since stick shaker activations had begun soon after the decision to make a go around with airspeed around 20 knots below the applicable approach speed and at idle thrust, there had been confusion as to whether a go around or an “approach to stall recovery” was being flown. Although the root cause of the lack of elevator authority was the unappreciated position of the stabiliser trim at AP disconnection (no attempt to alter pitch trim manually was made until after control was regained following the stall), it was noted that there was a difference between the “maximum thrust” required for recovery from an approach to stall and the “sufficient thrust” required for a go around. The Investigation noted that the generic aircraft type FCTM, which was available to crews but over which the Operations Manual Part B (as usual) took absolute preference, placed more emphasis on the use of stabiliser trim in pitch control in the case of both a go around and the approach to stall recovery drill. The FCTM was also found to similarly place more emphasis on the potential usefulness of stabiliser trim in the case of “upset recovery” - an “upset” being defined as generally accepted as including a pitch attitude in excess of 25° in both documents. It was noted that the unstable approach which eventually led to the decision to go around had developed because neither pilot had noticed the uncommanded but (it would appear) correctly alerted A/T disconnect or the effects that this then had on thrust/airspeed/pitch attitude. The Investigation could not find any fault in the A/T which would have led it to disconnect and noted that the system had operated normally both before and after the disconnect approach and had been comprehensively tested on the aircraft with no faults found. However, after eliminating other possible reasons for a disconnect, it was concluded that “the only condition that remained was an internal fault within the autothrottle computer”. It was noted that the A/T is a single channel system which is not required for flight operations and that an uncommanded disconnect is not unusual and it is rare for a fault to be found when instances of this are reported. The QAR data indicated that the A/T warning was active and subsequent function testing was unable to find any fault with the warning system. After looking at other similar A/T disconnect events, the Investigation concluded that “there may be a wider (than the investigated event) issue of the (A/T) warning system not alerting flight crews”. It was concluded that there was “no evidence of pilot fatigue” being a factor and that the pilots had received training which was in accordance with Regulatory requirements as implemented by the aircraft operator. However, it was considered that “the upset