An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB but this was not commenced until the Branch was made aware of the occurrence by the Operator on 5 October 2007, some 12 days after it had occurred. It was noted that “although the commander reported the event to the operator the following morning, his initial Air Safety Report (ASR) contained limited information and the seriousness of the event was not appreciated until the Quick Access Recorder (QAR) data was inspected on 4 October 2007”, At this point, the ASR was submitted to the UK CAA as an MOR and the AAIB then advised the following day. As a consequence of this delay, both the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) from the event had been overwritten and only the QAR data was available. It was observed that the aircraft involved had not been subjected to an engineering examination to ensure its continued airworthiness in the interval between the occurrence and notification of it to the AAIB and had remained in service throughout this period. The Investigation reconstructed the flight by linking QAR data to the accounts provided by the pilots involved. It was found that the First Officer had been designated as PF and that the aircraft had been cleared to self position for an ILS approach to runway 26. For the Flap 40 landing briefed, the Reference Speed (Vref) was calculated as 129 KIAS and the Vapp as 135 KIAS. The aircraft was established on the ILS LOC at 180 KCAS with flap 5 set and, with the AP and A/T engaged, captured the ILS GS from below at 2500 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings. At a range from touchdown of 7nm, descent on the ILS GS began and landing gear down and flap15 were selected. The MCP-selected speed was reduced and the A/T, as expected, retarded the thrust levers to idle in response. At 20 seconds after the descent had commenced, the A/T disconnect warning began to sound and soon afterwards the A/T disengaged. At this point, the thrust levers were still at Idle, where they remained throughout the rest of the approach. Neither pilot recognised the A/T disconnect. The airspeed continued to decay at about one knot per second as anticipated by the PF and the AP continued to track the ILS. As the speed reduced below 150 KIAS, flap 25 was selected and the MCP speed selection was changed to 135 knots. When flap 40 was selected shortly afterwards, the speed was 130 knots and continuing to decrease at approximately 1.5 knots per second. The first recognition that airspeed was too low came when the commander, as PM, noticed it was 125 KIAS. He reported that he had called ‘Speed’ and taken control and called a go around. The QAR data shows that as airspeed continued to reduce below 115 KCAS, the manual A/T disconnect was used to cancel the A/T disconnect warning and stick shaker activation occurred with the AoA almost 20°. Thrust