was increased towards maximum and the airspeed reached a minimum of 105 KCAS before beginning to rise as thrust was increased. There was a two second cessation of the stick shaker as the minimum speed was reached but activation recommenced as thrust rose to 99.4%, TO/GA mode became active as AP disconnect occurred and maximum nose down input was made via the control column. By the time of AP disconnect, as the minimum altitude of around 1400 feet (1200 feet agl) was reached, the stabiliser auto trim had progressively advanced to a significant nose up position in an attempt to keep the aircraft on the ILS GS at idle thrust. As maximum thrust was reached with the control column fully forward, pitch appeared to stabilise at 22º nose up, the angle of attack started to decrease and airspeed reached 118 KCAS. In the presence of some roll instability, flaps were then selected to 15 and the stick shaker ceased but as the flaps travelled, the nose of the aircraft began to pitch up at an increasing rate and by the time flap 15 was reached, pitch was increasing through 27º and the stick-shaker reactivated and airspeed began to decay again. At this stage, both pilots reported holding the control column fully forward but stated that they had had “no pitch control authority”. They were aware that the airspeed had fallen rapidly but neither was aware exactly what it was. As nose-up pitch continued to increase through 36º, TO/GA mode disconnected and airspeed fell below 107 KCAS. Just as the wings were levelled after recovery from a roll left which had reached 22º, the aircraft entered a full stall with pitch reaching 44º. The QAR data showed that “with no change in elevator position the pitch rate (then) reversed from positive to negative, although angle of attack continued to increase as the aircraft started to descend”. Despite the reduction in pitch, airspeed continued to fall for a further five seconds to a recorded minimum of 82 KCAS. It was apparent that, as pitch had continued to reduce, airspeed had begun to rise rapidly and, when thrust was then reduced to 86% from the 96-98% set since the go around had been initiated, increased elevator authority was gained and the fully stalled condition exited. Approximately 17 seconds after the full stall had begun, the stick shaker ceased. With the aircraft stabilised in a 5º nose-up attitude, airspeed continued to increase and “the commander regained control of the aircraft”. As the airspeed reached 147 KCAS, TO/GA mode was re-engaged. The 11 second full stall had occurred after a climb of just over 1000 feet with pitch attitude in excess of 20º and recovery had led to a height loss of around 500 feet. It was found that the 56 year old aircraft commander had only accumulated 420 hours on both the aircraft type and in command after spending the previous 17 years as a First Officer on the same operator’s Boeing 757/767 fleet.