In this accident, the captain did not disengage the autopilot in a timely manner after thrust was lost from the no. 4 engine. The autopilot masked the approaching onset of the loss of control. The captain was distracted from monitoring the flight by his participation in the evaluation of the no. 4 engine malfunction, as was the flight engineer. The captain was also distracted by his attempts to correct the airplane’s decreasing airspeed. This contributed to his inability to detect early the airplane’s increasing bank angle. The lateral deflection associated with the thrust asymmetry and decreasing airspeed exceeded the limits of the autopilot. This caused the airplane to roll and yaw to the right. The captain lost control when, after disengaging the autopilot, he failed to make the proper correction to recover the situation, being “outside of the loop.” Adequate flight monitoring, effective situational awareness, timely decision making and prompt procedural actions and task sharing would also have contributed to avoiding the upset. Avoiding getting into a situation is always the best preventive measure. The first actions taken to recover from an airplane upset must be correct and timely. Improper inputs during any upset recovery can lead to a different upset situation. Troubleshooting the cause of the upset is always secondary to initiating the recovery. Regaining and maintaining control of the airplane are of paramount importance. The situation analysis sequence is: Communicate with other crewmembers;. Locate the bank indicator;. Determine pitch attitude;. Confirm attitude by reference to other means; and,. Assess the energy level.. Airplane upsets are the results of multiple causes and do not happen often. Crews are usually surprised when they occur. There can be a tendency for pilots to react before analyzing what is happening or to fixate on a single indication and thus fail to properly diagnose the situation. When an upset occurs, the crew must regain control of the airplane and then determine and eliminate the cause of the upset by: Recognizing and confirming the situation.. Disengaging the autopilot and autothrottles.. Recovering to level flight.. The following strategies are recommended to avoid this type of incident: Work as a team for accurate risk assessments and tactical decision making.. Explicitly define task sharing so it is clear who is to monitor all critical flight parameters.. Applicable human factors principles lead to these simple guidelines that can help you stay out of trouble: Actively search for new information from all available sources to complete situational awareness; missing information may be vital.. Communicate with each other to make sure that the entire team has a common understanding of the situation.. Do not fixate on one single indication.. Use all available resources as an integral part of the team.. Focus extra attention on critical parameters relevant to your actual situation. In this example, the crew should have concentrated more on the airplane heading and on the roll indication rather than only on the decreasing airspeed.. Cross-check what you see, hear and feel with available flight instruments.. Make sure you