of a Bombardier DHC8-100 manually flying a low power, steep descent in an attempt to get below cloud to be able to see the destination aerodrome inadvertently allowed the speed to increase sufficiently to trigger an overspeed warning. In response, the power levers were rapidly retarded and both propellers entered the ground range and oversped. As a result, one engine was damaged beyond use and the other could not be unfeathered. A forced landing was made following which the aircraft caught fire. All three crew members but only one of the 29 passengers survived. AT72, Copenhagen Denmark, 2013On 14 January 2013, selection of the power levers to ground idle after an ATR 72-200 touchdown at Copenhagen produced only one of the two expected low pitch indications. As the First Officer called 'one low pitch' in accordance with SOP, the Captain selected both engines into reverse. He was unable to prevent the resultant veer off the runway. After travelling approximately 350 metres on grass alongside the runway as groundspeed reduced, the runway was regained. A propeller control fault which would have prevented low pitch transition on the right engine was recorded but could not subsequently be replicated. ATP, en-route, Oxford UK, 1991On 11 August 1991, an British Aerospace ATP, during climb to flight level (FL) 160 in icing conditions, experienced a significant degradation of performance due to propeller icing accompanied by severe vibration that rendered the electronic flight instruments partially unreadable. As the aircraft descended below cloud, control was regained and the flight continued uneventfully. On 7 December 2016, the crew of an ATR 42-500 lost control after airworthiness-related complications followed shutdown of the left engine whilst in the cruise and high speed terrain impact followed. The Investigation concluded that three pre-existing faults with the left engine and its propeller control mechanism had led to a loss of power which had necessitated its shutdown but that these faults had then caused much higher left side drag than would normally result from an engine shutdown and made it progressively more difficult to maintain control. Recovery from a first loss of control was followed by another without recovery. On 17 March 2017, uncommanded engine indications on a Saab 340B en route to Sydney were followed by vibration of the right engine after which, as the crew commenced right engine shutdown, its propeller assembly separated from the engine. A PAN was declared and the flight subsequently reached Sydney without further event. The Investigation found that the propeller gearbox shaft had fractured because of undetected internal fatigue cracking in the shaft. Applicable in-service shaft inspection procedures were found to be inadequate and mandatory enhancements to these procedures have since been introduced. On 28 November 2013, a Saab 2000 departing Lugano suffered an engine failure for no apparent reason and the crew determined that diversion to Milan was preferable to return to Lugano or continued climb over high terrain to reach intended destination Zurich. The Investigation found that the loss of engine power experienced was due