Unable to reach the destination or any other aerodrome by the time this occurred, an uneventful landing was made on the area’s main highway. The Investigation found that the fuel quantity was over-reading due to water in the fuel tanks, that cross-checking of fuel used versus indicated fuel in tanks was not done and that when the possibility of fuel exhaustion was first indicated, an available diversion was not made. B738, en-route, Aegean Sea, 2019On 22 August 2019, the left engine of a Boeing 737-800 failed for unknown reasons soon after reaching planned cruise level of FL360 twenty minutes after departing Samos, Greece and two attempted relights during and after descent to FL240 were unsuccessful. Instead of diverting to the nearest suitable airport as required by applicable procedures, the management pilot in command did not declare single engine operation and completed the planned flight to Prague, declaring a PAN to ATC only on entering Czech airspace. The Investigation noted that engine failure was due to fuel starvation after failure of the engine fuel pump. A321, vicinity London Gatwick, UK 2020On 26 February 2020, after a difficult Airbus A321 left engine first flight of the day start, the same happened on the third sector with en-route engine abnormalities then affecting both engines. With no fault found during post flight maintenance inspections and despite similar engine starting problems, both engines then malfunctioned after takeoff from Gatwick. A MAYDAY return followed. Investigation found that the cause was fuel system contamination by addition of approximately 38 times the correct quantity of biocide during earlier scheduled maintenance and that the release of the aircraft to service for the flight had followed inadequate troubleshooting action. CVLP, en-route, east of Miami Opa Locka USA, 2019On 8 February 2019, a Convair C131 climbing out of Nassau experienced a right engine propeller control malfunction. The Captain was able to stabilise power and continued the flight to Miami. As descent began, the same engine malfunctioned and was shut down but the left engine then also malfunctioned and, after an emergency declaration, a mishandled ditching followed. This wrecked the aircraft and only the First Officer survived, seriously injured. The Investigation noted that related engine malfunction on the outbound flight had not been recorded or investigated. No wreckage recovery was attempted so engine failure causes were not determined. B788, en-route, southwest of Kansai Japan, 2019On 29 March 2019, both engines of a Boeing 787-8 on descent to Kansai malfunctioned in quick succession causing auto ignition to be triggered by sub-idle engine rpm but thereafter, sufficient thrust was available to safely complete the flight just under half an hour after the dual malfunction. The Investigation found that the cause of these malfunctions had been contamination of the fuel system with abnormally large concentrations of residue which could be reliably traced to a routinely applied biocide and which had solidified and intermittently impeded the transfer of fuel from the tanks to the engines. RJ85, en-route, north of Tampere Finland 2009On 17 December 2009, a