The following barriers, when deployed and employed correctly, are capable of alerting ATC in time to prevent runway incursions and ground conflicts. With regard to events on the Manoeuvring Area, these barriers are capable of alerting ATC before standard levels of safety are compromised: ATCO memory aids for issued (not issued) clearances. Used to enhance the controller’s situational awareness and remind of issued clearances. Examples of these are: Buttons or switches used by the controller when a clearance affecting the manoeuvring area is issued. Flight strip arrangement rules (e.g. if a take-off/landing clearance is issued to an aircraft, its flight strip is put into a red holder).. Buttons or switches used by the controller when a clearance affecting the manoeuvring area is issued.. Flight strip arrangement rules (e.g. if a take-off/landing clearance is issued to an aircraft, its flight strip is put into a red holder).. ATCO direct visual detection. One of the main responsibilities of a tower controller is to constantly observe the situation on the manoeuvring area and verify that all clearances are properly complied with.. ATCO visual detection using remote camera displays. These are used when parts of the manoeuvring area cannot be observed from the control tower (e.g. due to obstacles, aerodrome layout, etc.). They supplement the direct visual detection.. ATCO resolution following pilot/driver report. This barrier relies on voluntary information from another person. While usually this cannot be legally described and written down as a procedure, experience shows that this barrier turns out to be one of the most effective tools.. ATCO detection of occupied runway by use of basic Surface Movement Radar (SMR). This tool provides surveillance information in poor visibility conditions when direct visual detection and remote cameras are not effective. It also helps controllers to identify smaller objects (vehicles or aircraft) which are at relatively long distance from the control tower. The disadvantage is that normally there are no visual or audial warnings and therefore the controllers needs to divert their attention from visual observation in order to use the SMR.. Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) level 1. This tool is an enhanced version of the SMR. It provides identification of both aircraft and transponder-equipped vehicles. The tool relies on the proper use of transponders. If procedures are strictly followed, A-SMGCS provides reliable information on the traffic situation both on the manoeuvring area and the immediate aerodrome vicinity.. Advanced Surface Movement & Guidance Control System (A-SMGCS) level 2. This tool is an enhancement of the A-SMGCS Level 1. It provides conflict alerts in addition to aircraft/vehicle identification. The logic is similar to STCA used in area control. While this feature is a great enhancement compared to A-SMGCS Level 1 it only warns the controller of immediate risks and does not take into account the issued clearances (which might be conflicting).. Integrated Tower Working Position (ITWP). This is an ATC system that displays both traffic situation and controller input (ATC clearances) which enables the use of “early warning” features that: