and shoulder as she tried to avoid one of the containers sustaining injuries to her left shoulder. The container she avoided had come to a stop about 3 metres from her. There was no impact damage to the aircraft being loaded on F234 but the containers which had moved were damaged. Examination of the relevant QAR data showed that after the post-pushback taxi had been completed as far into the turn onto N17 as the initial clearance would allow, the aircraft was on a heading of 210°. To begin the restart, the right engine thrust lever had initially been advanced from to 47% N1 within 7 seconds, whilst the left engine remained at Idle. As the right engine reached 42% N1, the aircraft began to move and the right engine thrust was reduced to 32% N1 over 7 seconds. About 2 seconds after the aircraft had begun to move, the left engine thrust was set to 27% N1 within 4 seconds. Whilst the right engine was running up, its jet blast was directed towards stand F234. The thrust lever angles and achieved N1 in relation to the resulting groundspeed taken from the QAR data show that the right engine thrust increase applied and then reduced only resulted in a 3 knot groundspeed (see the illustration below). Selected QAR data showing breakaway thrust as the left turn was resumed. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In general, the aircraft type as loaded (the loadsheet showed a total mass of 282 tonnes) could be expected to produce an efflux wind speed of around 40 knots up to 60 metres from the aircraft if both engines are used similarly but to achieve initial movement when only one engine is used, more thrust is required which produces correspondingly greater efflux wind speeds. Of note was that not only were the containers which were moved by the jet blast empty, but it was found that although they were initially on pallet cars where hinged safety locks would be used to prevent them moving during transport, these were unlocked. It was found that relevant general guidance to pilots in the FCTM and FCOM was confined to the need to be aware of what is behind when thrust is above Idle and that although thrust above idle is necessary to begin moving, maintaining movement thereafter will often be possible at idle. However, the AIP entry for the airport was found to state that when taxiing into stands, aircraft “shall generally not stop in curves between the centrelines of apron taxiways or aircraft stand taxi lanes and the centrelines of aircraft stands so as to avoid the further use of break-away thrust”. It also stated that during such manoeuvres, an aircraft which comes to a stop must notify APRON Control and await further instructions before increasing engine thrust again to continue taxiing. Similar Occurrence It was noted that a 2015 jet blast incident at Frankfurt involving a Boeing747-8 which caused damage to two loaded passenger transfer buses and caused