An Investigation was carried by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU). QAR data were available from the aircraft were ATC recorded data including that from ground movement radar. The 61 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF, had a total of “about 23,900 hours” flying experience. He was accompanied by a 24 year-old First Officer who had “about 1,390 hours” flying experience and a 39 year old observing Senior First Officer who was occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck and had “about 2,135 hours” flying experience. The hours on type were not recorded for any of the pilots. After pushback from stand F235 to face southwest on taxiway N-NORTH (see the illustration below) in accordance with APRON control, the aircraft was cleared to turn left onto taxiway N17, but hold short of taxiway N and call TWR for further clearance. The Captain reported realising that completing this turn would not be possible until beyond the clearance limit given and so came to a stop part way through the turn. TWR then gave further clearance to join and proceed on taxiway N towards departure runway 18. On receiving this, the Captain applied the thrust he considered necessary to begin moving again with the nose gear in a left turn position, leading with the right engine to assist completion of the left turn. He stated that neither he nor the other pilots had perceived any excessive thrust being used. Part of the relevant aerodrome diagram showing the stand and taxiway designators. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Another freighter aircraft was being loaded on stand F234 by three people. According to their statements, two of them were at the rear of the aircraft as the engine thrust of the departing 777 was increased to restart its taxi on receiving clearance from TWR. They saw an empty container move in their direction from a pallet trailer on their stand. As they began to run to get to safety, a second container had passed “very close” to them before coming to rest underneath the right wing of the aircraft they were loading whilst a third was blown from a transfer trolley and ended up beneath the aircraft tail section. They stated that they had not noticed any excessive use of thrust but did see a woman standing next to the wing of the same aircraft who appeared to have been pushed to the ground by the blast. Another person who had just overseen the departing aircraft’s push back stated that he had been on his way to the next aircraft when he had felt “quite a strong push in his back” from the jet blast and a container had then overtaken him with a clearance of about 2 metres. He had then turned around and seen two other containers moving, one of which was moving towards the woman who fell as she attempted to avoid it, injuring herself in the process. This person described falling sideways on her hip