eliminate or reduce the loud noise heard on the CVR.. that the Cockpit Voice Recorder Manufacturer should be portioned so as to have a high quality separate channel for 2 hours, as the pilot channel could not be heard when cabin attendant was talking, since the cabin attendant channel overrode the pilot channel. The override of this channel prevented a lot of the flight crew conversations, which were relevant to the Investigation, from being heard during the time the cabin attendant was conducting announcements.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate should ensure that all AOC holders operating this type of aircraft are required to ensure all recorders in its fleet are outfitted with the solid-state type of recorders as data is better preserved on this type of equipment.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate should ensure that SkyBahamas Airlines and all other operators of this type of equipment, ensure its maintenance personnel check the setting on all remaining aircraft FDAUs to ensure that the time and date are correct (using procedures in the maintenance manual on how to accomplish this task) as the information for time and date on this particular aircraft was incorrect.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate, as part of their oversight functions, should ensure that SkyBahamas Airlines and all other operators of this type of aircraft check all transducers on its aircraft fleet (using procedures in the maintenance manual on how to accomplish this task) to ensure their reliability.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate should require SkyBahamas Airlines and all other operators with this aircraft type to do a complete download of the CVR and FDR at prescribed intervals (at least twice a year), to ensure that they are operating as per manufacturer’s recommendations or regulatory requirements.. that SkyBahamas Airlines should be required to institute a flight data monitoring program.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate should ensure that the crew of this aircraft are removed from active line duty and re-examined for their fitness to hold a type rating on this aircraft type. Training should also be given to this crew in the following deficient areas: Aeronautical Decision Making Adverse weather flying Crew Resource Management Aircraft Systems Civil Aviation Regulations and Company Standard Operating Procedures. Aeronautical Decision Making. Adverse weather flying. Crew Resource Management. Aircraft Systems. Civil Aviation Regulations and. Company Standard Operating Procedures. The Final Report of the Investigation was released on 5 May 2017.