for its first bounce and that “the atmosphere in the cockpit at this time was chaotic as the control wheel was being exchanged between the (two pilots) based on who had sight of the runway at the time”. Overall, it was found that despite the fact that “airspeed during the approach was unstable and non-standard, a go around or diversion was neither considered nor attempted (and) there was a constant battle between the crew to slow down, or hurry up, or put in flaps to slow down” with all of these non-standard procedures representing an attempt to ‘beat’ the worsening weather and land. It was considered that the fact that FDR data showed that there had not been any “aileron or elevator control input by the crew during or after the touchdown” further confirmed that “during the bounces and crash sequence neither pilot had positive control of the aircraft”. No evidence from the recorded data available was found to even suggest that wind shear might have had a part to play in the circumstances of the accident either before or after the first runway contact. Overall, the Investigation concluded that “complacency was the order of the day” with the crew involved having demonstrated “no crew resource management” and “no adherence to company standard operating procedures”. Sterile flight deck procedures had been disregarded with often continuous non-essential conversation at all stages of the flight. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was “the decision of the crew to initiate and continue an instrument approach into clearly identified thunderstorm activity over the landing field during landing, resulting in a loss of control of the airplane from which the flight crew was unable to recover and a subsequent collision with obstacles and terrain which followed during the runway excursion”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as: the poor decision making and lack of situational awareness by the crew while attempting to land during a thunderstorm.. the thunderstorm, convective activity and heavy rain over the field at the time of the accident.. Twelve Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that the Flight Standards Inspectorate as mandated with oversight of AOC holders should re-evaluate the SOP’s in use by SkyBahamas Airlines to verify that the actions of this particular flight crew were isolated and not consistent with current company training procedures.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate increase surveillance of AOC holders with emphasis on the actions of flight crew and their adherence to SOPs by conducting more frequent flight deck observations.. that the Flight Standards Inspectorate must observe on an increased basis, the training and checks being delivered to crewmembers of SkyBahamas Airlines.. that SkyBahamas Airlines should be required to examine its policies and a cultural change may need to be investigated and implemented to ensure crew are conducting themselves as professionals, despite their familiarity with each other during required duties.. that SkyBahamas Airlines should examine all its aircraft to verify that the area microphone and the panel match, as this can