An Investigation was carried out by the Bahamas Air Accident Investigation Department (AAID). The FDR and 2 hour CVR were recovered and downloaded. The recording of some relevant flight control positions on the FDR was found to have been erroneous with the possible source of the problem being “issues with the associated position sensors on the aircraft” rather than the FDR itself. All the useful CVR data could be successfully read. It was found that the 30 year-old Captain had 8,500 hours total flying experience which included 4,700 hours on type. The flying experience of the 21 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the flight, was recorded as “not known”. The crew had received pre-flight weather information from the Fort Lauderdale TWR before taking off on the 44 minute flight to Marsh Harbour. Scattered heavy rain showers and the possibly of thunderstorms with rain and associated moderate to severe turbulence were forecast for the north western Bahamas where the flight destination was located. After cancelling IFR as the destination neared, FDR data showed that the aircraft had been positioned on final approach to the 1,860 metre-long destination runway 09 and the flaps were extended to 15° whilst the aircraft was recorded as flying at level at 1,300 feet with approximately 4.2 nm to run. A few seconds later, still level at 1,300 feet, the AP was disconnected at 166 KIAS and the final descent commenced. The landing gear was selected down and subsequently reached the down and locked position as the aircraft passed 730 feet and at this point, landing flap - 20° - was selected with approximately 1.9 nm to run. Approaching the runway threshold, the power levers were retarded and engine torques reduced to approximately 20% as the aircraft crossed the threshold at 50 feet agl at 171 KIAS with reduced visibility in a rain shower. The first runway contact did not occur until 14 seconds after crossing the threshold and occurred at 130 KIAS and with a recorded ‘vertical load factor’ of at or above 2.16g. The aircraft then bounced to approximately 15 feet agl before a second runway contact 5 seconds later at or above 3.19g. This occurred with a pitch attitude of -1.8° at 106 KIAS and it bounced again and made a third runway contact at or above 3.66g at 98 KIAS with pitch attitude -2.2° after 7 seconds airborne. The aircraft finally settled on the runway after the third bounce with damage to the right wing and right hand engine and propeller which rapidly stopped. The aircraft veered off the runway to the right at an approximate 40° angle just 17 metres from the runway end at 44 KIAS and eventually came to a full stop a few seconds later. There was no record on the CVR of either pilot ordering the cabin crew to evacuate or of the evacuation checklist being conducted. However, an uneventful evacuation by all occupants via the main passenger door followed - the extent of the