damage on the right hand side meant that evacuation in that direction was not considered. The extensive damage to the aircraft was documented in detail during the Investigation and collectively led to the aircraft being declared a hull loss. No conclusion as to its potential relevance to the accident was drawn but it was noted during examination of the flight deck that the Captain’s seat height adjustment was unserviceable which meant that it was fixed at its lowest position. An examination of data from the CVR showed that en-route, the pilots had continued as earlier in the flight with “non-essential conversation” and had not briefed the approach or discussed the weather to be expected at Marsh Harbour or any alternate to be used if weather conditions there deteriorated. The Approach Checklist appeared not to have been run and there was no evidence at any point that the principles of CRM had been followed. It was clear from the recorded conversation that the Captain was “adamant about landing at all costs” despite both pilots’ awareness of a thunderstorm over the aerodrome and remarked at one point that they should try to “get in before it got worse”. When the First Officer asked the Captain for the ‘Before Landing’ Check, it was read so quickly that “it could not be interpreted from the CVR” and there was no opportunity for responses. In particular, the call to advance the propeller rpm was completely omitted and this setting remained incorrect until the crash sequence. It was observed that had a go around been attempted, this omission “could have had catastrophic consequences”. The final stages of the approach appeared to have involved both pilots “stating at differing times that they had the runway in sight, then they lost sight of it, then they had it again and then lost it again” with this process repeated several times up to the point of first touchdown. It was certainly clear “neither pilot definitively had the runway in sight” on short final and that both had been aware of the weather problems ahead before reaching 500 feet. This had given them the opportunity to break off the approach and “divert to another airport with VFR weather or hold at a predetermined position until (Marsh Harbour) had cleared enough to attempt a landing”. Instead, it was found that almost immediately after the First Officer had lost sight of the runway due to heavy rain at around 500 feet, the Captain’s windshield wiper had jammed at one side. A number of exchanges of control had then followed beginning with the Captain, despite his lack of a windshield wiper, briefly taking control before handing it back to the First Officer because he couldn’t see the runway either. No further sighting of the runway was definitive and as touchdown became imminent, the rain intensity was such that even with a functioning wiper, the First Officer could not see the runway. It was evident that by this time the aircraft had touched down