Increasing the size and complexity of an aircraft will normally result in corresponding changes to the fuel system. These changes are likely to include more system automation, more fuel tanks, specific AFM requirements with respect to fuel distribution in flight and the sequence in which the tanks are to be filled on the ground or their contents used in flight, a reliable system indication and alerting system, provisions for "single point" refuelling and defuelling and, in larger aircraft, provision for fuel dumping and/or for centre of gravity optimisation through fuel movement in flight. Enhancements to the fuel system commonly found on aircraft of this category include: single point refueling/defueling - the refuelling hose is connected to a single point on the aircraft, usually located underwing or somewhere on the fuselage and all tanks are fuelled or defuelled by means of a manifold connecting to all tanks. fuel pump redundancy - multiple fuel pumps in each tank to ensure fuel is accessible in the event of a single pump failure. robust fuel management, indicating and warning systems - depending upon the aircraft, these can include: fuel quantity by tank total fuel quantity remaining fuel used estimated fuel remaining at intended destination fuel temperature by tank automatic selection of most appropriate fuel tank dependant upon phase of flight automatic fuel transfer warnings and cautions for items such as: low fuel quantity low fuel pressure fuel pump failure low fuel temperature. fuel quantity by tank. total fuel quantity remaining. fuel used. estimated fuel remaining at intended destination. fuel temperature by tank. automatic selection of most appropriate fuel tank dependant upon phase of flight. automatic fuel transfer. warnings and cautions for items such as: low fuel quantity low fuel pressure fuel pump failure low fuel temperature. low fuel quantity. low fuel pressure. fuel pump failure. low fuel temperature. provision of fuel tanks in the outer portion of the wings to reduce wing bending. The fuel in these tanks is generally not burned until late in the flight. provision in the fuel system to supply an Auxiliary Power Unit (APU). automated inflight transfer of fuel from the wing tanks to trim tanks in the horizontal stabiliser. Moving the fuel to the trim tank optimizes the centre of gravity and reduces the fuel burn. fuel dumping provisions. In the event of an unexpectedly early landing, excess fuel can be dumped to reduce the aircraft landing weight to or towards the permitted MLW.