associated with take off, the resulting secondary damage could be very much greater than that actually experienced in the accident being investigated. In respect of the applicable aspects of tyre certification, it was observed that: "The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) certification rules dealing with consequences of tyre failure apply to a small section of the thin, relatively low strength tread material dis-bonding from an otherwise intact carcass. Failures arising from slide through tyre ruptures and from lateral cutting inflicted by debris can involve partial or complete separation of large sections of total carcass thickness, incorporating substantial portions of sidewall. The flailing section therefore has considerable mass and is reinforced by the chords of the tyre carcass. It will thus inflict greater damage at a given speed than that considered in the certification assumptions. The failure on (the accident aircraft) also demonstrates the greater vertical distance into the wing structure to which damage can be inflicted in practice, compared with the situation assumed by the certification rules.” It was concluded that the absence of a runway excursion outcome was largely attributable to the generous length of the landing runway for the aircraft type and to the fact that it was dry. In the light of the findings and analysis of the Investigation, four Safety Recommendations were made: It is recommended that Bombardier introduce modifications to the BD700 to reduce the extent of concentrations of water pouring onto the outboard faces of the inboard main-wheel tyres and then onto the brakes when the aircraft is parked in rain.. [2008-071] It is recommended that Bombardier either: (a) Develop and implement modifications to the BD700 to effectively shield vulnerable flight critical hydraulic, electrical and mechanical systems in the vicinity of the main-wheel tyres against damage inflicted by items of large, full thickness, high velocity flailing tyre material and / or re-route some systems to minimise vulnerability to such events, or alternatively: (b) Develop and require fitment to the BD700 and other Bombardier aircraft with similar features, a type of tyre that does not have such a flailing failure mode.. (a) Develop and implement modifications to the BD700 to effectively shield vulnerable flight critical hydraulic, electrical and mechanical systems in the vicinity of the main-wheel tyres against damage inflicted by items of large, full thickness, high velocity flailing tyre material and / or re-route some systems to minimise vulnerability to such events, or alternatively: (b) Develop and require fitment to the BD700 and other Bombardier aircraft with similar features, a type of tyre that does not have such a flailing failure mode. [2008-072] It is recommended that the Federal Aviation Administration, the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada raise awareness of the vulnerability of carbon brakes to freezing in flight following exposure to moisture on the ground, emphasising the significance of the slow drying rate of saturated brakes even in warm, low humidity conditions.. [2008-073] It is recommended that the Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency review the certification requirements