An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that soon after a normal touchdown, the flight crew became aware of a rumbling noise which they identified as a burst tyre which was confirmed by another aircraft. The aircraft commander began to apply normal braking and shortly afterwards, EICAS messages advising low hydraulic pressure in both No 2 and No 3 hydraulic system were annunciated. The aircraft was brought to a stop on the runway using normal brakes and, as RFFS vehicles approached, the engines were shut down. Available evidence indicated that the aircraft had touched down with the left inboard wheel locked but that it became free to rotate shortly after the tyre ruptured. The left inboard main-wheel tyre was found to have had suffered a slide-through type failure caused by the locked wheel. This failure had developed into a larger disruption of the tyre carcass which in turn resulted in flailing of a substantial section of both tread and carcass when the wheel then began to rotate. This flailing material was found to have struck the spray guard at the rear of the auxiliary spar below the inboard ground spoiler a number of times and destroyed it as well as causing significant damage to the local auxiliary wing spar structure and fracturing hydraulic pipes which led to the failure of the two hydraulic systems. The same flailing material was also found to have fractured the flap drive torque tube, damaged a major wiring loom and caused metallic debris to be forced between and into contact with the two cables driving the left aileron. The locked condition of the wheel did not appear to have been the result of high hydraulic pressure being supplied to the associated brake. There was also no evidence of brake unit damage or malfunction and the locked wheel was subsequently attributed to the vulnerability of the aircraft carbon brakes to water ingress and retention when parked. The Investigating Agency was concerned at the extent and potential effects of the secondary damage that had occurred to flying controls, hydraulic services and electrical conductors which it was considered were sufficient to cause reduction or total loss of control either before or after takeoff as well as during landing. This view was noted to be contrary to the corresponding analysis of this type of failure which indicated that the aircraft would remain controllable. The concern was present in the light of the catastrophic failure in a cross-ply tyre which initiated the fatal accident to a Concorde aircraft departing Paris CDG on 25 July 2000 (see: CONC, vicinity Paris Charles de Gaulle France, 2000). That investigation drew attention to considerable differences between possible tyre failure modes in practice and those assumed for aircraft certification purposes. It was additionally noted that, since the kinetic energy imparted by flailing tyre carcass sections to any aircraft components within the radius of flail is a function of speed, then should such tyre damage occur at the higher runway speeds