The issue of cabin air quality on commercial aircraft, as well as the possible contamination of that air with fumes and contaminants introduced via bleed air from the engine or auxiliary power unit as part of the pressurization and heating and cooling functions, remains controversial. Most modern, pressurized commercial aircraft use heated air drawn or “bled” from the engines or auxiliary power unit (APU) for cabin and cockpit air conditioning. As described by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Civil Aerospace Medical Institute (CAMI) in a 2015 report, “air supplied to a pressurized aircraft cockpit and cabin occurs via an environmental control system (ECS). Fresh air from outside the aircraft, known as replacement or make-up air, enters the ECS in most large transport category commercial airplanes via the aircraft engines. The compressed air is then ‘bled’ through ports and is cooled before being mixed in a manifold with recirculated air, ultimately becoming distributed throughout the cockpit and cabin.” Fume events or contaminated air quality events (CAQE) may occur as a result of the interaction of incoming make-up air and heated oils or hydraulic fluids from leaking or failed seals in the engine compartment, or from leaks around the APU. “Factors inside the engine compartment that influence the generation of contaminants include types and amounts of oil and hydraulic fluids, temperature and humidity. Factors inside the aircraft that influence contaminant concentrations include the size of the occupied space and the number of complete air changes per hour (i.e., the volume of make-up air versus the volume of exhausted cabin air),” according to the CAMI report. FAA and other regulatory agencies have said that fume events are rare. The CAMI report described events arising from the APU or ECS as “extremely rare.” The Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority‘s Expert Panel on Aircraft Air Quality (EPAAQ) said, in its 2011 report, that “on the available evidence, reported fume events were quite rare, whether expressed on the basis of the number of flights or the number of hours flown.” The EPAAQ report also said, however, that “the panel was unable to find consistent or systematic reporting systems which specifically targeted aircraft incidents being used by Australian or international airlines to enable statistical incidences to be verified.”