of the extended period during which FL 070 was applied as the Transition Level” and that “he had become accustomed to this value and therefore made (his) error based on routine”. It was also considered that the absence of the GND controller at the time had removed the possibility that he might have been able to notice and correct the TWR controller’s clearance error. The Investigation then sought to establish why the DFTI had provided the controller with altitude readouts for the two aircraft which, although 500 feet apart as had been the case, were both lower than the actual altitudes after allowing for the 500 feet effect of the controller’s transition level error. It was found that the source of the data SSR data displayed on the Lugano DFTI was obtained from a central facility near Zurich and the conversion of aircraft data from standard pressure altitudes to QNH was tied to the Zurich transition level and QNH. At the time of the investigated event, the QNH at Zurich was 984 hPa but the QNH at Lugano was 995 hPa. This accounted for the displayed aircraft altitudes at Lugano being 300 feet too low. The Investigation was informed by ANSP Skyguide that the source “was not designed for multiple QNH zones, so for the radar display the QNH and Transition Level for Zurich alone were decisive”. No corresponding explanation was reported to have been provided by Skyguide as to why in the light of this, the Lugano DFTI was fed in this way and (apparently) the consequence not documented. It was noted that the controller involved had not been aware of this aspect of the DFTI display but that unit procedures, whilst not permitting use of altitude data for control duties did explicitly say that the system should be used to provide “support for pilots in emergency situations”. The stated view of the Investigation on this finding was that: “Even though the DFTI is not intended for the purpose of separation, it is intended as an aid in emergency situations. Especially in cases of emergency, time-critical stress situations may arise which might be further exacerbated by incorrect altitude information. For this reason, this configuration defect in the system constitutes a considerable risk from an aviation safety perspective”. The formal statement of Cause from the Investigation was that: “The serious incident is attributable to the fact that the air traffic control officer gave clearance to descend to an aircraft in the area of the transition level (TL); given the prevailing atmospheric pressure this led to a dangerous convergence with another aircraft, which involved a significant risk of collision.” It was concluded that “the following factors made it more difficult to identify the incorrect clearance and defuse the situation: The air traffic control officer was working alone.. The altitude readings on the radar display below TL/TA (were) based on Zurich airport (QNH) and were wrong for the airport Lugano (which) hampered the overview.”. One Safety Recommendation was issued as a result