The conflict occurred in Italian airspace and was not reported to the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) until three days after it had occurred. The SAIB then advised the Italian authorities who delegated the Investigation to the SAIB. It was established that when the conflict occurred, both aircraft were working Lugano TWR where procedural service was being provided by a single TWR controller. It was found that whilst the investigated incident scenario was developing, the only other controller on duty, designated as the GND controller, was temporarily away from his position because he had felt unwell. Weather conditions at the time were such that a LOC approach to runway 01 was likely to be followed by a visual circuit to land on runway 19. Both aircraft were approaching initially from the north and were handed off to Lugano by Milano Control with adequate separation, the Saab being ahead of the Cessna. Once with Lugano, the Saab had been cleared to descend to 6000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings on 995 hPa and take up the PINIK hold. As the aircraft turned inbound in the hold to head north north west towards PINIK, a preventive RA to ‘Monitor Vertical Speed’ was annunciated but TWR was not immediately advised of this. The C510, which had checked in on the same frequency shortly after the Saab, had been cleared to descend to FL 070 - which was an inadvertent error by the controller not noticed by the crew since the actual Transition Level that day was FL 075 following a nine day period with higher pressure generating a Transition Level of FL 070. As they approached PINIK tracking south south west at that level, the Cessna crew received a “TAS” Alert indicating opposite direction traffic approaching 500 feet below and decided that it would be in the interests of safety to climb to increase separation. At about the same time, the Saab crew advised TWR of their RA and thus prompted the controller to check his “Distance From Touchdown Indicator” (DFTI). This was showing the Saab at an altitude of 5700 feet (rather than 6000 feet) and the Cessna at an altitude of 6200 feet (rather than FL 070) and so he immediately instructed the Cessna to “maintain seven zero, do not descend below”. Nineteen seconds after the Saab reported an RA (and just over three minutes after it had first been activated), the two aircraft passed each other 1nm south west of PINIK with a lateral separation of 0.1 nm and a vertical separation of 500 feet in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). “Clear of Conflict” was annunciated to the Saab crew some 35 seconds after the RA had been reported to ATC. It was found that the climb intended by the Cessna had not actually commenced until shortly after the two aircraft had passed each other. Both aircraft subsequently continued to a landing in turn without further event. It was considered that the Transition Level error made by the controller was “a result