when the First Officer attempted to do so, he found that the control column could not be moved and announced this accordingly as the aircraft continued straight ahead and seven seconds after the V1 call, a rejected takeoff was commenced at a speed of approximately 130 KIAS. FDR data was found to show that from the time the V1 call was made, the aircraft heading began to deviate to the right of the centreline, reaching a recorded maximum of +11° within 5 seconds which was about the time the takeoff was rejected. The heading then began to decrease over the next 11 seconds by a total of 21° and on regaining the runway, the heading then increased again as the aircraft was realigned with the runway heading. These changes corresponded to a deviation off the north side of the 45 metre-wide runway which reached a maximum of 23 metres from its edge before the return onto it began. During the excursion, the aircraft was on unpaved ground for a distance of 530 metres and passed, at a speed of “approximately 119 KIAS”, in front of a ROBIN DR-400 Cadet single engine light aircraft (see its position on the illustration above) which was waiting at the holding point on the taxiway from the north side of the airport. Once back on the runway, the TWR controller asked the reason for the rejected takeoff and the Captain stated that it was because the (control) gust lock was still engaged. The aircraft was taxied clear at the end of the runway and returned to the apron where it was found that damage to the aircraft was minor and limited to one propeller blade, the left main landing gear tyre and a small area of the lower fuselage cargo compartment. An inspection of the runway and the excursion area found one damaged edge light and impact damage to an information sign near to the taxiway on which the DR400 had been waiting. Fuel leakage was also observed in the vicinity of the left and right main landing gear attachment to the wing structure. The absence of significant damage to the aircraft as a result of the excursion was due to the relatively level, dry and unobstructed surface traversed during it (see the illustration below). The main gear marks looking back from the point where the runway was regained. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A gust lock system is provided to prevent movement and potentially resultant damage to the primary flight control surfaces and in the case of the Jetstream 32 was controlled via a single lever located on the right hand side of the centre pedestal as illustrated below. The Gust Lock Lever shown in the controls locked position as during the takeoff. [Reproduced from the Official Report] According to the Captain, after the rejected takeoff the lever was found to be in the locked position which by design should have meant that it was mechanically impossible for both power levers to be move