the flight crew not checking full and free movement of the flight controls. After the first of these, the Crew Manual was amended to stress the absolute necessity of checking free movement of all control surfaces after disengaging the Gust Lock system. When four reports of it being possible to move both power levers simultaneously beyond the flight idle position despite the gust lock system being engaged, two of which occurred on Jetstream 32 aircraft, a 1992 SB provided for a reinforced version of the control rod bent in the event under investigation and in May 1994, the status of this SB was changed from ‘Optional’ to ‘Highly Recommended’ and the new rod was fitted at build. The aircraft involved in the event under investigation was manufactured in 1989 and it was found that this ‘Highly Recommended’ SB had not been implemented. The Investigation observed that although the problem has been “known for decades”, takeoff attempts with gust lock systems engaged continue to occur on a range of aircraft types with sometimes potentially fatal consequences such as in a 2014 accident in the USA. It noted the frequently repeated need for “compliance with and adherence to procedures and checklists and mutual monitoring as part of flight-safety-improving CRM". It also observed that “maintenance personnel need to understand the importance of a fully functional gust lock system which prevents takeoff when in the engaged position and check its proper function regularly”. However, it recognised that “ultimately, only a complete check of flight controls prior to a takeoff can ensure that all flight controls are full and free”. The Cause of the Serious Incident was formally documented as “veering off the runway during takeoff due to the engaged gust lock system which locked the control surfaces and resulted in the pilots temporarily losing control of the aircraft”. Seven Contributory Factors were also identified as: Insufficient supervision, support and monitoring of the Line Training Captain.. Inexperience of the young co-pilot and a long gap between his obtaining a type rating and his first commercial scheduled flight.. Insufficient Crew Resource Management of the flight crew.. Pressure of time created by the crew between engine start-up and take-off.. Non-stringent application and erroneous completion of the checklists.. Checklist items, procedures and choice of wording in the checklists of the operator which did not completely correspond with the ones of the aircraft manufacturer. A mechanical deficiency in the gust lock system, which allowed the engine power of both engines to be increased simultaneously.. Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator as a result of the event was noted as adding the item “Gust Lock Handle … Full Down and Flight Controls … Full Free” to the Line Up checklist. One Safety Recommendation was made based on the findings of the Investigation as follows: that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should convert the ‘Highly Recommended’ Service Bulletin (SB) 27JM-5350 ‘Modified Push Rod Assembly at Gust Lock / Power Lever Baulk Mechanism’ into a mandatory Airworthiness Directive in