The flight was scheduled to depart at 1730 LT and both pilots arrived at the airport ahead of the rostered 75 minute report time for a training flight. After about half an hour, during which the First Officer had reviewed and, as necessary, filed the flight documentation, the crew went to the aircraft. After the Captain had conducted the external check, the crew then completed the flight deck pre-flight checks together. They were informed that the allocated CTOT for the flight which was not until 31 minutes after the STD and according to the Captain’s statement “he was angry about the delayed departure time” and was recorded telling the GND controller that he was “displeased” at the delay. At STD, the GND controller offered to send a “ready message” which can sometimes lead to an improvement in the initially-issued CTOT. According to the statements of the GND and TWR controllers, “it became clear from the radio communication that the crew was not familiar with the meaning of "ready message". With 20 minutes to go until the issued CTOT, the GND controller approved engine start at the crew’s discretion to meet it but when it had not occurred with 9 minutes to go, he again issued it. With less than 3 minutes to go, the flight subsequently requested and received taxi clearance via taxiways ‘D’ and ‘A’ to the holding point for runway 25 (see the illustration below). It was noted that according to the First Officer’s statement, during the taxi out he had already felt “a bit lost (and) behind the aircraft and had attributed this to the fact that he had not flown the aircraft type for three months”. As the aircraft was only fitted with a nose gear steering tiller at the left seat position, the First Officer was initially acting as PM and so he actioned the instruction to change from GND to TWR as the aircraft approached the holding point. The airport layout showing the subsequent takeoff attempt and rejection with runway excursion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Takeoff clearance followed at 30 seconds after the CTOT and the First Officer began to complete the line-up checklist. The CVR data showed that in doing so, he had missed out item 4 which was the full and free movement check of the flying controls. The next item on the checklist was to test and select on the Stall Protection System but he had difficulty in immediately locating the switch positions which the Captain noticed and said “leave it, not so important” and so this item was skipped. Takeoff from the 2170 metre-long runway was commenced 1½ minutes after the clearance had been issued. Although the First Officer was going to take over as PF once directional control by rudder was possible, the Captain initially controlled the aircraft direction using the nose wheel steering system, and transferred control to the First Officer at around 70 KIAS. At the calculated V1 of 108 knots, he called “V1 rotate” but