simultaneously above the flight idle position. An examination of the mechanism found that this had been possible because a fork-ended control rod was bent instead of being straight (see the lustration below). It was noted that this system had last been inspected during a routine check seven months earlier with no recorded findings of any control rod distortion. Bent control rod as found (highlighted). Reproduced from the Official Report Straight control rod as installed. [Reproduced from the Official Report] His evident failure to operate in accordance with SOPs not only hazarded safe flight but provided an appallingly inappropriate example to an extremely inexperienced trainee pilot and did so on a public transport flight. In respect of his training role and in particular the complete lack of continuity in the First Officer’s type training for his first experience as a professional transport pilot, he completely failed to ensure an unhurried departure despite the ATC offer of engine start 20 minutes before takeoff time. It was also evident from the unfamiliarity with the long established ATC CTOT system in Europe that having gained most of his flying experience as a light aircraft instructor, he lacked sufficient understanding of the way the commercial air transport system operated. When a comparison was made between the operator’s checklists in their OM and the master checklists in the Manufacturers Operating Manual (MOM), some significant discrepancies were found. These included the MOM checklist item of ‘GUST LOCK … RELEASE / FULLY DOWN’ being absent from the operator’s taxi and line up checks altogether and the item ‘FLYING CONTROLS … FULL and FREE’ being shortened to ‘Flight Controls … CHECKED’ and included in the operator’s line up checks instead of in the taxi checks as in the MOM. The BFU concluded that these differences were “not acceptable” in safety terms. As a result of its wider findings during the Investigation, “the BFU was of the opinion that it is probable that other flight crew did not check the proper function of the Gust Lock system during pre-flight preparation or flight deck checks and that the technical deficiency had existed for some time”. The Captain’s attitude to compliance with operational procedures therefore had to be seen in that context. Under the aircraft type certification provisions in CS25 for large aeroplanes, it was noted that a gust lock system which prevents normal operation of the control surfaces must either automatically disengage when a pilot operates the primary flight controls in a normal manner or limit the operation of the aeroplane and provide the pilot with an unmistakable warning at the start of take-off. It must be designed in such a way that it cannot become inadvertently engaged in flight. Shortly after the introduction of the Jetstream 32 (in 1988), the manufacture became aware of three instances, two of which led to a lateral runway excursion like the one in the event under investigation, involving the very similar Jetstream 31 due to the Gust Lock system not being fully disengaged and