There are reliable scientific findings that working at night causes a de-synchronisation of body functions. Human beings are day-active creatures, who are programmed to perform and be active during the day and to recover during the night. The problem arising from rotating shift systems, especially if night shifts are included, is the activation of the employees against their body clock. They have to work during the nights and to rest during the day. The increased physical stress by working nights manifests itself in: a decrease of performance and. an increase of tiredness.. The reduced efficiency leads to: an increased frequency of errors. an extension of reaction times (decreased vigilance).. Night shiftworkers frequently mention troubles with body functions that are related to the circadian rhythm. The following are often expressed: sleep deficit / chronic fatigue. gastrointestinal disorders. reduced well-being.. A worker’s age is another crucial factor. The older employees are, the more difficult is the adaptation to night work. A phase model developed by EUROCONTROL describes shiftwork throughout a working career: Adaptation Phase (zero-five years): The shiftworker has to adapt to changes in sleeping and eating pattern, social and family life, and social strain.. Sensitisation Phase (five-twenty years): Tolerance towards shiftwork develops.. Accumulation Phase (twenty plus years): Risk factors, sleep quality and attitudes towards shiftwork accelerate the biological ageing process and have a strong influence on the health and the tolerance of the shiftwork.. Manifestation Phase (twenty plus years): Some workers enter the manifestation phase before but also after retirement, which is characterised by an increase of disorders and diseases related to sustained shiftwork.. The following list summarises the problems faced by shiftworkers in working shift: Working in a rotating shift system (especially with night shifts) means working against the body clock (circadian rhythm) and leads to a de-synchronisation of the human body functions.. Impairments of sleep, gastrointestinal and cardiovascular disorders can be the consequences. A so-called “healthy worker effect” is found: Only people fairly robust against the negative effects of shiftwork stay at the respective workplaces in the long run.. Individual differences such as age, or the classification into morning and evening type, determine the effects of shiftwork as well.. Apart from health impairments, shiftwork influences the social and family life..