AQ’ mode activated causing the rate of descent to decrease but it still remained significantly below profile and also still below the applicable MOCA. At this point, the TWR controller was involved with an aircraft push back problem on the apron but the Assistant present had become concerned by what they considered was the unusually low altitude of the 737 and drew the controller’s attention to it. The controller stated that on looking, he had considered that the aircraft was “dangerously positioned” as defined in the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS) Part 1 and had “instinctively instructed the crew to go-around”. This instruction was acknowledged and a go around commenced with the First Officer flying manually by reference to the FD and TOGA thrust selected. However, because MDA rather than the go around stop altitude was still the selected altitude, the FD command had changed from a climb to a level off on reaching MDA. As it did so, the A/T mode changed from ‘go-around’ to one which maintains the current airspeed and this led to engine thrust reducing below 20° Thrust Lever Angle (TLA). Since the aircraft was configured with flap 15 and the landing gear up, this triggered activation of the gear warning horn. In response, the selected altitude was changed to the go-around stop altitude of 3,000 feet which led the vertical mode to change from ‘ALT AQ’ to the current ‘V/S’ which was a 300fpm descent. The First Officer as PF continued to follow the FD commands and the gear warning horn remained active. When the flap setting was reduced to flap 5, this caused the A/T to increase thrust above 20° TLA and the gear warning horn, which had been continuously active for 27 seconds, ceased. However, the descent continued and an EGPWS ‘TOO LOW GEAR’ Alert occurred as the aircraft descended through 500 feet agl. After two seconds, the Captain then took control and reinstated the required climb. The minimum height reached as this transition was occurring was 457 feet agl. When the aircraft climb ceased and became a descent overhead the airport, the TWR Assistant had again drawn the TWR controller’s attention to the aircraft and on seeing where the aircraft was (see the illustration below) this led him to transmit “All Stations Bristol Standby”. Eighteen seconds later, as the aircraft continued to climb, he instructed the flight to climb to and maintain 3000 feet QNH 1018. Once the flight reached and levelled off as instructed, it was transferred to APP radar and vectored to the south of the airport and onto another RNAV (GNSS) approach which was completed to a landing without further event. An annotated ground track of the initial part of the go around. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation concluded that the whole episode had started with the acceptance of the reduced track miles offer which had failed to consider how a stabilised approach in compliance with speed control could be achieved. Although the track miles reduction