was very clearly an offer and not an instruction, it was noted that the operator’s OM explicitly included a requirement to decline any ATC request such as track shortening which “is likely to result in an unstabilised approach”. The consequence of acceptance was a highly unstabilised extremely high speed approach which was continued without hesitation despite the failure to conduct it in accordance with the applicable approach procedure or operator SOPs and then continuing it despite a gross failure to comply with the operator’s stabilised approach criteria. This action led directly to the failure to set the go around altitude, the consequences of which were not promptly recognised. Overall, the available evidence from the whole episode indicated that there had been a sustained period during which normal crew SOPs had been comprehensively ignored. It was considered that a more experienced APP controller might not have considered it appropriate to offer a track miles reduction given the speed and height of the aircraft but nevertheless “it is the responsibility of the crew to accept or decline any shortcut offered having assessed whether it is suitable (and) it remains the prerogative of the crew to ask for extra track miles to touchdown any time they consider the current distance to be too short”. In respect of the TWR controller’s instinctive instruction to order a go around on sighting aircraft in an undoubtedly unusual position, it was noted that whilst it had not been anticipated, “all crews must be prepared to perform a go-around at any time during an approach”. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: Flying a shortened routing led to a rushed and unstable approach which did not follow the correct vertical flight path. This was observed by ATC who instructed the aircraft to go around. The crew found themselves performing a go-around unexpectedly but did not know why they had been required to do so. The go-around was conducted with a mis-set altitude on the MCP, and neither crew member noticed for a significant period that the aircraft was descending during the manoeuvre. Crews should always be ready to perform a go-around because there can be many reasons why they might have to, either internal or external to the aircraft, such as on instruction from ATC. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 23 April 2020.