A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The CVR, FDR and EGPWS were all removed for download and relevant data was obtained. It was noted that the 55 year-old Captain had been acting as PM for the flight until he took over control when the aircraft began to descend soon after the go around had been initiated. He had a total of 14,750 hours flying experience which included 10,770 hours on type. The flying experience of the First Officer was not recorded. The prevailing weather conditions during the investigated approach and go around were in all respects benign and had no bearing on aircraft flight path management. It was established that on contacting Bristol APP the radar controller in position, who was a trainee undergoing supervised OJT (on-the-job training), advised that they had 33 nm to go and could expect to be cleared for a RNAV(GNSS) approach to runway 27. Ten seconds later, with the flight at FL 100, a reduction to 23 track miles was offered and following crew acceptance, radar vectors towards final approach were provided accordingly. FDR data showed that once descent from FL100 commenced, the crew set the Bristol QNH of 1019, deployed the speed brakes and increased the ‘Selected Airspeed’ to 300 knots. This airspeed was selected despite the fact that the maximum permitted airspeed below this altitude in UK airspace is 250 KIAS. An idle thrust descent at up to 3000 fpm followed as the controller routed the aircraft direct to waypoint ‘ELROV’, the procedure IF on the extended runway centreline at 9.8 nm from the runway threshold. LNAV mode was successfully engaged and, with the airspeed in excess of 300 KCAS, descent continued towards the beginning of the initial approach which began 4 nm before ELROV which was marked on the approach chart as maximum 210 KIAS. This speed was nevertheless exceeded by around 70 knots. As ELROV was approached, the crew made three attempts to engage the AP in VNAV mode, the first with the airspeed still at 265 KCAS despite continued idle thrust, but were unable to achieve this because of the excessive speed and therefore continued final approach with ‘LVL CHG’ mode selected and the MDA set as the selected altitude. This selection meant that compliance with the SOP which required the go around stop altitude to be set as the selected altitude could not be followed. Soon after the flight passed ELROV, the APP controller, with the recorded airspeed still 241 KCAS with 8nm to go, asked the crew to “start reducing speed please, 190 knots or less”. He then transferred the flight to TWR, advising them “that the aircraft was fast”. The TWR controller noted this but since there was no traffic ahead he had “considered that it was safe to allow the flight to continue”. Still at idle thrust and at an excessive airspeed, this descent was established at approximately 250 ft below the procedure vertical profile. As the MDA was approached, the ‘ALT