An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data from the aircraft DAR (Digital Aircraft Condition Monitoring System Recorder) was available in support of the Investigation. Flight crew details were not recorded. After completion of the push back, the First Officer, designated as PF for the flight, taxied the aircraft for a runway 01L departure. In anticipation of a rolling takeoff on reaching the runway, the Before Takeoff Checks were completed whilst taxiing and having been cleared for takeoff shortly before entering the runway, a rolling takeoff was commenced with Flex thrust set. Both pilots subsequently stated that as both engines spooled up, a vibration and “popping” noise which rapidly increased in both frequency and volume was heard and the aircraft simultaneously began to diverge to the right of the runway centreline despite the First Officer applying full left rudder. The Captain responded by immediately selecting reverse thrust and brought the aircraft to a stop with the maximum ground speed reached being only 30 knots. Once the thrust levers were at idle, the vibration subsided and the popping stopped and two ECAM messages for the No 2 (right) engine were annunciated - ‘STALL’ and ‘EGT LIMIT EXCEEDANCE’. The captain made a PA for “cabin crew to stations” and the SCCM responded that some passengers had seen flames coming from the right engine. Both the TWR controller and the flight crew of a following aircraft also reported having seen flames coming from the rear of the right engine for a short time. After the RFFS had attended and found no evidence of anything abnormal, the aircraft was taxied back to the gate where both engines were shut down. Immediately after the passengers had disembarked, the attending engineers reported finding “small balls of metallic debris” in the tailpipe of the right engine (see the illustration below) and a review of recorded flight data indicated the right engine had surged when takeoff thrust was applied. Debris observed in the right engine tailpipe after engine shutdown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A borescope inspection of the right engine found damage to stages 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the High Pressure Compressor (HPC) which was consistent with FOD ingestion (see the illustration below). Since this damage was outside AMM limits, the engine was removed from the aircraft and sent for a teardown inspection. A boroscope image of stages 7 and 8 of the HPC. [Reproduced from the Official Report] This confirmed extensive small metallic debris in both the low pressure and high pressure turbines and a range of impact damage to the HPC assembly. It also found a ¼’’ hexagon screwdriver tool tip between the combustion case and the engine case with this screwdriver tip (see the illustration below) being intact apart from erosion of the tip due to heat and mechanical damage but generally burnt/discoloured. The hexagon screwdriver tip recovered from the engine. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was concluded that these