findings were consistent with the screwdriver tip having fallen into the LPC bleed duct and subsequently passed through the interstage duct and into the HPC. It was considered that the almost complete lack of damage to the LPC indicated the tip had not been ingested from the runway and that damage found to a fairing screw at the rear of the LPC meant that “it was likely the screwdriver tip had been left in the screw or had fallen into the bleed duct during maintenance”. At the next engine start-up, it would have then travelled into and through the HPC striking various components leaving the series of observed witness marks, before being held captive adjacent to the combustion chamber. The teardown also found evidence that cyclic fatigue cracks had initiated from the impact damage to one stage 5 turbine blade and one stage 6 stator vane. It was not possible to determine which failed first but either way it was considered that impact of one by the detached part of the other would have added to the debris continuing downstream where further damage included the failure of a further five compressor blades. The collective effect of all this damage would have been sufficient to disrupt the air flow through the HPC and allow the engine to surge thus causing the loss of engine performance. It was also noted that some other stage 5 blades had “tip curl” - a known characteristic sign of hard body impact damage - and that there was “distinctive hexagon-shaped dent” in one stage 8 stator vane. In respect of the flight crew response to the failure, both pilots commented that they had been surprised by the unexpected onset of the event and noted that “the noise and vibration was far more severe than they had experienced during flight simulator training sessions when practicing for similar types of events”. It appeared that the First Officer had been surprised that it was not possible to correct the deviation which had resulted from asymmetric thrust by using full opposite rudder whereas the appropriate response to a low speed rejected take off - one commenced below VMCG - is differential braking whilst promptly returning the thrust levers to idle. A Previously Investigated Event of similar origin It was noted that the ATSB had also investigated a 1998 event to a Qantas Boeing 767-300 which had experienced similar engine surging, in this case just after becoming airborne but which had ceased once the affected engine was set to idle prior to a return to land. The cause of this surging was also determined to have been a screwdriver tool tip left in the engine during maintenance. Two Contributing Factors were identified as follows: A screwdriver tip, left in a fairing screw or bleed duct, travelled through the high-pressure compressor (HPC) section of the right engine before becoming lodged in the combustion section. This resulted in impact damage to HPC blades and vanes.. Fatigue cracks initiated at damaged locations in at