According to the ICAO Concept of Operations, the Global Aeronautical Distress and Safety System (GADSS) will address all phases of flight under all circumstances including distress. This GADSS will maintain an up‐to‐date record of the aircraft progress and, in case of a crash, forced landing or ditching, the location of survivors, the aircraft and recoverable flight data. The three main functions of the GDASS are: Aircraft Tracking. Autonomous Distress Tracking. Post Flight Localization and Recovery. The GDASS Aircraft Tracking function is planned to provide an automated 4 dimensional position (latitude, longitude, altitude and time) at a reporting interval of 15 minutes or less. This reporting interval will result in a reduction of the time necessary to resolve the status of an aircraft or, when necessary, help to locate an aircraft. If air traffic services obtain an aircraft position at 15 minute intervals or less, it will not be necessary for the operator to track the aircraft. However, should the aircraft be operating within an area where ATS obtains the aircraft position at intervals greater than 15 minutes, the operator will be required to ensure that the aircraft is tracked. In general terms the aircraft tracking function: Does not introduce any change to current ATC alerting procedures. Establishes operator responsibilities for tracking based on areas of operation. Is not technology‐specific. Establishes communication protocols between operator and ATC. The Autonomous Distress Tracking (ADT) function will be used to identify the location of an aircraft in distress with the aim of establishing the location of an accident site within a 6 NM radius. An aircraft is considered to be in a distress condition when it is in a state that, if the aircraft event is left uncorrected, may result in an accident. Triggering criteria might include items such as unusual attitudes, altitudes or speeds, potential collision with terrain, total loss of thrust on all engines, Mode A squawk codes, and others as defined by the operator. The ADT function will use on-board systems to broadcast either aircraft position (latitude and longitude), or a distinctive distress signal from which the aircraft position and time can be derived. Once the ADT has been triggered by a distress condition event, the aircraft position information will be transmitted at least once every minute. In the event of an accident, the immediate priority is the rescue of any survivors. The ADT function will greatly reduce the potential search area and even more accurate aircraft position information will be provided through the Post Flight Localization function by means of Emergency Locator Transmitter (ELT) and/or homing signals to guide SAR services on site. To facilitate the ability to locate the wreckage and recover the flight recorder data after an accident, the post flight localization and recovery function specifies a number of requirements for ELTs, Underwater Locator Beacon (ULB) and flight recorders which are being incorporated into the provisions of ICAO Annex 6.