After notification of the event to the French BEA by the Tarbes ATC, it was classified as a Serious Incident and then agreed that the required Investigation would be carried out by the Bulgarian Air Accident Investigation Unit (AAIU). Relevant data from the FDR was successfully downloaded but due to the failure of the flight crew involved to report the event, relevant data from the CVR was overwritten. It was noted that ground observers of the event at Tarbes had been “terrified by the approach and the things which happened expecting the plane to crash at any moment”. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain had a total of 24,200 flying hours of which 6,200 hours were on type, all gained in command. The 39 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,000 flying hours of which 1,200 hours were on type. It was also noted that both pilots were familiar with Tarbes airport and had operated the same route sector a week earlier. It was established that most of the flight had proceeded normally, with the First Officer as PF. Shortly before descent from the final cruise altitude of FL330 which had provided smooth flying conditions, some avoidance of convective weather in the Barcelona region had been necessary in icing conditions and moderate turbulence but at about FL100, these conditions had ceased when the aircraft had “exited the dense clouds”. Clearance to join the ILS ’Z’ procedure for runway 20 at Tarbes was given and on checking in with TWR, the flight reported fully established on the ILS. Having earlier been advised by ATC of a thunderstorm in the vicinity, with the lowest cloud as FEW at 1900 and visibility as 5km, TWR then advised that the surface wind was 210°/11 knots, that Cumulonimbus cloud was present and that the runway was wet. The Investigation noted that during the final approach and go around, a significant thunderstorm cell which had been tracking west to east had been to the north of the airport and was likely to have affected the flight conditions on final approach. The approach had proceeded normally until the AP was disconnected at a recorded 844 feet agl with the runway in sight. Immediately after this, the aircraft “was exposed to strong wind gusts and heavy rain” and the First Officer failed to maintain accurate tracking of the ILS. A deviation left of the LLZ track and below the GS began to develop and the Captain took control and began corrective action, although he left the A/T engaged in SPEED mode set to 140 knots. Thereafter, the First Officer did not fully transition to his unanticipated PM role. The absence of any action by the Captain to increase engine thrust in support of the manually increased pitch meant that descent below the ILS GS continued and at 380 feet agl, the aircraft flight path took it beyond ILS FFD for both the LLZ and the GS. Despite this, no go-around was commenced or called and