operator and the aircraft subsequently made an uneventful flight back to Tarbes and landed normally. The aircraft had been flown level at around 40 feet agl without achieving a sustained climb for a further 850 metres once over the runway making a total of 1680 metres of flight conducted with close to critical angles of attack. The aircraft over the runway prior to the setting of enough thrust to begin a go around. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation noted that since the aircraft flight path during the event could be completely explained by the available FDR data, there was no reason to formally eliminate either aircraft airworthiness or airport navigation systems as potential contributors to the event. However, the aerodynamic characteristics and performance of the aircraft were examined in respect of two aspects with contrary consequences. It was concluded that the rear mounted engines had presented a “clean wing” which had contributed a “positive influence” insofar as the separation of the airflow over the wing and its control surfaces will be delayed relative to wings with pylon-mounted engines because of the cleaner surface circulation over it. On the other hand, the T-shaped tail of the aircraft had contributed “a negative influence” in that “to some extent, depending on the wing area and the tail panels of the aircraft, there is a marked shadowing on the tail panels and the pitch control surfaces in the wake of the wing at high angles of attack”. It was noted that such shadowing in flight is a very dangerous phenomenon known as a “deep stall” which “is characterised by two consecutive, energetic pitch-ups” with the second ultimately leading to a loss of aircraft pitch control. During both these pitch-ups, it was observed that the C of G of an aircraft moves and pitch decreases briefly but then resumes its rearward movement and longitudinal stability is lost. Tests to study this phenomenon found that the first pitch-up to about 20° resulted in the airflow gradually spreading over almost all the wing and the aircraft remaining controllable, albeit using “extreme and vigorous rudder commands” to retain directional control but that the “second pitch-up was caused by a loss of efficiency of the horizontal stabiliser” about which the airflow was already highly disturbed and therefore pitch control was lost. The Investigation “assumed with sufficient probability” that the aircraft was in the first phase of this phenomenon, but the limit was not reached and retracting the flaps from 40° to 11° briefly reduced drag whilst at the same time reducing the pitch angle at a critical moment, which was “accompanied by an altitude change from 33 feet to 107 feet before the aircraft again began to lose height and descended back to 50 feet”. It was concluded that the recognition by the crew that go around thrust was not set had occurred at the last possible moment to allow recovery of the situation. It was also observed that “The flight did not end fatally because the