at 96 feet agl, “the approach was (still) totally outside the standards and the required parameters for a stabilised approach”. Two seconds later, the Captain selected the A/T off whilst making no change to the (minimal but not minimum) thrust being maintained and four seconds after that, with the aircraft at 58 feet agl and with 480 metres still to go before reaching the runway threshold, he then increased the pitch from 4° to 11° without increasing the thrust. The aircraft levelled at approximately 40 feet agl and flew horizontally at that height for 10 seconds as the airspeed dropped from the 136 knot approach speed to 128 knots, during which the aircraft crossed the runway threshold to the right of the centreline. The First Officer, who reported having been “extremely concerned about the situation” made a go around call and after about 5 seconds and when 350 metres past the threshold after a total 830 metres flown level at 40 feet agl, the Captain called and initiated one. He selected TO/GA and began following the FD pitch up command but did not remember that the A/T was off and did not increase thrust manually. The minimal engine thrust set resulted in the angle of attack approaching a critical (stall threshold) level. The First Officer did not recognise the absence of sufficient thrust for a climb but 7 seconds after the threshold had been crossed with 124 KCAS recorded, he responded to the Captain’s call to select the flaps from 40° directly to 11° and, three seconds later, to select the landing gear up as the aircraft passed 89 feet agl at 119 KCAS and thereafter also armed the GA altitude, selected the speed to 180 knots and disarmed the spoilers. The airspeed continued to decrease and as the landing gear retraction was completed, the airspeed reached its minimum of 116 KCAS whilst the aircraft was at a 15° pitch up. Three seconds later, whilst disarming the spoilers, the First Officer noticed that the thrust levers were not at the go around position and immediately advised the Captain who responded by instructing him to correct this. The thrust was immediately increased from 1.3 EPR to 1.9 EPR and then further to a maximum of 2.04 (left) and 2.16 (right) after which the Captain “made some adjustments”. Three seconds after this thrust increase was commenced, the pitch of the aircraft and its angle of attack reached their maximum values of 38.6° and 19.8° respectively at 50 feet agl and 124 KCAS. After a further 15 seconds, with the aircraft passing 343 feet agl and with airspeed now 142 KCAS, the thrust was reduced to the normal climb setting and the aircraft was observed to commence a left turn and “fly very close to a hill”. It was then radar vectored to turn north and after entering a hold to review matters then diverted to Toulouse. On arrival there, no report about the event was made by the Captain to the aircraft