An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. It was based on interviews and written reports from the Captain and ground crew involved in the handling of the aircraft departure from Dublin. It was noted that the 40 year-old aircraft Captain had 6,523 hours total flying experience which included 2,882 hours on the ATR42/72 and that the First Officer had approximately 3,000 hours total flying experience, all but 200 hours on the ATR 42/72. It was established that the aircraft had been towed to the departure stand and had arrived there approximately 15 minutes prior STD and that loading of checked bags had commenced six minutes later. The boarding of 57 passengers and loadsheet acceptance was completed quickly enough for the flight to be pushed back from the stand on schedule. The Captain, who was PF for the flight subsequently reported that the aircraft had “felt tail heavy on take-off” and that after departure, the crew had checked their copies of the Loadsheet and the Loading Instruction Report (LIR), which both indicated that all passenger baggage was in the forward hold. He also reported having briefed the First Officer that the landing would be “somewhat flat due to the tail heavy condition" although the subsequent landing at Rennes was uneventful. Once the aircraft had been shut down on stand, it was discovered that all 32 bags weighing 421 kg had actually been loaded in the aft hold. It was noted that external access to the aft hold is from the right hand side of the aircraft via a ‘service door’ of similar dimensions to the main passenger door directly opposite on the left hand side whilst access to the forward hold is from the left hand side via a much larger upward-opening door. It was found that overall responsibility for determining hold loading and ensuring that it was achieved lay with the Dispatcher assigned to oversee all aspects of the departure by the operator’s ground handling contractor. A “Lead Agent” also employed by the contractor was then responsible for loading the aircraft in accordance with the LIR as completed by the Dispatcher and signing it to that effect upon task completion before returning it to the Dispatcher. The Lead Agent was assisted by a Second Agent. The Lead Agent stated that he had arrived at the stand as the aircraft was being towed onto the stand and to assist in achieving an on time departure, he had permitted the catering to be loaded (via the aft service door) before the loading of the baggage was commenced. He reported having “believed that the baggage was to be loaded in the aft hold but acknowledged that he did not check the LIR”. He also reported believing “that the Dispatcher had told him to load all bags in the aft hold (but) he could not be absolutely sure of this as he had previously handled four other flights that morning and said he could have been mistaken”. The Dispatcher reported that the