LIR for the flight had been prepared by the Contractor’s ‘Station Controller’ on his behalf because he had been delayed on a previous flight. The LIR indicated that all bags were to go in the forward hold and having checked the aircraft trim on the loadsheet based on the LIR, he had noted that it had been “well within limits”. He had arrived at the stand prior to the aircraft and reported having had “a briefing with the Lead Agent confirming the correct stand and aircraft registration (and had) handed the LIR to the Lead Agent verbally confirming all bags were to be loaded in the front”. He reported that the Lead Agent had asked if some transfer bags which were on the ground near the forward hold could be loaded and had confirmed that they could be. The Dispatcher then donned and used the ground/aircraft headset as the aircraft was being refuelled whilst the passengers were boarding and from this position he could not see the aft hold door. He subsequently received the signed LIR from the Lead Agent showing that the total number of bags actually loaded by hold location was as specified and entered the total baggage weight of 421 kg alongside the 32 bags specified for the forward hold “but did not confirm with the Lead Agent that the bags were indeed loaded in that hold nor did he visually check the holds before departure”. He subsequently commented that on completion of passenger and baggage loading, the tail strut may have been closer to the ground (10-15 cm) than normal and that when he passed the load paperwork to the Captain through the flight deck access hatch, it had seemed quite high but that at the time, “this did not give him any cause for concern”. The weights of the loadsheet certified by the Dispatcher and accepted by the aircraft Captain were (see the illustration below) well within the permitted flight envelope but with the aircraft as actually loaded were not. It was noted that in a period of just over two years following the investigated event, “the Operator reported 16 occurrences […] where baggage was placed in the wrong hold during loading” spread across a variety of airports with five of these occurring more than once at the same location and at one location occurring four times. In just one of these cases, a check of documentation post flight identified that an aircraft was loaded correctly but that the loading given on the loadsheet differed from that given on the LIR and in all the others, incorrect loading was identified by the Captain prior to departure and hold loading corrected. The Findings of the Investigation included that: the late arrival of the aircraft on stand had put the loading crew under time pressure to achieve a scheduled departure.. the briefing between the Dispatcher and Lead Agent regarding the loading plan was ineffective, in that the Dispatcher was responsible for communicating the loading plan to the