An Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Unit of the Danish Accident Investigation Board. The SSFDR and SSCVR were removed and their data were successfully downloaded and a recording of Karup TWR voice communications was also available. It was found that the 38 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the take-off had accumulated 3,514 total flying hours including 1,134 hours on type and that the 35 year-old First Officer had accumulated 1,530 total flying hours including 390 hours on type. Both pilots were “very familiar” with the joint military/civil use aerodrome at Karup and were “often scheduled to fly the domestic route from Karup to Copenhagen”. It was established that the aircraft had taxied south from the departure parking position at the joint military/civil aerodrome passing the threshold of runway 27R before reaching the holding point for runway 27L and reporting there to TWR, who then cleared the aircraft for take-off with the RVR given as 1,700 metres for the first third and 1,600 metres at the midpoint with fog being reported in the current METAR. The TWR controller requested and received confirmation from the aircraft crew that the brightness of the runway lights was "about right”. The Captain had begun taxiing onto the runway without following the unlit lead-on line which would have taken the aircraft onto the centreline and instead made a “sharp right turn” to line up on what he thought was the lit runway 27L centreline but was an alignment of the aircraft with the lights marking the northern edge of the runway. As this positioning was taking place, the First Officer was reading the 13 challenge and response items on the ‘Before Takeoff Checklist’ that included a “runway heading and GPS alignment check” which “was performed without remarks”. Whilst slowly taxiing on the runway prior to the displaced landing threshold, the aircraft nose landing gear then hit a (red) runway right hand edge light but this was not noticed and the Captain began to advance the power levers to the take-off position which was confirmed set 7 seconds later. As the aircraft gathered speed, the crew reported having heard “a thumping noise from the nose gear” and in response, the Captain had “re-aligned the nose gear slightly to the left to prevent the nose gear hitting what the flight crew thought were the recessed runway centre line lights”. Only when the aircraft approached a military arrester cable mechanism located to the right-hand side of the runway did the Captain realise that the aircraft was lined up on the runway edge lights instead of the runway centreline lights and 20 seconds after beginning to set take-off power, he rejected the take-off and simultaneously manoeuvred the aircraft onto the runway centreline. TWR were advised and it was decided that the aircraft should be taxied back to the apron. The ground track followed by the aircraft is shown on the illustration below. Inspection of the aircraft disclosed damage to the taxi lights mounted on the Nose