Landing Gear, and to both right hand nose landing gear doors, two of the blades on the left hand propeller, the lower fuselage skin in front of the air conditioning ground connection panel and to the Nose and Right Main landing gear tyres. It was noted that Karup is a joint civil/military aerodrome owned by the Danish Air Force which manages and maintains “all aerodrome ground installations” except the civil terminal building. No evidence of any relevant deficiencies in the aerodrome lighting or marking was found. In analysing the evidence, it was also considered that: Although the prevailing visibility was reduced, it had been well above the threshold for which the procedures required by “Low Visibility Operations” would have been necessary. However, “the reduced visibility in combination with a dark night operation most likely impaired flight crew visual acuity”.. Although the flight crew had been following an FTL-compliant and undemanding duty roster, use of a “generic fatigue evaluation tool” indicated that both pilots may have been fatigued on the morning of the occurrence with the Captain possibly suffering from “accumulated fatigue” and the First Officer from “acute fatigue”.. Given the familiarity of both pilots with operations at Karup and the routine nature of the morning flight to Copenhagen, “mental expectations might unknowingly have overshadowed the external information flow and inadvertently lowered the vigilance and the positional awareness of the flight crew (and) that the combination of routine, familiarity and flight crew fatigue might have provoked flight crew complacency”.. The additional width of pavement beyond the unmarked edge of the designated runway width and the continuous movement of the aircraft prior to the setting of take-off power in partial darkness and reduced visibility were capable of “provoking a visual and mental illusion of having lined up the aircraft on the centreline”.. The ‘Runway Heading and GPS Check’ included in the Operators ‘Before Take Off Checklist’ appeared to be a system check rather than a runway environmental check which “did not encourage the First Officer to respond or challenge the call out of the commander” and as a result, when the flight crew looked outside after it, “the external visual references fulfilled their mental expectations and they therefore initiated the take-off roll”.. The absence of lighting on the lead on taxi line which led from the dark area at the end of the perimeter taxiway to the runway centre and the fact that the centreline lighting only began at the displaced landing threshold may have contributed to the misalignment given that “essential flight crew tasks apparently suppressed the effect of the available cues”.. There was no evidence to suggest that any aspect of the runway 27L lighting system had contributed directly to the sequence of events.. The Investigation identified a number of previous similar events in which aircraft had begun - and in some cases completed - night take-offs when inadvertently aligned with the runway edge lights instead of the runway centreline lights. These included: a Gulfstream III at Biggin Hill UK