in 2014,. an Airbus A330-200 at Abu Dhabi in 2012,. a Bombardier Challenger at Dubai in 2011,. an Airbus A320 at Las Vegas in 2006,. an ATR72 at Dresden in 2002.. A 2009 review of ‘Factors influencing misaligned take-off occurrences at night’ carried out by the by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau was also noted by the Investigation as listing a series of factors sometimes found in runway edge take-offs which included some of those associated with the event under investigation. The Investigation identified a combination of environmental, operational, and human Causal Factors which had contributed to the sequence of events as follows: Dark night operation.. Reduced visibility.. The runway and taxiway environment, including the extension of the runway 27L pavement width beyond the designated runway width, the absence of runway shoulder markings, the absence of taxiway centreline lighting and the marking of a displaced (landing) threshold.. The divided attention of the Flight Crew unintentionally provoked by the before take-off procedures and checks.. Flight crew fatigue.. Safety Action taken by the Aircraft Operator as a result of the event and known to the Investigation included reducing the number of items in the ‘Before Take Off Checklist’ and the addition of a positive identification of aircraft position to be confirmed by both pilots in the ‘Runway and Position Check’. The Investigation concluded that a reduction in the risk of a night take off being attempted when misaligned with the edge of a runway could be achieved if runway edge lights could be directly identified as such by pilots without reference to other lights and noted that the UK AAIB had issued such a Safety Recommendation to ICAO as a result of their Investigation of the misaligned take off attempt by a Gulfstream III at Biggin Hill in 2014 referred to above and decided to reproduce this Recommendation and the initial ICAO response to it rather than issue a further equivalent Recommendation. This earlier UK Safety Recommendation was reproduced as issued as follows: that the International Civil Aviation Organisation initiate the process to develop within Annex 14 Volume 1, ‘Aerodrome Design and Operations’, a standard for runway edge lights that would allow pilots to identify them specifically, without reference to other lights or other airfield features. [2015-038]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 24 August 2016. No new Safety Recommendations were issued.