Encountering the sudden uncommanded roll which can be induced when an aircraft encounters wake turbulence from an aircraft on a similar track ahead, can lead to loss of control. Prescribed separation for aircraft, receiving an air traffic control (ATC) service, do not necessarily provide sufficient separation to remove the risk of loss of control. Under a system promulgated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), minimum separation between fixed wing aircraft on approach to land, or on take off into initial climb, are defined by the use of aircraft categories based on aircraft maximum take-off mass (MTOM) (see ICAO Wake Turbulence Category). This is judged to be a suitable proxy for the strength of the turbulence which may be created, behind large jet aircraft at relatively slow speeds, by the generation of wing tip wake vortices. The careful observance of these separation minima has prevented loss of control, as a consequence of wake turbulence encounters in the flight phases where they apply, but when they have been ignored, fatal accidents have followed sudden and rapid uncommanded rolls. Research has been ongoing for some years now to see if runway capacity can be increased by reducing the minimum aircraft spacings, which are required by the current ICAO system for airport arrivals and departures, without reducing the safety margin against loss of control below the safe limit. It may be possible to define the aircraft MTOM categories differently to achieve this. Work in this area is currently being undertaken as a joint EUROCONTROL/FAA initiative. Wake turbulence encounters in other flight phases have been recorded in controlled airspace at well above radar separation minima but have not, in recent times, led to the terminal loss of control of a large commercial transport aircraft. However, since these events often occur when cabin crew and passengers are moving about the cabin, injuries, sometimes serious ones, have sometimes resulted. To minimize the extent of this risk, many airlines specifically advise their passengers to ‘keep their seat belts fastened whilst seated even if the seat belt sign is off’. Although ICAO currently provides no guidance or procedures in relation to en route wake turbulence, in the UK, the NAA has specified separation minima for this case which must be applied by ANSPs. The requirement is that a minimum of 5 nm shall be maintained between a Heavy (including A380-800) and any lower category aircraft which is following or crossing behind at the same level or less than 1000 ft below. No special longitudinal wake turbulence separations based on time are required.