The following definitions explain terms common to safety-awareness campaigns by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) and other organizations regarding spare lithium battery concerns that began to emerge around 2015: Smart bags and smart luggage — These suitcases and other types of luggage may contain a rechargeable lithium battery that powers built-in features, such as an electronic lock, electronic baggage tag, power bank, electric motor–driven wheels for self-propelled rolling or sitting/stand-up riding, bag-weighing system, satellite-based trackers with or without GSM telephone connectivity and Bluetooth, RFID and Wi-FI network compatibility with other devices.. Power banks — Also called by terms such as external power pack and mobile battery, these portable devices charge consumer devices such as mobile phones and tablets. IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations (DGR) classify power banks as batteries and they must be assigned under DGR to UN 3480, Lithium-ion Batteries, or UN 3090, Lithium-metal Batteries, as applicable. IATA’s 2019 lithium-battery guidance says, “For carriage by passengers, power banks are considered spare batteries and must be individually protected from short-circuit and carried in carry-on baggage only.”. Spare lithium batteries — Lithium batteries (including power banks, as noted) are regarded as “spares” while stowed external to the PED in protective packaging (such as in original packaging, in a heavy-duty plastic bag or with terminals/connectors insulated by adhesive electrical tape suitable for preventing a short circuit of the terminals).. Trackers — These devices use satellite-based positioning data or other data-network technology for determining the location of the attached bag, which also enables a self-propelled smart bag to autonomously follow its owner. The key safety considerations are that the airline must approve each device to prevent interference with navigation systems, and the tracker must be powered off at all times during flight operations. If lithium batteries are removed from trackers to power off the device, they must be safety carried, protected and stowed like other spare lithium batteries.. Electronic baggage tags (EBTs) — These devices typically are powered by non-lithium AA-size batteries and thus do not fall under lithium-ion battery restrictions. However, if non-rechargeable lithium-metal AA-size batteries are used, rules for PEDs with installed batteries apply. EBTs use passive RFID signal-reception technology and QR codes to briefly activate, capture the passenger’s journey information from airlines and deactivate under protocols defined by the International Air Transport Association’s (IATA’s) Recommended Practice 1754.. Electric scooters — These lithium battery–powered, personal transportation devices (PTDs, also called by brand names or called self-balancing scooters or balance wheels among many terms) are for recreational use — unlike wheelchairs and other conventional mobility aids for use by passengers with reduced mobility. (Typical mobility aids have a battery of 300 Watt-hour capacity.) PTDs and spare lithium batteries for them were banned by more than 50 airlines in 2016 after an airline investigation found that some PTDs used poorly labeled lithium-ion batteries, some exceeding 160 Watt-hours, which are forbidden from being transported in either the checked baggage of passengers or crewmembers, or in their carry-on baggage..