ICAO’s recommendations to states — in response to the initial 2017 marketing of smart bags to consumers in many countries — have been communicated to airlines and airline passengers through a media campaign by IATA in website articles and videos. The campaign explains why lithium batteries must be removed from the smart bag and safely packaged and stowed in the cabin as any other spare battery. Smart bags without removable lithium batteries — under a typical airline’s adoption of international safety recommendations — are prohibited as checked luggage and the airline may not be able to accommodate the smart bag as a carry-on bag for various practical reasons. IATA’s campaign also reminds passengers that PEDs with lithium batteries installed always should be carried as carry-on luggage. “Passengers can carry personal electronic devices in checked baggage, although it is recommended that all devices with installed batteries be carried in the cabin,” IATA says, “Any devices in checked baggage must be completely turned off, not left in hibernation or sleep mode. The device must be packed in the bag so that it is protected against damage and should not be packed next to flammable items such as aerosols or perfumes.” Spare lithium-ion, lithium-metal and lithium-polymer batteries — including external battery packs of these types — are prohibited from carriage as checked baggage, according to FAA guidance cited in FSF articles. Changes in ICAO’s Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air 2019-2020 — noted for possible relevance to emerging issues affecting spare lithium batteries in the cabin — include: Addition of new classification criteria for lithium batteries containing both primary lithium metal cells and rechargeable lithium-ion cells;. A revision forbidding the transport of lithium cells or batteries that cannot be diagnosed as damaged or defective prior to transport;. Addition of provisions allowing for the transport of lithium batteries on passenger aircraft under specified conditions;. Classification criteria for and restrictions on lithium content for lithium metal and total capacity for lithium-ion for batteries containing both primary lithium metal and rechargeable lithium-ion cells;. New provision for vehicles and battery-powered equipment and vehicles;. Revisions to provisions for dangerous goods carried by passengers or crew, including addition of restrictions for baggage equipped with lithium batteries;. Addition of new restrictions for battery-powered portable electronic smoking devices; and,. Revisions to proposed new training provisions..