A dedicated study was performed in 2017 by the EUROCONTROL Safety Improvement Sub-Group (SISG) after identifying "TCAS RA Not Followed" as one of the Top 5 ATM Operational Safety Priorities. The SISG's analysis examines the operational context (factors that can affect the situation) and establishes a set of generic scenarios that account for different situational developments. While the scenarios are not equally probable (and data collected from both A&I events and a dedicated survey confirm they are not) they do constitute a useful, concise representative subset that substitutes effectively for trying to imagine all possible scenarios. The scenarios are grouped in the following categories and subcategories: Lack of pilot detection/awareness of the TCAS RA due to: Human-machine interface (Human-Machine Interface (HMI)) issues (i.e., factors concerning the perception and interpretation of the TCAS HMI and alert annunciations); Presence of other flight deck signals and alerts, or external distractions, occurring simultaneously with the TCAS RA; and/or Flight deck mindset (i.e., any factor concerning the mind-set or expectations of the crew immediately beforehand).. Human-machine interface (Human-Machine Interface (HMI)) issues (i.e., factors concerning the perception and interpretation of the TCAS HMI and alert annunciations);. Presence of other flight deck signals and alerts, or external distractions, occurring simultaneously with the TCAS RA; and/or. Flight deck mindset (i.e., any factor concerning the mind-set or expectations of the crew immediately beforehand).. Misinterpretation of TCAS RA due to: HMI issues; Flight deck Crew Resource Management (e.g. authority gradient); and/or Crew TCAS training (e.g. insufficient/infrequent);. HMI issues;. Flight deck Crew Resource Management (e.g. authority gradient); and/or. Crew TCAS training (e.g. insufficient/infrequent);. Decision not to follow RA due to: Other signals and alerts; Contradictory ATC instructions (this situation also includes prior ATC instructions being actioned when the RA occurs); TCAS credibility issues (e.g. if the RA is perceived as false/unreliable or due to rapid succession of different RAs); Aircraft performance issues/concerns (actual or perceived aircraft performance limitations); Flight deck mind-set; Significant flight conditions (e.g. cockpit warnings, severe weather, terrain, etc.); and/or Inadequate TCAS training.. Other signals and alerts;. Contradictory ATC instructions (this situation also includes prior ATC instructions being actioned when the RA occurs);. TCAS credibility issues (e.g. if the RA is perceived as false/unreliable or due to rapid succession of different RAs);. Aircraft performance issues/concerns (actual or perceived aircraft performance limitations);. Flight deck mind-set;. Significant flight conditions (e.g. cockpit warnings, severe weather, terrain, etc.); and/or. Inadequate TCAS training.. TCAS RA response not executed correctly due to: HMI Issues; Late or inadequate pilot response; Unintentional pilot response; Aircraft performance issues/concerns; Flight deck CRM; Inadequate TCAS training; Flight deck mind-set; Duration of RA less than the pilot's reaction time; and/or Flight deck control inputs and handling (e.g. inappropriate vertical speed when approaching the selected flight level).. HMI Issues;. Late or inadequate pilot response;. Unintentional pilot response;. Aircraft performance issues/concerns;. Flight deck CRM;. Inadequate TCAS training;. Flight deck mind-set;. Duration of RA less than the pilot's reaction time; and/or. Flight deck control inputs and handling (e.g. inappropriate vertical speed when approaching the