the vertical separation between the two aircraft was 263 feet when the horizontal separation was 0.2 nm. Both aircraft were stated to have received Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) RA alerts as separation reduced but the CRJ 200 did not report this ATC. When they received their RA, the CRJ crew reported that they had been maintaining positive visual contact with the A320 ahead and, since it was estimated to be between 5ยบ and 10ยบ to the left and slightly below, had already commenced a turn to the right. The TCAS RA to descend was therefore ignored. The A320 reported their RA to APP but it was not clear what it was or whether, if it was a reactive RA whether it had been followed. The APP controller's response to the A320's RA call was an instruction to turn left onto 230ยบ and continue to climb as cleared. Shortly after this, it was stated that the A320 had reported "clear of traffic" but it was not clear if this referred to the TCAS RA "Clear of Conflict" callout or to a visual assessment. Despite the CRJ crew's unacknowledged non-compliance with the detail in the ATC go around instructions, it was concluded that their subsequent visual avoiding action had prevented a possible collision. It was noted that the A320 crew had not (apparently) perceived that there may be insufficient separation from the aircraft on approach before lining up but it was found that the First Officer had been PF under a new procedure introduced 10 days earlier which, for the first time at the Operator concerned, allowed First Officers to taxi the aircraft. In respect of the TWR controller's judgement, it was noted that whilst "estimating the distance to an aircraft on the approach by looking at it poses a challenge, and the available radar display does provide such information" when an aircraft is on short finals, "the controller does not (tend to) look at the radar display". It was found that the conflict had occurred soon after he had commenced duty and that he was "well rested". The formal determination of Probable Cause was that "the controller did not effectively monitor the flight progress of the aircraft on final approach, which resulted in a loss in separation, resulting in evasive action being taken by the crew of EXY336". Three Safety Recommendations were issued, all in respect of ATC procedures but the first two not directed to a specific recipient, as follows: That a person should not be allowed to control and provide training to a student while aerodrome calibrations flights are being conducted at a licensed aerodrome. Furthermore such a controller(s) should be familiar with the flight calibration procedure.. That training of controllers be conducted when there is more than one controller on duty in the Tower during peak periods.. That the (State) Regulating Authority develop standards and recommended practices for air traffic control in South Africa, which are in line with the (applicable) ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices.. The