An Investigation was carried out by the South African CAA Accident and Investigation Division (AAID). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data from the CRJ 200 was successfully downloaded but only CAS data was relevant - it showed that the aircraft had been flown at between 130 and 135 KCAS on final approach. The CRJ 200 Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was not obtained before it was overwritten. FDR data was officially requested from the A320 operator but was not provided. Runway 26 was in use in CAVOK conditions and the surface wind was reported as 040ยบ at 5 knots making a slight tailwind component on finals a possibility. It was established that at the time the conflict arose, the TWR controller was "instructing a student" and had four aircraft under his control; the two involved in the incident, another arrival and a calibration aircraft which was in the hold to the north of the aerodrome. Due to the calibration task, the Instrument Landing System (ILS) was not available and inbound aircraft had to fly visual approaches. The CRJ200, with the First Officer acting as PF, had been cleared to make a visual approach to runway 26 from the 10 mile centre fix. The A320 was asked if an immediate take off would be possible and on confirmation of this was given take off clearance. The A320 commenced its take off roll with the CRJ 200 at about 2 nm from the threshold. The latter was told by TWR to "continue with the approach, landing assured". However, half a minute later and with about one mile to run, TWR instructed the aircraft to go-around and report left hand downwind and followed this half a minute later with an instruction to commence an early left turn "when safe and able". The CRJ 200 crew acknowledged the instruction but failed to advise that they did not intend to follow the directional element of it. They subsequently stated that the TWR go around instruction had been received a few seconds after they had made their own decision to go around and turn right. A go around had been promptly initiated, and soon after the supplementary early left turn request, TWR had provided traffic information on a Cessna Citation calibration aircraft holding to the south of the aerodrome. At this point, the A320 was climbing ahead through 1300 feet and the CRJ 200 was observed on radar to be half a mile behind the A320 and maintaining 1800 feet. Twenty seconds later, the CRJ 200 was observed on radar turning the to the right as the A320 climbed through that level. The A320 checked in with APP and was instructed to turn left because the CRJ 200 had been observed to be turning right and was therefore re-cleared to continue doing so. Prescribed separation as detailed in ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM was restored soon afterwards and the CRJ 200 completed an uneventful visual circuit onto a further approach followed by a landing. According to radar data,