There are several factors that may lead to poor coordination: Failure to detect the need for coordination. For example, an aircraft flying eastbound at FL 430 will normally need to be coordinated with the next sector or unit (unless otherwise specified in a local procedure). However, FL 430 could be perceived as an eastbound level (because 43 is an odd number).. Ambiguous language. Failure to clearly state one's request or response may result in the other party acting in an unexpected way.. Expectation bias. An example of this is a situation with two aircraft having similar callsigns (e.g. flying for the same operator or having similar tail numbers, etc.). The controller initiating the coordination may request something about one of those and the receiving controller may approve the request thinking about the other aircraft.. Complacency - being confident in one's ability to control the situation may encourage a person to skip a coordination. In the above example with the aircraft flying at FL 430, a controller may know that they need to coordinate the level with the next unit or sector but still choose not to, due to the mindset that "very few aircraft fly this high anyway".. Failure to follow the plan. A coordination is only efficient when both parties act in accordance with the agreed solution.. Rushed response. Controllers are generally reluctant to reject a proposed coordination and normally do so only with a good reason. However, approving a proposed solution without carefully considering its impact may lead to solving a problem at the expense of creating another one.. There are three primary safety risks associated with poor coordination: Loss of Separation, especially near the sector boundaries. Airspace Infringement, e.g. Aircraft entering a special use area shortly after leaving the sector Aircraft entering controlled airspace it was not supposed to. Aircraft entering a special use area shortly after leaving the sector. Aircraft entering controlled airspace it was not supposed to. Runway Incursion in the Ground-Tower case. Additionally, poor coordination often leads to an increased workload due to the necessity to quickly develop and execute a mitigating plan in addition to the routine controller tasks.