The training concept shift proposed under EBT is not simply to replace a sometimes-outdated set of critical events with a new set, but rather to use the events as a vehicle for developing and assessing crew performance across the range of behavioural competencies. In addition, EBT requires instructors and trainers to focus on the root causes of sub-standard behaviours, rather than merely asking a flight crew to repeat a manoeuvre with no real understanding as to why it was not successfully flown in the first instance. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to foresee all plausible accident scenarios in today’s aviation system, which characterised by complexity and high reliability. EBT addresses this limitation by moving from pure scenario-based training to prioritising the development and assessment of behavioural competencies, hence leading to improved training outcomes. The aim is that by mastering a finite number of defined competencies a pilot will be able to manage previously unseen potentially dangerous situations in flight. Under the EBT training concept, qualified flight simulation training devices (FSTDs) should be used to the maximum extent possible for assessing and developing crew competence. Crews should be exposed to a wide variety of situations that may be faced in line operations. In today’s high-fidelity simulator environment sophisticated training tools exist that are often not used effectively, as training regulatory requirements are oriented more significantly toward checking. EBT seeks to redress the imbalance between training and checking as it recognises that an assessment of competence is necessary, but once completed, pilots learn more effectively when being trained by competent instructors to perform tasks and manage events measured according to a given set of behavioural indicators, while not under pure test conditions. The development of a baseline EBT programme requires the determination by each air operator of critical training events based on data, the development of training scenarios and the definition of appropriate flight crew performance criteria when managing these events and scenarios.