about a landing with such a fault. However, whilst this exchange was in progress, the aircraft had safely landed, albeit with the aircraft “pulling to the left”. The aircraft cleared the runway and then stopped once clear for a precautionary inspection by the RFFS which found nothing untoward. An inspection by company line maintenance then confirmed that the left MLG torque link apex pin was missing together with two bolts from the associated damper unit (see the illustration below). A brake hydraulic hose was also damaged and leaking fluid so the aircraft was towed slowly to the gate. The following afternoon, the missing head of the apex pin and one of the missing damper bolts were found by airport personnel adjacent to the intersection use by the aircraft to enter the departure runway 34R and 15 days later, the second missing damper bolt was found during a routine FOD inspection of the runway. The Apex Pin as recovered from the taxiway. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The upper & lower main gear torque links misaligned in the absence of the apex pin. [Reproduced from the Official Report] QAR data confirmed that the aircraft did not successfully complete a full gear retraction sequence on departure, because the aircraft failed to sense the MLG up locks engaging or the gear bay doors closing. The same happened during the subsequent recycling. The data also showed that although during taxi to the departure runway, both wheel brake applications were matched by temperature rises, during the corresponding brake applications made during the landing roll, only the right wheel brake temperature rose. Airbus advised that even with only one main gear brake available, the aircraft “would remain directionally controllable at high speed due to the effectiveness of the fin and rudder and at low speed with the use of nose wheel steering”. It was noted that with medium autobrake set and the brakes of one main gear inoperative, the required braking distance during the landing would be increased by 13% from 1,360 metres to 1,540 metres. The failed apex pin was last inserted after a required assessment of play in the hinge joints of the torque link assemblies by disassembly during a 2C Check almost two years earlier but this task had not required a visual or NDT inspection of the apex pin. The apex pin had a 60,000 flight cycle life subject to an assessment of its continued serviceability at the earlier of 10 years or 20,000 cycles but had yet to reach the first in service inspection requirement. It became apparent that a number of other apex pins from the same manufacturing batch had also failed before reaching their first in-service check and an investigation by OEM Safran concluded that cracks “initiated during manufacture” had led to the fracture of some apex pins after cyclic fatigue occurred and concluded that these failures "had not been the result of environmental effects in service”. Although only a relatively small number of apex pins had failed in