service, the finding that their failure was a result of the manufacturing process had led to Safran modifying the manufacturing process to create “a larger initial machining radius under the apex pin head and thus significantly reduce any stress concentrations under the head that may be induced by the heat treatment process". They also developed a design guidance document for radii in high strength steel parts prior to heat treatment. Three Contributing Factors were identified based on the findings of the Investigation, one of which was classified as a Safety Issue and is identified as such: During the manufacture of the apex pin, the initial machined profile led to unintended stress concentrations at the quench stage of the material heat treatment process that resulted in the part cracking. The crack was not removed by the final machining process. [Safety Issue]. Despite apex pins being subject to magnetic particle non-destructive inspections during manufacture, for reasons that could not be identified, this inspection did not detect the crack that was present in the occurrence pin.. The head of the apex pin failed due to cyclic structural fatigue, which led to disconnection of the left main landing gear (MLG) torque link. This left the MLG strut free to rotate out of fore/aft alignment.. Other factors that increased risk The MLG brakes failed due to the strut rotating and a wheel contacting and fraying a hydraulic hose. This most likely occurred during take-off.. Despite the failed part and aircraft being positively identified by elements within JetStar, a message was unable to be conveyed to the flight crew who returned for landing unaware of the true nature of the undercarriage defect and the associated risks. The additional information would have improved crew decision making.. Other findings The undercarriage failed to fully retract by not engaging the gear uplocks and not permitting the gear doors to fully close. This was likely due to the wheels and axle being out of alignment.. The torque link disconnect, the consequential landing gear misalignment and brake failure had the potential to reduce directional control and braking performance on touchdown. However, the degradation was manageable and the aircraft landed safely.. The failed apex pin was temporarily reinstalled by engineers to enable the towing of the aircraft off the taxiway and back to a gate for disembarkation. This had the potential to damage evidence on the fracture surface. At that time, the pin shank was the only piece of evidence available to understand the failure mechanism as the pin head had not yet been located.. Safety Action taken whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included the following: Airbus issued an Alert Operator Transmission (AOT) for the recall or inspection of almost 2000 apex pins like the one which failed and as a result, 19 of these pins were removed from service due to cracking.. The European Union Safety Agency issued an AD making the Airbus AOT inspection mandatory.. JetStar clarified non-normal operational communication guidance for ground crews in