A Serious Incident Investigation into the event was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data from the flight and prior ones was recovered from the QAR. Additional relevant data was also recovered from the ECAM NVM in respect of annunciations displayed to the crew and copied to the operator’s maintenance control centre by ACARS. Each main landing hear (MLG) had an oleo pneumatic strut, the rotation of which was constrained by a torque link on the forward side between the two wheels. The apex pin of this torque link connects its upper and lower parts so as to allow rotational torque loads to be transmitted between the landing gear strut and the axle whilst allowing free vertical movement of the shock absorber contained within the strut (see the illustration below). An extract from the A320 Illustrated Parts Catalogue (IPC) showing where the Apex Pin fits. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was the first flight of the day for the flight crew and the third for the aircraft which had previously operated a return flight between Sydney and the Gold Coast. After pushback, the aircraft taxied to runway 34R. Whilst this was happening, the crew of a following aircraft on the same taxi route advised ATC GND that they had seen an unidentified item on the taxiway. This was subsequently recovered and identified as likely to be an aircraft part. Meanwhile, the A320 had taken off and the crew found that selection of the gear up was followed by abnormal status ECAM messages which included ‘L/G DOORS NOT CLOSED’ and ‘L/G GEAR NOT UPLOCKED’. The Captain elected to continue the climb over the sea and ATC were asked to provide radar vectors to an area where they could troubleshoot the problem. Once in a holding pattern, they then cycled the gear but the fault messages remained. ATC then advised that ‘a large piece of metal’ had been found on a taxiway they had used and the crew responded by advising their intention to return. A minute later, ATC added that they had now been told the recovered part might be from the landing gear to which the Captain replied “that would make sense”. ATC advised that when ready, an approach to 2530 metre-long runway 25 could be expected but received a response requesting 3962 metre-long runway 34L instead because of uncertainty about the potential effect on braking action. A crew call to company maintenance did not elicit any further information about the recovered part and so they followed the available QRH procedures to prepare for the approach. Just over 20 minutes after takeoff, the aircraft left the holding pattern and was provided with radar vectors for an approach to land with the crew requesting that the airport RFFS be put on a local standby. At about this time JetStar maintenance concluded that the recovered part was an A320 MLG torque link apex pin (as illustrated above) and advised their concern to the company Maintenance Control Desk