An Investigation was carried out by the Ethiopian CAA Accident Investigation Bureau. It was noted that at the time of the conflict, aerodrome ATC was being provided by two controllers, one on GND frequency and one on the TWR frequency and that the 3,800 metre-long 45 metre wide principal runway 07R/25L was in use in the 07R direction. There was no ATC Supervisor present in the Tower as it was a Sunday and "supervisor coverage was not available during weekends". It was noted that whilst the TWR controller must give explicit permission for any vehicle or other access to the active runway, such an approval would normally be given by GND and there was no requirement for the person granted such access to communicate with the TWR or listen out on that frequency. The 48 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the occurrence flight had accumulated 8,800 hours total flying experience of which 4,400 hours were on type. The 31 year-old First Officer had 3,029 hours total flying experience of which 958 hours were on type. The 27 year old TWR controller and the 28 year old GND controller both had 4½ years’ experience as controllers after each working for 6 years as an Assistant. A third on-duty controller was on a rest break and not present in the visual control room at the time of the investigated event. It was established that after a departing aircraft had reported "flocks of birds" on the parallel taxiway, the GND controller had decided that after an initial inspection of the taxiway where bird activity had been observed and reported, a bird scaring run of the full length of the runway was required. The GND controller, after reportedly obtaining the necessary permission of the TWR controller during an un-recorded direct exchange, issued the driver of the tasked vehicle with clearance to enter the runway at 23L threshold and proceed along its full length before exiting at the opposite (07R threshold) end. Less than a minute after this, the GND controller issued the 767, which was taxiing as previously instructed to the full-length holding point of runway 07R, with its departure clearance and instructed the crew to call TWR on reaching its taxi clearance limit at the holding point, which they did. Without scanning the runway, the TWR controller issued take-off clearance to the 767 and following that, it was stated by the crew that after the First Officer had checked that the approach was clear prior to entry and the Captain had checked that the runway ahead was clear once lined up, the take-off was commenced. As the aircraft approached V1 (138 KIAS), the Captain detected an object ahead on the runway centreline and, after a take-off roll of about 1,750 metres to abeam the taxiway 'C' access to the runway (see the diagram below), immediately commenced a rejected take-off from a speed of approximately 135 KIAS. The aircraft was brought to stop abeam the taxiway 'D' access to the runway an