estimated 100 metres from the object, which by then was identifiable as a white truck which had been driving towards them - the bird scaring vehicle. It was then taxied clear of the runway and stopped on the parallel taxiway to await a tow back to the gate because of 4 deflated tyres resulting from high brake temperatures caused by the high-energy rejected take off. Since both the bird scaring vehicle and the 767 were in possession of valid runway access and use clearances, albeit conflicting ones, the circumstances in which this had come about were examined. It was noted that: the GND controller subsequently claimed that he had received direct verbal approval from the TWR controller to allow the bird scaring vehicle onto the runway whereas the TWR controller stated that the GND controller "might or might not" have informed him of the issue of a clearance to the bird scaring vehicle to enter the active runway. It was noted that although the two controller positions were in proximity to each other and oral communications between the controllers at these positions "had been the usual practice for years", an intercom was installed and any use of it would be routinely recorded as with all other ATC communications.. the 767 take-off clearance was given prior to the aircraft entering the runway and as a result, a rolling take-off was commenced which meant that "the crew did not have time to visualise the aerodrome and were unable to build up a picture of the situation on the taxiways and the runway".. ATC procedures mandated a visual check by the controller that the runway was clear of obstructions "in the take-off area" before issuing a take-off clearance but this had not been done.. The extent of the view along runway 07R from its beginning was limited by the initial (upward-sloping) longitudinal profile of the pavement.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the occurrence was "human error in that Tower controller inadvertently cleared ETH805 for take-off before he had cleared the airport service vehicle from runway and he didn’t check the runway before he issued the take-off clearance". Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The Ground controller provided inadequate support to the Tower controller.. There was concentrated bird movement around and near the aerodrome.. Five Safety Recommendations were made: that Addis Ababa ATS should have a refresher/recurrent training program for controllers.. that Addis Ababa ATS should provide human factors training for their operational personnel.. that Addis Ababa ATS should make the presence of a Supervisor mandatory at all times.. that Addis Ababa Airport should improve bird and wild life hazard management to prevent bird strikes by aircraft.. that Addis Ababa Airport should require the drivers of vehicles which are permitted to enter an active RWY for any purpose to listen out on the TWR radio frequency (118.1) in order to be aware of any aircraft movement on the runway.. The Final Report was published in the English language at