of the power loss, both A and B FADEC channels (see the illustration below) had recorded a fault on the Beta Feedback Transducer (BFT) mounted on the right engine which had resulted in the FADEC being unable to detect the right propeller blade angle. A visual inspection of the BFT showed that the channel B connector was loose and excessively worn and that there was also damage to the four insufficiently tightened housing mounting bolts and to the housing. It was concluded that this indicated that “unprofessional work had been carried out in this area”. A subsequent functional test of the BFT with its connectors removed then demonstrated that both channels had performed in accordance with specification. However, a CT scan of the channel B connector prior to disassembly of the unit showed evidence of short circuits occurring within it. The A channel connector was found to function electrically without any faults. Further tests confirmed that prior to the engine power loss, FADEC channel A had been controlling the right engine and operating normally but it had then detected a problem measuring Np and had automatically switched control to channel B where the identified short circuit already existed. Since this meant that Np could not be detected on this channel either, the (automatic) activation of ‘beta control mode’ occurred in accordance with system design. This: idled the affected engine,. drove its propeller to fine. kept the propeller in beta control until feather signalled by crew action. activated the corresponding “loss of propeller control” fault on the EICAS.. FDR data disclosed that during the failure, a 6.9 second overspeed of the right hand propeller had been recorded which meant it had to be replaced. It was found that the continuing airworthiness management of Darwin Airline’s aircraft had been delegated by them to a contractor who “was unable to provide any up-to-date information on the status and configuration of the aircraft in good time”. In respect of the crew response to what they had understandably detected as an engine failure, it was noted the FADEC had already regulated the right engine to idle before they had an opportunity to respond and that the fact that the APU was already running meant that the electrical power required for the securing of the engine and performance of a single-engined approach and landing was immediately available. The decisions not to continue the flight over the Alps to Zurich and to divert to Milan rather than return to Lugano were assessed as “reasonable” given the challenging approach procedures at Lugano. The attempt to re-start the engine once practicable was considered as “a correct prioritisation” since at that time there was no crew awareness that it could not succeed because of the operating status of the FADEC. The Investigation formally determined that the Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was that “the total failure of the beta feed-back transducer (BFT) for measuring the propeller blade angle led to a loss of control of the right engine due