An Investigation was opened on the day following the event by the then Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) and subsequently passed to the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). Data from the DFDR were successfully downloaded but relevant data on the 30 minute CVR were overwritten because the recorder was not electrically isolated. It was noted that the Captain, who was PF for the flight had 8,600 hours total flying experience, all of it on type. The First Officer had 732 total flying hours which included 531 hours on type. It was noted that prior to departure from Lugano, there had been a recurrence of previous difficulty in starting the APU, and after it was eventually started by an attending engineer, the Captain had decided to keep it running throughout the forthcoming flight. This flight was uneventful until around FL110 in the climb to FL180 when the crew reported noticing that the aircraft “distinctly yawed twice to the right and back” with the Master Caution activated and ‘R ENG FAULT’ and R GEN FAULT’ registered on the EICAS. The Captain reported having asked the First Officer to “analyse the situation” using “power performance analysis action” in accordance with Company SOP. It was observed that the right engine speed (Ng) was reducing and the right propeller speed (Np) was indicating approximately 1,100 rpm instead of 950 rpm and had not automatically feathered. The Engine Fault Checklist was then run to shut down the right engine and manual propeller feathering was actioned. The AP was disconnected and although the aircraft was still climbing acceptably at between 160 and 170 KIAS, the Captain decided that with further climb still necessary to safely clear mountainous terrain on track, the climb would be stopped at FL130 and a diversion made to Milan Malpensa. A PAN call was made to ATC and the diversion initiated with clearance to turn south towards the Saronno VOR. On the way there, a restart of the right engine was attempted but was not successful and in order to prepare for the single engine landing, a short hold at this VOR was requested and approved. The remainder of the flight was completed without further event and a landing was made on runway 35R at Malpensa just under 40 minutes after takeoff from Lugano. Fuel on board was sufficient to reach Malpensa without requiring any use of ‘Final Reserve Fuel’. The Investigation noted that control of each of the aircraft’s Allison AE 2100A engines was by two identical single-channel FADECs which control and regulate fuel flow, compressor variable geometry (CVG) and propeller pitch with one channel in use at any one time with automatic change-over to the other one if the controlling FADEC fails and manual change-over by pilot action available if other faults occur. Each FADEC has a continuously functioning Built-In-Test (BIT) and fault accommodation system which in the event of a fault being detected when an engine is running determines the appropriate response. FDR data showed that at the time