An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation. Data from the A319 QAR was provided by the aircraft operator. It was noted that the 39 year-old A319 Captain, who was PM for the flight, had an approximate total of 12,244 hours flying experience which included 10,244 hours on A320 series aircraft and that the incident flight was his fourth of the day. The 33 year-old A319 First Officer, a MOL licence holder, had an approximate total of 2,079 hours flying experience of which all but 102 hours were on A320 series aircraft and was on his fifth flight of the day. The 65 year-old light aircraft pilot “stated that he had a total flying experience of about 382 hours” on powered aircraft which included 83 hours on ultra light aircraft such as the Aerospool WT9. All ATC communications between this pilot and the Stuttgart TWR controller were conducted in German - translations as documented by the Investigation are used in this summary of the event. It was noted that he held an approval which allowed him to enter airport control zones and conduct radio communications in German. The Investigation considered “that he was familiar with radio communication phraseology at airports”. It was established that the light aircraft pilot, whose aircraft was fitted with an operative transponder, had arrived at the ‘OSCAR’ reporting point at an altitude of 3,300 feet QNH and requested permission to enter the Stuttgart CTR and overfly the airport. In response, the TWR controller had issued a clearance to enter the zone and proceed to a position one mile south of the airport and await a further call for the overflight clearance. On reaching that position, the pilot had reported doing so, adding “I call you back for the overflight”. Half a minute later, the A319 was cleared to line up and wait on runway 07 and one minute after that, the controller advised the light aircraft pilot that an A319 in German Wings colours was at the beginning of runway 07 and that he should report having it in sight which he did. On receipt of this confirmation, he cleared the light aircraft to “cross the airport after the A319 has started”. He then followed this immediately by issuing a takeoff clearance to the A319 and, as it began to roll, asked the light aircraft pilot to confirm that he had the other aircraft in sight which was done. The controller followed this immediately with a reminder that “as I said it might pull up steeply, therefore cross behind it” to which the light aircraft pilot answered “roger wilco”. However, the light aircraft then left its holding position prematurely and four seconds after the explicit instruction to cross behind it had been acknowledged, the controller transmitted “turn right at once and then overfly, this is not going to work” and received the response “I am turning right“. Shortly after the A319 got airborne, the controller advised it of the light