The accident report showed there was not a single cause to this accident, but several combined contributing factors led to the fatal outcome. Those factors are summarized below for the sake of completeness, and this situational example will focus on human factors issues such as the disorientation that led the captain to perceive wrongly that the airplane was pitching up and consequently led him to command and maintain a pitch-down attitude. Nonadherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs). The captain, as PF, did not follow airline procedures, resulting in the following: A higher than standard speed for start of descent and initial approach; A non-stabilized approach; The low-altitude orbit as a nonstandard maneuver to the runway; and, The incorrectly performed go-around.. A higher than standard speed for start of descent and initial approach;. A non-stabilized approach;. The low-altitude orbit as a nonstandard maneuver to the runway; and,. The incorrectly performed go-around.. The first officer did not object or call the captain’s attention to his nonadherence to the procedure.. The controller allowed a shortcut — a 360-degree turn above the airport — and did not follow the procedure for the path leading to a stabilized approach from the final fix.. During go-around, the crew apparently experienced spatial disorientation, which may have caused the captain to wrongly think the airplane was pitching up.. Despite the GPWS warnings, the crew did not adequately respond.. Analysis of the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) data showed the crew did not perform as a team, due to inadequate airline training in crew resource management (CRM), SOPs, controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) and GPWS.. During the approach in night conditions, the crew had on one side a very bright view of the airport and a landmass, and on the other side a completely dark area over the water. Focusing on the visual approach, the crew may have lost visual cues and may have experienced visual illusions and disorientation when initiating the tight 360-degree turn over water, after the non-stabilized approach. The first officer, as pilot not flying (PNF), was not monitoring his instruments and did not use proper CRM techniques to gain the captain’s attention. In addition, TOGA provides constant acceleration. In the absence of visual cues such as the horizon, this constant longitudinal acceleration fooled the captain’s vestibular system into interpreting this as horizontal flight at constant speed. The otholitic hairs in the vestibular system of the inner ear contribute to informing the brain of movements and orientation. They send the same signal when subject to constant longitudinal acceleration or to upward motion — or likewise when subject to deceleration and downward motion. An example is the leans: with a slow roll rate, a pilot may perceive the aircraft as still flying straight and level although the attitude indicator shows the aircraft to be, in fact, banking. Involved in a tight climbing turn, the pilot, when turning his head, may also have been subject to the coriolis effect, which led to a loss of spatial orientation and to