The first precaution to avoid an accident is to not put oneself in a nonstandard situation. The resulting situation may not appear to be risky at the beginning, but, as we know, accidents often result from multiple contributing factors. Allowing the situation to develop in the first place generates unnecessary risks. Further, the quality of the approach briefing helps to focus on the following: Ensuring that one crewmember maintains visual contact with the runway lights.. Task sharing and workload management between the crewmembers.. Effective coordination with ATC.. Being prepared for a go-around.. Remembering the consequences of visual illusions when there is a mismatch between the real world and what is sensed.. Maintaining continuous instrument monitoring to counter the onset of vestibular system illusions.. Relying on the instruments and not on one’s own sensations; the pilot may fail to perceive angular motion (the leans); with a slow rate of roll, the pilot may feel the aircraft is still flying straight and level although the attitude indicator shows it is, in fact, banking.. When realizing that situational awareness is lost, applying strict SOPs such as precise go-around procedures with task sharing, callouts, go-around altitudes, speeds, headings and minimum safe altitudes.. Operational procedures require a go-around to be flown at constant speed and without any acceleration with one flap retraction. The acceleration and cleanup should be done at a higher altitude. This is to ensure that a correct go-around is performed and associated procedures follow. In general, there are no go-around procedures that require a sustained turn because, from a human factors point of view, crews might suffer somatogyral (coriolis) disorientation as well as somatogravic (false climb) disorientation. Avoiding shortcuts and strict adherence to procedures help to avoid creating risky situations. This is the principal reason for approved SOPs. Adequate CRM training helps to achieve an effective balance among crewmembers. Emphasis on cross-checking and clear task sharing provides a basis for sound attitudes. In our example, the first officer’s task was to monitor the instruments to effectively and adequately inform his captain. The captain’s role in relation to his first officer was to encourage him to speak. Training to prevent somatogravic illusion is almost impossible, but information and sensitization can help pilots recognize its onset and prepare to face it. The only known way to regain proper orientation is to focus on the airplane’s instruments to rebuild a correct mental image of the situation.