During a visual approach at night and in visual meteorological conditions (VMC) to an airport surrounded by water, you, as first officer, have a very good view of the airport and adjacent land. On the captain’s side, it is completely dark; at night over the sea, there are no horizon cues. You see you are too high and too fast, typical of a non-stabilized approach. Faced with a non-stabilized approach, what would you do? The captain, as pilot flying (PF), requests clearance from air traffic control (ATC) for a 360-degree left turn to realign with the runway. This is in violation of standard operating procedures (SOPs), but he does not want to go around. The ATC controller authorizes the maneuver. During the tight 360-degree left turn, final preparation for landing is performed — gear and flaps fully extended, landing checklist completed. However, the airplane overshoots the runway. The captain decides to reject the landing and engages full TOGA (takeoff/go-around) thrust, delivering a constant acceleration with a 9-degree nose-up pitch attitude. The controller clears you to climb to 2,500 ft to prepare for another approach. You retract the landing gear. During the tight turn at low altitude over the sea at night, all visual cues are lost, and both of you concentrate on the external view to reacquire situational awareness. In a constant acceleration environment provided by the TOGA thrust, the captain turns his head to look outside, trying to get an external cue, while the airplane is pitching up. Passing over the runway at around 1,000 ft and 191 kt, the aural master warning sounds to indicate a flap-overspeed condition. Would this aural warning attract your attention to a flap-overspeed situation? After the alarm sounds, the captain pushes the controls forward. During this time, the airplane pitch attitude decreases, and the airspeed increases from about 193 kt to 234 kt. A single aural “SINK RATE” warning is issued by the ground-proximity warning system (GPWS), followed by a repetitive GPWS aural “WHOOP, WHOOP, PULL UP” warning. The captain requests “flaps up,” moves the controls aft of neutral and then calls for “flaps all the way.” You respond and acknowledge “flaps zero.” The airplane is destroyed as it hits the water in a 6-degree nose-down pitch attitude at an airspeed of about 282 kt.