RFFS personnel use a wide variety of equipment. This equipment can be divided into two major groups: Forcible entry tools and equipment – used when the normal and emergency egress doors and hatches are jammed or otherwise inaccessible. Due to the ever-present danger of fire and explosion, the prompt and correct use of such tools may determine whether people will survive an accident. These can be: Hand tools (such as screwdrivers, poles, axes, hatchets, etc.) that rely on human force to transmit power to the working end of the tool. Power tools, divided into four major types classified by the medium used to generate force (electric, pneumatic, hydraulic, pneumo-hydraulic).. Hand tools (such as screwdrivers, poles, axes, hatchets, etc.) that rely on human force to transmit power to the working end of the tool.. Power tools, divided into four major types classified by the medium used to generate force (electric, pneumatic, hydraulic, pneumo-hydraulic).. Supplementary equipment: Repair plugs - used to plug leaking fuel or hydraulic fluid lines. Salvage covers - used to cover jagged openings in order to prevent injuries to personnel and passengers and may also be used to designate collection points for equipment and personnel. Ladders - used for the passage of personnel to and from elevated sections of an aircraft. They can be single or extension. The advantage of a single ladder is that they can be used by just one person. Extension ladders, on the other hand, may be used to access higher aircraft. Air bags - used to lift or displace large objects (vehicles, heavy equipment and aircraft). Portable electric generators - used to provide power to electrical equipment and can be a light source for illuminating forcible entry and rescue points on an aircraft.. Repair plugs - used to plug leaking fuel or hydraulic fluid lines.. Salvage covers - used to cover jagged openings in order to prevent injuries to personnel and passengers and may also be used to designate collection points for equipment and personnel.. Ladders - used for the passage of personnel to and from elevated sections of an aircraft. They can be single or extension. The advantage of a single ladder is that they can be used by just one person. Extension ladders, on the other hand, may be used to access higher aircraft.. Air bags - used to lift or displace large objects (vehicles, heavy equipment and aircraft).. Portable electric generators - used to provide power to electrical equipment and can be a light source for illuminating forcible entry and rescue points on an aircraft..