that: the Global Express had received a TCAS RA to descend and the Falcon a TCAS RA to climb and both had been followed.. the CPA was 1.2nm horizontally when at 300 feet vertical separation. At that time, the Global Express was descending through 2700 feet QNH on heading 270° and the Falcon was in the right turn to heading 160° at 3000 feet QNH.. Five seconds after the CPA, the Global Express was turning right and descending through 2600 feet QNH and the Falcon was climbing through 3100 feet QNH.. It appeared that the Falcon RA annunciation may have preceded that received by the Global Express. A number of pertinent facts were established, including the following: the airspace where the conflict occurred was notified as Class 'A'.. conversations between Ibiza APP and the Falcon aircraft all took place in English, whilst those with the Global Express took place in Spanish except for one use of English by the controller during the conflict.. the published RNAV STAR applicable to the Falcon aircraft was a VARUT 1V, the Jeppesen Plate for which was carried on board and was found to contain an explicit warning not to proceed beyond the IAF without ATC clearance.. The IAF for the 06 ILS at Ibiza is to the north of the LOC rather than on it, and the ILS chart shows a 5.3nm leg on 088°M from there to the IF which is on the LOC at 12.7nm from touchdown.. the APP controller noted that on the day of the incident he had been responsible for both the Ibiza route and Ibiza approach sectors so that his radar display was "not ideally suited to work the approach since said display was too broad and distorted the view of the approach".. The LoA between Ibiza APP (provided by Palma ACC) and Ibiza TWR states that "the separation between successive aircraft in VMC shall be 8 nm, this separation to be established as soon as the first aircraft reaches the boundary of the Ibiza ATZ" (5nm). It also states that "Ibiza APP will transfer aircraft to Ibiza TWR between 15 and 6 NM out on final or coordinate the transfer on a segment of the circuit".. In the absence of any awareness of other traffic, the Falcon crew were confused when the APP controller instructed them to cross the LOC without providing any explanation.. Once separation had been lost, Ibiza APP did not provide essential traffic information to either of the aircraft to assist their crews in maintaining their own separation in VMC. It was noted that such action is a requirement of the Spanish Air Traffic Regulations.. The formally-recorded Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The aircraft with registration CS-DNP went past the IAF TILNO without receiving clearance from Ibiza APP to do so.. Ibiza APP only realised that aircraft CS-DNP had gone past the IAF when the crew of the aircraft called requesting clearance to follow the runway 06 ILS localiser.. The subsequent instructions