A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The event was not reported promptly by the Operator and as a result both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recordings were overwritten. Attempts to recover data from Non Volatile Memory in various equipment also failed because of this delay. However the QAR, powered by the No 2 Generator and recording similar data to the FDR, had continued to function during the incident and the routinely downloaded data from the flight was available for the Investigation. In respect of the delay in the reporting of the event to the AAIB, it was considered that the consequent delay in interviewing the flight crew “might have reduced the quality of their accounts”. It was established that the intermittent failure of both main electronic displays and the uncommanded application of left rudder trim which were the main symptoms had been accompanied by a ‘chattering’ sound caused by the rapid cycling of electrical relays, at times continuously. The flight crew also advised the Investigation that the aircraft “did not seem to respond as expected to control inputs” and that flight deck lighting had also failed intermittently. The ECAM had displayed a number of messages and cautions but the ESAM display itself had also become intermittent. Reversion to Alternate Law occurred and the aircraft commander passed control to the First Officer, who had been left with relatively more EFIS functionality than he had, although he was obliged to fly by reference to the SBY flight Instruments which had remained fully operational. The flight crew stated that all functions were restored after the No 1 generator had been selected ‘off’ as part of the response to one of the many ECAM fault messages. When it was reselected on as required by the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drill being followed, the previous malfunctions returned and it was selected off again and left off. When the APU had been started to regain full electrical power, the flight crew saw that the rudder trim indicated several units from neutral although they had not made any inputs. It became apparent that the aircraft had deviated approximately 20 nm off track during the incident. The main concerns of the Investigation were why a single generator fault should have affected both left and right side instrumentation and how the flight control system might have been affected. It was considered that the reason for the annunciation of “numerous and significant symptoms, including malfunctioning electronic displays and uncommanded rudder trim input”, not all of which had been obvious to the flight crew, had not been evident at the time. Since the ECAM had not clearly identified the root cause of the malfunction and there had been no fault captions active on the overhead panel, there had been no procedures available to assist the flight crew in effectively diagnosing the problem. Because of this, a Safety Recommendation had been made during the Investigation and the requested response had followed: That Airbus