alert all operators of A320-series aircraft of the possibility that an electrical power generation system fault may not be clearly annunciated on the ECAM, and may lead to uncommanded rudder trim operation. (2010-092). In respect of the track deviation which occurred, Airbus initially advised that: “a reset of the Flight Augmentation Computer (FAC), caused by an electrical power interruption, may cause a small incremental offset in the rudder trim. Multiple electrical power interruptions can result in multiple increments which could, cumulatively, produce a significant rudder trim input”. Later Airbus had concluded that the aircraft had responded normally to rudder trim inputs, suggesting that the rudder input alone had been the cause of the lateral deviation from the intended track. However, it was nevertheless considered that good evidence had been found that a fault had existed in the No 1 Generator which had affected aircraft equipment and caused the incremental rudder trim inputs which had occurred. It was considered that the malfunction of the unit might have been attributable to a short in the jumper lead on the Generator. Whilst this lead was clearly damaged and a plausible failure mechanism was identified, this explanation was only valid if Display Management Computer (DMC) No 3 had been selected to power the First Officer’s EFIS Screens, which is not consistent with the report filed by the flight crew. No conclusive cause for the malfunction could therefore be established. Safety Action by Airbus in response to a number of events involving screen blanking, which had already been in hand when the Incident investigated here occurred, had involved making changes to the QRH for EFIS screen failures. Even though this Investigation was unable to determine cause with any degree of certainty, the QRH update which was in progress was amended to include a reference to the possibility that generator malfunction could affect the rudder trim system. The Final Report of the Investigation AAIB Bulletin: 10/2011 EW/C2010/08/08 was published on 6 October 2011. No further Safety Recommendations were made.