It would be self-defeating for an organisation, whilst highlighting specific socio-cultural characteristics that present a hazard in the workplace, to attribute them to a particular “group” of people. Each member of the highlighted group would take it personally, and it will create, or reinforce, stereotypes; which does not help anyone adapt to diversity! An organisation is far more likely to attain positive results by: emphasising positive behaviours, for all employees, that reduce risk and promote improved safety performance. instilling the values and beliefs from which those positive behaviours spring. highlighting differences in values and beliefs that all of us may hold and how these can affect workplace communication and performance.. In taking this approach it is possible that employees will be able to adopt the desired behaviours, and no matter how diverse the individual cultures within a team, there will be common goals, and means of achieving those goals, that do not present any inner conflict. This work needs to start when employees are inducted into the company, and be maintained permanently. Organisations must learn to understand that new employees, coming from a different socio-cultural background may find their new organisation’s and colleagues’ views on how things are done hard to comprehend and this may challenge their own values and beliefs. In some cases, the differences can lead literally to a “culture shock”, which may become a hazard in the workplace. People in other countries may think, feel and act very differently from yourself – Geert Hofstede. For example, there may be large differences between how the organisation and a new employee view the following cultural markers: directness of communication – getting straight to the point as opposed to implying messages. importance of hierarchy – overt deference to seniority and position, and blindly following orders as opposed to contributing ideas, engaging in debate, and asserting opinions. consensus decision-making is accepted and dissenting opinions welcomed in preference to a need for unanimity. individual performance and effort valued equally, and sometimes more, than team effort and effectiveness. management and employees work side-by-side to achieve common goals, as opposed to an antagonistic, or deferential, them and us environment. positive behaviour is rewarded equally, if not more than, positive results. evidence of mistakes, slips and errors is sought, offered and welcomed instead of ignored or covered-up. employees are expected to actively take on responsibilities and requesting help and support is not seen as a weakness. pleasing colleagues may be more important than pleasing managers or the organisation – and vice versa. attitudes to risk may vary from intolerance to complete ignorance, etc.. The list of relevant factors where humans can hold polar-opposite beliefs is endless. For each factor a desired attitude can be promoted, but changing people’s beliefs is a subtle art and not possible through blunt selling or imposition i.e. this is how we do it, so this is how you’re going to do it! For someone to change a belief they need evidence; different people need different degrees of evidence. A well-designed