The notification of the Serious Incident was not received by the former Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) until 22 October at which point the respective French authorities were advised. They then delegated investigation to Switzerland and the SAIB opened an Investigation on 4 December 2014 and it passed to the Board's successor, the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB), upon its creation. The late commencement of the Investigation resulted in relevant data on both the DFDR and the CVR being overwritten but QAR data and ATC recordings were available. It was noted that the flight crew consisted of a Commander with 6447 total flying hours including 3523 on the incident type, almost all of them on the incident aircraft type accompanied by a First Officer with 3771 hours total flying experience including 2856 on the incident type. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the flight and noted that the prevailing weather conditions for the departure were benign with light and variable winds. Runway 15 was the active runway in use and a corresponding departure clearance was given by ATC with the remark that they could request runway 33 - which they would prefer due to it requiring less taxi time - from GND during pushback. The necessary performance calculations for both possible runways at full length were carried out by both pilots on their EFBs, cross checked and entered into the FMGS by the commander in accordance with SOP. The commander and the First Officer then made similar calculations for intersection take offs from runway 15, assuming departure from the Golf and Hotel intersections respectively, but these were not cross checked or mentioned in the take-off briefing carried out before engine start. The diagram below shows the runway layout and, by timed annotation, the taxi route taken. During pushback, GND advised that use of runway 33 would incur a delay of approximately 20 minutes and the crew accepted a taxi clearance for a full length take off from runway 15. Taxiing out, they were instructed to follow another departing (Easyjet) A320 which had been instructed to taxi for departure from Golf. On switching to the TWR, the Belair crew, having agreed that the request should be made, also asked for an intersection Golf departure and advised "ready". TWR accepted this plan and instructed the aircraft to line up and wait with awareness that landing traffic was at 5 miles but the readback, with the aircraft still taxiing along 'B', was "holding short 15 Golf". Having confirmed that the Easyjet A320 was about to roll, TWR then warned the aircraft on approach to reduce to minimum safe approach speed because a second aircraft was going to depart before their landing. The Belair clearance to line up and wait at Golf was again given, then queried by the crew, but reconfirmed and finally acknowledged. Take off clearance followed approximately 20 seconds later as the aircraft was lining up with the advice that the aircraft on approach was