"it would, however, not have been possible to bring the aircraft to a standstill on the runway in the event of a rejected take-off that had been initiated at high speed". The formally stated Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was determined as "the fact that the aircraft did not achieve the necessary performance on take-off, because the flight crew performed the take-off from a taxiway intersection with an engine power which had been calculated for the entire length of the runway". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Procedures which require checking essential items in silence, which means that cross-checking cannot take place in the spirit of a closed loop.. The decision for an intersection take-off was made at short notice.. Additional cross-checking of the data entered into the flight guidance system during the line-up, which had been recently introduced, was ineffective be-cause the flight crew were unaware of it.. Safety Action taken by Belair as a result of the occurrence was recorded as including the following changes in procedures: a temporary ban on all intersection take-offs pending a revision of procedures related to take-off performance assessment accompanied by amplification on the definition of an 'intersection take off' was implemented until a revised sequence of pre runway entry normal checks has been introduced. These new checks included the addition of a callout verification at runway entry that the take-off performance calculation is still valid.. all modifications to previously planned departures, including performance calculations and SID changes, and the corresponding re-briefings must only be actioned with the aircraft stopped and the parking brake applied. A Safety Advice, a form of recommendation defined in STSB regulations as for use where a Safety Recommendation "does not appear to be appropriate, is not formally possible, or if the less prescriptive form of a safety advice is likely to have a greater effect", was issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: The Operator should optimise its procedures so that they exhibit high resilience. For example, applying a method of working in accordance with the closed loop principle can ensure that any errors or forgotten steps in the procedure can be quickly detected and rectified, especially in the case of reacting to a new situation. This should also include consideration of how much communication is appropriate within a multi-crew. On the one hand, the exchange of information should not be so great as to cause oversaturation or incorrect priorities to be set. On the other hand, situations where errors remain undetected due to insufficient communication or essential information is not made known to all crew members should be avoided. [Safety Advice No. 2] The Final Report was approved by the Swiss Transportation Safety Board (STSB) on 10 November 2015 and published on 1 December 2015. No Safety Recommendations were made.