at 3 miles. A rolling take off followed and reduced engine thrust as calculated for the full 3900 metre runway length and entered in the FMGS was set. The corresponding full length 'V speeds' as also previously entered were displayed. The actual runway length available for take-off from Golf was 2370 metres. As the take-off roll progressed, the commander "felt that the acceleration in relation to the position on the runway was unusual" and "realised that the take-off power that had been set did not correspond to that necessary". Forty seconds after receipt of the take-off clearance, at 140 KIAS and with 1150metres to go before the end of the runway, he therefore set TOGA power. He had seen from his EFB that the aircraft had already reached the speeds for an intersection take-off and so "rotated immediately" with the aircraft "approximately 790 metres from the end of the runway". The subsequent initial climb was made with a pitch attitude which reached 19.5ยบ aircraft nose up, which had "exceeded the maximum pitch specified by the Flight Director by 2ยบ", although it was accepted that "this high pitch had no negative effect on the climb". The subsequent flight to the intended destination was uneventful. No evidence of relevant technical malfunction or crew fatigue was found and the Investigation focused on the procedural context for the eventual error and also looked at how take off performance procedures were documented at a number of other A320 operators. It was noted that the request for an intersection take off meant that time pressure inevitably followed and that the implications of continuing as requested and approved, even when it was clear that a rolling take off would be necessary, were not properly appreciated. It was considered that "doubt remains as to whether the "BEFORE TAKEOFF" Checklist items, which according to operating procedures should have been worked through, were worked through in their entirety under this time pressure". It was also considered that some of the Operator's instructions for normal checklist completion prior to take off were "not appropriate in the case of important processes and make it possible for individual and even repeated errors to go un-detected". The use of 'silent checks' was assessed as especially inappropriate. It was noted that the procedures in place were themselves a result of changes made after a similar Serious Incident a year earlier that had introduced a new requirement, which, whilst it "may seem satisfactory from a legal perspective", was "less convincing from the perspective of flight safety", particularly when "cross-checking, which alone would lead to a marked reduction in the incidence of error, was once again excluded". It was noted that it had been the Commander's "experience from numerous take-offs at Basel" that had allowed him to recognise during the take-off roll that "the relationship between the acceleration and the position on the runway was unusual" and respond as he did. However, whilst this had enabled a successful take off, calculations made during the Investigation showed that