No. 3 bearing during the last engine overhaul. The smoke reported in the passenger cabin was attributed to the vibration-induced fracture of the low-pressure diffuser case in the right engine in association with the number 3 bearing distress which allowed oil from the No. 3 bearing cavity into the air conditioning system. Examination of the Rudder Travel Limitation Unit (TLU) found that rudder travel authority neutral position in the high speed mode had been incorrectly calibrated so that it was operative between -1° and +7° instead of in accordance with the AFM requirement for authority between +/-4°. The Causes (Contributing Factors) of the accident were formally documented as follows: The engine malfunction, although not directly causal to the accident, caused the generation of smoke, which prompted the declaration of a ‘MAYDAY’ and an immediate descent.. The smoke detection by the electrical smoke detector caused the ambiguous ‘ELEC SMK’ warning to activate in the cockpit causing the Captain’s confirmation bias and subsequent diversion of the attention away from the engine issue.. The confirmation bias created by the ambiguous ‘ELEC SMK’ warning led to the selection and action of the ‘Electrical Smoke’ Checklist.. The First Officer’s lack of aircraft systems knowledge and introverted behaviour increased the workload on the Captain and contributed to the steep flight deck authority gradient. This significantly contributed to the degraded CRM.. The oversight of the ‘Note’ in the QRH ‘SMOKE’ Checklist and the absence of similar information in the QRH ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist encouraged the crew to continue the checklist without other consideration.. The Alternating Current Wild (ACW) generators were switched off and the DC Bus Tie Contactor (BTC) was isolated through compliance with the QRH ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist by the flight crew resulting in the loss of hydraulic system pump power and the illumination of several fault lights.. The crew were referred by the QRH ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ checklist to action the QRH ‘ACW GEN 1+2 LOSS’ checklist and completed the ‘before landing’ section of this drill in place of the normal QRH ‘Before Landing’ checklist. This caused the crew not to check the (rudder) Travel imitation Unit (TLU) setting.. With the DC BTC isolated, the shutdown of the No. 2 engine caused all DC bus 2 supplied systems to lose power. This resulted in a number of system faults, failures and cautions.. The activation of numerous fault and failure messages as a result of the QRH ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ checklist and the shutdown of the No. 2 engine significantly contributed to crew cognitive saturation and reduced situational awareness and crew vigilance.. The lack of situational awareness caused the crew to select reverse thrust with ground control and braking systems unavailable.. The selection of reverse thrust caused the aircraft to turn to the left and exit the runway.. The absence of hydraulic control, brakes, and aerodynamic control prevented the crew from correcting the undesired course change, runway excursion, and subsequent collision with the parked aircraft.. The following 5 Safety Recommendations were made during the Investigation, the first four