of the smoke source and to the subsequent failure to select and action the right checklists in an orderly manner. It was noted that the Air Vanuatu SOPs included an explicit requirement to action checklists in such a way that “if a checklist is interrupted, reading must be resumed one step before the last read item” which was comprehensively ignored. However, it was ultimately of great significance that Normal Checklists were not completed once the in flight emergency had occurred since it was the failure to reset the rudder limiter manually to its low speed mode (giving +/- 27°of control instead of +/- 4°) which led directly to the loss of directional control when the Captain decided to use reverse pitch during the single engine landing on finding that, as alerted in one of the checklists which had been run in flight, normal braking (and in this case specifically differential braking) was not available. Overall, “it was evident that aspects such as cognitive saturation, lack of situational awareness, time pressures, inadequate systems knowledge, checklist ambiguity, and confirmation bias influenced the crew’s decision making, which led to incorrect checklist selection, prioritisation and action” which contributed to a general lack of situational awareness. The smoke event affecting the passenger cabin lasted almost 20 minutes but despite the Captain’s instruction to do so, the cabin crew did not don their PBE or provide wet towels to the passengers to help ease inhalation of the smoke. Once the Captain had declared a planned emergency landing, the cabin crew did not execute the required cabin preparation procedure. In general, the actions and inactions of the cabin crew during the emergency phase of the flight were not in accordance with either the applicable Cabin Crew Operations or Cabin Crew Training Manuals and specifically, they had not been aware of the smoke emergency procedure contained in them and had not been trained to execute all the actions required by this procedure. The Investigation found that Air Vanuatu did not comply with its approved Pilot Check and Training Manual in respect of recurrent training. In particular given the incorrect use of smoke checklists during the investigated event, it was found that the Captain had not completed smoke training since May 2015. It was also found that this Manual “did not provide adequate guidance and emphasis on smoke emergencies”. Many other training areas that were reviewed were found non-compliant with the approved Air Vanuatu OM and it was concluded that “the lack of appropriate and regulated training” had contributed to the Captain’s poor tactical decision-making. The Investigation also noted that cabin crew emergency training had been inadequate. The right engine compressor stall was found to have been caused by number 3 bearing distress. The root cause of this distress was relative rotation between the number 3 bearing inner race thrust side and the number 3 bearing rear spacer. This relative rotation was believed to have been caused by a problem with the stack-up of the various components around the