needed to complete the ‘SINGLE ENGINE OPERATION’ Checklist. Once the First Officer located this, he began to readout the title but progress was briefly interrupted when the Captain called the SCCM to advise that he would be making a ‘brace’ call shortly before touchdown. This Checklist was then completed. By now, the aircraft was within 5 nm of the airport and the Captain instructed the First Officer to refer back to the ‘ACW GEN 1+2 LOSS’ Checklist and continue with its ‘Before Landing’ section. No significant weather conditions existed at Port Vila and descending through about 1,900 feet for a visual approach, the landing gear lever was selected down and the flaps selected first to 15° and then 30°. To achieve the required manual landing gear extension process, the Captain again briefly handed control to the First Officer and successfully extended the landing gear from memory before resuming control. Of note was that the normal ‘Before Landing’ Checklist was not run which resulted in the rudder Travel Limitation Unit (TLU) remaining locked in its high-speed mode where it was when the engine was shut down and not then being checked and manually operated prior to landing, which had the effect of significantly limiting rudder authority at low speeds. A left turn onto finals for runway 29 was initiated and as the aircraft subsequently turned finals 1 nm from the threshold at a height of 330 feet, the Captain made a ‘Brace’ call on the PA. Touch down within the TDZ followed with immediate but brief selection of maximum reverse pitch which after a slight deviation left of the runway centreline was followed by a return of the power levers ground idle as the speed continued to decrease. About 200 metres further on, at a speed of 65 knots, the power levers were reselected into reverse setting and the aircraft immediately veered left and departed the side of the runway. It travelled for 320 metres over grass and across a taxiway before colliding, at a speed of about 45 knots, with two parked, unoccupied, BN-2 Islander aircraft, damaging all three aircraft and coming to an abrupt stop. As soon as the aircraft stopped, the Captain ordered an emergency evacuation which the cabin crew then conducted in an orderly and expedited manner with no consequent occupant injuries. Damage to the two parked aircraft (see the illustrations below) was considerable with the forward fuselage of one being completely destroyed and the vertical stabiliser and rudder being sheared off the other. The right hand side of the ATR72 sustained significant damage which included to the fuselage, engine, propeller assembly and main landing gear nacelle. The Captain subsequently stated that he had “no directional control or brakes and could not stop the runway excursion or the subsequent collision”. The investigation determined that despite the large difference in experience between the two pilots, neither of them had “adequate aircraft systems knowledge, particularly with regard to a smoke emergency” or “skill level” which contributed to a misdiagnosis