asking all passengers to remain seated and await further instructions. Whilst he was doing this, an ‘ELEC SMK’ Warning was annunciated and although the previous Checklist had not been completed, he immediately instructed the First Officer to find the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist. He then requested Vila ATC to arrange for the RFFS to be on Standby for their arrival “as the smoke situation would require them to stop on the runway to evacuate passengers”. On completion of this exchange, the First Officer began reading the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist. The first item referred the crew to the (general) ‘SMOKE’ Checklist which was then started. Half way through the Memory Items of that Checklist, the Captain interrupted and instructed the First Officer to go back to the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist and complete that first, but then quickly corrected himself and asked the First Officer to continue with the ‘SMOKE’ Checklist. The crew then “hastily completed the memory items and returned to continue with the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist and actioned the first 9 items but did not then refer as directed by that item to the ‘ACW GEN 1+2 LOSS’ Checklist. Five minutes after her original report of smoke in the passenger cabin, the SCCM called to say that “smoke was still present in the cabin and was intensifying” to which the Captain replied that “they would need to be ready for an evacuation of the passengers on the runway”. With the aircraft now about 33 nm from Port Via, a Warning of Engine 2 Low Oil Pressure was annunciated and the Captain instructed the First Officer to find the ‘ENG 1(2) OIL LO PR’ Checklist. This had several (conditional) sub-checklists but when the First Officer was unable to determine which option was appropriate, the Captain temporarily returned control of the aircraft to the First Officer in order to run the Checklist himself before taking it back upon completion, which had required (eight minutes after the initial signs of engine distress) that the right engine be shut down. Completion of this Checklist then directed crews to move to the ‘SINGLE ENG OPERATION’ Checklist but this was not immediately run as the Captain then instructed the First Officer to check and confirm if they had completed the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ Checklist. The First Officer did so and advised that the next item on that Checklist required them to refer to the ‘ACW GEN 1+2 LOSS’ Checklist which the crew then commenced. After the first 10 items, this Checklist then consisted of two successive sub sections, the first headed ‘Before Landing’ and the second ‘After Touchdown’ and was completed by a reference list of ‘Lost Items’. The Captain intervened and instructed the First Officer to “reserve” the first sub section and continue with the rest of the Checklist but before he could finish it, the Captain “told him to start again from the top”. The First Officer did so “but before he could finish reading the first item, the Captain interrupted again by saying that they