An Investigation was commenced by the Papua New Guinea Accident Investigation Commission (AIC) the day after the accident following delegation of the whole Investigation to the AIC by the Vanuatu CAA, who then supported it as necessary with guidance on applicable Republic of Vanuatu Civil Legislation. The aircraft 2 hour SSCVR, FDR and QAR PCMCIA card were all recovered from the aircraft and their data downloaded. It was found that the Digital Flight Data Acquisition Unit (DFDAU) feeding the FDR was programmed with an ATR Data Frame Version which did not comply with FAA requirements for transport category aircraft and also noted that the data recording system of the aircraft was not capable of recording some parameters of interest specified in the FAR including hydraulic pressure, brake pedal activation, trim commands and brake pressure. It was noted that the 34 year-old Training Captain, who was a French national, was both a Training Captain and ATR Fleet Manager. He had a total of 7,205 hours flying experience including 3,870 hours on type having gained his ATR 72 type rating in 2014. The 27 year-old trainee First Officer, a Vanuatu national who had been under supervision as PF for the flight, had a total of 1,629 hours flying experience including 55 hours on type, had recently gained an ATR 72 type rating and was undergoing line training to complete the type conversion process. He had previous experience on the DHC6 Twin Otter. Whilst en-route at FL160 and about 60 nm from destination, both crew and passengers reported having heard ‘loud bangs’ from the right hand side of the aircraft which the Captain had concluded were attributable to disrupted airflow in the right engine due to a compressor stall. The ITT indication for that engine was seen to rise rapidly and, on exceeding its limit, a corresponding alert was triggered. The Captain immediately took over as PF, retarded the (corresponding) power lever and instructed the First Officer to find the ‘ABNORMAL ENG PARAMETERS IN FLIGHT’ Checklist. He subsequently called the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) to acknowledge the occurrence and was told that “smoke was entering the cabin from the right side of the aircraft”. On hearing this, the Captain was recorded as exclaiming “Smoke!” and immediately making a ‘MAYDAY’ call to Villa ATC advising “we got cabin smoke” which when queried was followed by a repeat of the ‘MAYDAY’ and “engine smoke and we got an engine problem, we might have to shut it down”. He then notified that they were commencing descent. One minute later, both pilots donned their oxygen masks and recommenced the ‘ABNORMAL ENG PARAMETERS’ Checklist. They had only completed the first item on it when the Captain interrupted the First Officer by calling the SCCM for an update on the reported cabin smoke and was told that “smoke was still entering the cabin” upon which he instructed her to don her Protective Breathing Equipment (PBE) and carry out the required cabin smoke procedures. He then made a PA