crops, do not interfere with rescue and fire fighting activities. [A-90-155]. that the US Department of the Air Force require that Kovatch A/S32P-18 vehicles comply with Kovatch Technical Service Bulletin 86-KFTS-P-18-5 and expedite the distribution of modification kits that will permit compliance with the service bulletin. [A-90-147]. that the US Department of the Air Force immediately remove from service all Kovatch A/S32P-18 vehicles until they have been so modified. [A-90-148]. that the US Department of the Air Force require maximum capacity discharge tests of all emergency response fire service vehicles before the vehicles are accepted for service and on an established regular schedule thereafter. [A-90-149]. that the US Department of the Air Force make available to all operators of Department of the Air Force air bases an account for the circumstances of the accident described in Safety Recommendation letter A-90-147-150 as they relate to the deficiencies in the Kovatch A/S32P-18 water supply vehicle. [A-90-150]. On issue of the Final Report: that the FAA intensify research in the non-destructive inspection field to identify emerging technologies that can serve to simplify, automate, or otherwise improve the reliability of the inspection process. Such research should encourage the development and implementation of redundant ("second set of eyes") inspection oversight for critical part inspections, such as for engine rotating components. [A-90-167]. that the FAA encourage research and development of backup flight control systems for newly certificated wide-body airplanes that utilise an alternative source of motive power separate from that source used for the conventional control system. [A-90-168]. that the FAA conduct system safety reviews of currently certificated aircraft as a result of the lessons learned from the July 19, 1989, Sioux City, Iowa, DC-10 accident to give all possible consideration to the redundancy of, and protection for, power sources for flight and engine controls. [A-90-169]. that the FAA analyse the dispersion pattern, fragment size and energy level of released engine rotating parts from the July 19, 1989, Sioux City, Iowa, DC-10 accident and include the results of this analysis, and any other peripheral data available, in a revision of AC 20-128 for future aircraft certification. [A-90-170]. that the FAA conduct a comprehensive evaluation of aircraft and engine manufacturers' recordkeeping and internal audit procedures to evaluate the need to keep long-term records and to ensure that quality assurance verification and traceability of critical airplane parts can be accomplished when necessary at all manufacturing facilities. [A-90-171]. that the FAA create the mechanism to support a historical data base of worldwide engine rotary part failures to facilitate design assessments and comparative safety analysis during certification reviews and other FAA research. [A-90-172]. that the FAA issue an Air Carrier Operations Bulletin for all air carrier flight crew training departments to review this accident scenario and reiterate the importance of time management in the preparation of the cabin for an impending emergency landing. [A-90-173]. that the FAA issue an Airworthiness Directive to mandate service life limits or recurrent inspection requirements on General Electric Aircraft Engines CF6-6 engine stage 1 fan