Stage I rotor disks for the presence of surface cracks; issue an Airworthiness Directive to require that these disks be inspected with this method on an expedited basis, that disks found to have cracks be removed from service, and that the inspection be repeated at a cyclic interval based upon the crack size detectable by the inspection method, the stress level in the applicable area of the disk, and the crack propagation characteristics of the disk material. [A-90-88]. that the FAA evaluate currently certificated turbine engines to identify those engine components that, if they fracture and separate, could pose a significant threat to the structure or systems of the airplanes on which the engines are installed; and perform a damage tolerance evaluation of these engine components. Based on this evaluation, issue an Airworthiness Directive to require inspections of the critical components at intervals based upon the crack size detectable by the approved inspection method used, the stress level at various locations in the component, and the crack propagation characteristic of the component material. [A-90-89]. that the FAA amend 14 CFR part 33 to require that turbine engines certificated under this rule are evaluated to identify those engine components that, if they should fracture and separate, could pose a significant threat to the structure or systems of an airplane; and require that a damage tolerance evaluation of these components be performed. Based on this evaluation, require that the maintenance programs for these engines include inspection of the critical components at intervals based upon the crack size detectable by the inspection method used, the stress level at various locations in the component, and the crack propagation characteristics of the component material. [A-90-90]. that the FAA require turbine engine manufacturers to perform a surface macroetch inspection of the final part shape of critical titanium alloy rotating components during the manufacturing process. [A-90-91]. On 19 October 1990: that the FAA direct Airport Certification Inspectors to require 14 CFR 139 certificate holders to inspect the suction hoses on Kovatch A/S32P-18 water supply vehicles to verify that they incorporate the modifications described in Kovatch Technical Service Bulletin 86-KFTS-P-18-5 and to immediately remove from service A/S32P-18 vehicles that have not been so modified. [A-90-151]. that the FAA amend 14 CFR 139 to require airport operators to perform maximum capacity discharge tests of all emergency response fire fighting and water supply vehicles before the vehicles are accepted for service and on a regularly scheduled basis thereafter. [A-90-152]. that the FAA make available to all 14 CFR 139 certificated airports an account of the circumstances of the accident described in Safety Recommendation letter A-90-147-155 as they relate to the deficiencies identified with the Kovatch A/S32P-18 water supply vehicle. [A-90-153]. that the FAA develop guidance for airport operators for acceptable responses by aircraft rescue and fire fighting equipment to accidents in crop environments on airport property. [A-90-154]. that the FAA require annual airport certification inspections to include examinations of airfield terrain to ensure, where practicable, that surface obstructions, including agricultural