965 hours as a First Officer and 79 hours as a Captain since upgrade less than 3 months prior to the accident. It was established that at the time of engine failure, the First Officer had been acting as PF and had immediately announced that he could no longer control the aircraft, which began a right descending turn. The Captain took control and confirmed the lack of control but by reducing the thrust set on the number 1 engine, he was able to roll the aircraft to a wings-level attitude. Starting the Air Driven Generator (ADG), which is designed to power the number one auxiliary hydraulic pump, did not restore any hydraulic power to the aircraft and it was subsequently confirmed that debris from the failed engine had struck and comprehensively disabled all three hydraulic systems - the only means of moving the primary flight control surfaces. The off-duty Training Captain who had joined the flight crew to assist in responding to the emergency took over the manipulation of the number 1 and 3 engine thrust levers and with visual reference and sight of the First Officer's ASI, he was able to achieve course control of the aircraft flight path. He continued to do this until the aircraft made contact with the runway during the eventual emergency landing - the accomplished ground track is shown below. The Investigation was able to establish that catastrophic failure of the fan disc of the General Electric CF6-6D engine had been caused by a fatigue crack that had originated in a metallurgical defect on the surface of the disk bore. It was concluded that this defect had its origin in the manufacture of the titanium alloy material from which the failed disc was formed. This flaw in the material was not detected by inspections performed during the manufacturing process or after installation of the disc in the engine and it caused the initiation of the fatigue crack which eventually caused the explosive failure. At the time of the failure, the disc had accumulated 41,009 flight hours and 15,503 flight cycles. It was noted that during successive routine off-wing engine overhauls in accordance with the prevailing maintenance procedures, routine inspection using fluorescent penetrant dye had failed to detect the crack. It was also determined that during the most recent of these overhauls, after which the engine had been installed on the accident aircraft for 760 flight cycles, the crack would have been of a size such that a properly performed inspection should have detected it. Whilst the failure of a single engine should not have created a loss of flight path control, it was evident that the aircraft type certification process had not taken sufficient account of the need for containment of engine failure debris if the assumption that the integrity of the fan rotor would, by design and through routine engine overhaul requirements, never fail was unduly optimistic. The Investigation considered the way the flight crew and the assisting pilot had been able to