defect area cracked with the application of stress during the disc's initial exposures to full thrust engine power conditions and the crack grew until it entered material unaffected by the hard alpha defect.. General Electric Aircraft Engines’ material and production records relevant to CF6-6 stage 1 fan disk S/N MPO 00385, which was the failed disc, were incomplete.. Regarding the existence at General Electric Aircraft Engines of two S/N MPO 00385 disks, an outside laboratory had possession of the disc, which was rejected for an ultrasonic indication at the time that the disc that eventually separated was receiving its final processing on the production line. Therefore, the two S/N MPO 00385 disks were not switched at the manufacturing facility.. General Electric Aircraft Engines’ disc manufacturing records and associated vendor-supplied documents, together with the system for maintaining and auditing them, did not assure accurate traceability of turbine engine rotating components.. United Airlines fan disc maintenance records indicated that maintenance, inspection, and repair of the CF6-6 fan disc was in accordance with the Federal Aviation Administration approved United Airlines' maintenance program and the General Electric Aircraft Engines' shop manual.. A detectable fatigue crack about 0.5 inch long at the surface of the stage 1 fan disk bore of the No. 2 engine existed at the time of the most recent United Airlines inspection in April 1988 but was not detected before the accident.. The discoloration noted on the surface of the fatigue crack was created during the FPI (fluorescent penetrant inspection) process performed by UAL 760 cycles prior to the accident, and the discoloured area marks the size of the crack at the time of this inspection.. The inspection parameters established in the United Airlines maintenance program, the United Airlines Engineering Inspection Document, and the General Electric Aircraft Engines shop manual inspection procedures, if properly followed at the maintenance facility, are adequate to identify unserviceable rotating parts prior to an in-service failure.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as follows: “The inadequate consideration given to human factors limitations in the inspection and quality control procedures used by United Airlines' engine overhaul facility which resulted in the failure to detect a fatigue crack originating from a previously undetected metallurgical defect located in a critical area of the stage 1 fan disc that was manufactured by General Electric Aircraft Engines. The subsequent catastrophic disintegration of the disc resulted in the liberation of debris in a pattern of distribution and with energy levels that exceeded the level of protection provided by design features of the hydraulic systems that operate the DC-l0's flight controls.” A total of 28 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: On 17 August 1989: that the FAA conduct a directed safety investigation (DSI) of the General Electric CF6-6 turbine engine to establish a cyclic threshold at which the fan shaft and the fan disks should be separated and inspected for defects in the components. The DSI should include a review and analysis of: the