certification, testing and stress analysis data that were used to establish the life limits of the fan disks and fan shaft components and the recommended inspection frequencies for these components; the manufacturing processes associated with the production of the fan assembly and fan forward shaft; metallurgical analysis of the front flange of the fan forward shaft in which cracks were recently discovered; the maintenance practices involved in the assembly and disassembly of the fan disks and the fan forward shaft for the potential to damage the components during these processes; non-destructive inspection of spare fan disks and fan forward shafts beginning with those components with the highest number of cycles in service; and non-destructive inspections of fan disks on installed engines that may be performed by an approved inspection procedure. [A-89-95]. the certification, testing and stress analysis data that were used to establish the life limits of the fan disks and fan shaft components and the recommended inspection frequencies for these components;. the manufacturing processes associated with the production of the fan assembly and fan forward shaft;. metallurgical analysis of the front flange of the fan forward shaft in which cracks were recently discovered;. the maintenance practices involved in the assembly and disassembly of the fan disks and the fan forward shaft for the potential to damage the components during these processes;. non-destructive inspection of spare fan disks and fan forward shafts beginning with those components with the highest number of cycles in service; and. non-destructive inspections of fan disks on installed engines that may be performed by an approved inspection procedure. [A-89-95]. that the FAA, following completion of the directed safety investigation of the General Electric CF6-6 turbine engine discussed in A-89-95, issue an airworthiness directive to require appropriate inspections of the fan disks and the fan forward shaft at appropriate cyclic intervals. [A-89-96]. that the FAA evaluate, because of similarities in design, manufacture, and maintenance, the need for a directed safety investigation of all General Electric CF6-series turbine engines with the objectives of verifying the established life limits for rotating parts of the fan modules and establishing appropriate cyclic inspection requirements for these parts. [A-89-97]. NB: These recommendations were classified as "Closed-Superseded" by other recommendations issued on 18 June 1990. On 30 May 1990: that the FAA revise 14 CFR 91, 121 and 135 to require that all occupants be restrained during takeoff, landing, and turbulent conditions, and that all infants and small children below the weight of 40 pounds and under the height of 40 inches to be restrained in an approved child restraint system appropriate to their height and weight. [A-90-78]. that the FAA conduct research to determine the adequacy of aircraft seatbelts to restrain children too large to use child safety seats and to develop some suitable means of providing adequate restraint for such children. [A-90-79]. On 18 June 1990: that the FAA develop, with the assistance of General Electric Aircraft Engines, an alternate method of inspecting the bore area of the CF6-6 engine fan