achieve sufficient flight path control to be able to eventually reach and attempt to land on a paved runway surface at an airport with full RFFS capability and concluded that the aircraft, whilst flyable, “could not have been successfully landed on a runway with the loss of all hydraulic flight controls”. It was also concluded that the crew performance in the circumstances had been “highly commendable and greatly exceeded reasonable expectations” and that the exemplary interaction of the pilots during the emergency had been “indicative of the value of Cockpit Resource Management” which was an established part of the pilot training regime at United Airlines. The Investigation examined all aspects of the post crash scenario in particular matters of cabin safety (including infant passenger restraint) and the response of the emergency services. A total of 21 Investigation Findings were formally documented as follows: The flight crew was certificated and qualified for the flight and the airplane was dispatched in accordance with company procedures and Federal regulations.. Weather was not a factor in this accident.. Air Traffic Control services were supportive of the flight crew and were not a factor in the accident.. The aircraft experienced an uncontained failure of the No. 2 engine stage 1 fan rotor disc assembly.. The No. 2 engine fragments severed the No. 1 and No. 3 hydraulic system lines, and the forces of the engine failure fractured the No. 2 hydraulic system, rendering the airplane's three hydraulic-powered flight control systems inoperative.. The airplane was marginally flyable using asymmetrical thrust from engines No. 1 and 3 after the loss of all conventional flight control systems; however, a safe landing was virtually impossible.. The airport emergency response was timely and initially effective; however, cornstalks on the airfield and the failure of the Kovatch P-18 water supply vehicle adversely affected fire fighting operations.. The FAA has not adequately addressed the issue of infant occupant protection. The FAA has permitted small children and infants to be held or restrained by use of seatbelts during turbulence, landing, and takeoff, posing a danger to themselves and others.. Separation of the titanium alloy stage 1 fan rotor disc was the result of a fatigue crack that initiated from a type 1 hard alpha metallurgical defect on the surface of the disc bore.. The hard alpha metallurgical defect was formed in the titanium alloy material during manufacture of the ingot from which the disc was forged.. The hard alpha metallurgical defect was not detected by ultrasonic and macroetch inspections performed by General Electric Aircraft Engines during the manufacturing process of the disc.. The metallurgical flaw that formed during initial manufacture of the titanium alloy would have been apparent if the part had been macroetch inspected in its final part shape.. The cavity associated with the hard alpha metallurgical defect was created during the final machining and/or shot peening at the time of General Electric Aircraft Engines’ manufacture of the disc after General Electric Aircraft Engines’ ultrasonic and macroetch manufacturing inspections.. The hard alpha