remaining, a MAYDAY was declared and the flight was cleared to make an emergency landing. A priority dual channel auto ILS to runway 28 was successfully accomplished with the reported RVRs 375 metres/900 metres/50 metres. It was found by the Investigation that "the visibility at the time of landing was almost nil". There was sufficient fuel remaining after landing (400 kg) to taxi to the assigned parking gate where it was found to be down to 150 kg. The Investigation found that the Jaipur TAFs during the period prior to the series of Jaipur diversions, which had included the flight under investigation, could not be correlated with the weather conditions subsequently experienced. It was also found that on the day of the event, Jaipur was not appending TREND reports to their METARs and SPECIs, but it was noted that these had begun to appear on their METARs the following day. It was found that when the flight had been inbound to Delhi the first time shortly after sunset, although both Lucknow and Dehli were reporting 2,000 metres visibility, the former had an Air Temperature / Dew Point split of 4° whereas at Jaipur, both were already the same. It was considered that given the considerable prevalence of winter diversions from Dehli, most of which show the same two (single runway) FPL alternates - Lucknow and Jaipur - as in this case, lessons about risk management of these diversions could be derived from an analysis of experience across all the airlines involved which does not presently happen. It was noted that Spicejet had a winter 'Fog Plan' which required all flights inbound to Dehli between 2000 and 0930 local time to be operated by Cat IIIa qualified crews, but it had not been followed in the investigated case since only the First Officer was so qualified. It was concluded that it was "the timely diversion from Delhi to Jaipur i.e. with fuel on board above the MDF required for Lucknow (the safer alternate) which had made it possible for the aircraft to reach Delhi after the diversion (back) from Jaipur". It was also accepted that "carrying out a direct auto land into Delhi in visibility which was below that for which the crew was qualified was the safest (available) action". The formal determination of the Investigation in respect of Probable Cause was that the emergency landing due to low fuel occurred because: The aircraft had to carry out a second diversion with low fuel on board from the chosen alternate airport to the original destination airport due to blockage of the runway by another aircraft (VT-ESH) which had been substantially damaged during landing at the alternate airport.. There was a lack of operational supervision and desirable ground support to the in-flight aircraft crew.. There was a lack of effective oversight of flight operations.. A more appropriate initial diversion from the destination airport due to low visibility conditions there would have been Lucknow instead of Jaipur.. A total of 5 Safety Recommendations