An Investigation was carried out by an Indian AAIB Committee of Inquiry. The SSFDR and 2-hour SSCVR were removed and their data downloaded. The SSCVR data covered the period from the hold prior to initial approach vectoring at Delhi onwards. The Captain was Cat II qualified and had 6,410 hours total flying hours which included 2,003 hours in command on type. The First Officer was Cat III qualified and had 1,996 total flying hours, of which 1,743 hours were on type. It was established that the 2½ hour flight from Goa to Dehli was scheduled to arrive at Dehli at 2015 local time. The TAFs provided prior to departure from Goa indicated that a deterioration in visibility from 800 metres in fog to 400 metres visibility in fog at Delhi was expected to occur soon after the STA. The pre-departure forecast visibility at both alternates, Lucknow and Jaipur, was the same - 2000 metres. Departure was almost on schedule and an extra 500 kg of fuel was carried for expected holding at Dehli. Nearing Delhi, ATC instructed a speed reduction and advised that the aircraft was No 13 to land. The ATIS at this time was giving landing runway RVRs well above Cat II, the prevailing crew qualification. However, subsequently, as the aircraft was being radar vectored towards an ILS approach to runway 28 at 7,000 feet, the roll out RVR for that runway dropped below Cat II limits and a hold was resumed. This was continued for almost half an hour but the RVR for both runway 28 and runway 29 remained below Cat II limits and the Captain decided, following a request from his Company flight dispatch, to divert to Jaipur. The aircraft still had 3,100kg of fuel on board and Jaipur, a half hour flight away, required 2,573 kg. The other FPL alternate, Lucknow, was further away but the aircraft was not below its corresponding Minimum Diversion Fuel (MDF). However, given the request from flight despatch (based on the fact that it would be easier to recover the aircraft from Jaipur but also in the knowledge that visibility was expected to deteriorate), the weather for Lucknow was not checked. The crew had themselves obtained the Jaipur weather whilst holding and had learned that the visibility was 900 metres in fog patches with the relevant RVR 1,500 metres. By the time the aircraft was descending into Jaipur, ATC advised that the visibility had dropped to 50 metres and the relevant RVR was 200 metres. By this time there were no other suitable alternates with MDF available and so despite not yet being short of fuel, the crew were committed to landing at Jaipur. Then, with the aircraft at 5nm finals, ATC advised that the aircraft ahead had crash landed and blocked the runway, and the Captain immediately began the return to Dehli having estimated that there was just enough fuel remaining for an immediate approach there whatever the visibility. On contact with Dehli, and with 1,200kg of fuel