An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The aircraft was not fitted with an FDR nor required to be. The 30 minute CVR was recovered but found to have been unserviceable prior to the crash and so contained no useful data. However, it was possible to recreate the flight path followed using recorded radar data. The flight was a single pilot operation with a second pilot carried at the request of the charterer. The 44 year-old Captain had an estimated 6,100 hours total flying experience which included 668 on turbine powered types. There was no evidence that the 40 year-old second pilot was qualified to serve as second-in-command of an aircraft type-certificated for and operated by two pilots and most of his flying experience had been acquired on single engine piston aircraft. He was present in the unofficial role of a 'pilot's assistant'. Both pilots were found to be self-employed and working for the de facto aircraft operator, InterState Helicopters on a freelance on-call basis. The prevailing weather conditions were good and played no part in the accident. It was found that after taking off from runway 17L and reaching an altitude of 3000 feet on a standard radar heading of 200ยบ, ATC Radar had, approximately two minutes after departure, cleared the aircraft to turn right onto a heading of 290ยบ and continue the climb. There was no response to this clearance and an eyewitness subsequently reported that at about this time, they had seen an aircraft "crash and explode". A security camera located about half a mile southwest of the accident site had captured images of the accident aircraft descending steeply nose down towards the ground. This video also showed that impact had been followed by "a large fireball". Witnesses "predominantly reported" that the aircraft had "rolled left and spiralled or spun" into the ground. Radar data used to replicate the aircraft flight path showed that the "steep, rapid descent included a left roll through the inverted position" by the time that the aircraft hit the ground. The wreckage was located in a wooded area about 4 miles south of the departure airport and was "severely fragmented and fire damaged due to the impact and post crash fire". There was no evidence that any pieces of the aircraft had separated in flight. The overlaid aerial picture above shows the aircraft track and altitude based on recordings from the Oklahoma City Airport (OKC) surveillance radar. The green primary returns are from birds - assessed visually as likely to have been Pelicans - which were calculated to have been flying at an average speed of 44 knots over Lake Overholser to the south west of and close to the departure airport. It was found that both engines had ingested birds but that only the right engine had, as a result, stopped operating before impact. The left engine was assessed as having been capable of producing sufficient thrust to sustain flight to the extent that "the