loss of power in one engine would not alone" have been the cause of loss of control of the aircraft. There was no evidence that an in-flight fire had occurred or of any bird strike to the empennage, but remains of "splatter" attributable to bird impact was found on the right horizontal stabiliser and on the right hand side of the vertical stabiliser. Examination of flight deck window framework and the bulkhead between the flight deck and the baggage compartment found no evidence to indicate that a bird entered the flight deck and it was therefore considered "unlikely that a bird strike incapacitated either pilot" or interfered with their ability to control the aircraft trajectory from the flight deck. Only a few sections of the aircraft wings were recovered and none of these showed any evidence of bird impact. However, it was noted that witnesses had reported and video evidence confirmed that as the aircraft had descended, it had emitted "a (light coloured) visible trail from its left side" which in the absence of any evidence that there had been an in-flight fire, "likely resulted from a bird strike on at least the left wing’s leading edge structure" – which would have breached the integral wet-wing fuel tank and created a visible fuel or fuel-vapour trail. The bird species involved was subsequently identified from DNA taken from remains found on the wreckage as American white pelican, which it was noted can reach a weight of about 20 lbs (9kg). A witness to the event “commented that a flock of pelicans had been in the area for about 2 weeks before the accident" and another witness had observed (and subsequently recovered) bird debris identifiable to this species from the vicinity of the aircraft at the point where its flight path became irregular. It was noted that the Airframe Certification Standard applicable to the Cessna 500 required that the wing structure is certificated to withstand a 4 lb bird impact at a cruise speed of 287 knots such that continued safe flight and landing remains possible. The Investigation "performed a bird-strike energy study that determined that the kinetic energy of such a strike […] is 14,586 foot-lbs”. Based on the estimated speed of the accident aircraft of almost 200 KTAS at the apparent impact position, and a bird weight of as much as 20 lbs, it was noted that the kinetic energy of the collision could have been in excess of 35,000 ft lbs for a single bird, far in excess of certification requirements. It was noted that although not a factor in this accident, certification requirements for the empennage on the aircraft type involved required that it be able to withstand an 8 lb bird strike. From all the assembled evidence, it was concluded that the loss of control that had occurred was likely to have been a direct consequence of damage to the left wing, sustained as a result of impact with at least one very large bird of the