flock which had been crossing the flight path in a loose formation. It was accepted that Controllers are required to provide bird activity reports to pilots when such information is available, but noted that in this instance, there was "no evidence that controllers had any information about any known bird activity that could have been used to alert the flight crew of a heightened bird hazard". It was, however, noted that Wiley Post Airport had not complied to the requirement in FAA AC 150/5200-33B that "operators of airports surrounded by woodlands, water, or wetlands should provide for a wildlife hazard assessment (which includes birds) conducted by a wildlife damage management biologist" and also to the requirement that "airport operators should establish a distance of 5 miles between the farthest edge of the airport operations area and any wildlife attractant that could cause hazardous wildlife movement into or across the approach or departure airspace”. The Investigation was concerned that the FAA had not detected that the airport had failed to conduct a wildlife hazard assessment, especially given that it was "surrounded by multiple attractants, some of which (including Lake Overholser) were known to the FAA" because they were detailed in the FAA-approved wildlife management plan of the nearby but much larger Oklahoma City airport. The Investigation noted that pilot awareness of the role of airspeed in reducing the risk of damaging bird impact could be heightened by taking more account of reference charts that show the relationship between aircraft speed and bird weight for equivalent bird-strike energy. To that end, the Investigation included an example of such a chart applicable to a Cessna 500 in its Final Report. This is reproduced below and shows two bird-strike energy speed curves, a blue line corresponding to the 4 lb bird at 287 knots and a red line corresponding to the 8 lb bird at the same speed. It also shows the minimum safe airspeed (1.3 times the stall speed) as a function of weight and in various flap configurations - shown as solid, dashed or dotted black lines. Entirely separate from the Investigation into direct cause, a substantial part of the Investigation also examined the basis on which the accident flight had been operated. Representatives from the organisation which "facilitated" the flight -InterState Helicopters -, from the aircraft owner Southwest Orthopedic and from the charterer - United Engines - "all denied responsibility for operating the flight" and "no documented aircraft lease, time-sharing, pilot services, or other agreements were discovered to help determine the identity of the operator or the nature of the flight". Whilst "the accident pilot was certificated, trained, and qualified" to fly the accident aircraft in non-commercial operations as a single pilot, the second pilot was "not trained, qualified, or current" to fly it, although it was noted that "because the pilot was authorised to fly [...] as a single pilot, the second pilot could occupy a cockpit seat and assist the pilot as directed". The Investigation considered that "given the