noted that "a few minutes before the serious incident, the volume of traffic increased significantly" but that "this was not foreseeable because the deviations from the forecasts took place at a very late stage". The Investigation noted that the two controllers involved in the ATC side of the event, a Radar Executive Controller and a Radar Planner Controller both provided statements to the Investigation to the effect that sector capacity was appropriate to the prevailing conditions - "It was demanding, but we were not overwhelmed; we simply had enough to do." However, in their two Operational Internal Reports (OIRs) written after the incident, they described the volume of traffic as "very high". In respect of the crew of RYR 3595, it was noted that the failure to prefix their climb request with their radio callsign was not only contrary to universal procedure but had the effect of leaving the controller uncertain as to who had requested the clearance and thereby contributed to the occurrence of the dangerous convergence. It was considered that the fact that RYR 3595 acknowledged the clearance to FL 380 issued to RYR 6DW "might be attributable to the expectations of the former" but it was also considered that "RYR 6DW should have intervened when the clearance to FL 380 issued to them was read back by RYR 3595". Whilst it was accepted that the reason why they did not reply themselves to the call "must be left unanswered", the Investigation considered that "possibly the crew firstly did not expect any clearance because they were already established at the flight level filed in their flight plan and / or, secondly they might have been in doubt whether the clearance was meant for them - a doubt which was dispelled the moment another crew acknowledged the clearance without any delay and ATC did not intervene." The formal statement of the Cause of the Serious Incident was as that it was "attributable to the fact that the crew of a commercial aircraft initiated a climb without clearance, which lead to a dangerous convergence with another commercial aircraft." The following Causal Factors were identified as the (direct) cause of the serious incident: The crew initiated the climb on the basis of a clearance which had been issued to another commercial aircraft belonging to the same aviation operator.. The air traffic controller did not realise that the clearance issued was not read back by the crew for which it had been intended.. The following were identified as Contributing Factors to the serious incident: A request by a flight crew for clearance to a higher flight level without specification of their radio callsign. The issue of altitude clearance by air traffic control without verification of the crew which had made the request. The absence of any reaction from another crew to whom the clearance was addressed. The insufficient attention given to the prevailing weather conditions when the decision to combine ATC sectors was made.. Safety Action taken since the event was noted