less than 3 degrees and the touchdown should occur as soon as the aircraft is aligned with the runway. Prolonging the flare would increase the pitch attitude which brings the wingtip closer to the ground. The aileron input is required throughout the landing roll and the input should be increased as the airspeed decreases. Any lateral motion on final approach should be controlled using aileron inputs. The rudder should not be used to control lateral motion and should only be used in the flare to align the aircraft with the runway. The use of autobrake is recommended with strong crosswinds. It was noted that the operator and the manufacturer had previously been in contact about wingtip strikes after earlier wing tip strike events and near misses with the operator expressing concern that the down-going wing may be at risk of stalling in ground effect at a speed below VREF and contacting the runway. Both pilots stated that they thought that adding an increment to VREF during turbulence or crosswinds, even without gusts reported, might reduce the risk of wingtip strikes but when this view had previously been put to the manufacturer, it had not been supported for use in “smooth constant crosswinds or as a general procedure”. However, two months after the investigated event had occurred, the FCOM was amended to suggest that with the A/T engaged, adjusting VREF so that any speed fluctuations occur from above rather than below VREF and noted that “approaches in turbulent conditions may be treated similarly to gusty conditions (since) it is highly likely that turbulence and gusts may be coincident”. This new guidance made no distinction between the degree of turbulence and its applicability but suggested that the increment should match the number of knots below VREF being observed. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: This Serious Incident occurred when large right rudder and roll inputs just before touchdown combined with unidentified external or other influences - likely to be localised wind or gust effects - to cause a rapid roll to the right and a bank angle which exceeded the recommended maximum of 3°. Despite a prompt and positive reversal of those inputs, the nose-up pitch attitude combined with the rate of roll reduced the wing tip clearance to the extent that the right wingtip contacted the runway surface. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 July 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.