right wingtip contacted the runway. The landing roll was completed without further event and the aircraft taxied in to its assigned parking stand. A post flight examination of the right wing found structural damage to the underside of the winglet, the aileron, the wing leading edge and both outer canoe fairings. A detailed examination of the FDR data showed that at 50 feet agl, speed was already three knots below VREF with aircraft heading 5° to the right of the runway centreline in the presence of an onboard derived wind which represented a 16.8 knot crosswind from the right. Two seconds later the aircraft descended through 30 feet agl and the pitch began to be progressively increased to 9.1° nose up. The aircraft then started began a roll left which reached a maximum of 4.4° at 20 feet agl and as this roll began, a right roll command to 34.7° was made and then immediately reduced to 24.2° as a right rudder input produced a deflection of 7.4° to the right. As the aircraft started rolling back to wings level, the right multifunction spoiler briefly deployed to 5° deflection before returning to the retracted position. Then, half a second before touchdown, the roll rate to the right increased to a peak of 14.3°/second which prompted an opposite aileron control input to 62.1° left. The right main gear touched down first with a recorded peak roll attitude of 8.5° to the right and a 9.1° nose-up pitch. An interpretation of the FDR data was provided by the aircraft manufacturer who noted that until reaching 30 feet agl, although rudder deflection had ranged between 5.2° right and 4.9° left, there was no rudder pedal movement and this movement had been within the +/- 6.5° nominal authority of the yaw damper which was engaged. Further modelling by the manufacturer showed that “the aircraft rate of roll to the right just before the wingtip contacted the runway was not solely the result of the pilot’s flight control inputs” and whilst noting that “important external or other influences could have provoked the right roll to wing tip contact at touchdown” this could not be confirmed by the simulation. The manufacturer’s FCOM was found to include the following guidance on crosswind landings: The recommended technique for approach is a wings level crab technique where the aircraft is pointed into wind to control direction. If a crosswind is present, as the flare is commenced, application of rudder is used to align the fuselage parallel with the runway centreline. As rudder is applied the aircraft will tend to roll in the direction of the rudder input. To counter this, simultaneous input of rudder and opposite aileron is required to keep the wings level. In this wings level condition, there will be some sideways drift. A slight, into wind, wing down should control this sideways motion. Excessive wing down can cause the wingtip to contact the runway. In order to minimise this possibility, the bank should be limited to