An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB based on relevant recorded data downloaded from the cockpit voice recorder (CVR)and flight data recorder (FDR). It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain had a total of 7,334 hours flying experience of which 2,422 hours were on type. Corresponding experience details in respect of the First Officer, who was PF, were not recorded. It was established that the flight under investigation had been the second of the day and had followed a revenue flight from East Midlands to Edinburgh. The Biggin Hill METAR available at the time the approach was being briefed gave the surface wind as from 060° at a mean speed of 15 knots with runway 03 in use. Since there was no instrument approach procedure to that runway, the runway 21 ILS was initially followed with circling to runway 03 then made. The AP remained engaged until on base leg and the A/T remained engaged for the landing. The Captain used the HUD installed on their side only to monitor the approach in accordance with the applicable SOP. The runway 03 PAPIs were set to 4° and with no reported gusts, no increments were added to the calculated 117 knot VREF for a flap 30 landing. The approach conditions were light turbulence with no gusts reported by ATC. The Captain reported having observed during final approach that slight wind velocity variations were causing the aircraft speed to vary momentarily but only within +/- 2 knots of VREF. He also said that “as the aircraft passed over a valley just before the runway threshold, the airspeed increased to 8 knots above VREF but reduced again over the next 12 seconds". As the aircraft passed over the beginning of the runway (the landing threshold was displaced by 226 metres leaving a 1,555-metre LDA) the controller gave the surface wind as from 070° at 12 knots with the aircraft heading being maintained between 7° and 10° to the right of the runway centreline in order to compensate for the crosswind from the right. As the aircraft passed 50 feet agl, the A/T retarded the thrust to idle and the Captain reported having noticed that the airspeed had appeared to drop rapidly. At 10 feet agl, FDR data showed that the airspeed was 5 knots below VREF and after it had passed the displaced threshold, it continued reducing to 10 knots below VREF. The Captain, who was monitoring the Flight Path Vector (FPV) displayed on the HUD, recollected thinking that the pitch attitude “seemed higher than normal”. Then, just before touchdown, the First Officer made a significant roll input to the right which, as the right bank angle increased rapidly in response, was quickly followed by a corrective opposite input. However, FDR data showed that at 1 foot agl, the airspeed was 10 knots below VREF, the nose-up pitch was 9° and the bank angle to the right was 8.5° and simultaneously with the right main landing gear touching down, the