of its continuing failure. The failed ACM was an on-condition component and was found to have a running time in excess of time after which these components are typically removed for repairs. A strip down examination showed that both turbines has suffered bearing failure and it was this which had led to contact between the fan shroud and the rotors of both turbines causing considerable fan blade damage. Moist coffee grounds were also found during examination of the fan shroud and it was concluded that these had probably originated from the forward galley sink. According to Embraer, there had been 15 similar ACM failures during the five years prior to the event under investigation but none of the others had led to an emergency evacuation. Prior to this five year period, in 2008, it was noted that an identical ACM failure and smoke/fumes event involving an Embraer E195 had occurred after the aircraft had been despatched under MEL dispensations with its other Pack ACM already inoperative for the same reason. In this case, an emergency evacuation had also taken place. Flight Crew Performance. Because the Captain did not action the QRH Smoke Fire and Fumes Checklist in association with his declaration of an emergency, the corresponding transponder squawk 7700 was not selected at this time. One directly relevant consequence of this was that under their procedures, ATC classified and notified the situation as a “full emergency” rather than an (actual or potential) “aircraft accident” which the Captain’s transmission of “fire on board” would have warranted. The effect of this was that the Turku Emergency Response Centre (ERC) who were notified of the emergency by ATC did not (and were not required to) direct the region’s hospitals to increase their readiness. Cabin Crew PBE access. The inability to open the bag containing the PBE unit using “reasonable force” was confirmed by a series of tests on similar bags from which it was concluded that the action required would have been “extremely difficult”. It was found that previous similar findings had resulted in the issue by OEM B/E Aerospace five years earlier of a SB which modified the design of the bag opening so that its contents could be accessed. This SB had not been mandated by the Regulatory Authorities and had not been incorporated on the bags containing the PBE units carried on the aircraft. It was noted that un-modified PBE units are provided for use in emergencies where such use could be vital to the maintenance of cabin crew functional capability in the presence of smoke and fire. Over wing exit evacuation. The trailing edge flaps were retracted prematurely during the landing roll and were not re-selected down - a movement which takes almost a minute - prior to the all-exits emergency evacuation being ordered. This increased the drop height from the wing trailing edge to the ground for passengers evacuating this way by approximately 0.5 metres to 2.2 metres. Reluctance to jump this far resulted in some passengers moving