towards the wing tips where the drop height was even greater. Fortunately, the absence of hazardous conditions inside the aircraft on this occasion allowed passengers who had exited onto the wings to be directed back into the cabin in order to leave via the main exit slides. Airport emergency planning. Most of evacuated passengers were kept near the aircraft awaiting buses to transport them to the designated reception centre. These buses had to be requisitioned on the initiative of one of the attending airport fire officers. It was noted that, as was the case at many other Finnish Airports, Turku had made no emergency planning arrangements to ensure that post-evacuation bus transport would be available without undue delay, a matter of concern given the possibility that aircraft emergency evacuations may occur during severe weather conditions. It was also noted that despite illumination of the evacuation site using the lights of attending vehicles, the passengers had evacuated into an area which was “essentially enveloped in darkness” and their oversight and safety was thus hampered. Safety Action known to have been taken by both Nordic Regional Airlines and Finnair prior to the completion of the Investigation included the incorporation of the available but non-mandatory modification to all PBE containers of the type which proved impossible to open during the investigated event. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the US Federal Aviation Administration issues an Airworthiness Directive requiring a modification to be incorporated in the PBE protective bag, P/N 119003, manufactured by B/E Aerospace Inc. to facilitate its opening. [2018-S51]. that the Finnish Transport Safety Agency ensures that airport operators include in their emergency plans contingency procedures for the transportation of evacuated passengers at the aerodrome. [2018-S52]. that the Ministry of the Interior cooperates with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Air Navigation Services Finland and the Emergency Rescue Centre Agency to align their procedures governing actions in aircraft accidents and full emergency situations. In conjunction with this, (whether there is) a need to amend the contents of the procedures in matters related to, in particular, the contents of alert calls, response arrangements and inter-organisation communications should be investigated. [2018-S53]. that Air Navigation Services Finland amends the alerting instructions issued to air navigation service units to clearly indicate that an emergency situation communicated on the radio or by setting the emergency code on the transponder are given an identical classification. [2018-S54]. The Final Report was published on 28 November 2018.