emergency evacuation and the ground emergency checklist was actioned. This included making sure that the trailing edge flaps which facilitate descent from the inner wing to the ground were re-deployed. However, once selected, the flaps take almost a minute to reach the fully down position and passengers who initially used the over-wing emergency exits did not leave the wings in the prevailing darkness in the absence of any risk-free way of doing so. Instead, with smoke no longer visible inside the aircraft, they followed the advice of the attending RFFS personnel to go back into the aircraft and use the slides at the other four exits to evacuate. In darkness, the evacuation of all occupants to an assembly area on the adjacent grass was assisted by the use of RFFS searchlights and was completed within 6 minutes of the landing although it was noted that some passengers took their cabin baggage with them. A detailed inspection of the aircraft by RFFS personnel was then commenced and it found no signs of any fire. Some passengers had evacuated in relatively light clothing and with drizzle falling and a temperature of +3° C, “they started to feel the cold and were issued with blankets” by rescue personnel and “children and their parents were taken into the rescue vehicles for protection from the cold”. Prior to the arrival of two requisitioned city transport buses at the aircraft location 14 minutes after the evacuation had been completed, those passengers sheltering in the rescue vehicles had already departed for the initially designated evacuation point in the aircraft terminal for their condition to be assessed by paramedics but this location was then changed to the airport maintenance unit. The bus eventually departed the aircraft direct to the airport maintenance unit with 77 passengers on board 21 minutes after the evacuation had been completed. No passenger count was made until all passengers had reached the re-designated evacuation point where “attempts were made to establish the exact number of POB in conjunction with the examination” with a final figure not obtained until 1¼ hours after the evacuation of the aircraft had been completed. It was determined that the smoke and fumes had been consequential on rotor seizure in the Air Cycle Machine (ACM) in the no.1 air conditioning pack during the climb out of Helsinki. This had been caused by bearing failure and had led to the rotors rubbing against the fan shroud creating “bitter small and whitish smoke” which entered the cabin air conditioning system. QAR data showed that the flow from the no. 1 air conditioning pack had fluctuated significantly (and abnormally) during takeoff and its outflow valve had shutdown automatically thirteen minutes after takeoff triggering the observed flight deck alert. It was noted that a message indicating the ACM failure was only annunciated after smoke had appeared. It was also noted that the reselection of the failed pack by the crew as a result of following the prescribed checklist did not result in a display