An Investigation was carried out by the Finnish Safety Investigation Authority (SIAF). Data from the FDR, CVR and QAR data were successfully downloaded and recordings of both ATC and Emergency Response Centre radio communications were also available. It was noted that the aircraft Captain had a total of 6,300 flying hours including 1,600 hours on type and the First Officer, who had been PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 730 flying hours including 530 hours on type. It was established that during the climb out of Helsinki, the flight crew had noticed minor fluctuations in pressurisation and had decided to cruise at a lower level than planned - FL310 - as a precaution. Soon after reaching FL310, a burning smell of unknown origin became evident in the flight deck and when it intensified, it was decided to return to Helsinki with ATC advised of a “technical issue”. Soon afterwards, smoke appeared in the flight deck, a ‘PACK 1 FAIL’ alert was annunciated and a report of a similar ‘electrical’ smell accompanied by smoke was then received from the cabin. Both pilots donned oxygen masks in response as the aircraft continued towards Helsinki and the Captain declared a MAYDAY stating that there “was a fire on board”. However, it was noted that he did not then action the Smoke/Fire/Fumes Checklist as prescribed for such circumstances and the corresponding 7700 squawk was not set either. As the Pack Failure Checklist was being actioned, ATC asked if the crew wished to divert to Turku which was much nearer than Helsinki and the suggestion was immediately accepted. In accordance with the Pack Failure Checklist, the failed pack was initially shut down but when re-activated after the prescribed one minute interval there was no reappearance of the failure annunciation and no further failure messages subsequently occurred. With the no 1 system air supply reopened, the overall air temperature began to rise again and the fumes and smoke eventually returned. The cabin crew were advised of the new plan and that the remaining flight time was estimated as 12 minutes. In response to ATC queries about the location of the possible fire, the Captain replied that “there was smoke in the back of the aircraft but its source could not be determined” and added that there had been “pressurisation problems” prior to the appearance of the smoke. Meanwhile, one of the cabin crew attempted to don their Protective Breathing Equipment (PBE - smoke hood) but was unable to open the bag in which it was contained. The diversion was without further event and there was no increase in the smoke/fumes. After touchdown, 33 minutes after takeoff from Helsinki, control was handed to the Captain and the First Officer completed the after landing checklist prior to the aircraft exiting the runway. Once stopped on the exit taxiway, the senior cabin crew reported that there was still smoke in the cabin and that it had increased after touchdown. The Captain therefore ordered an (all exits)