An Investigation was carried out by an Accident Investigation Board (JIAA) of the General Directorate of Civil Aviation assistance from the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were both recovered from the seabed by the US Navy who engaged a specialist contractor for the task. All relevant recorded data was successfully downloaded from both recorders. It was found that the 62 year-old Captain, who was PF for the accident flight, had a total of 24,750 hours flying experience of which 1,875 hours were on type. The 34 year-old First Officer had a total of 4461 hours flying experience of which 3,500 hours were on type. The 51 year-old Relief Captain had a total of 15,050 hours flying experience of which just 121 hours were on type. The airline had to allocate an aircraft and crew to the flight at short notice after the Boeing 767 which it had been planned would operate the flight had been declared unserviceable. The new crew were advised of the duty “between two and four hours before the departure time” and there was a further delay at the airport awaiting the final member of the cabin crew. During the takeoff roll on runway 07, the First Officer made the standard 80 knots call and initially received the standard response from the Captain “checked” (which is conditional on both primary altimeters reading the same). He then immediately followed this response with “my speed isn’t working” and asked the First Officer to read out speeds from his ASI to complete the takeoff. Approaching 600 feet agl, the Captain appeared to be persuaded that his ASI, which was now beginning to show a reading, was working. At an altitude of 3,500 feet, the Captain called for the central AP to be engaged and this was followed by the A/T and annunciation of the VNAV and LNAV modes and an EICAS ‘MACH/SPD TRIM’ message. Whilst the Captain was then recorded saying that “something abnormal was happening”, he didn’t respond to the situation and 15 seconds later was recorded repeating the same thing. This time, the First Officer voiced his agreement and told the Captain that his ASI was indicating 200 knots but decreasing. At this time, the aircraft was at 5,344 feet with a ground speed of 327 knots indicated on both pilots’ EFIS screens and a pitch attitude of 15.1 degrees nose up. The Captain responded by saying that the two indicators were wrong and asking “what can we do?” before ordering the immediate checking of the circuit breakers. After a further fifteen seconds, the Captain remarked to the effect that when an aircraft remains on the ground for a while, it’s usual for something such as asymmetry of the elevators or similar things to happen, adding "we don't believe them” (the annunciated EICAS messages). Half a minute later ,with the groundspeed indicating 352 knots and an unchanged pitch attitude of +15.1 degrees, the aural “overspeed” warning was activated followed by the Captain commenting that this “didn’t matter” and