the Boeing 757/767 aircraft did not include an alert message when an erroneous airspeed is detected.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Findings of the Investigation: that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issue an Airworthiness Directive requiring that the Flight Manual for the Boeing 757/767 be revised to notify pilots that simultaneous display of the EICAS messages “MACH/SPD TRIM” and “RUDDER RATIO” is a indication of discrepancies in the air speed indication.. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require Boeing Commercial Aircraft to modify the crew alerting system on the Boeing 757/767 to include a CAUTION when an erroneous air speed indication is detected.. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require Boeing Commercial Aircraft to modify the Boeing 757/767 Operations Manual to include a detailed procedure on “Identification and Elimination of an erroneous speed indication” in the section on Emergencies.. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issue a Flight Standards Information Bulletin addressed to Operations Inspectors so that they ensure that a procedure with detailed information on “Identifying and Removing a speed indication error” is included in the Operations Manuals of Boeing 757/767 operators.. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issue an Aeronautical Information Bulletin notifying Operations Inspectors of the circumstances of this accident so that they ensure that emphasis is placed on the importance of recognising a malfunction of speed indication during takeoff during pilot training.. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) ensure that all Boeing 757/767 flight simulator training includes a scenario in which the pilot is trained to respond appropriately to circumstances indicating a blocked pitot probe.. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) ensures that each airline has a specific and specialised Training Manual for the type of operation carried out to complement the generic training that flight crews receive from contractors offering to carry our pilot training on their behalf.. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) establishes a requirement that all commercial airlines ensure that their flight crew training program includes the use of Crew Resource Management (CRM).. that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) requires that existing flight crew training requirements are reviewed to increase their effectiveness.. The Final Report of the Investigation, which was prepared only in Spanish, was released on 25 October 1996 and the received comments from interested parties (no draft report was circulated) were added to the Appendices of the already-issued Final Report the following year. This Summary is based on an unofficial translation of the Final Report which is believed to have been accurate but is not so warranted.