instructing the First Officer to trip its circuit breaker and silence it. After a further half minute, the stick shaker can be heard. The central AP remained engaged but both the A/T and the VNAV mode were disconnected. But as the aircraft passed 7132 feet with a pitch attitude 18.3° nose up, both engines were at idle thrust. Five seconds later, the nose up pitch peaked at 21.0° and thrust was restored to both engines as the AP was disengaged. The nose up attitude immediately reduced to 5° but after a height loss of just over 1,000 feet was restored to 14.4° nose up and thrust was brought back to idle. The Investigation concluded that “great confusion reigned”. The Captain was recorded saying "we're not climbing, what can I do?" despite having idle thrust set. The First Officer answered “you must stop the descent, I am selecting the altitude hold” but without the AP being engaged this had no effect. Only after another 20 seconds was the Captain recorded “asking about the position of the thrust levers” and when the First Officer replied that both were at idle, the Captain immediately called "thrust, thrust” and the First Officer complied and confirmed doing so although the left thrust lever (only) was then immediately retarded to idle as height continued to rapidly decrease. A few seconds later, the pitch attitude was recorded as rapidly increasing through 50° nose down and the left bank angle as almost 100° with thrust asymmetry maintained. The GPWS Warning ‘WHOOP, WHOOP, PULL UP’ began and two seconds later impact with the sea surface followed approximately 14 nm northeast of Puerto Plata airport. The first - and normal - opportunity to avoid the accident outcome was for the PF Captain to have rejected the takeoff when he realised that his ASI was not working. In fact the Investigation confirmed that, as should be the case with correctly calculated takeoff performance anyway, a successful rejected takeoff would have been possible up to V1. The second reason why control of the aircraft with only a single malfunctioning instrument, the Captain’s ASI, quickly became problematic appeared to be a gross failure to establish the implications for aircraft control of this single failure. There was no attempt to refer to the standby ASI to confirm that the First Officer’s ASI was giving correct readings but the Captain’s was not. The apparently collective confusion amongst all three pilots - and a lack of ‘informed leadership’ from the Captain - then appeared, on the basis of recorded data, to have increased as the association between pitch attitude and thrust setting seemed to be overlooked. In particular, there was no evidence that the applicable QRH procedure - ‘Flight with Unreliable Relative Airspeed’ - was ever considered let alone actioned and instead the idea of tripping particular circuit breakers to see what happened was about as far as it got. However, as per the ultimate conclusion of the Investigation, the final outcome of the flight was