merely facilitated by what had already happened and it was the approach to an aerodynamic stall which provided the final opportunity to maintain control but the necessary reduction from 18° nose up pitch attitude was delayed and the basis for recovery, demonstrated as achievable by Boeing instructors in a full flight simulator using the prescribed and available procedure, was lost. Overall, the Investigation came to the view that “the crew's misconception of the flight trajectory was the result of a lack of knowledge of the aircraft systems and a lack of procedural discipline. The terminal loss of control resulted when the flight crew failed to recognise the stick-shaker activation as an imminent warning of a stall aerodynamics because they stopped executing the procedures of the loss recovery”. Ruled out as potential contributors to the evident flight control difficulties were any pre flight lack of airworthiness except the undetected blocked left side pitot probe and any issues which could have arisen from the prevailing weather conditions. The Investigation also drew a wider conclusion from their findings which was that this accident was “an indication that the international requirements for flight crew training have not kept pace with the growth and modernisation of the air transport industry and the development of aircraft” and that individual safety regulators should review pilot training requirements to improve proficiency. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally identified as “the crew's failure to recognise stick-shaker activation as an imminent warning of a stall and their failure to follow the procedures for recovery from this condition after there was confusion amongst the flight crew because of an erroneous indication of airspeed and an over speed warning”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: The poor discipline and capability of the flight crew, the absence of crew resource management in any form and the failure to comply with basic aviation procedures.. Little flight crew knowledge of the aircraft systems including relative speed indications, the autopilot, aircraft type procedures, alternate instrument source selection and attempted flight without reference to thrust setting and pitch attitude.. The failure of the Birgenair maintenance staff to install the pitot probe covers whilst the aircraft was parked out of service for almost three weeks and their failure to perform a required test of pitot-static system sensing prior to release to service.. As were four Additional Factors: The flight crew may not have been physically and mentally rested and prepared to operate the flight due to unexpected crew call out.. Birgenair pilot training did not include the principles of Crew Resource Management and more generally was a combination of externally sourced training that lacked continuity and integrated approaches to maximise flight crew proficiency.. The Birgenair Boeing 757/767 Operations Manual did not contain detailed presentation of flight crew procedures and appropriately verified checklists covering the response to a discrepancy in airspeed indications and the simultaneous activation of speedmatch or the relationship of the EICAS messages to systems, warnings and flight with unreliable airspeed.. The EICAS system of