An Investigation was carried out by the Estonian Safety Investigation Bureau. It was noted that the State Aircraft involved "did not fall under the scope of Civil Accident Investigation Authorities neither in either Estonia or in Italy [but that] the Bureau had received full and valuable support from Italian Air Force Flight Safety Inspectorate" during the Investigation. Recorded ATC voice and radar data from the Estonian and Latvian ANSPs provided the primary evidence for the Investigation, the latter including Mode S downlink data which was analysed using the EUROCONTROL InCAS program, v 2.10 (see the output reproduced below). It was established that the F900 had been cleared to climb only to FL 340 as its track would cross that of the eastbound 777 at FL 350. Its crew had been advised of the crossing traffic. Five minutes after a scheduled change of executive controller for the sector, during which the relieving controller had been briefed about the two crossing track aircraft, the F900 was approaching FL 339 and showing a radar indication of an 800 fpm rate of climb. At this point, both aircraft received a TCAS TA generated by their proximity to each other. The F900 crew reported having visually identified the 777 in approximately their 2 o`clock relative position and the 777 crew reported having visually identified the F900 in their 11 o`clock relative position. Then, 2/3 seconds later as the F900 reached FL 340, its crew received TCAS RA 'ADJUST VERTICAL SPEED ADJUST'. Mode S downlink data showed that the aircraft had initially descended approximately 80 feet before beginning to climb back to and beyond FL 340 in response, reaching FL 343 and triggering an STCA Alert at the radar controllers position. The F900 crew did not advise ATC of their TCAS RA until after it had ceased and they were returning to FL 340. When reporting it, the F900 crew stated that "we had a TCAS climb, now TCAS completely is ended, we continue descent FL340" followed by "we had a TCAS conflict that commanded us to climb […] it was maybe a problem of the wrong indication of the TCAS, but my rules say that I have to follow". The 777 did not receive a TCAS RA in respect of this proximity. The recorded radar picture of the two aircraft about to cross is shown below. Actual minimum separation was 853 feet vertically when between 185 and 370 metres apart laterally. It was evident from the reconstructed relative flight paths that the initial reaction of the F900 crew to the RA - a reduction in vertical speed whilst about to level as cleared - had been correct, but this had then been followed by an incorrect reversal into a climb which had continued through FL340 until and beyond the Closest Point of Approach (CPA) and 'Clear of Conflict' annunciation until the exchange with ATC shortly afterwards in which the crew were reminded of their cleared level. It was stated that the commander of the F900