The most common scenarios where controllers need to consider the presence of military aircraft while providing air traffic services have been identified below. In some cases, the operational traffic may be under the control of a civil ATC unit. Military aircraft flying as GAT and civil controllers providing ATS to the military aircraft. ICAO rules/standards apply. Few specifics, mainly due to equipment in the military aircraft (e.g. 2000ft separation for non-RVSM equipped aircraft within RVSM airspace). Military aircraft operating within a restricted area (TSA, TRA) and military controllers providing service within the designated restricted airspace. The main issues are related to TSA/TRA safety buffers and the aircraft route between the base aerodrome and the restricted area.. Military aircraft flying as OAT within civil airspace and military controllers providing service to it. There is an increased need of coordination, especially when the military aircraft are operating close to interstate boundaries or when they are entering another state’s delegated airspace.. Military aircraft operating with "due regard". These flights are usually preformed over international waters. The crew may not contact the ATSU that is responsible for the airspace they are flying in. They may also turn off the SSR transponder (if equipped). Civil air traffic controllers may have no means to control and coordinate the flight and they may have no information about the intentions of the flight crew. While operating "due regard", the commander of the military aircraft is responsible for the safety of other civil traffic in their vicinity. Nevertheless, civil air traffic controller workload may increase due to the uncertainty of the military aircraft behaviour.. Intruder flight (these can also be general aviation aircraft or operational traffic, the latter being more of a concern) – this is one of the most complicated situations, especially when highly manoeuvrable and fast moving aircraft are involved. This scenario usually includes the involvement of the state’s air defence system (e.g. air policing missions).. Air policing flight by a military aircraft to intercept an intruder (which can be civil or military aircraft). Service is usually provided by military air defence controllers.. Air-to-air refuelling. In the case of OAT refuelling within civil airspace, a number of issues can arise such as flying VFR above FL195 or the join-up and breakaway procedures. During the air-refuelling process, a certain airspace buffer is reserved for the duration of the refuelling mission and due to the specifics of the operation, heading change or flight level change cannot be issued until the refuelling is fully completed and formations are separated..