Typically, strategic level activities aimed to improve civil-military cooperation and interaction include implementation of appropriate legislation, joint rules and procedures, and working arrangements at the level of civil ATM unit managers and high ranking military officers. On a tactical level, both civil and military controllers should keep each other informed, as much as practicable, about the trajectory and intentions of the aircraft to which they are providing services. Some good practices of strategic and tactical level civil-military cooperation and coordination arrangements are provided below: Letters of agreement between civil and military units are a good foundation for effective collaboration and coordination.. Integration of civil and military controllers within the same unit can greatly improve coordination and help achieve interoperability.. Establishing a dedicated unit for the coordination between civil and military units (e.g. Airspace Management Cell - AMC) can improve coordination at pre-tactical and tactical level.. If military activities are not conducted on a regular basis, ad-hoc solutions can be quite efficient (e.g. military controllers and their equipment can temporarily be accommodated within civil facilities). Timely relay of information to next sectors/units helps them deal with the situation as best as they can. Incomplete is sometimes better than late.. Pro-active approach – controllers should initiate coordination when they are unsure about the intentions of an (usually unidentified) aircraft but have a reason to believe that this aircraft might have an impact on their work (e.g. by being a part of a military exercise, an intruder, etc.). Obtaining information in advance helps planning.. Off topic discussions should be avoided as a general rule, especially in high workload situations. If a non-ATM related issue arises it should best be dealt with by another person (e.g. flight data coordinator, controller assistant, the supervisor, etc.) using a different communication channel (separate frequency, a phone that is not used at a working position, etc.).