the attitude and actual performance — the “professionalism” that the employees will subsequently demonstrate in their everyday work. ICAO embraces positive safety culture as superior to outdated management philosophies, noting, “Effective safety management cannot be achieved solely by mandate or strict adherence to policies and procedures.” Doc 9859 lists the following topics as essential for organisations’ accountable executives and senior managers to fulfill their safety training responsibilities: “Specific awareness training for new accountable executives and post holders on their SMS accountabilities and responsibilities;. Importance of compliance with national and organisational safety requirements;. Management commitment;. Allocation of resources;. Promotion of the safety policy and the SMS;. Promotion of a positive safety culture;. Effective interdepartmental safety communication;. Safety objective, safety performance targets (SPTs) and alert levels; and,. Disciplinary policy.”. Initial and recurrent training for the individual employee’s role in SMS, as recommended by ICAO, should include the following competency-related subjects to maintain their proficiency in safety promotion tasks: “Organisational safety policies and safety objectives;. Organisational roles and responsibilities related to safety;. Basic safety risk management (SRM) principles;. Safety reporting systems;. The organization’s SMS processes and procedures; and,. Human factors.”. Like State authorities, non-governmental aviation service providers should develop and maintain formal programmes for safety communication. Programmes should include continuous safety-improvement feedback loops. Specifically, ICAO Doc 9859 recommends that organisations aim to: “Ensure that staff are fully aware of the SMS [and promoting] safety policy and safety objectives;. Convey safety-critical information;. Raise awareness of new safety risk controls and corrective actions;. Provide information on new or amended safety procedures;. Promote a positive safety culture and encourage personnel to identify and report hazards; and,. Provide feedback to personnel … submitting safety reports on what actions have been taken to address any concerns identified.”. Finally, safety lesson dissemination remains a vital part of reducing aviation risk. Often, lesson dissemination closely complements safety training. As the ICAO document reiterates, “The safety manager should also ensure that lessons learned from investigations and case histories or experiences, both internally and from other organizations, are distributed widely.” Without this practice, safety lessons either are not learnt or they become lost. Passage of time, distance from the event, changes of operational environment and subconscious drift toward complacency are among many human factors known to adversely affect aviation risk management.