of that restriction despite the fact that backtracking the runway would have served to alert the Pilot to the fact that he was on a runway, since the white direction of the runway lights would have been seen. The area in which the taxi confusion arose is shown in the illustration below. The ground tracks of the two aircraft. To reach the full length threshold of runway 31, the Cessna would have needed to turn left when reaching the end of taxiway 'W' and then do a 180, not turn right as shown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] About 3½ minutes after receiving his taxi clearance from GND, the Cessna Pilot advised GND that he was "ready to go on the right side". Contrary to clearance but obviously unaware of that fact, on reaching the departure end of runway 31, he had turned right onto taxiway 'R' right to reach and enter runway 30R. The GND controller had responded with "hold on position on runway 31 and monitor the Tower on 122.0" which was acknowledged without the Pilot repeating either the runway or the Tower frequency, again without challenge from the controller. The Investigation noted that the ATIS current at the time made no mention of runway 31 as potentially active and was told that since use of it was only "occasional", it was normal practice not to mention it on the ATIS broadcast. Shortly before the Cessna entered and stopped on Runway 30R not visible to the GND or Runway controllers due to lack of area lighting, the latter had cleared the MD 82 which had taxied from the south side of the airport, to take off from the full length (2,745 metres) of the 45 metre-wide runway 30R. The aircraft was taxied onto the runway with the First Officer acting as PF and the take-off was commenced. About 2 to 3 seconds after the Captain's "80 knot" callout, an "additional crew member" with no declared duties who was occupying the supernumerary crew seat in the MD-82 flight deck yelled "there's an airplane!”. The operating flight crew reported that they also saw the aircraft ahead at "almost the same instant". It was visible only as it was illuminated by the landing lights of their aircraft. Both pilots had responded by applying the brakes and the Captain by steering to the left in an attempt to avoid a collision. Approximately 2 to 3 seconds after sighting the Cessna, the MD-82 flight crew reported "feeling an impact on the right side of their airplane (which) did not adversely affect their ability to maintain directional control" and they had continued with their rejected take-off and come to a stop on the left side of the runway near the taxiway 'N' intersection. The collision had occurred 760 metres from the start of 30R at its intersection with taxiway 'R'. The Investigation subsequently found evidence which indicated that despite the Pilot's call to the GND controller, the Cessna had been positioned almost directly on