An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR from the MD82 were recovered and successfully replayed. The Cessna did not have, nor was it required to have, either a CVR or an FDR. The 57 year-old MD 82 Captain had accumulated approximately 18,651 hours total flight time which included 3,178 hours on type. The 38 year-old MD 82 First Officer had approximately 10,353 hours total flying time which included 251 hours on the MD 82 and was acting as PF for the accident take-off. The 56 year-old Cessna Pilot had accumulated 7,940 hours total flight time which included 2,060 hours on type. His logbook showed that he had flown into Lambert-St. Louis just once before during the previous 7 years, approximately ten months prior to the accident, but this had been in daylight. His passenger on the accident flight was a 43 year old PPL travelling for unofficial familiarisation purposes and his presence was not required for the flight. The 35 year-old Runway Controller involved had previously been a military controller and she had 10 years of experience as a civil controller and just over three years fully qualified in position at Lambert-St. Louis. The 29 year-old GND controller was also previously a military controller and he had 4 years of experience as a civil controller and just over four months fully qualified in position at Lambert-St. Louis. The Investigation was able to establish that the Cessna had landed on runway 30R at St Louis on a revenue air taxi flight about 15 minutes prior to the accident, clearing to the right to taxi to the 'Midcoast' GA Terminal. Once ready for the non-revenue flight back to his operating base, the Pilot had contacted GND and been cleared to "back taxi into position hold runway 31, let me know on this frequency when you're ready for departure". The readback of this clearance was incomplete and did not include any reference to runway 31 but it was not challenged by the controller. The Investigation noted that "although not formally defined, a clearance to “back-taxi” on an active runway generally means to use that runway to taxi in a direction opposite that of departing or landing traffic to reach the take-off position”. In this case, the intention of the GND controller (who was responsible for the 1,900 metre-long, 22.5 metre wide Runway 31 because it was not active) was for the Cessna to taxi for departure from runway 31. Using taxiway 'W' to leave the Midcoast Apron would have required a left turn onto this runway from taxiway 'W' in the opposite direction to the displaced landing threshold arrows until the end of the runway was reached, at which point a 180° would have been necessary to line up and hold ready for take-off. It was noted that Runway 31 was not - and never had been - approved for landing use, so that the displaced landing threshold markings might be considered misleading for a departing aircraft aware