have provided the pilot with sufficient cues to cause him to be more attentive to the controller’s clearance". However, it was also noted that he had entered runway 30R at an intersection when he had not requested one and the ground controller had not indicated that he should expect one and that he "should not have entered the runway at an intersection without specific clearance to do so". It was considered that whilst doing so "should have been a final cue that his notion of being cleared to runway 30R was incorrect, this cue was apparently not enough to cause him to question his perception that he had been cleared to runway 30R". In respect of the failure of the MD 82 pilots to detect the presence of the Cessna until it was illuminated by their aircraft's landing lights, the Investigation considered that "with the wing tip-mounted anti collision/strobe lights turned off", which it concluded that they had been, "the white tail cone-mounted navigation light would have been the only light visible [and] would have blended in with the runway centreline lighting system". The response of the FAA to Safety Recommendations that all aircraft on active runways should be required to have their anti-collision/strobe lights visible from the rear selected on made after the investigation of a 1991 accident at Los Angeles - in which an aircraft did not detect another aircraft stationary at an intersection part way along the runway it was landing on - was noted as having been classified as "unacceptable". Finally, whilst investigating the accident it was found that the Airport Authority failed to officially close the airport after the collision. As a result, it was considered that "evacuated passengers were put in danger of being injured by taxiing aircraft" and that "closing the airport would allow controllers and/or airport authority personnel to assess the situation and to redirect both airborne and surface traffic to areas remote from the accident site" until safe conditions could be confirmed. As a result of this "unsafe situation", a Safety Recommendation was issued prior to finalisation of the Investigation Report on 17 July 1995 as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should provide guidance to all 14 CFR Part 139 certificated airports that in the event of an accident or significant incident, the airport be closed immediately by either the airport operator and/or the appropriate FAA air traffic control facilities through letters of agreement with airport operators. This guidance should also specify that the airport, or portions thereof, should not be reopened until the airport operator has ensured that:. aircraft operating areas are secure;. aircraft movement areas that are to be reopened have been properly inspected; and. adequate aircraft rescue and fire fighting protection is available for aircraft operations. [A95-78]. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "the Cessna 441 pilot’s mistaken belief that his assigned departure runway was runway 30R, which resulted in his undetected entrance onto runway 30R, which was being used by the