the runway centreline with the MD-82 having veered slightly left of the centreline by impact. The right wing of the MD-82 had "struck the tail cone and fuselage structure of the Cessna 441, separating the horizontal and vertical stabilizers from the fuselage and shearing the top of the fuselage/cockpit from the airplane". The Cessna came to rest at the right side of the runway having been destroyed by impact forces, with the right engine still running. The full length of the upper fuselage was sheared off approximately 5 cm above the base of the cabin windows and the outboard part of the left wing was detached. The MD-82 sustained substantial but repairable damage to its right wing, landing gear, lower fuselage and right engine. With no sign of fire, the MD-82 crew shut down the engines and advised ATC of the collision. They then delayed evacuation of the occupants whilst they assessed the safest method of evacuation. Eventually, with the ARFF having arrived and applied foam to both sides of the aircraft and to the fuel which had leaked from the damaged right wing, it was decided that just a single exit, door R1, would be used because the leaking fuel had drained under the aircraft and pooled on its left side. This evacuation was accomplished without further event. The Investigation found that although both the GND and Runway Controllers described their workload at the time of the accident as "moderate", the GND controller was working four positions which covered both the north and south sides of the airport, clearance delivery and flight data. It was noted that as per normal practice resulting from previous instances of misidentification by air carrier aircraft of runway 31 as runway 30R, its lighting was set at a lower intensity than that of runway 30R. At the time of the accident ASDE-3 had been installed at St Louis but was still undergoing acceptance trials ahead of commissioning and although it was occasionally used by controllers for familiarisation when available, it was not available on the night of the accident because "the computer hard drive had failed". It was noted that it had been commissioned whilst the Investigation was in progress. In seeking to understand how the Cessna Pilot came to misinterpret his clearance, it was concluded that the evidence favoured a scenario in which the pilot "acted on an apparently preconceived idea that he would use his arrival runway, runway 30R, for departure" rather than a scenario based on him having become lost. It was noted that because of the displaced threshold marking scheme, he would not have seen the identifying numbers for runway 31 and that had he done so, he "might have been cued to question the controller as to the controller’s intentions". The Investigation acknowledged that the runway marking and lighting in place on runway 31 were in accordance with requirements and did not consider them to be a factor in the accident "except to the extent that they may not