MD-82 for its departure". A Contributory Factor was identified as "the lack of ATIS and other ATC information regarding the occasional use of runway 31 for departure". It was noted that "the utilization of an operational ASDE-3, and particularly ASDE-3 enhanced with AMASS, could have prevented this accident". At the conclusion of the Investigation, twelve Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should revise the Federal Aviation Regulations to require pilots to illuminate all taxi, landing, and logo lights, or otherwise enhance the conspicuity of their aircraft when operating on an active runway (including runway crossing and position-and-hold operations). [A-95-86]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should examine the feasibility of requiring pilots to use aircraft anti-collision/strobe lights when holding in position on active runways. [A-95-87]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should define the commonly used term “back-taxi” in the Pilot-Controller Glossary, and provide an explanation of the use of the term and application of the procedure in the Airman’s Information Manual and FAA Order 7110.65, “Air Traffic Control.” [A-95-88]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require air traffic control personnel to make every possible effort to use as few frequencies as possible when positions are combined, and to provide notice of such on the Automatic Terminal Information Service where applicable. [A-95-89]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should continue to develop, publish, and encourage the implementation of procedures such as automated flight clearances and standard taxi routes to reduce radio frequency congestion during ground operations. [A-95-90]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should mass-mail FAA publications on reducing runway incursions and airport improvement information, such as airport signage changes to all currently certificated pilots. [A-95-91]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require flight instructors to stress airport surface operations, including airport markings, signs, and lighting; situational awareness; clearance readbacks; and proper phraseology during initial training and biennial flight reviews. [A-95-92]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that initial and recurrent air carrier pilot training programs include training in airport surface movement operations, and familiarization with airport markings, signs, and lighting. [A-95-93]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should continue research and development efforts to provide airports that are not scheduled to receive Airport Surface Detection Equipment with an alternate, cost-effective system, such as the ground induction loop, to bring controller and pilot attention to pending runway incursions in time to prevent ground collisions. [A-95-94]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that Automatic Terminal Information Service broadcasts at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport reference runways that are being used as secondary or occasionally active runways. [A-95-95]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should convene a joint FAA/industry task force on human performance initiatives to produce human performance-related airport surface operation improvements that could be readily implemented, are not cost prohibitive, and would provide additional safety measures during surface operations by mitigating human error. In identifying those initiatives, consider the recommendations contained in the MITRE Corporation study, “Reports by Airline Pilots on Airport Surface Operations.” [A-95-96]. that the Federal Aviation Administration