formulated three Safety Recommendations and communicated them on 31 August 1994 in an explanatory letter. They were: that the FAA require operators of the Airbus A-300 and A-310 series airplanes to provide immediate and recurrent training to flight crews on the hazard of attempting to counter autopilot commands by manual control forces when the airplane is being flown with the autopilot engaged in the land or go-around mode. [A-94-164]. that the FAA review the logic of the Airbus A-300 and A-310 series automatic flight control systems and require modification as necessary so that the autopilot will disconnect if the pilot applies a specified input to the flight controls or trim system, regardless of the altitude or operating mode of the autopilot. [A-94-165]. that the FAA require modification of Airbus A-300 and A-310 series autopilot systems to ensure that the systems provide a sufficient perceptual alert when the trimmable horizontal stabilizer is in motion, irrespective of the source of the trim command. [A-94-166]. Safety Action taken whilst the Investigation was in progress included the following: The Taiwan Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) ordered China Airlines to promptly complete the FCC modification detailed in Airbus Industrie's SB A300-22-6021. It also ordered China Airlines to provide supplementary training to A300-600R pilots, re-evaluate their proficiency and submit pilot training and re-evaluation plans to the CAA.. Airbus Industrie re-categorised the FCC modifications detailed in Airbus SB A300-22-6021 from "Recommended" to "Mandatory" on 13 December 1994.. The NTSB, having concluded that enabling the pilots to achieve a disconnection of the AP by either operation of the pitch trim system or control column input and the availability of a universally effective method of alerting pilots to THS movement would "probably have prevented the accident", issued the three Safety Recommendations detailed above on 31 August 1994.. Eight detailed Safety Recommendations were made by the JAAIC at the conclusion of their Investigation as follows: that the Taiwan Civil Aviation Administration require China Airlines to reinforce their flight crew education and training programs in the following areas: Ensuring that the system design and operational concepts for advanced technology aircraft are fully understood by pilots so that this understanding can be rooted more firmly in daily operations Improving pilot education and training on the AFS functions of advanced technology aircraft to include:. Ensuring that the system design and operational concepts for advanced technology aircraft are fully understood by pilots so that this understanding can be rooted more firmly in daily operations. Improving pilot education and training on the AFS functions of advanced technology aircraft to include:. a) controls and operations which crews rarely experience in daily flight, such as mode changes and manual overrides during autoflight. b) the establishment of measures which allow crews to easily recall the controls and operations described in (a) above in flight in order to effectively implement them. c) methods for enhancing crew's understanding of important technical information on flight operations issued by aircraft manufacturers. d)awareness which will reduce the chances that pilots will inadvertently activate the