go around mode because of the operation of the 'GO' lever - was providing opposite (pitch up) commands to the Trimmable Horizontal Stabiliser (THS). The THS reached its maximum pitch up position within 30 seconds as the aircraft descended through approximately 880 feet. Opposite elevator pitch-down masked the out of trim condition but considerable force was required on the control column. The First Officer tried to reduce this by using the control column pitch trim switch, which acts on the THS, but this action had no effect because pitch trim control of the THS was inhibited by design with the AP engaged. Descending through approximately 700 feet, the APs were disengaged but the THS remained at its out of trim position and because of the reduction in thrust, airspeed had dropped by about 10 knots. The increasing AoA then triggered flight envelope protection and the "alpha floor" function was activated which caused an increase in thrust and a further pitch-up. Because of the greater surface area of the THS compared to the elevator, elevator authority was overcome by the THS. The First Officer stated that he could not push the nose down any further down, noted the alpha floor activation and, with the aircraft at about 500 feet, the Captain - unaware of the THS position - took over as PF. Finding that he too could not increase forward pressure on the control column, he reduced thrust to try and regain the ILS GS but on realising that nose up pitch was increasing and that he was unable to control it, he called and began a go around. The First Officer advised ATC accordingly. The increased thrust which followed the selection of the 'GO' lever increased the nose-up pitch moment and an uncontrolled and increasingly steep climb began with the AoA rapidly increased. At this point, the FDR showed that the Captain had briefly operated the pitch trim which was taken as evidence that he was unaware of the extreme nose-up position of the THS. The initial retraction of the flaps/slats in accordance with the standard go-around procedure further increased the pitch up as well as reducing the stall margin. The aircraft continued to climb steeply reaching around 50° nose up as the stall warning sounded briefly. A few seconds later, at 1730 feet and shortly after a further (standard) flaps/slats retraction, the aircraft stalled, the nose dropped and a steep dive began. The Captain pulled the control column fully aft and the aircraft remained stalled until ground impact in an almost wings-level attitude, which occurred just over 40 seconds after he had taken control. The Investigation examined in detail the way the A300 AFS worked with particular reference to the crew awareness of this, since both were considered to have been central to accident causation. The occurrence of previous serious incidents to an Airbus A300B4 and an Airbus A300-600 in early 1989 and to an Airbus A310 in early 1991 which had also involved crew AFS awareness were noted