A300-600R thrust lever go around switch and are able to take appropriate action if they do. that the Taiwan Civil Aviation Administration require China Airlines to establish appropriate task sharing between flight crew members when the First Officer is acting as PF by reviewing the effectiveness of Crew Resource Management and crew coordination in those circumstances including situations where a Captain takes over as PF from a First Officer. Pre-flight Briefing should explicitly cover this.. that the Taiwan Civil Aviation Administration require China Airlines to improve crew coordination by: standardisation of the terms used for instruction, response, confirmation and execution of operations in order that pilots can have appropriate situational awareness in flight use of improved procedures for mutual confirmation by crews of operation and monitoring of ATS mode changes in advanced technology aircraft reinforcing the need for standard call outs in order to enhance the effectiveness of both the standardisation of terms and confirmation of ATS mode change. standardisation of the terms used for instruction, response, confirmation and execution of operations in order that pilots can have appropriate situational awareness in flight. use of improved procedures for mutual confirmation by crews of operation and monitoring of ATS mode changes in advanced technology aircraft. reinforcing the need for standard call outs in order to enhance the effectiveness of both the standardisation of terms and confirmation of ATS mode change. that the Taiwan Civil Aviation Administration require China Airlines to standardise flights by prescribing items that must be checked according to the aircraft attitude so that there is sufficient pilot situational awareness to ensure correct decisions are taken and to eliminate any effects of pilots' individuality.. that the DGCA France requires Airbus Industrie to implement improvements to the AFS functions of the A300-600R as follows: AP disconnect and manual override functions to make it possible for pilots to safely control the aircraft irrespective of aircraft altitude or flight phase by applying a force exceeding a certain level on the control column. the incorporation of functions which will prevent an out of trim condition arising from a prolonged override of the autopilot in the pitch axis via the control column. In doing this, the relationship between the Alpha Floor function and an out of trim condition should be considered. the warning and recognition functions for THS movement with active alerting when an out of trim situation exists or is imminent or when it continues to move for more than a certain period of time regardless of AP engagement or disengagement.. AP disconnect and manual override functions to make it possible for pilots to safely control the aircraft irrespective of aircraft altitude or flight phase by applying a force exceeding a certain level on the control column.. the incorporation of functions which will prevent an out of trim condition arising from a prolonged override of the autopilot in the pitch axis via the control column. In doing this, the relationship between the Alpha Floor function and an out of trim condition should be