the DGAC France, as Regulatory Authority had originally accepted the "Recommended" (i.e. optional) status of the Airbus Industrie SB A300-22-6021 issued on 24 June 1993 which removed the restriction on pilot override of an engaged AP when LAND or GO AROUND modes were engaged provided the aircraft was in excess of 400 feet agl. However, it was noted that after the issue of a DGAC France AD to the same effect on 17 August 1994, Airbus Industrie had then re-classified this SB as "Mandatory". The Investigation determined that the Cause of the Accident was: The continuation of the approach after the inadvertent selection of the GO AROUND mode resulted in an unrecognised abnormal out-of-trim situation caused by the position of the THS being in conflict with the position of the elevators and the subsequent activation of the alpha floor function which was incompatible with this abnormal trim out-of-trim and generated large pitch-up moment which narrowed the range of selection for recovery operations and reduced the time available for such operations. A series of Contributory Factors which led to the crew failing to recognise the situation they were in quickly enough to recover control were found to have included the following: Normal operation of the thrust lever allows the possibility of an inadvertent triggering of the GO AROUND mode.. The crew re-engaged the APs while GO AROUND mode was still engaged.. The First Officer continued pushing the control wheel in accordance with the Captain's instructions, despite its strong resistive force, in order to continue the approach.. There was no warning and recognition function to alert the crew directly and actively to the onset of the resulting abnormal out-of-trim condition.. Neither pilot had a sufficient understanding of the FD mode change and the AP override functions. The unclear descriptions of the AFS in the aircraft manufacturer's FCOM contributed to this.. The Captain's judgment of the flight situation while continuing the approach was inadequate, his take-over of control was delayed and when it did occur, appropriate actions did not follow.. The situational awareness and teamwork of both pilots during the upset was inadequate.. The optional modification detailed in Airbus SB A300-22-6021 (modification of the FCCs to allow the APs to be disconnected by pilot override of the control column above 400 feet agl) had not been carried out on the aircraft. Airbus had not categorised SB A300-22-6021 as "Mandatory", which would have given it the highest priority and so the airworthiness authority of the nation of design and manufacture had not promptly issued an AD requiring implementation of this SB.. Early in the Investigation, the JAAIC provided the NTSB with "pertinent details of the investigation" including data from the CVR and FDR. Although made aware of the intention of the intended issue of an AD by the French DGAC as Type Certification Authority, the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) had "concerns regarding the A300 autopilot system that it believed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) should address as soon as possible". Accordingly, it