as was and the Airbus response to them. A serious and related incident to an Airbus A310 which occurred in September 1994 whilst the Nagoya Investigation was in progress was also noted. Relative to the accident under investigation, the significant features of the A300-600R AFS, many of which were very different to the flight control systems of other aircraft and/or were differently inter-related, were noted as: Pitch control achieved through a combination of elevators and a THS, the latter providing much greater control over pitch than the former on account of its greater surface area.. Manual pitch trim using the electric switches on the control columns acted on the THS; with the AP engaged, these switches do not function unless the AP has been temporarily disconnected using the control column CWS switch. Manual movement of the pitch trim wheel disconnects auto trim and allows pilots to override the previously commanded THS position.. If the A/T is engaged, it may be overridden to achieve manual thrust control by light pressure on the thrust levers.. The available AP/FD modes include LAND & GO AROUND. LAND mode is used when flying an ILS approach and may be disengaged by selecting GO AROUND mode, by pressing the same LAND mode button which was used to engage it again or by selecting any other AP/FD mode on the FCU. GO AROUND mode is selected by moving the GO switches on the thrust levers and automatically engages the A/T and provides wings level pitch guidance which will maintain the reference airspeed.. GO AROUND Mode can only be engaged if the flaps/slats are set to 15/15 or greater. It can be disengaged by selecting any other AP/FD mode except LAND mode.. If engaged, the AP can only be overridden by pilot fore/aft movement of the control column in AP/FD modes other than LAND and GO AROUND. Pilot alerting to THS movement is provided by visual indicators on the central pedestal, movement of the manual pitch trim control wheels on either side of the central pedestal and an aural warning if the THS is moved using the pitch trim switches on the control columns. However, the aural warning is inhibited if the AP is engaged since it is then functionally disabled.. It was concluded that at no time had either pilot appeared to have appreciated the extent of or origin of the abnormal out-of-trim situation which was at the root of their successive difficulties in controlling the aircraft. It was noted that it was "the activation of the alpha-floor function under the abnormal out-of-trim condition (which had) caused a sudden increase in the aircraft's pitch angle and contributed to its steep climb and subsequent stall". It was recognised that although both pilots had completed all the required aircraft type training, "this training was not necessarily sufficient to understand the sophisticated and complicated AFS system". It was further considered that information on the operational implications of the AFS system provided in the FCOM was inadequate. It was noted that