An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission (JAAIC). Data from both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation. Once it had been established that there was no evidence to indicate that the accident could be attributed in any way to a lack of continued airworthiness or to any aspect of aircraft loading, attention was focused on the actions of the crew and their control of engine thrust and aircraft pitch with particular focus in the A300-600R Automatic Flight System (AFS) and the crew interface with it during the latter stages of the accident approach. It was a noted that the 42 year-old Captain had accumulated 8,340 total flying hours including 1,350 on type and had joined the airline as a First Officer in 1989 after 18 years in the Taiwanese Air Force mainly as a C47 (Dakota) pilot where he had flown 4,826 of his total flying hours. After three years as a First Officer on the Boeing 747, he had qualified on the A300-600R and been immediately promoted to Captain on the type in 1992. The First Officer, who was PF for the accident flight, had accumulated 1,624 total flying hours of which 1,033 were on type. He had joined the airline as a cadet pilot and obtained his CPL and A300-600R type rating in 1992. Prior to beginning line flying training on the type, he had received three hours time on the aircraft during type training in France and a further four hours "basic flight training" at China Airlines and had been appointed as an A300-600R First Officer thirteen months prior to the accident. The flight had been uneventful en route and it was noted that the Captain had briefed the First Officer (PF) on the approach and landing. The aircraft had commenced an ILS approach to runway 34 at Nagoya with both APs and the A/T (autothrust) engaged but shortly before passing the Outer Marker, the First Officer had disengaged both the APs and continued manually. A landing clearance was received but soon afterwards, with the aircraft passing 1070 feet, he had inadvertently selected the 'GO' lever on the thrust levers which put the A/T into go-around mode with a corresponding thrust increase. The aircraft leveled off at approximately 1,040 feet and began to deviate above the ILS GS and the Captain instructed the First Officer to disengage the 'GO' lever and correct the flight path down to regain the ILS GS. The First Officer applied a nose down input to the control column but did not disengage the 'GO' lever despite two further reminders from the Captain. To assist recapture of the GS, the First Officer simultaneously re-engaged both APs - although there was no comment about this action on the CVR from either pilot. As he manually attempted to recapture the glide slope from above by reducing thrust and pushing the control column forward, the AP - in