EUROCONTROL recognises the following potential gains from ASAS applications: Enhanced cockpit situational awareness with possibility to better understand surrounding traffic - situational awareness would be provided in all airspace, in all phases of flight, and on the airport surface. ASAS can operate in all weather conditions: this would complement visual acquisition and avoid erroneous visual acquisition. ASAS will not replace Short Term Conflict Alert and/or ACAS, but would help prevent situations where those safety nets would be useful, i.e. by reducing the likelihood of judgemental error in understanding and planning traffic situation. Some benefits of Airborne Traffic Situational Awareness applications have been identified below: Autonomous modes of operation: ASAS uses various sources of position and intent data. ASAS can support its applications without reliance on controller actions by generating guidance to the crew for safe and timely resolution of conflicts or maintenance of safe separation. Guidance presented directly to flight crew: ASAS guidance does not depend on ground-to-air communication. This should prevent the common hazard of missed or garbled radio communications. ASAS applications are intended to reduce controller workload (e.g. long monitoring situations). Depending on traffic conditions, airspace constraints, and controller’s options, ths can be converted into capacity and/or flight efficiency. These gains are sensitive to many factors. Improved pilot awareness may avoid requests for flight plan changes that would be denied due to traffic, thereby also reducing controller workload. Cost reductions may result from reduced delays attached to capacity/flight efficiency gains. It is not anticipated that this would lead to a reduction of ATC infrastructure costs within the timeframe under consideration. Nevertheless, a future solution may be a reduced number of ATCOs on duty (one might imagine reducing the need for controllers) at night or in very low traffic density times. ASAS applications could contribute to the reduction of environmental impact since they support the flexibility to fly preferred profiles. The reduction of flight times and the ability to use optimum climb and descent profiles may result in the reduction of aircraft exhaust emissions and noise.