Fokker 100. It was noted that he had nearly 7000 hours on the Fokker 100 which does have a Flap 25 setting. It was considered that “stress and workload can increase the likelihood of regressing to earlier well-learned habit patterns”. In this context, the conversion training of the two pilots had been different. The First Officer had been trained by an aircraft manufacturer instructor using the manufacturer’s syllabus, while the commander had been trained more recently by a Merpati instructor using modified syllabus. It was suggested that “inadequacy/ineffectivity in the training program may lead to actions that deviated from the standard procedure and regression to the previous type.” The investigation also noted that the MA60 FCOM and AMM used non-standard Aviation English. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that Merpati Nusantara Airlines should review the training management system to meet the standard requirements.. that Merpati Nusantara Airlines should improve the aircraft acceptance including documentation and manuals, related to CASR requirements.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should emphasis the aircraft inspection including documentation and manuals, prior to issuance of an initial airworthiness certificate related to the CASR 121 requirements including the DFDR parameters.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should review the adequacy of training syllabus in order to meet the qualification requirements.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should review the crew pairing policy.. that the Directorate General Civil Aviation should review implementation of the Safety Management System (SMS) (by) all operators.. Safety Action in response to the accident was noted to have been taken by the DGCA and the Operator. The aircraft manufacturer advised that the aircraft operation and maintenance manuals are currently being revised into standard aviation English. The Final Report of the Investigation KNKT.11.05.10.04 was published on 12 July 2012.