An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). The aircraft was not fitted with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and was not required to be. It was established that the aircraft had departed Vancouver Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) on what was a weekly charter flight after obtaining weather information which indicated that it would be possible to reach the destination aerodrome, which had no instrument approach procedures or navigation aids and had to be approached under VFR, at the ETA. With the First Officer as PF, the plan, as usual, was to approach the destination at or above lowest useable IFR altitude to see if a visual approach could be made. However, enough fuel was carried to be able to bypass Blue River, make an IFR approach into Valemount and then fly under VFR back to Blue River and still have enough fuel remaining to then divert to the nominated destination alternate. Overhead the destination, it was not possible to descend VFR and so the aircraft continued to Valemount, let down to VFR and then set course for the 60nm back to Blue River, where the single runway aerodrome was situated at an elevation of 2240 feet asl. A speed of approximately 175 knots was maintained and the aircraft descended as necessary in order to remain in ground contact. The weather slowly worsened and it was necessary to descend to as low as 1100 feet agl in order to maintain visual contact with the ground in the Blue River Valley. When approximately 4 nm from the aerodrome - and just 85 seconds before touchdown occurred, the Captain took over as PF anticipating a straight-in approach to runway 09. Visual acquisition of the unmarked, unlit and lightly snow-covered 1520 metre-long runway proved difficult (see diagram below) and only after the Captain had turned left away from what was almost the extended centreline did the First Officer sight the runway and call accordingly. Both pilots then rushed to complete the landing checks. The Captain continued to manoeuvre the aircraft in the expectation of a landing and he did not acknowledge that he had the runway in sight. The aircraft was only fully configured for landing 25 seconds prior to touchdown. The aircraft crossed the runway extended centreline near the threshold before making a sharp turn back towards and over the runway followed by a turn the other way to touch down left of the centreline just over 600 metres beyond the threshold. Immediately after touchdown, the aircraft veered left into the snow bank. Neither the pilots nor their only passenger were injured. The aircraft was substantially damaged. Both propellers were damaged when the blade tips came in contact with the snow banks and the outer sections of several blades were detached. The NLG partially collapsed and most of the landing gear bay doors were damaged or destroyed. The outboard section of the right wing, the flaps and