- at the altitude at which the aircraft was flying, it was in some places only 1 nm wide and at the speed the aircraft was flying, a 30° banked turn would require about 1.6 nm of horizontal distance so a successful course reversal would require a significant reduction in airspeed, an increase in altitude, a higher angle of bank, or a combination of all 3. On the other hand, climbing out IFR would mean doing so over an area not assessed for obstacle clearance with mountains extending 5000 feet above the initial altitude of the aircraft. The runway conditions were considered. The 18m wide runway was only slightly wider than the 16.6 metre wingspan of the aircraft and the arrangements for keeping the runway useable and flattening the snow banks created at the runway edges at an aerodrome primarily used by helicopters were both informal and complex. The weather conditions prevailing at the time of the accident had produced "a low, dull lighting condition that made features of the runway surface difficult to define". Without runway edge markings, it was considered that "identifying the runway edge becomes more difficult as the aircraft moves down the runway beyond the threshold area (and) the only thing the pilots can see is a large monochromatic area with no clear definition of the runway edges". An examination of Northern Thunderbird Air's arrangements for risk assessment in respect of its revenue passenger operations into Blue River and its system for the ongoing risk management of such operations found that they were inadequate in various systemic respects. It was also noted that the Operator had been involved in 2 significant occurrences relevant to the current Investigation. Five months earlier, the crew of a Company Beech King Air 100 had lost control of their aircraft and crashed on short final at Vancouver killing both pilots and seriously injuring the seven passengers after an unstabilised approach. And the previous month, there had been a precursor event where a Beech 1900C had made an approach to Blue River, landed slightly off the centreline in similar conditions and almost veered into a snow bank. The dull ambient light and lack of runway edge definition were determined by the Company to be the cause of that incident. It was considered generally that the ineffective action in response to the safety issues highlighted by both these occurrences served to emphasise the inadequacies of safety management at the Operator. The Investigation formally concluded as follows in respect of Causes and Contributing Factors: Although the hazardous runway condition had been identified by the company's safety management system, the delay in action to mark the runway allowed this condition to persist.. Up-to-date weather and runway condition information was not provided to the crew, nor was it requested by the crew.. The pilot continued the approach below the visibility limits specified in the company's standard operating procedures.. Deteriorating weather, as well as the lack of approach aids and runway markings, hampered the pilot's ability to