the engine nacelles were damaged, but there was only superficial damage to the fuselage. It was noted that the impact forces had not been enough for the ELT to be activated. It was found that both pilots were experienced on the aircraft type and familiar with the destination but that the First Officer had not previously had experience of the low level VFR route from Valemount to Blue River. The Captain had an unspecified 'management position' with the Operator. It was noted that the last weather observation prior to the accident taken 30 minutes earlier had recorded visibility as 2 sm, obscured ceilings at 2500 feet agl in light snow, wind from the north at 6 knots and a temperature of -1°C. A special observation immediately after the accident recorded the visibility reduced to 1 ½ sm in light snow and "the ceiling at 1200 feet agl obscured in snow". It was noted that the State VFR weather limitation in this area is based on the altitude of the aircraft - at or above 1000 feet agl, the aircraft must remain at least 500 feet below and 2000 feet horizontally from cloud with an in-flight visibility of at least 1 sm. Below 1000 feet agl, the aircraft must remain clear of cloud with an in-flight visibility of not less than 2 sm. The Operator had further increased the minimum in-flight visibility for all VFR flights to 5 sm because of the perceived greater risk of VFR flight in mountainous terrain such as around Blue River. A review of the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data showed that at no time did the First Officer call an unstable approach or prompt the Captain to make a go around even though Company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) had quite recently been amended to state that "for VFR and visual approaches, turns onto final should not be done below 500 feet agl" and included an explicit requirement for the PNF to call any deviations in respect of excessive sink rate or bank and any deviations from the vertical profile or extended runway centreline. They were also found to state that “the PNF shall vigilantly monitor the PF and heighten readiness to intervene in the case of PF incapacitation or risky deviations". However, the Investigation found that there was no requirement in the applicable Canadian Aviation Regulations for the Operator involved to define criteria which specified when an approach must be regarded as unstabilised. It was concluded that until the aircraft had been about 5 nm from the runway, the flight had been able to continue in accordance with Company limitations but the visibility had then reduced below the specified minimum. At that point, the crew were supposed to have two options - remain VFR and turn around to fly back to where the weather was better or climb IFR to the nominated alternate. However, the Investigation considered that both options became problematic once poor weather had been encountered near the runway. The valley was narrow