of the Accident was noted as having included the following: The UK CAA published an Information Leaflet with the title ‘Legal to Fly’ to inform passengers about flying safely in light aircraft and business jets.. Lycoming, as the manufacturer of the engine installed in the aircraft, stated that it would: work with relevant OEMs to determine the best way to convey the importance of thorough exhaust system inspections. review its maintenance and overhaul manuals to determine whether additional elaboration would increase the chance of a qualified mechanic finding a potentially un-airworthy condition prior to ensuring any relevant new guidance is implemented in the next FAA-approved version of its ‘Standard Practice Manual’.. work with relevant OEMs to determine the best way to convey the importance of thorough exhaust system inspections.. review its maintenance and overhaul manuals to determine whether additional elaboration would increase the chance of a qualified mechanic finding a potentially un-airworthy condition prior to ensuring any relevant new guidance is implemented in the next FAA-approved version of its ‘Standard Practice Manual’.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of this Investigation as follows: that the UK Civil Aviation Authority ensure that the system in place to meet the requirements of EASA Part ARA.GEN.220 is effective in maintaining accurate and up-to-date records related to personnel licences, certificates and ratings. [2020-005]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require piston engine aircraft which may have a risk of carbon monoxide poisoning to have a CO detector with an active warning to alert pilots to the presence of elevated levels of carbon monoxide. [2020-006]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency require piston engine aircraft which may have a risk of carbon monoxide poisoning to have a CO detector with an active warning to alert pilots to the presence of elevated levels of carbon monoxide. [2020-007]. that the UK Civil Aviation Authority require piston engine aircraft which may have a risk of carbon monoxide poisoning to have a CO detector with an active warning to alert pilots to the presence of elevated levels of carbon monoxide. [2020-008]. that Piper Aircraft ensure that the 100-hour / Annual maintenance schedule for the PA-46 variants references the engine manufacturer’s guidance, where available, on inspecting and testing the exhaust system. [2020-009]. The Final Report was published on 13 March 2020. Two interim ‘Special Bulletins’ had been issued whilst the Investigation was in progress, on 25 February 2019 and on 14 August 2019.