refuel and prepare the aircraft, which had remained parked since arriving there, for the return flight. The single passenger arrived in the early evening and half an hour later, the flight taxied for departure on a VFR Flight Plan which indicated an intended cruise altitude of 6000 feet. Takeoff from runway 03 at Nantes occurred soon afterwards and clearance to climb to and maintain FL 055 was given for the direct track to Cardiff. When the aircraft was about 20 nm south of Jersey, the flight was transferred to Jersey ATC and on initial contact was cleared to enter controlled airspace and continue at FL 055 with the pilot asked to advise if unable to maintain VMC so that any deviations could be coordinated with other traffic. A couple of minutes later, the controller asked the pilot to check that aircraft altimeter pressure setting was correctly set to 1013 hPa because SSR data was indicating FL 053. This was acknowledged and the aircraft then climbed to FL055. As the flight passed about 11 nm west of Jersey, the pilot requested clearance to descend to “maintain VMC” and was cleared to descend to FL 050 and advise if further descent was required. The aircraft began to descend as cleared whilst also making a right turn followed by a left turn to fly parallel to (and about 1½ nm east of) the planned track whilst overhead Guernsey. When this deviation was queried by ATC, the pilot responded with “... just avoided a patch there but back on heading five thousand feet”. The final stages of the radar-recorded ground track. [Reproduced from the Official Report] At 2012, ten minutes after the earlier request to descend to maintain VMC, a further request to manoeuvre to remain VMC was made at a position - 11 nm north of Guernsey - close to where recorded rainfall radar picture timed three minutes later (see the illustration below) showed that without such manoeuvring, the flight track would have been likely, as indicated in the illustration, to penetrate heavy showers and/or the cloud associated with them. ATC responded with a clearance to descend at the pilot’s discretion and the pilot was given the Jersey QNH. This response was acknowledged with what became the last radio communication received from the flight. The weather radar picture just before the final track reversal and very steep terminal descent. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Thereafter, the aircraft turned right and began to manoeuvre somewhat erratically in respect of both heading and altitude whilst remaining in the general vicinity of 4000 feet. During these turns, the flight path was assessed to have been “unstable and inconsistent with normal cruise flight or with use of the AP". After two minutes of generally northerly progress, a right turn of approximately 180° was recorded during which the aircraft began to descend from a recorded 4,100 feet. As it descended through approximately 2,700 feet, the angle of bank was approximately 90° and the airspeed was approximately 235 KIAS.