There was then “an abrupt nose-up pitch input when the airspeed was at least 100 knots above VA” (the speed above which full or abrupt control movements are not permitted). During the subsequent pull-up, it was concluded that “the aerodynamic loads would have exceeded design limits and caused the structural failure of the elevator and horizontal stabiliser, followed by the structural failure of both wings at the splice joints”. Since this abrupt pull-up just before the aircraft broke up would have required the control wheel to be pulled aft and the passenger was not seated next to the pilot, it was concluded that at this point, the pilot probably still had “some level of function”. The available evidence indicated that the fuselage had struck the sea surface in “an inverted, left wing low, nose-high attitude”, an impact that was not survivable. Although the aircraft was fitted with an ELT, this was not designed to work underwater and the extensively damaged wreckage was not located until two weeks later at a depth of just over 220 feet located within 100 metres of the final primary and secondary radar points. Aircraft Airworthiness - The Exhaust System. The pilot’s body was not recovered but the passenger’s body was and during post mortem testing showed a blood carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) level of 58% which, despite the time underwater, the pathologist concerned considered was still a reliable result and indicated that “he would almost certainly have been ‘deeply unconscious’ at impact". As the passenger and pilot were sitting in the same cabin, the pathologist “considered it likely that the pilot would have been exposed to similar levels of Carbon Monoxide as the passenger and observed that similar levels of COHb in the pilot’s blood would have been expected to render him unable to fly an aircraft”. Although the extent to which the pilot was affected by Carbon Monoxide (CO) poisoning could not be determined, it was considered very likely that his ability to control the aircraft could have been progressively impaired during the later stages of the flight “thereby significantly increasing the likelihood that control would be lost”. It was concluded that the most likely reason for CO fumes to have entered the cabin would have been “a failure of the part of the exhaust tailpipe containing the heater muffler” which would have allowed exhaust gas to mix with the ram air and thus enter the cabin through the air conditioning system. The condition of the wreckage precluded any assessment of such a leak but it was noted that the complete exhaust system had been visually inspected during an annual maintenance check completed only 11 flying hours before the accident. However, it was noted that in a previous accident, a causally-implicated exhaust gas heater muffler had been found to have failed only six flying hours after a similar inspection. It was found that there was no FAA requirement for a pressure test of the heater muffler to be carried out in the 100-hour / Annual maintenance