The UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) became aware that the aircraft had gone missing approximately an hour after this had happened. Since the accident occurred in international waters and involved a USA-registered aircraft, the responsibility for the conduct of an independent accident investigation lay with the NTSB as the appropriate agency of the State of Registration of the aircraft. However, as provided for under ICAO Annex 13, the State of Registration may, by mutual agreement with another Member State, delegate the investigation to them. On the day after the accident had occurred and in anticipation that an accident investigation would be required, the NTSB delegated responsibility for the investigation to the State of the Operator, in this case the UK as represented by the AAIB who immediately opened a formal Investigation. The 59 year-old pilot had a total of approximately 3,500 hours flying experience, of which a “large percentage” had been accumulated whilst dropping parachutists from single and twin engined aircraft and had “little experience of flying in IMC or operating under IFR”. At the time of the accident, he held a UK-issued EASA PPL (Private Pilot License) and a FAA PPL issued on the basis of the former. His EASA Licence did not include an IR (Instrument Rating) or a Night Rating although his records indicated that he had flown several flights at night over the preceding 12 months. This Licence was in any case found to have expired in November 2018 with no evidence that it had since been renewed. He had undertaken EASA ‘differences training’ to enable him to fly the PA-46 but had been incorrectly authorised to fly the type both by day and at night. It was not established whether he had undertaken the FAA’s equivalent ‘complex aircraft training’ for the PA-46 although his basic FAA PPL was current at the time of the accident as he had completed the required ‘Flight Review’ with an authorised instructor or examiner within the previous 24 months. It was found that the pilot had begun flying the accident aircraft seven months prior to the accident and had then flown it and another similar type regularly around the UK and Europe. His own records showed that despite not being appropriately licensed, “he had been paid a fee for flights on numerous occasions” with other evidence showing that he was to be paid a fee for the accident flight. It was noted that the pilot was unable to communicate verbally with the passenger because they did not share fluency in any common language. There was no written safety brief on board the aircraft in any of the languages that the passenger spoke and witnesses described the pilot and passenger communicating through hand gestures. The same pilot had flown the same passenger in the same aircraft from Cardiff to Nantes Airport two days prior to the accident with a return flight already scheduled. On the day of the accident, the pilot arrived at Nantes airport in the early afternoon to