schedule and it also did not directly reference Lycoming guidance on how to examine the exhaust system. However, it was also recognised that “in-service inspections of exhaust systems do not eliminate the risk of CO poisoning and that whilst safety regulators advise pilots to do so, there is no requirement for CO detectors to be carried on piston engined aircraft". Beyond the issue of the integrity of the exhaust system, no evidence of any relevant lack of pre flight aircraft airworthiness was found, although the AP and FD had both been “diagnosed as having an intermittent fault and should have been placarded as inoperative”. Faults with the stall warning system and the brakes and an oil leak which were reported by the pilot from Nantes after arriving there, were not considered to have been relevant to accident causation. The Operation of the Aircraft. The aircraft Registration, Airworthiness and Release to Service Certificates were in order and all scheduled maintenance had been completed in accordance with requirements. The aircraft was being operated in accordance with 14 CFR Part 91 (General Operating and Flight Rules) and maintained in accordance with 14 CFR Part 43 (Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, Rebuilding and Alteration’. However, the regulations under which the aircraft was being operated and maintained permitted private use only and the permission which would have been necessary to allow it to be operated for commercial purposes had not been sought or granted. Consequentially, the aircraft was therefore not being operated in accordance with safety standards applicable to commercial operations. The Pilot’s Fitness to Fly. There was no evidence to suggest the pilot was not fit and healthy prior to the flight or that he was not well-rested. However, it was considered likely that he would have “felt some pressure to complete the return leg of the flight” even though it would be at night and would take place in what, from a VFR perspective, would be relatively poor weather. Three Causal Factors for the accident were identified as follows: The pilot lost control of the aircraft during a manually-flown turn, which was probably initiated to remain in or regain VMC.. The aircraft subsequently suffered an in-flight break-up while manoeuvring at an airspeed significantly in excess of its design manoeuvring speed.. The pilot was probably affected by CO poisoning.. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: A loss of control was made more likely because the flight was not conducted in accordance with safety standards applicable to commercial operations. This manifested itself in the flight being operated under VFR at night in poor weather conditions despite the pilot having no training in night flying and a lack of recent practice in instrument flying.. In-service inspections of exhaust systems do not eliminate the risk of Carbon Monoxide (CO) poisoning.. There was no CO detector with an active warning in the aircraft which might have alerted the pilot to the presence of CO in time for him to take mitigating action.. Safety Action taken or promised as a result