An Investigation into this Serious Incident was carried out by the Danish Accident Investigation Board (AIB) after the operator notified the event 90 minutes later. Data recorded on the QAR, which were the same as those recorded on the FDR, were retrieved and the raw data file, along with the CVR was shipped to the Transportation Safety Board of Canada (TSB) for decoding and downloading respectively. It was found that the CVR had not been isolated promptly enough to preserve the most recent 30 minutes of high quality audio data but the period covering the event was contained in the 2 hour data files which record the cockpit area microphone channel and a combined version of the pilots’ individual communication channels. A recording of VHF communications on the Nuuk Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS) frequency were also available. The 57 year-old Captain had 11,144 hours total flying experience which included 4,339 hours on type and the 30 year-old First Officer, who was acting as PF for the investigated flight, had 981 hours total flying experience all but 210 hours of which was on the aircraft type involved. It was established that the takeoff from runway 05 with a full load of 29 passengers and 3 crew members on board had been preceded by a wind check of 330° at 5 knots and takeoff had been made with a 15° flap setting and with a V1/VR of 88 knots. The standard 60 knot call was followed by “V1, Rotate” called at “approximately 80 knots” upon which the First Officer applied normal back pressure to the elevator control but experienced no positive responsive feedback (aircraft rotation) and consequentially applied full aft backpressure to the elevator control. After still not being able to rotate “and considering the lack of aircraft rotation to be a result of a flight control failure”, he commenced a rejected takeoff “by retarding the power levers to the ‘DISC’ position and applying maximum anti-skid braking”. After the aircraft had been brought to a stop, the flight crew reviewed the situation and decided that nothing was preventing a safe taxi back to the apron. Whilst this was being done, the passengers were briefed and an external visual inspection for potential hot wheel brakes was requested. The AIB oversaw operator checks of the aircraft longitudinal control systems for any defects and to confirm correct rigging in accordance with the AMM. These found “a few items to be slightly out of AMM stated limitations” and minor rigging adjustments were made. A test for correct calibration of the pitot static system was also made and found a minor discrepancy which was within the applicable AMM limitations. The Type Certificate (TC) holder then determined that none of these “minor technical deviations” would have had any significant influence on the ability to rotate the aircraft normally and the Investigation moved to examine two potentially relevant operational issues. 1. The conduct of the takeoff roll. It had been noted that the Captain had made the “V1,