inspection procedure.. There had been no recent inspections of or maintenance to the accident aircraft’s wiper system and neither Airbus nor Air Canada require periodic inspection of the wiper.. The rain repellent system installed on the aircraft when delivered to Air Canada in 1990 was deactivated in 1996 because use of the repellent involved was prohibited for environmental reasons. When a replacement fluid was made in 1998, Air Canada decide not to reactivate it or to apply the Airbus-approved hydrophobic windshield coating which provides protection characteristics similar to those of liquid repellent which was made available in 1997.. Absence of Runway Centreline Lighting It was noted that runway 15R was the only one of Toronto’s three parallel runways not to be equipped with centreline lighting and that there was no requirement for it to be so equipped. Runway 15R had edge lights at 60 metre intervals. When it was certified, its lighting complied with Canadian regulatory standards in effect at that time, although there was an associated recommendation that runway centreline lights should be provided on a runway such as 15R when that runway was “used by aircraft with high landing speeds or where the width between the runway edge lights is greater than 50 metres”. This associated recommendation was subsequently removed and was not applicable at the time of the excursion. ICAO Annex 14 includes Recommendations as well as Standards and the relevant current Recommendation continues to use the same words as the ones removed from the relevant Canadian Regulatory Guidance Manual quoted above. In connection with the usefulness of centreline lighting, the ICAO ‘Aerodrome Design Manual' (Doc 9157 Part 4 – Visual Aids) 4th Edition, 2004, states that “in normal circumstances, a pilot can maintain the track of the aircraft within approximately 1 to 2 metres of the runway centreline with the aid of this lighting cue” and notes that this guidance is more precise than that possible by pilot assessment of the degree of asymmetry between the lighting along each runway edge, adding that the greater distances involved viewing runway edge lighting and the need for the pilot to look immediately ahead of the aircraft during a landing ground roll “also contribute to the requirements for a well-lit runway centreline”.. It was noted that runway 15R was the only one of Toronto’s three parallel runways not to be equipped with centreline lighting and that there was no requirement for it to be so equipped.. Runway 15R had edge lights at 60 metre intervals. When it was certified, its lighting complied with Canadian regulatory standards in effect at that time, although there was an associated recommendation that runway centreline lights should be provided on a runway such as 15R when that runway was “used by aircraft with high landing speeds or where the width between the runway edge lights is greater than 50 metres”. This associated recommendation was subsequently removed and was not applicable at the time of the excursion.. ICAO Annex 14 includes Recommendations as well as