1653 metres from the displaced threshold and 938 metres from the end of the runway. The PM advised ATC that the aircraft was stopped on the runway and had undergone a runway excursion and requested ARFF to attend and inspect the aircraft for damage which was deemed sufficient to require no attempt to taxi in and the passengers were disembarked onto buses and taken to the terminal. Further examination of the engines found denting to the left engine cowling and sufficient internal damage to both engines caused by use of reverse thrust whilst on the grass for both to have to be replaced. A total of 5 runway edge lights, which were located in the grass 1.5m metres beyond the runway edge, were damaged by impact with either the landing gear or the left engine cowling. The Investigation was unable to determine why, as the aircraft was flared from an on-centreline position, the Captain had made a right roll command input, which initiated the drift to the right. It was noted that although a previous review of lateral excursions by Airbus had found that this type of destabilisation often occurred when the AP was disconnected or as the transition from instrument to visual flight was being made, in the event under investigation, destabilisation occurred much later than both of these and was also closer to the ground. It was also noted that the fact that the aircraft was drifting had to be pointed out to the Captain by the PM First Officer and that the former’s response to the alert, was insufficient to counteract the lateral momentum of the aircraft. Although their relevance to the accident could not be directly validated, two aspects of potential relevance to the excursion were considered at some length as follows: Flight Crew External Visibility in Rain It was noted that wiper system performance can be affected by both the condition of the wiper blade and the amount of tension exerted by the blade against the windshield. A post-event inspection of the aircraft found that neither windshield wiper met the minimum tension specified in the corresponding Airbus inspection procedure. There had been no recent inspections of or maintenance to the accident aircraft’s wiper system and neither Airbus nor Air Canada require periodic inspection of the wiper. The rain repellent system installed on the aircraft when delivered to Air Canada in 1990 was deactivated in 1996 because use of the repellent involved was prohibited for environmental reasons. When a replacement fluid was made in 1998, Air Canada decide not to reactivate it or to apply the Airbus-approved hydrophobic windshield coating which provides protection characteristics similar to those of liquid repellent which was made available in 1997.. It was noted that wiper system performance can be affected by both the condition of the wiper blade and the amount of tension exerted by the blade against the windshield. A post-event inspection of the aircraft found that neither windshield wiper met the minimum tension specified in the corresponding Airbus