An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from the FDR. It was found that the Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had been employed by Air Canada for 20 years and had accumulated over 18,000 total flying hours including 14,800 hours on type. The First Officer had been employed by Air Canada for 11 years and had accumulated 11,500 total flying hours including over 2,700 hours on type. It was established that runway 15R was in use as the landing runway at Toronto and that only a Cat 1 ILS approach was available in conditions of reduced visibility in rain. The aircraft being flown was equipped for autoland off a Cat 1 approach but as the reported RVR was almost twice the applicable minimum, the crew, having noted the absence of centreline lighting on the runway concerned, nevertheless decided that the AP would be disengaged once below DA for a manual landing in surface winds that were light and variable. The PF had the approach lights in sight when the PM called “Minimums” at 200 feet agl and responded with “Landing”. At 100 feet agl, he disengaged the AP. The aircraft crossed the displaced runway threshold at a recorded height of 39 feet agl on the ILS LOC and GS. Then, descending through 26 feet agl, the PF made a brief but large right roll input - approximately 75% of the maximum available sidestick deflection - which produced a 4° right bank and the aircraft began to drift to the right of centreline and then immediately reduced the thrust to idle. At a recorded 8 feet agl, the aircraft was 10 metres to the right of the centreline of the 60 metre wide runway and PM called out that the aircraft was drifting to the right. The PF responded with a left roll command and left rudder but although the wings returned to level, the drift to the right continued due to the aircraft’s momentum. The left main gear touched down on the paved surface some 680 metres past the displaced runway threshold followed almost straight away by a minor bounce of the right main gear during which the outboard wheel was just 6 metres from the edge of the runway. The aircraft continued drifting to the right following the bounce and when the right main gear touched down again it was off the runway in wet grass. After a further 85 metres during which there was further movement to the right, the nose landing gear also touched down on the grass and struck one of the runway edge lights. The out board left main gear wheel and left engine cowling then each struck two runway edge lights and the outboard left wheel tyre was damaged and deflated. The Captain then selected reverse thrust and both engines began to ingest debris. Once the aircraft had slowed down, he steered it back onto the paved surface and brought it to a stop