A harmonised and consistent reporting of safety occurrences is yet to be achieved by the aviation industry. ICAO has joined forces with aviation industry partners in an effort to develop common terms, definitions and taxonomies for aviation occurrence reporting systems in order to support safety data exchange and focus on common safety issues. A further step in the harmonisation of occurrence reporting in Europe is the coming into force of the Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation. In order to harmonise the reporting of safety occurrences in ATM, EUROCONTROL has adopted in 2000, ESARR2. This regulatory document established a list of ATM-related occurrences which, as a minimum, shall be reported and assessed. Safety reporting systems should not be restricted to accidents and incidents, but should include reporting of hazards and unsafe conditions that have not yet caused an incident. For example, some organisations have put in place a mechanism for reporting of conditions considered dangerous or unsatisfactory by the operational personnel. Such reports are usually submitted under voluntary reporting arrangements and under internal reporting systems. Most aircraft operators and air navigation service providers, aerodromes and maintenance organisations have established their own internal safety occurrence reporting system(s). Internal reporting usually includes all mandatory reportable occurrences, safety occurrences and observations subject to voluntary reporting and where available, automatic monitoring and reporting of events. A number of organisations use reporting forms based on (or the same as) those used by the national mandatory occurrence reporting scheme (MOR) in order to standardise procedures and to reduce delay if it is decided by the employer that a MOR form should be filed. Occurrence reporting may take several forms according to the perceived severity of the safety hazard: Accident and serious incident reporting in accordance with standards laid down in ICAO Annex 13;. Mandatory Occurrence Reporting in accordance with national regulations (includes also accidents and serious incidents);. Voluntary Occurrence Reporting established in line with existing guidance. Confidential Reporting, a specific voluntary reporting scheme existing in many countries, encouraging the reporting of occurrences which would probably not be reported in the absence of such a scheme. However, heavy use of a confidential reporting scheme may indicate a deficient organisation safety culture.. Self-disclosure reporting systems (data from automatic and manual capture systems such as data from FDR and CVR, EUROCONTROL’s Automated Safety Monitoring Tool (ASMT) etc.). The reporting arrangements referred to above shall be used to: Identify hazards and/or notify of potential systems weaknesses. Analyse the reported information to identify safety risk. Identify and implement improvements to eliminate safety shortcomings, eliminate hazards or mitigate their effects and to prevent hazard recurrence. Safety occurrence reporting should not be used to blame individuals or to hold them accountable for the safety occurrences or unsafe acts. It is a powerful tool for the establishment and verification of effective risk management strategies by aviation service provider organisations.