An Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB). The 787 EAFRs were downloaded but although relevant parameter data was available, the two hours of voice data did not include taxi out because, contrary to Operator procedures, the EAFRs had not been deactivated once parked. Relevant ATC recorded data were also available. The 58 year-old Captain of the 787 had 17,000 hours total flying experience but only 314 hours of this was on type. The 35 year-old 787 First Officer had 2,570 hours total flying experience which included 1,270 hours on type. The GND Controller in position was found to have been a 27 year-old trainee being supervised by a 26 year-old OJT Trainer. She had completed 5 months practical training towards the requirements for validation at Changi after beginning her controller career at Seletar aerodrome. The OJT trainer had a total of 4 years five months experience at Changi and she had “deemed” the trainee to be sufficiently competent to “manage traffic independently”. It was established that after just over half an hour in position, the OJT trainee operating the GND position instructed the 787, which had just completed pushback from gate E28 at Terminal 2 to “taxi on greens” and hold short of Taxiway WA (see the first illustration below). This route involved following taxiways A6 and NC3 but in accordance with ‘follow the greens’ procedures, this was not verbalised. At the time this clearance was given green taxiway centreline lights were illuminated continuously along taxiways A6, NC3 and WA towards the runway 02L threshold (see the second illustration below) and had been so for the past 30 minutes as a number of aircraft had taxied on WA during that time. According to the OJT trainee, she intended to route the 787 onto taxiway WP after an arriving aircraft had landed and vacated Runway 02L via RET W5 at which point she would switch the green taxiway centreline lights leading onto WA off and switch on those leading onto taxiway WP and along it as far as the intersection with taxi lane V6. She had apparently decided that she would be able to reconfigure the lighting in this way before the 787 arrived at the WA/NC3 intersection and “she did not see the need to switch on the red stop bar light on NC3 short of WA”. The 787 crew readback of the clearance was correct and the OJT Trainer stated that she had not seen any reason to intervene. Almost immediately, the OJT trainee cleared the A380 to pushback from gate C23 at Terminal 1 and this movement, which involved pushing the aircraft tail-first into a south-facing position, commenced about three minutes later (see the third illustration below). Within a minute of this pushback beginning, the 787 crew reported that they were approaching the WA/NC3 intersection and were instructed by the trainee controller to “…continue on the greens and hold short V6”. The trainee and her supervisor then reported having turned their attention