to match the clearance given and considered that “there may be merit in ATC verbalising the taxi route” when ‘follow-the-greens’ clearances were in use. However, the ATC view was that this was not necessarily a good risk management solution. The difficulties of pilots assessing wingtip clearances visually were noted and it was concluded that prudence dictated that an aircraft should be stopped if the potential clearance was in any way marginal. It was noted that in this case, “the ambient lighting, contrast between the brightly lit vertical stabiliser of the A380 and its dark right wing tip and relative position of both aircraft” were all factors that may have affected the accuracy of the 787 pilots’ visual perception. A number of Safety Actions were noted to have been implemented by various parties following the collision but the Investigation nevertheless determined that it was necessary to make a total of eight Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Air Traffic Services Provider considers verbalising the taxi route in addition to the instruction to “taxi on the greens” in the taxi clearance. [RA-2018-004]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore considers requiring the Air Traffic Services Provider to verbalise the taxi route in addition to the instruction to “taxi on the greens” in the taxi clearance. [RA-2018005]. that the Air Traffic Services Provider ensures that its safety management system will identify and address safety hazards through the review of occurrences. [RA-2018-006]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore requires the Air Traffic Services Provider to ensure that its safety management system will identify and address safety hazards through the review of occurrences. [RA-2018-007]. that Scoot reviews its procedures to ensure that flight recorders are deactivated at the end of a flight following a significant occurrence. [RA-2018-008]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore ensures that all Singapore Air Operator Certificate holders have procedures that ensure the deactivation of flight recorders upon completion of a flight following an accident or a serious incident. [RA-2018-009]. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore considers requiring commercial aircraft on Singapore’s register to install proximity sensors or cameras at the wing tips to assist pilots in making wing tip clearance decision. [RA-2018-010]. that the Air Traffic Services Provider considers revising the piece of information in the Aerodrome Advisory Chart AD-2-WSSS-ADC-3, viz. “ACFT taxiing on TWY WA are not clear of ACFT pushback from ACFT stands C24, C25 & C26 until at the end of pushback”, to ensure that pilots will not miss the information. [RA-2018-011]. The Final Report was published on 19 March 2018.