to four departing aircraft near the runway 02L holding point. As the 787 approached the WA/NC3 intersection, its crew could see continuous green centreline lights leading from taxiway NC3 onto taxiway WA and that there was a red stop bar on the final part of NC3, so they complied with the instruction to “taxi on greens” and turned left onto taxiway WA. Once the turn was complete, both 787 pilots saw the A380 stationary on taxiway U1 and assessed visually that there was enough clearance between the two aircraft for them to continue taxiing. Even so, the First Officer, who was acting as PF, slowed the aircraft down significantly as they were about to pass the A380s vertical stabiliser. The A380 tug driver reported that he had stopped the push back prior to the collision because he had been unsure if there was sufficient separation between the two aircraft for them to pass safely. The left wing of the 787 then contacted the right winglet of the A380 and the tug driver reported having heard a scraping sound. The B787 crew reported having felt only a “slight jerk” and having concluded that they must have taxied over an area of uneven surface had continued taxiing. About a minute after the collision had occurred, the trainee controller and her supervisor returned their attention to the B787 and saw that it was on taxiway WA rather than the intended taxiway WP and was approaching the WA/VZ intersection. Unaware of anything untoward, the trainee instructed the 787 to taxi to WP via V6 for departure on Runway 02L.The A380 crew then asked to return to their gate after being told of collision wing damage by their tug crew and this was approved. The 787 crew heard this exchange and stopped the aircraft. The Captain then asked the cabin crew to check the left wing visually and received back a report that the left wing navigation light “appeared to be detached and hanging freely” upon which positioning back to a parking bay was requested and a corresponding clearance received. Damage to the 787 left wing was subsequently found to include several composite panels and damage to the A380 right wing was found to include several skin panels and a number of cracked ribs and spars. There were no injuries to the 822 occupants of the two aircraft. The Investigation noted that there had been two identical prior events where the aircraft ‘following the greens’ on WA had been stopped before reaching an A380 facing south on taxiway U1 after pushback from C23. One of these events had been recorded two months before the collision under investigation and the other 9 months earlier. Following the January 2017 event, ATC had begun a review of its procedures and requested that the airport operator should review pushback operations but neither review had been completed by the time the collision occurred. It was noted that the collision could not have occurred if the taxiway lighting had been configured