Implementing Optimum Airport Design. One of the best risk mitigations applicable to taxi-in incursions is a taxiway system which negates the need for any runway crossings at multiple runway aerodromes by avoiding intersecting runways and by provision of perimeter taxiways at or around the ends of runways. Such a design is found at the five-runway US international airport at Houston, the four runway German international airport at Frankfurt and (with one minor exception) at the five runway US international airport at Atlanta. Another appropriate design component for this type of incursion as well as generally is to ensure that all runway entry points are at 90° angles to the runway.. Identifying Hot Spots with specific reference to designated taxi-in routes. One of the primary tasks of a Local Runway Safety Teams (LRST) is the identification of Hot Spots and ensuring their effective depiction, via the AIP, on proprietary aerodrome taxi charts.. All taxi-in routes should be identified in the context of runway use and any points where there is a high probability of an incursion occurring which would have severe consequences and could occur without much prior warning should be identified. The ultimate response or mitigation measure to the alerting action provided by hot spot designation is a detailed redesign of the taxiway/runway system at its immediate location. This is frequently a reactive measure taken as a consequence of a significant runway incursion but should be implemented pro-actively with LRST support. If the crossing of potentially active runways is unavoidable, then taxi-in routes should be as near to the beginning of runways being used for take off as possible and in all cases should ideally cross runways at a 90° angle, and should avoid runway entry for crossing purposes at obtuse angles to the direction of runway in use.. Installation of appropriate signage, markings and lighting for all designated taxi-in routes. It should be possible to define taxi-in routes which avoid hot spots without unduly restricting operational flexibility.. Installation of controllable lit stop bars at all entrances to every potentially active runway and their operation during all airport opening hours and in all visibility conditions.. Installation of systems which provide conflict alerting to controllers such as A-SMGCS at levels 1 and 2 and the FAA ASDE-X system. These alerts must be able to be generated sufficiently far in advance of an incursion to provide a controller with enough time to intervene - which has frequently not been the case in the past. Many of these systems, just as has occurred with Safety Nets which alert controllers to airborne conflicts, have experienced considerable difficulty in balancing nuisance alert generation against activation criteria which ensure sufficient time for an effective response.. Installation of systems which provide conflict awareness direct to pilots such as the planned A-SMGCS Levels 3 and 4 and the currently deployed FAA Runway Status Lights (RWSL) and FAROS systems.. Recognition of the value of fitting RAAS to aircraft in the case where an incursion occurs against an aircraft about