engines were still at idle thrust and the MCP selected speed was 320 knots (the recorded speed was 325 KCAS). Over the next 29 seconds, the MCP-selected speed was reduced to 308 knots as the recorded speed fluctuated between 306 KCAS and 329 KCAS as vertical acceleration of between +0.50 g and +1.36 g was recorded changing at a rate of up to 0.7 g per second. After half a minute of this, as the aircraft descended through FL170, the recorded speed suddenly increased from 322 KCAS to 334 KCAS within one second. The Captain subsequently explained that the PFD speed trend vector had started to show large oscillations and he considered that the turbulence had become severe and judged that the AP was no longer able to maintain the selected speed so he had disengaged it “to avoid exceeding the 340 knot VMO”. This action was immediately followed by a +48 lb (rearward pull) on the control column and in one second, the recorded pitch attitude increased from -1.8º to +6.2º, reaching a vertical acceleration of +3.09 g. This was immediately followed by a -51 lb (forward push) on the control column in the opposite direction and an immediate reduction in pitch attitude to -1.6º accompanied by a vertical acceleration of -0.18 g. The ‘AFT ENTRY DOOR’ EICAS caution was noted by the First Officer immediately following this violent pitch attitude fluctuation. At the time the AP was disconnected, the cabin crew were in the process of securing the cabin. Three of them were in the rear galley where the SCCM was making a PA warning passengers of likelihood of continued turbulence and the fourth was at row 29, attending to a passenger request. All four were thrown against different parts of the cabin and fell to the floor. Two, including the SCCM were incapacitated and the No 2 assumed lead responsibilty. Thereafter, the aircraft remained almost level at FL170 with normal forces on the control column recorded and positive pitch angles as the speed began to reduce. Descent was resumed at 283KCAS, the AP was re-engaged at FL 159 and the turbulence ceased altogether just over two minutes after it began. Re- clearance to 3000 feet was received and a speed of 250knots was requested until reaching ‘ASTEK’ as number 1 for the ILS Z to runway 07L. It was noted that no report of a significant turbulence encounter was received by ATC which was contrary to the applicable regulations ((EU) 923/2012 of 26 September 2012 and the Air Traffic Regulation) which require such a report if a flight encounters moderate or severe turbulence. The moderate turbulence encountered was as expected based on forecast information provided prior to departure from Fez. Also, the OFP for the flight indicated that wind shear of between 3 and 4 units (equivalent to moderate turbulence) could be expected whilst flying the expected STAR. The FCOM was noted as recommending leaving the AP and/or A/T engaged “unless their performance is unsatisfactory” and that