An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Relevant flight data was available from the CVR and QAR. Crew statements and recorded ATC data were also available. It was noted that the flight crew consisted of a 29 year-old Captain acting as PF who had been issued with an ATPL (airline transport pilot licence) just over 2 years previously and had since been promoted to Captain. He had a total of 4,041 hours flying experience but how much of that had been gained in command on type and in total on type was not recorded. His type training had explicitly included “procedures upon entering an area of severe turbulence, recovery from overspeed and awareness of g-load factor”. The 26 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,692 hours flying experience on all types. An off-duty pilot employed by the operator was occupying the supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck. The accident flight was the third out of four which the crew had been rostered for. A SIGMET indicated storms were likely in the area enclosed by the red line. [Reproduced from the Official Report It was established that about an hour after takeoff, with the cabin crew already informed that the forecast weather conditions meant that it was likely that turbulence would be encountered during the descent, descent had commenced towards the ‘MATEX’ waypoint to join the MATEX 2E STAR (see the illustration below) for an eventual landing on runway 07L at Barcelona. For the initial descent to FL200 with the AP engaged, ‘MCP SPD’ was used. Since ATC had delayed the start of descent in order to comply with the altitude restrictions of the intended STAR, the crew had set idle thrust (which automatically reset the A/T mode to ‘armed’ and then began to gradually increased the speed selected on the MCP to increase the rate of descent which was taking place in the presence of a 70 knot tailwind component. Due to Covid-related considerations, the seat belt signs remained on throughout the flight. As the aircraft was descending through FL280 outbound from MATEX towards the ‘BL028’ waypoint, cumulonimbus could be seen on the aircraft weather radar and an avoidance turn to the left was requested and approved to fly a radar heading of 065º. The cabin crew were immediately reminded of the risk of turbulence and instructed to secure the cabin for landing. Further descent to FL080 was then given along with clearance to proceed direct to waypoint ‘ASTEK’, the IF for the runway 07L approach “if flight conditions permitted”. The recorded/indicated tailwind component was now slightly less at 58 knots. The aircraft ground track during its descent after ‘MATEX’ (the numbers relate to spot height and airspeed at timed points taken from the FDR data). [Reproduced from the Official Report] Whilst descending through FL 180 two minutes after instructing the cabin crew to secure the cabin, an area of turbulence was entered. At this time, the