An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee. Data from the FDR were successfully downloaded and available to assist the Investigation but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten when it was allowed to continue running by the Captain after the landing at Tabing. It was found that the 58 year-old Lithuanian national who was Captain of the 737 had a total of 15,500 flying hours and was accompanied by a 45 year-old First Officer of Indonesian nationality who held a permanent residence permit for Japan and had a total of 800 flying hours including 173 hours on type. He had completed his initial line training one month prior to the occurrence of the investigated event. The Minang (Minangkabau) TWR controller who had been working the aircraft during the final stages of its approach was found to hold a controller licence issued four months before the occurrence and since then had, after an initial one week period observing, worked in the TWR at Minangkabu. It was noted that the flight had proceeded uneventfully until the aircraft was descending on the ILS approach to runway 33 in IMC and working Minang APP. It was noted that the earlier crew approach briefing by the Captain who was acting as PF had not mentioned the presence of a similarly-aligned runway sited around 6nm before the designated destination landing runway which was noted on the applicable Jeppesen ILS approach chart (reproduced below). The cautionary note on this subject included on the chart was apparently not noticed by either pilot, possibly due to the poor quality of the black and white photocopy of the chart which they had available. However upon spotting a runway approximately 10° to the right of track through a gap in the cloud which had the superficial appearance of the expected orientation, the crew reported to Minang APP that they had the runway in sight and were transferred to Minang TWR. When the 737 checked in, the controller stated that he "saw the aircraft was on long final and issued a landing clearance for runway 33". However, the Captain then decided to make a visual approach to the runway which had come into view through a gap in the clouds (and which he believed was Minang) and quickly disconnected the AP and "flew manually toward that runway". In doing so, he "assumed that the localiser indication was incorrect" since it began to indicate a need to fly left to regain the localiser whereas the runway in sight was on the right. Having called for landing gear down and flaps 40, the Captain continued the descent using a sideslip technique to achieve what he considered was a rate of descent which would bring the aircraft onto an appropriate vertical profile for a landing at an airspeed in the vicinity of the calculated one. This rate was about 1,700 fpm and the objective was achieved. The subsequent landing at the visually-acquired runway was uneventful and the aircraft was