the absence of a prior "special briefing". The decision to land from such an approach in those circumstances "could lead to ineffective flight deck coordination that might increase the flight risk". Attention of the controller to the landing aircraft. During the occurrence, it was noted that the TWR controller was responsible for just one other aircraft besides the approaching 737 and that aircraft was on the ground being pushed back from its gate. It was considered that "controlling two aircraft can be considered as a low traffic movement condition and can be assumed to be a low workload". However, the controller still failed to monitor the progress of the 737 on final approach. This "absence of aircraft observation meant that the abnormal approach of the 737 went unobserved and un-assessed and the aircraft was not advised to avoid what was an unnecessary deviation". It was considered that "this inappropriate implementation of the regulations on aircraft observation” might possibly be an indication of insufficient assessment and/or insufficient time under supervision prior to release to unrestricted duty. The Investigation determined that the Contributing Factors to the accident were as follows: The indistinct but significant information (about Tabing) on the (black and white) photocopy of the ILS approach chart might have been missed by the pilots and reduced their awareness of the runway at the nearby airport which had a similar direction and dimensions.. The Captains previous experience of a false VOR signal might have been why the approach was continued when the aircraft was not stabilised on the approach.. Information on the existence of a potentially confusing runway was not provided by ATC during the abnormal approach to it as it was not being monitored by the controller.. Safety Action taken as a result of this event and known to the Investigation included the following: Sriwijaya Air introduced a system to allocate all its airports into A, B or C Categories using conventionally-applied criteria and pilot familiarisation requirements commensurate with the level of operational challenge presented by each airport. They also introduced a restriction on the rostering of foreign or newly qualified Captains with newly type-qualified pilots.. The Operator of Minangkabau Airport issued a NOTAM advising of the presence of the similarly aligned runway at Tabing and amended ATC procedures by adding a requirement for ATC to require pilots on approach to runway 33 to "report 7nm".. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Sriwijaya Air should emphasise the implementation of stabilised approach procedure. [04.O-2016-61.1]. that the AirNav Indonesia District Office Minangkabau Padang should ensure the air traffic controllers maintain a continuous watch as required by Advisory Circular 170-02. [04.A-2016-53.2]. that the AirNav Indonesia District Office Minangkabau Padang should review the rating assessment process for air traffic controllers to ensure that the applicant meets the appropriate levels of knowledge and ability. [04.A-2016-61.1]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should ensure that additional information or a caution in respect of approach hazards is provided in