taxied to the apron and parked. The Captain then called the cabin crew and "clarified that they had landed at Tabing" and advised Minang TWR likewise. The Investigation noted that runway 34 at Tabing had the same asphalt surface and was the same width (45 metres) as runway 33 at Minangkabau but was shorter - 2150 metres long instead of 2750 metres. Tabing had been the commercial airport serving Padang until July 2005 when commercial operations moved to the new Minangkabau airport and Tabing became a military aerodrome. The relative position of the two runways is shown on the diagram below - Tabing is 6nm southeast of Minangkabau and the runway 33 extended centreline passes approximately 2nm west abeam of the threshold of runway 34 at Tabing - although it would have been a little closer than that when the Tabing runway was first seen by the 737 Captain and the assumption that it was the Minangkabau runway made. It was noted that the Boeing 737-300 FCTM described the elements of a stabilised approach including a maximum rate of descent of 1,000 fpm by 500 feet agl if on a visual approach and stated that a landing from an unstabilised approach should not be attempted. It was also noted that TWR controller Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were described in an associated AIC as requiring that, visibility permitting, "controllers shall maintain a continuous watch on all flight operations on and in the vicinity of an aerodrome". Four Safety Issues which led to the pilot continuing the approach to a landing and to the controller not noticing the deviation were identified by the Investigation as follows: Predicted flight profile. Although aware that the extended centreline of the runway visually acquired did not correspond to the indication of an extended runway centreline which would be expected to correspond to a centred ILS LOC display, the Captain "assumed that the ILS signal was in error" and therefore disregarded it. A replication of the lateral deviation flown is illustrated above. Runway identification. The 737 crew reported having "the runway in sight" when they were at an altitude of 3,300 feet (the destination airport ARP is only 18 feet amsl) and only 6nm from the runway concerned. The aircraft was at that point on a vertical profile which corresponded to the ILS GS and would have been clearly indicating as such. It was considered that the Captain's assumption that the runway in sight was the correct landing runway may have been affected by a previous experience of a false VOR indication during one particular VOR approach at another airport. It was considered that this, the poor readability of the note about Tabing on the approach plate photocopy and the fact that it was the Captain's first experience of the runway 33 approach to Minangkabau meant that the Captain was "insufficiently familiar with the approach environment". Decision to land. The use of sideslip and a rate of descent of 1,700 fpm was "against stabilised approach criteria" in