evidence that the PF of the accident flight had been an exception to this. It was noted that as soon as a climb at 300 fpm has been reached, the FD command, having initially shown 15° up, then adjusts to the pitch attitude required to maintain the appropriate airspeed for the prevailing flap position. In most cases where the missed approach stop altitude has been selected, it will be above the point where a 300 fpm rate of climb is achieved and the pitch attitude command then changes automatically as the selected altitude is reached. However, if when 300 fpm rate of climb is reached the altitude is already above the missed approach altitude - which applied for the accident go around - then if climb is continued, the pitch command will stay in a position which will maintain the current airspeed. If for any reason the aircraft starts to descend, the pitch command will initially target the required climb profile and if the aircraft descends through the set missed approach altitude, TO/GA FD mode will automatically disconnect and the FD will transition to acquisition of the selected altitude. It was also noted that movement of the FD pitch command bars is damped when in TO/GA mode so as to avoid excessive rates of change and that in the investigated case, they did not exceed +/- 5/6° until the mode transitioned to acquisition of the selected altitude. It was concluded that "most probably, the Captain considered pressing the TO/GA pushbutton as an end-all solution" and was unprepared for the AP disconnection which came with it. It was noted that the UK AAIB had used a method which they had successfully applied in other Investigations to determine whether somatogravic illusions may have been relevant to the Captain's inappropriate pitch inputs and his failure to respond to the EGPWS activations. This enabled them to model the possible perception of the pilot relative to its reality as shown on the diagram below. However, it was only possible to establish that sensory illusions, specifically somatogravic illusions may have been a factor. It was noted that Full Flight Simulators cannot realistically represent such sensory illusions during training. The UK AAIB sensory perception modelling method as applied to the investigated accident [Reproduced from the Official Report] Various other findings were definitely considered relevant, including that: The overall effectiveness of pilot training at Tartarstan was poor in relation to the underlying skill levels of their pilots. Go around training was identified as a particular case in point and it was noted that Tatarstan Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) did not distinguish between a two engine go around from DA/MDA and one from a higher altitude. It was also noted that since promotion to command, the records indicated that the Captain had never previously performed an actual go around.. The English Language Proficiency (ELP) of both pilots was questionable and that although routine flight deck communications were in English until the problems encountered during the go around, there was