repeated to achieve this, the whole exchange taking about 20 seconds. The AP disconnect warning (aural and visual) occurred but was not cancelled or discussed. The missed approach altitude, normally set once established on the GS, was still at 900 feet as it had never been reached. From the time at which the TO/GA button was pressed, 43 seconds remained until impact. FDR data were examined to establish why the intended go around was not completed. For the first 25 seconds "there were almost no column or control wheel inputs" but the aircraft performed broadly as it would have done during an auto go around with the First Officer fully occupied communicating with TWR and unlikely to have been monitoring the flight path until the pitch attitude was excessive (25/26°), speed 120 KCAS and falling and height in excess of 2,100 feet aal, above the (belatedly) reset stop height of 1700 feet. Once back to 'aviating' instead of 'communicating', the First Officer did remind the Captain that the gear had not been retracted and reset the stop height but he did not react to the primary flight path issues - pitch attitude, speed and cleared height. From around 25 second after TO/GA selection, flight data showed that the Captain began to control the aircraft manually, although the trigger for this could not be established from any of the available recorded data. Initially, he made a pitch down input which stopped the climb and, had it been trimmed out would have been about what was needed to descend from 2,300 feet to the confirmed and now set missed approach height of 1,700 feet. However, instead a further pitch down input was made which achieved a 20° nose down pitch and a rate of descent of over 5,000 fpm. Although there was some evidence that the First Officer was rapidly realising that all was not well, it was surmised that the Captain had become "totally disoriented" and no longer able to unable to control the aircraft. There was no response to the EGPWS 'SINK RATE' Alert or the PULL UP Warnings which followed and it was found that the direct opposite had occurred with the control column pushed forward to the maximum stop. It appeared that the First Officer's attempts to communicate the situation with the Captain in these final seconds were unsuccessful and "further control actions were chaotic". A violent impact within the airport perimeter at a recorded airspeed of approximately 240 KCAS and a recorded negative pitch attitude of 75° followed. This impact and a post crash fire completely destroyed the aircraft killing all 50 occupants. It was concluded that sufficient height above terrain to achieve "the safe recovery of the flight profile without even exceeding the operational limitations" had existed until approximately nine/ten seconds prior to impact - three/four seconds before EGPWS activation. The Investigation found evidence that there was a widespread lack of understanding amongst Tatarstan pilots on how the 737 AP, FD and A/T worked and no