evidence that their actual ELP was in both cases equivalent to ICAO Level 2 although both had been granted ELP Level 4 in the applicable documentation. It was concluded that an important consequence of this was that "neither of them was able to completely understand documentation critical for safe operations of Boeing 737 type aircraft", a conclusion that was supported by independent evidence of the way in which both pilots' pass marks had eventually been recorded during the computer-based testing of required theoretical knowledge for the type rating after initial inability to pass.. In respect of the origin of the unstabilised approach which had led to the failed attempt to compete a go around, it was found that map shift had been present during departure from Moscow. Analysis of a large sample of flight departures showed that a "significant deviation of the actual position from the IRS position" occurred more often than it did not, which indicated that "the coordinates entered by the crews during pre-flight IRS alignment were not accurate enough".. The accident Captain had encountered similar map shifts during previous positioning for a runway 29 approach at Kazan but more timely correction to the flight path had been made. It was not determined whether these previous arrivals had been in IMC or VMC.. There had been no attempt by the flight crew to make use of bearings from the VOR and NDB at Kazan when attempting a timely capture of the ILS LOC in IMC nor any request for assistance from ATC.. Given their awareness of the failure of the aircraft to establish on the ILS in accordance with the promulgated procedure, ATC could reasonably have been expected to have provided more assistance and specifically to have desisted from issuing a landing clearance when, despite the flight crew call, it was clear that a safe landing could not be achieved.. The overall Conclusion of the Investigation was that: During the go-around the crew failed to identify the disconnection of the Autopilot and let the aircraft get into nose-up upset. As the Captain (PF) lacked upset recovery skills, he created significant negative loads, lost spatial orientation and made the aircraft pitch nose down steeply (nose down pitch angle reaching 75 degrees) until it impacted the ground.. A go-around was needed because of the unstabilised condition of the aircraft as it approached the landing runway, resulting from map shift of about 4 km, the failure of the crew to apply complex airmanship skills and navigate with required accuracy, as well as lack of active assistance from the ATC who were watching the long-term deviations of the aircraft from the established pattern.. The Cause of the Accident was formally stated as "systemic deficiencies in hazard identification and risk management, inoperability of airline SMS and lack of oversight over flight crew training from authorities of various levels - the aircraft operator and Federal Air Transport Agency - which resulted in authorizing an unduly trained crew for flights". The failure of the various