aircraft would touch down at the edge of the runway”. He stated that there had been “several conversations” about the go-around whilst on the ground at Palma and that he had “told the Captain he had felt frightened and had attempted to discuss the event with him”. He also stated that he had told the Captain that “he had not slept well” but “did not feel able to discuss the event further with him (and) felt that some of the Captain’s comments had reinforced his impression that the go-around was a frightening and serious event”. That night, he stated that he had “continued thinking about the go-around” and had slept for only about four hours. He was aware of the procedures for reporting sick or fatigued but as his report time was not early in the morning, he considered himself fit to fly. However, he stated that he had “felt increasingly nervous during the flights to and from Stansted” and had been “over-thinking” the need to make a good approach at Glasgow, feeling that “it was critical to get his confidence back for a task that he knew he was capable of”. However he considered that “eventually, his emotions and associated physical symptoms had overwhelmed him”. It was noted that at the time of the event, the First Officer was unaware of the “peer support” and “employee assistance” programmes offered by his employer, although it was found that the introduction of the former in December 2017 had only been a “soft launch” announced to pilots by means of an “Administration Notice” and a “full launch” had only occurred after this externally investigated event. The Investigation observed that when the First Officer had stopped controlling the aircraft just before touchdown at Palma, obliging the Captain to take over, had created a self-induced feeling of “performance pressure”. It was also noted that “the First Officer’s ability to cope effectively with his emotions would have been reduced by his lack of sleep the night before” and that the two pilots “had different recollections of the interactions between them prior to the co-pilot’s incapacitation”. However, “it was the First Officer’s responsibility not to fly if he was unfit and to advise the Captain if he felt he was becoming unfit at any point during the flights” although it was recognised that “in practice this can be a difficult judgement for pilots to make”. Finally, it was noted that “experiencing a panic attack does not necessarily preclude someone from holding an aviation medical but, once known, the condition must be declared and adequately controlled”. In this instance, it was found that the First Officer had subsequently been “assessed as fit to return to flying”. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 12 September 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.