An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain, who had been PM for the flight involved until obliged to take over as the sole pilot remaining in the flight deck, had a total of 13,855 flying hours which included 7,762 hours on type. The First Officer, who had been PF until unexpectedly relinquishing that role and leaving the flight deck had a total of 686 flying hours, all but 174 hours of which were on type. The flight involved was the crew’s second sector of the day. It was established that the same flight crew as that involved in the investigated event had operated together the previous day from Glasgow to Palma with the First Officer acting as PF for the outbound leg. Just before touchdown on runway 24 at Palma in benign weather conditions at approximately 30 feet agl, a slight change in the wind had “displaced the aircraft towards the runway edge” and the Captain had taken control and flown a go around. After completing the sector following a second approach, the Captain had de-briefed the unexpected go around and stated that the First Officer had “seemed fine” during this debrief and nothing that he had subsequently said had suggested that there could be any “issue”. However, during the return sector back to Glasgow, the Captain recalled that the First Officer had seemed “subdued” and “annoyed with himself” although he had not perceived any consequent “cause for concern”. The next day, both pilots were rostered to operate from Glasgow to London Stansted. The Captain was PF for an uneventful outbound sector and the First Officer was designated as PF for the return sector back to Glasgow. It appeared that over the course of this flight, the First Officer had “begun to suffer from anxiety”. As the flight was being positioned by radar for an ILS approach to runway 23, again in unexceptional weather conditions, the Captain mentioned the possibility of encountering wind shear and immediately after this had been said, the First Officer “felt unable to continue to operate the aircraft”, left the flight deck and did not return. The Captain took control and decided to continue the approach, declaring a PAN to ATC and advised that the aircraft was being operated by only one pilot. He then asked the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) to “assist” the First Officer. ATC assisted by minimising flight deck workload to the extent they could and arranged for an ambulance to meet the aircraft. The flight was completed without further event and the attending ambulance crew “concluded that the First Officer had suffered an anxiety attack.” The First Officer subsequently explained that the wind change and go-around at Palma was the first time he had experienced this in the aircraft and he had found it “frightening” and had “not felt able to make control inputs (to bring the aircraft back) towards the runway centreline whilst in the flare and was afraid the