as the one being carried out were always conducted by a vehicle driving along any active runway in the opposite direction to that in use. However, following a request at that time from ANSP Airservices Australia "to expedite runway inspections by operating with the flow of aircraft traffic", the airport operator had asked Airside Operations Managers conducting runway inspections to do so "with the flow of aircraft where possible to increase efficiency". Since then, it was found that FOD inspections had routinely been conducted in the direction of active runway use. It was noted that the fact that the vehicle was facing away from the landing aircraft and stationary on the white runway 24 centreline markings had made it very difficult for the 717 pilots to see. The First Officer advised that he started looking down the runway when the aircraft was at about 30 feet agl and only saw the vehicle as the main landing gear touched down. The 717 Captain commented to the Investigation that had they selected reverse thrust, which is usually done as soon as the aircraft has touched down, they would have been committed to completing a landing. He also noted that his First Officer had been highly experienced which may have assisted in his sighting the vehicle and reacting quickly. He considered that the incident "provided a very good example of the value of flight crew knowing their role as pilot flying or pilot monitoring explicitly and maintaining a good awareness of their environment". Safety Action intended by Airservices Australia "in response to the occurrence" was noted to include: the introduction of Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System at Adelaide which would have generated an alert indicating conflict between an aircraft on short final and a vehicle on the landing runway.. the introduction of an Integrated Tower Automation Suite (INTAS) which will combine flight and operational data, surveillance and voice communications into a single integrated tower-specific layout and replace the existing manual air traffic control system. Had INTAS been available at the time of this incident, it was stated that the controller would still have been able to allocate the electronic flight strip assigned to the aircraft in the runway bay with the vehicle strip already there, but an alarm would have been triggered.. Safety Action intended by the Airport Operator "in response to the occurrence" was noted to include: the introduction of human factors training for Safety Officers which will include a specific focus on relationships with ATC and situational awareness.. a review the need for a dedicated radio channel for Safety Officers to use when operating on or crossing runways.. the company radio frequency is to be switched off during runway operations.. the suitability of vehicle lighting for runway operations is to be reassessed.. all runway inspections will in future be performed facing oncoming traffic.. the types, frequency, methods and timing of runway inspections will be reviewed.. technology that minimises vehicle runway entry and occupancy requirements will be investigated.. runway inspection