An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was found that intersecting runways 21 and 24 had been in use at the time and that a heavy shower was clearing the airport just prior to the conflict occurring. The 717 had been cleared for an ILS approach to runway 24; the Captain was PF. Just after this, a new controller took over the TWR position and soon afterwards, the 717 checked in on TWR frequency. The new controller, noticing that the strip for the aircraft was annotated '21' changed it to '24'. He then cleared an A330 to land on runway 21. At about the same time, an airport operator vehicle called in position at the holding point for runway 24 on taxiway 'W' (near the landing threshold) awaiting entry to carry out a routine runway inspection. The TWR controller cleared the vehicle to enter runway 24 but hold short of runway 21 and wrote "S2" (the vehicle callsign was Safety 2) on the console runway strip to indicate that the runway was occupied. At that time, the 717 had 7.5nm to run for runway 24; neither of its pilots recalled hearing the vehicle clearance. The vehicle began to proceed along runway 24 in the direction of use, eventually arriving at the holding point prior to the intersection with runway 21. The A330 landed on runway 21 and, once it had vacated, the TWR controller cleared an FOKKER F100 to take off. Whilst simultaneously observing the F100 get airborne, the TWR controller then scanned runway 24 without seeing the vehicle on it, picked up the strip for the 717 and put it in the console runway bay without noticing the vehicle strip also there. With the 717 now at a range of about 1.5nm (although still in cloud at that time), he gave it a landing clearance. The Vehicle Driver subsequently advised that they had heard this clearance but not the assigned runway and had assumed the aircraft would land on runway 21. As the 717 touched down on runway 24 approximately 370 metres from the threshold, the First Officer saw the flashing lights of a vehicle ahead on the runway, immediately called "go rround, car on the runway" and the Captain commenced a go-around. The aircraft became airborne again after about 6 seconds and a ground roll of about 370 metres. At this time, the safety vehicle was still stopped on the centreline of runway 24 about 1180 metres from the threshold and facing away from the approaching aircraft. The vehicle driver did not see the aircraft until it had passed about 150 feet over his vehicle and promptly queried what had happened. Shortly afterwards, the TWR controller was relieved. The sequence of events is shown on the annotated runway diagram below: The Investigation found that routine runway inspections such as the one involved in this incident were programmed five times each day. It was further found that until May 2014, FOD inspections such