The event was Investigated by the Irish AAIU. It was established that surface wind direction at Cork had been generally around runway heading with a mean speed of around 30 knots and some gusts as high as 50 knots. Warnings of severe turbulence and low level windshear were in force. The aircraft commander was PF for the flight from Manchester. The aircraft carried out a go-around from its first VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR) approach to RWY 25 at EICK, due to a substantial increase in indicated airspeed on short finals which resulted in the approach becoming unstable. There were no issues with forward visibility during this first approach. After maintaining runway heading to 3000 feet as instructed by ATC and upon advising that they wished to make another approach, radar vectors for a left hand pattern at 3000 feet back to another VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR) approach were given. The track followed is reproduced on the illustration below. The downwind track south of the airport brought the aircraft close to the coast and at times over the sea. The aircraft was cleared to land in similar wind conditions to those of the first approach. However, the aircraft subsequently carried out a go-around from its second approach and advised that the reason was a complete loss of forward visibility for the pilots because the windscreen was obscured by a thick residue which had adhered to the windscreens. ATC were advised that the windscreen wipers had not removed the deposits which appeared to have sealed and dried on the forward surfaces. The aircraft was instructed to climb to 4000 feet and initially given a radar heading of 330° because of an inbound Airbus AIRBUS A-321 positioning for an ILS approach to runway 17. The commander made a mobile phone call to the Operator's engineering office at Cork to discuss the problem and was informed that another company aircraft which had landed earlier in the evening had sustained some salt accretion which had reduced but not eliminated forward visibility. As a weather cell appeared to be on track, the commander requested ATC to continue the present radar heading in the hope that entry into precipitation might remove some or all of the contamination which was still preventing any forward visibility. ATC informed the crew that they were aware of a recent similar situation at Shannon in high wind conditions which turned out to have been caused by sea salt accretion. Some exposure to precipitation in the shower activity resulted in clearance of a small area at the base of the commander's windscreen. ATC advised that the A321 had just landed and had believed that a film on the outside of their windscreen was sea salt. ATC advised that they could see the ATR 72 and had put all the runway lighting up to maximum and asked if the crew could see the airport to which an affirmative response was received accompanied by a request for a descent towards a further VOR