so that he could look through a small clear area at the very top of his windscreen. A check with both Airbus and ATR found that they had no record of any salt accretion events, but the Investigation did find one case where sea salt accretion in similar conditions to those prevailing in the event being investigated had led to the successive transient failure of three out the four engines on a Lockheed Orion being operated by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in February 2007. The Report on the investigation into that event documented a number of factors which it was concluded could contribute to the generation of a dangerous operating environment due to the presence of a high atmospheric concentration of sea salt aerosol: A large difference between the sea surface temperature and the air temperature, particularly with warm water and cold air. Large horizontal temperature gradients within the ocean also appear to contribute significantly.. High surface wind speeds.. Lack of precipitation, particularly in ambient air temperatures near 0°C.. Relative humidity at or above 80%.. The height of the marine boundary layer - the high salt environment will not extend above a well-defined boundary layer.. It was noted that this Report also concludes that "precipitation will very effectively remove salt particles from the atmosphere, even in the presence of large vertical mixing velocities" and that "dangerous concentrations of sea salt aerosol are not anticipated above 5000 feet due to dilution and settling". After their event, it was found that NOAA had asked the Marine Meteorology Division of the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) about the risk of further encounters with the conditions experienced and the Laboratory had subsequently published a Report on the subject. This concluded that high concentrations of airborne sea salt particles can result when there is little precipitation over the sea and wind speeds exceed 50 knots and especially when they exceed 60 knots. The report considered it likely that salt particles with diameters greater than 15 µm can reach over 2500 feet and under the worst conditions probably 5000 feet and concluded that "the high-wind, dry, cold sector behind a front or to the southwest of an occluded system appears to be the most dangerous region in the storm for sea salt fouling". The Irish Meteorological Service were consulted on the subject at the centre of the Investigation and stated that "their research (had) concluded that sea salt windscreen accretion on aircraft was a very rare phenomenon". However, given that the Service's aftercast for the subject event stated that an occluded front had recently cleared the area, the similarity to the conditions mentioned in the NRL Report was evident. The Investigation also noted that since the effectiveness of precipitation in scavenging salt particles from the atmosphere is widely accepted, the general, although not complete, absence of precipitation in the Cork area at the time of the investigated event was in line with an expectation of high levels of airborne salt particles. The