approach to runway 25. The commander declared a PAN "in the light of the condition of the windscreen" and subsequently requested an Rescue and Fire Fighting Services Standby. Whilst on final approach, the aircraft entered a rain shower which further cleared the contamination from the windscreen and an uneventful landing followed. The commander provided a comprehensive description of events to the Investigation, describing the effect of the salt deposits as "like a frosted glass windscreen". The contamination on the external surface which built up during the easterly track when being vectored for the second approach was described as so dry that the windscreen wipers had no effect on it. It was stressed that during the first approach and the initial go around, the windscreens had been clear. Prior to and as the salt deposits had originally begun to build up, it was confirmed that the aircraft had been flying through clear air and that there had been no evidence of ice on the windscreen. It was suspected that the effect of the windscreen heating may have been to accelerate the drying of the salt deposits. It was reported that, at the time the small area of the left hand forward windscreen (which was just "3 inches wide and 1 inch high") cleared, there had been no similar clearance on the right hand forward windscreen. The commander of the other Company ATR 72 aircraft which had also been affected by salt contamination, but to a much lesser extent, advised the Investigation that having approached the airport from the north, their aircraft had not flown over the sea or in the vicinity of the coastline. Flying in VMC, salt accretion had only been noticed when on right base for a VOR final to runway 25 about two minutes before the right turn into finals. The perception was that the build up was relatively rapid and it had the effect of blurring forward vision. The A321 crew had not flown over the sea below 8000 feet and did not notice any loss of visibility on their approach but once under apron lighting as they taxied in, they had noticed a powdery, dusty substance adhering to their forward windscreens that "you could write your name on" and which they later told the TWR they believed had been sea salt. The Investigation noted that the ATR 72 does not have windscreen washers. Windscreen heating keeps the outer surface above 2°C and the inner one above 21°C (to prevent mist formation). During the course of the Investigation, the Operator involved advised experiencing another case of reduced forward visibility due to windscreen salt accretion in January 2015 when an aircraft which had been unable to land off two turbulent daylight approaches in high winds at Dublin had begun a diversion to Belfast Aldergrove with a light layer of salt on both forward windscreens which had got worse en route to the extent that the commander was only able to see ahead to land by raising his seat