has been issued. [04.A-2016-53.1]. that AirNav Indonesia Halim and the Halim Airport Operator should develop a procedure for vehicles and aircraft on the manoeuvring area which requires them to be equipped with serviceable lights visible by the air traffic controller. [04.B-2016-54.1]. On 26 April 2016, a further 3 were issued also on the basis of the initial findings of the Investigation as follows: that AirNav Indonesia Halim and the Halim Airport Operator should inform aircraft operators to initiate take-off from the displaced threshold of runway 24. [04.B-2016-57.1]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should review a requirement for all aircraft movement on the manoeuvring area including the movement of aircraft under tow to communicate with the air traffic controller on the same frequency. [04.R-2016-55.1]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation should develop a procedure for vehicles and aircraft on the manoeuvring area which requires them to be equipped with serviceable lights visible to the air traffic controller. [04.A-2016-56.1]. These Recommendations were all included in the Preliminary Report but were not repeated in the subsequent Final Report. A series of Safety Actions taken by the recipients of these Safety Recommendations whilst the Investigation was being completed were noted, as was action by Avions de Transport Regional (ATR) who have developed a procedure which allows operators of both ATR 42 and ATR 72 aircraft to supply anti-collision and navigation lights with battery power when towing by night without engines running. In respect of the Recommendation to AirNav Indonesia Halim that aircraft operators should be required to begin take-offs from runway 24 from the displaced threshold rather than the full runway length, it was noted that since then, some aircraft had continued full length take offs. It was also specifically noted that on 22 June 2016, there had been a similar runway incursion event between a towed aircraft and an aircraft taking off in which an aircraft under tow in the opposite direction had been cleared to cross the runway soon after an aircraft had also been cleared to take off from it. However after prompt intervention by ATC and an early rotation by the departing aircraft, there had been no actual risk of collision and so there had been no investigation by the NTSC/KNKT because the event "did not meet the definition of a Serious Incident in the ICAO 'Manual on the Prevention of Runway Incursion' Doc 9870". On completion of the Investigation, a further 13 Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that Batik Air Indonesia enhances the FCTM Chapter 3.24 text on the Rejected Takeoff Decision to add that the PIC should announce the abnormality simultaneously. [04.O-2017-7.1]. that Batik Air Indonesia reviews the evacuation procedure and considers the area (that) can be observed through the viewing windows. [04.O-2017-7.2]. that TransNusa Aviation Mandiri ensures that aircraft are adequately lighted during night operation in accordance with CASR 91.209. [04.O-2017-7.3]. that TransNusa Aviation Mandiri considers risk assessment, compliance with regulations and the specification required prior to the issue of any Engineering Instruction.