in size and their use was found to be "in accordance with a TransNusa Engineering Instruction" which had been accepted by Jasa Angkasa Semesta. In addition, the towing vehicle was fitted with an anti-collision light above the driver’s compartment and this and the vehicle headlights were illuminated during the towing process. The agreement between Jasa Angkasa Semesta and TransNusa for the former to provide ground handling at Halim airport "did not mention the specific technical procedure for towing or pushback". However, the ATR 42 towing procedure was described in the AMM and there was a corresponding 'Job Instruction Card' which described towing making use of the electrical system with one engine running without the propeller rotating ('hotel mode'). There was no AMM or other manufacturer-approved procedure allowing towing of an ATR 42 aircraft at night without an engine running - although it was noted that there was a modification available for the ATR 72 which could facilitate this. However, the contractor's Ramp Handling Manual, without reference to any specific aircraft types, was found to state simply that any aircraft being towed at night or in low visibility conditions "should be adequately illuminated so it can be seen". It also included the statements that "prior to the commencement of any towing operation a check should be made that the communications link between the tractor operator and the aircraft flight deck crew is functional" (when in fact there was no such communication channel) and "in the event that the communications link between the tractor operator and the aircraft flight deck crew is broken during the tow the operation should be immediately stopped". The Investigation could find no evidence of any documented ATC procedure which covered off-ramp aircraft ground movement other than in the course of a flight. It was also noted that it "could not find a Standard Operational Procedure [in which the Airport Operator] required the operator of a vehicle towing an aircraft to communicate with the controller on the same frequency as that used for aircraft movement". It was established (see the aerodrome chart below) that after the 737 had been cleared to pushback and taxi from Stand B2 by the TWR controller on the designated TWR frequency 118.6 MHz, a tow vehicle driver had requested permission to reposition the ATR 42 from the adjacent stand B1 to the south apron using a handheld radio on discrete frequency - 152.7 MHz. He was cleared by the Assistant Controller to follow the 737 and to "report when on taxiway C". The (runway) Controller was aware of this communication but because of the different frequency used, the 737 crew were unaware that they were being followed. There was no evidence that the two controllers had agreed how to co-ordinate their simultaneous use of the two radio channels. By the time the towed ATR 42 had begun to move forward along the apron, the 737 had reached taxiway C, where it was instructed to hold clear of the runway until a landing aircraft