Fusion — Data-fusion analytics (or simply “Fusion”) bypasses the limits associated with analyzing data found in separate “silos” of information, FAA said. This methodology typically fuses multiple data streams. In the process, analysts manually apply automated capabilities and appropriate algorithms to yield a clear 360-degree perspective of safety events. “Without Fusion capability, ASIAS safety analysts were not able to align and measure the influence of specific unique factors associated with a flight,” FAA said. Threaded track flight story — Integration of airline and air traffic digital flight data; voluntary pilot and controller reports; text-based safety reports; and surveillance radar data sources across the entire route of flight has become the key Fusion capability. FAA said the resulting single, synthetic “threaded track” provides optimal representation of an aircraft’s flight trajectory from beginning to end. Next generation of ASIAS architecture – A March 2020 FAA report to the U.S. Congress said that ASIAS 2.0 architecture “is now in advanced planning stages, with initial operational capabilities to follow starting in calendar year 2021, after deployment of the system. … The architecture platform is designed to process the increasing volume, variety and velocity of data to be collected and analyzed, and to address associated data management challenges.” General aviation safety elements — As one example of current initiatives to reduce risk of accidents in this industry segment, ASIAS developed and deployed its National General Aviation Flight Information Database (NGAFID), “an open-source portal created to enable pilots and operators to analyze their own data, identify potential risks, and to share flight operations data with ASIAS,” FAA said. The scope of ASIAS for general aviation safety includes, in part, advanced safety analysis and safety metrics for rotorcraft operators. ASIAS helicopter metrics address loss of control–in flight, unstable approaches and other issues related to fatal accidents.