An Investigation was carried out by a USAF Accident Investigation Board (AIB). Both aircraft DFDRs were downloaded and radar recordings of the flight paths of the two aircraft were available. It was noted that at the time of the collision all 6 pilots on the two flight decks were wearing NVGs. The C130 was scheduled for a local tactical training mission from Pope AAF. Its flight crew included three pilots, one (MP3) in the left hand seat who was upgrading to ‘Flight Lead’ status and had 1591 hours total flying experience which included 780 hours in type, a co-pilot (MCP2) who had 539 hours total flying experience, all on type and an Instructor/Evaluator Pilot (MIP2) who had 3692 total flying hours which included 1167 hours on type. These pilots had recorded variable levels of experience in using NVGs ranging from 67 hours to 185 hours. The mission tasks included a High Velocity Container Delivery System (HVCDS) airdrop followed by proficiency training for the Pilots at Pope AAF. The C-27 was scheduled for a local training mission from Pope AAF. Its flight crew also included three pilots, an Instructor Pilot (MP1) who had 5037 hours total flying experience which included 424 on type, a Pilot (MP2) with 11,704 hours total flying experience which included 89 on type and an Instructor/Evaluator Pilot (MIP1) who had 11,994 hours total flying experience which included 138 hours on type. These pilots had recorded variable levels of experience in using NVGs ranging from 95 hours to 632 hours. The Instructor Pilot was undergoing NVG Instructor Pilot training and the Pilot was undergoing NVG Pilot-in-Command training. Planned mission tasks included NVG traffic patterns and two simulated airdrops with the Pilot flying in the left seat, then a seat swap amongst the pilots followed by NVG traffic patterns and two more simulated airdrops with the Instructor Pilot in the right hand seat acting as an instructor. The C27 took off first and during training circuits at an outfield, a TCAS failure was annunciated and this failure was subsequently confirmed by a loss of an ATC secondary radar return. The C130 took off one hour after the C27 and about 45 minutes later, the Instructor/Evaluator Pilot visually acquired, unaided, what appeared to be traffic at the same altitude as the C-130 flew south. A check of the TCAS display showed traffic approximately seven miles away which appeared to be flying near Laurinburg-Maxton Airport. Soon afterwards, the C27 Instructor Pilot occupying the right hand seat visually acquired traffic ahead at approximately the same altitude and assessed it as no risk. The radar recording showed the C-130 and an unidentified target corresponding to the C-27 passing each other approximately 2.7 miles apart with statements to the Investigation indicating that both aircraft had exercised ‘see-and-avoid’ at this time. It was established that when the collision occurred, the C-130 had just completed a visual ‘Container Delivery System’ airdrop as part of a local area training mission and was exiting the Drop Zone (DZ)