flyable. Twenty minutes after the collision had occurred, a flapless landing at Pope AAF was made following flight without further event. Once the aircraft had stopped, fuel could be see leaking from the right wing and an emergency evacuation was initiated. A subsequent inspection of the runway found fuel and some pieces of the aircraft along the length of the runway. The Investigation subsequently confirmed that neither the IFF transponder nor the TCAS on the C27 were functioning prior to impact. It was determined that it was the absence of a functioning C27 IFF transponder which had prevented the C-130 TCAS from detecting the aircraft and the absence of a functioning TCAS due to this IFF failure which had prevented the C27 from detecting the actively transmitting IFF transponder of the C-130. It was found that the C27 had a history of intermittent TCAS malfunctions with no corrective action having been pursued. It was noted that the weather conditions and specifically the in-flight visibility had played no part in the collision and that there had been 70% illumination from the waxing gibbous moon under clear skies. In concluding that the collision could be primarily attributed to the failure of both crews to perform effective visual scanning, it was noted that less can be seen at night than by day and human visual acuity is also reduced at night so that a visual scan at night must be greater regardless of the type of NVG being used. It was also noted that the NVG Field Of View (FOV) is less than that of the naked eye and particularly reduces peripheral vision, although the NVGs in use in both aircraft had a relatively good +/- 40° FOV. In respect of structural restrictions on the FOV of the four pilots in the operating crew seats at the time of the collision, it was noted that both aircraft flight deck windshields consisted of segmented sections separated by window posts. Whilst this increases the strength of the windshield during pressurised flight, increases its resilience to bird strikes and reduces maintenance costs and is a common feature in large aircraft, it impedes pilots’ ability to conduct an uninterrupted visual scan. As a consequence, pilots are recommended to move their heads to see around blind spots caused by fixed aircraft structures or even to manoeuvre the aircraft to facilitate their scans. It was noted that the field of view of the C27 Instructor/Evaluator Pilot out of the right side of the aircraft was significantly obscured by both large window posts and the helmeted Instructor Pilot in the right hand seat. The latter’s attention had been distracted as he was looking down and to the left at the centre pedestal and even if he had been scanning outside, his view would have been impeded by some of the same aircraft structure. In the case of the C130, both the left and right seat pilots had been scanning but their views had been partially obscured by window posts and