and levelling at 1500 feet QNH on a heading of 193°. The Co-Pilot was acting as PF and the Pilot was acting as PM with the Instructor/Evaluator Pilot occupying the supernumerary seat. The C-27 had just taken off from Laurinburg-Maxton Airport with the Instructor/Evaluator Pilot in the left hand seat and the Instructor Pilot in the right hand seat with the other pilot in the supernumerary seat. It was level at 1500 feet QNH and on a heading of 310° towards two waypoint DZs for simulated airdrops. The relative bearings of the two aircraft remained constant for two minutes prior to the collision and none of the pilots on either aircraft saw the opposing aircraft prior to impact. However, momentarily prior to impact there was non-specific awareness of an aircraft in the immediate vicinity by some members of the crew of both aircraft. The right wingtip of the C-27 contacted and damaged the right underside of the C-130 at the nose gear door. The C27 then followed a path that detached the flare dispenser hood from the C130 lower fuselage and continued beneath the C-130’s right wing. Its vertical stabiliser passed immediately in front of the nose of the C-130 and between the propeller arcs of the number 3 and number 4 engines of the C130. The vertical stabiliser then hit the front of the C-130’s right external fuel tank and then hit the right hand side of the number 4 engine and the wing leading edge in the vicinity of its engine mount. The C27 sustained damage to its right aileron and rudder, but the aircraft could still be flown normally with no abnormal control inputs from the pilot. The C130 sustained impact damage to the vertical stabilizer, rudder, right outboard wing, right aileron, and empennage on impact. One second after impact, the C130 number 4 engine rpm began reducing rapidly and the Pilot ordered its emergency shutdown. Movement of the number 4 engine Condition Lever to the ‘feather’ position did not result in the commanded effect and significant drag was generated. The aircraft “turned 27 degrees right, climbed 519 feet and lost 49 knots of airspeed over the course of one minute before the PF began to stabilise control of the aircraft”. Constant airframe vibration which was significantly greater than anything previously experienced by the crew was present until the malfunctioning engine and its propeller had been secured. Meanwhile, there were no noticeable changes to the performance of the C27, no visible damage was detected and no systems were lost. However, it declared an emergency and completed a landing at nearby Mackall AAF just over three minutes after the collision had occurred and stopped on the runway where both engines were shut down because of the unknown extent of damage sustained. The C130 crew declared an emergency and decided to recover to Pope AAF. They did not carry out a controllability check due to the unknown condition of the aircraft and the extent of its ability to remain