commenced straining during manoeuvre. A cockpit voice recording from the accident aircraft would have significantly assisted the investigation g) Overall, the cultural attitude to G was assessed as a contributory factor in the accident. After a review of aircrew training in relation to G-awareness, it was further concluded that, taken overall, it was inadequate. It was considered that: that although the accident aircraft pilot had been current in all aspects of High G training, without continuation training, he may have developed an ineffective AGSM technique.. the inability of the only human-rated centrifuge facility in the UK to deliver a minimum 3 G/second onset rate may have resulted in non-optimal aircrew training.. conventional 5-bladder anti-G trouser design no longer offers aircrew the best protection against G-impairment. The potential effect on the accident aircraft pilot of various physiological factors was undertaken with the effects of three - dehydration, minor illness and fatigue - being identified as of potential relevance on the day. A review of custom and practice versus the extent of SOPs in respect of the break to land procedure was carried out and disclosed that the latter were absent in respect of many key criteria. “It was apparent that there was no targeted entry speed, no maximum entry speed, no defined procedure for calling ‘hot’ (indicating a higher than usual entry speed) no prescribed technique for the break itself and, by default, no explanation of how the break technique should be altered if ‘hot’ was called.” More generally, a review of G-LOC risk management and the wider context of general risk management was made and a series of “anomalies” were found and documented. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the accident (defined as the trigger for it on the day) was “G-induced impairment (A-LOC) of the pilot leading to flight into terrain”. Eight Contributory Factors (defined as items that collectively resulted in defensive weaknesses) were identified as follows: (1) The combination of break manoeuvre speed and technique resulting in rapid G onset rate to high G for a sustained period. (2) The absence of clearly defined SOPs for the break. (3) The 500 ft circuit height resulting in insufficient height to recover. (4) The cultural attitude to G resulting in a false sense of security. (5) Inadequate occurrence and fault reporting. (6) Conventional five bladder anti-G trouser design no longer offers aircrew the best possible protection against G impairment. (7) Inadequate Risk Management within 22(Training) Group and the RAFAT (8) Inadequate assurance procedures within and of the RAFAT One Probable Contributory Factor (defined as one which was based on precedence from trends or other data sources) was identified: (1) An ineffective Anti G Straining Manoeuvre (AGSM). Seven Possible Contributory Factors (defined as one which could not be positively excluded) were identified as follows: (1) Reduction in the effectiveness of the pilot’s anti G trousers, due to the thigh zips not being fully closed. (2) Inadequate G awareness. (3) The failure to deliver an updated centrifuge training facility, which may