the break to land, it was found that a maximum of 6.248 G had been reached with 7.25 seconds over 3 G - not far in both respects from the exposure in the subsequent break to land. Notwithstanding that no previous RAF aircraft accident had ever been attributed to G-LOC, the Investigation reviewed data from the most recent RAF G-LOC survey and, after discounting training events, found that the prevalence of such reports amongst current fast jet aircrew was just 6%. This survey also suggested that the initiation of an Anti-G Straining Manoeuvre (AGSM) prior to a reported G-LOC event was by no means universal, also a finding when comparable USAF survey data was examined. The circumstances in all 12 formally reported G-LOC incidents from 2001 onwards were considered. One, to a Hawk QFI pilot flying solo and making a 7.3 G turn had involved a loss of awareness which was described in very similar terms to those which could have explained the apparently semi conscious state of the pilot of the accident aircraft i.e. A-LOC but not recognised as such at the time. Another, to a Typhoon pilot, was found to have involved blackout with no pre-onset symptoms. There was, however, a concern that although unit level action had definitely followed some of these events, there was no adequate formal record of such responses. These and further work led to the conclusion that A-LOC was the most likely cause of the loss of the accident aircraft. The remainder of the Investigation “then sought to examine what defensive barriers may have been breached or may have been absent for this accident to occur – essentially an examination in considerable detail of the wider context of the accident”. It was noted in this work that: if properly fitting anti-G trousers are combined with a good AGSM, aircrew can sustain up to 8 or 9 G for periods of up to 15 seconds.. in the case of rapid G onset rates, the AGSM must be started at the outset of any manoeuvre and not delayed until any visual symptoms of G-induced impairment have developed.. An assessment of the “cultural attitude to G” amongst RAFAT pilots found that nearly all those interviewed had reported experiencing ‘grey-out’ and some loss of peripheral vision and led to the following conclusions: a) A lack of G reporting and management may have masked the requirement for more frequent G-awareness training. b) G-LOC was not considered to be a high risk event. c) Manoeuvres were not individually assessed for their G-LOC potential. d) An incorrect mental model of the Flat Left/Right break (as made immediately prior to the investigated accident) may have influenced pilots’ perceptions of G-LOC risks. e) From the 2 in-cockpit videos available as evidence, re-active AGSMs appeared to have been undertakenfacto during the break to land and the techniques observed were assessed as non-optimal by a RAF Centre of Aviation Medicine expert. f) The audio evidence from in-cockpit video was invaluable in assessing when pilots