have resulted in inadequate centrifuge training. (4) Dehydration resulting in decreased G tolerance. (5) Acute cervical pain resulting in a distraction from performing an effective AGSM. (6) Fatigue resulting in decreased G tolerance. (7) Absence of a ‘hot’ call that may have acted as a mental prompt to ensure that an appropriate AGSM was applied from the outset of the break. One Aggravating Factor (defined as one which made the outcome worse) was identified as: (1) An initial inability to locate the rural crash scene The Inquiry also identified 7 ‘Other Factors’ which, whilst neither causal not contributory to the investigated accident, had the potential to cause or contribute to a future accident and made 20 ‘Observations’ (defined as issues which were not relevant to the investigated accident but worthy of consideration to promote better working practices). A total of 40 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. In accordance with standard practice, the Head of the MilAAIB is responsible for tracking the implementation of all of them. Many were directly targeted at specific duty holders and were in respect of the wider organisational context in which the accident had occurred. Others were directed specifically at mitigating the risk of G-impairment in the RAFAT and in other advanced training use of the same aircraft and during operation of other fast jet types. The latter were as follows: that Director General Combat Aircraft should, in consultation with the Chief of Staff (Health) and the Operational Duty Holders, ensure the most appropriate G protection systems are being provided to fast jet aircrew. that Director General Combat Aircraft should investigate the Hawk T Mk1 aircraft anti-G system failures to:. (1) determine the root cause of persistent Anti G Valve (AGV) failures (2) ensure anti G system failures are accurately captured and managed on the Hawk T Mk1 Support Authority’s engineering Risk Register (3) ensure extant engineering maintenance and repair procedures for the anti-G system are indeed best practice that Deputy Director of Defence Staff (Capability) in consultation with the Chief of Staff (Health) and Operational Duty Holders should develop and fulfill the capability requirement for the future of UK High G training to ensure that this can be conducted in accordance with NATO STANAG 3827. that Chief of Staff (Aviation and Carriers) and Air Officers Commanding 1 Group, 2 Group and 22(Training) Group in consultation with the Deputy Director Aviation Medicine should establish risk categories for aircrew at risk of G induced impairment and implement an appropriate training and currency regime for each category.. that the RAFAT Delivery Duty Holder should actively manage the risk of G induced impairment by ensuring that all relevant manoeuvres are considered with respect to the likelihood of G impairment and where necessary develop appropriate mitigation measures.. that the RAFAT Delivery Duty Holder should ensure that all RAFAT display flying manoeuvres, including each break to land manoeuvre, are formally approved through the Public Display Authority process.. that Deputy Director Aviation Medicine should update the RAF