Manual of Flying Volume 6 section on ‘Physiological Effects of Acceleration’ to ensure it is consistent with extant RAF Centre of Aviation Medicine guidance.. that the RAF Inspector of Flight Safety and the Royal Navy Flight Safety Centre Chief Flight Safety Officer should raise aircrew awareness to the dangers and causes of G impairment.. The Comments of the Convening Authority published with the Final Report included the following remarks: The potential for such an accident could have been identified more clearly in advance and more effective mitigations put in place.. Even elite units, and perhaps particularly so, require a healthy degree of external oversight and assurance to mitigate the chronic risk that over time “were different and we do it this way” supplants prudent and probing critiquing of procedures, techniques and standards.. The difficulty inherent in critiquing an elitist activity is obvious, particularly when doing so requires well established and highly technical procedures to be challenged by ‘outsiders’. Implicitly, such circumstances therefore demand a strong commitment to active and intrusive interrogation if effective assurance is to be achieved. In this case, there is evidence that the questions asked over time by the supervisory chain were inadequate in breadth and depth. This was a significant shortcoming.. (in the specific context of recommendations which were made as a result of the investigation of a RAFAT mid air collision during pre season training in 2012) Work….undertaken to identify and manage risks within the display manoeuvres….did not include a sufficiently robust examination of some relevant categories of risk, such as G-LOC. (in the context of work to rectify shortcomings identified during the current investigation) Actions (already taken) should elicit a degree of confidence that the lessons learned by this Inquiry are being learned and acted upon.. The Official Report of the Investigation (in 8 separate sections) was published on 18 December 2012 by UK Ministry of Defence.