An Investigation was carried out by a Service Inquiry Panel in accordance with a Convening Order issued by the Director General of the Military Aviation Authority and requiring the provision of technical investigation/assistance by the UK Military AAIB (MilAAIB). Available evidence included the validated recording of the Air Data Recorder (ADR), an airborne video recording, limited R/T communications recording, eye witness accounts and, in respect of the context of the event once the key facts had been established, previous relevant experience of manoeuvres in high G flight. It was established that following a high speed close formation flypast of the whole nine aircraft display team along the landing runway (08) at 100 feet aal in the landing direction, the pre-planned routine ‘break to land’ manoeuvre was flown in which each aircraft successively makes a climbing turn to either left or right hand downwind to reach 500 feet aal downwind. The accident aircraft (identified as Red 4) was observed to reach the targeted height at the apex of the turn but to then progressively overbank with a “progressive downward steepening” of the flight path. The aircraft immediately behind transmitted two radio warnings of “4 check height” but ground impact followed shortly afterwards. Analysis of the ADR showed that in commencing the break climbing through approximately 230 feet agl and at 384 KIAS, Red 4 had “rolled to approximately 75° of right bank, an acceleration of 6.3 G was applied, the throttle was selected to idle and the airbrake extended”. The Investigation found that weather conditions and the pre departure airworthiness of the aircraft were not a factor in the accident. It was also noted that “the pilot had not indicated any serviceability issues in flight”. All other aspects of the period preceding the accident flight and of the flight itself were also determined to be not a factor. The efficacy of the ADR trace was rigorously validated and thereafter provided crucial evidence of the 14.5 seconds of flight from the beginning of the break to the end of the trace at impact. It was established from the trace that the initial pull to 6.3 G had been accomplished in less than a second - at a rate of 6.9 G/second. For the next 5 seconds, it was found that “the pilot’s control inputs and the resultant flight profile were normal and typical of previous breaks albeit at the high end of G, G-onset rate, pitch attitude and bank angle”. At that point, “the pilot’s control strategy appeared to become abnormal in that his control inputs and their frequency were reduced”. One second later, “a further anomaly appeared when the pitch attitude stabilised unusually low at 2°nose down and one second later an abnormal/atypical throttle movement was observed, which would have given a theoretical engine rpm of 77+/- 3%”. Control abnormalities continued and nose down pitch attitude increased and a gradual but progressive overbank to the right developed. By three seconds prior to impact the aircraft had reached approximately 16° nose down