with a 95° bank to the right and had descended to approximately 250 feet agl. At this point, the following aircraft transmitted “4 check height” and almost co-incident with this, “a rapid aft and left stick input (half of full deflection) was demanded” and the nose down pitch and right bank began to reduce - although the aircraft continued to descend. “With the airbrake extended and the airspeed at approximately 275 KIAS, the G level peaked at +4.25 G which resulted in (the aircraft) being very close to, if not in, the accelerated stall boundary just before the end of the trace.” In order to make an assessment of the pilot’s level of situational awareness during the break manoeuvre, the Investigation recreated a plot of G against indicated air speed and compared it with the theoretical lift buffet boundary - see the diagram below. Lift buffet is readily distinguishable from concurrent airbrake buffet and normally used to fly the aircraft (just) in buffet so as to achieve its maximum performance capability whilst simultaneously increasing drag to reduce speed. This plot showed that the aircraft was flying in lift buffet from shortly before maximum G was achieved until the commencement of aircraft control abnormalities. It was noted that to a pilot in a normal state of consciousness, ‘coming off the buffet’ would have been obvious. This observation led to the early conclusion that G-induced impairment “was a possible cause” of the accident. However, it was recognised that such a diagnosis could only be made with confidence by exclusion. The Investigation therefore proceeded to systematically eliminate all the “non-medical, technical, engineering and HF possible causes”. It was concluded after review that neither technical failure nor engineering action were factors in the accident. The fact that the pilot was found to have only partially fastened thigh zips on his anti-G trousers was considered to be of potential relevance to his g-tolerance. Most of the rest of the Investigation focused on the subject of G-induced impairment in general and its potential relevance to the observed cessation of normal control. The generally accepted relationship between the rate of onset of high G and the time immediately after the maximum level is reached in respect of the risk of experiencing G-LOC or A-LOC with no prior visual warning signs was noted as being generically in the form of the illustrative diagram below reproduced from the Investigation report. The exposure of the pilot to G during the whole accident sortie was determined and it was established that there had been 8 excursions above 4 G of which only one had exceeded 3 G for longer than the one which had peaked at 6.327 G as the break to land had been initiated. This was for 11.625 seconds (compared to the elapsed time of 8.75 seconds in excess of 3 G in the break to land excursion) but had involved a maximum of only 4.468 G. However, during the break at the end of the display which preceded