from becoming a WDL was the vigilance of the Brae Bravo radio operator - the platform helideck crew would have completed their duties with the earlier departure of the helicopter and the radio operator’s role was primarily to monitor radio calls not to visually identify helicopter traffic. A number of factors which led to the various prevention controls being ineffective were identified and included the following: Platform Alignment - the alignment of the Brae Bravo and Brae Alpha platforms relative to the routing from East Brae was broadly similar with the nearest platform being the most obvious and may also have contributed to Brae Alpha being obscured by Brae Bravo.. Platform Characteristics - the three platforms in the Brae field shared “an overall visual similarity in configuration and infrastructure” which resulted in the Brae Bravo platform displaying ‘decoy characteristics’. Although each platform does have distinctive differences, when approached from certain directions, these differences are unlikely to be sufficiently obvious to override the existence of any expectation and confirmation bias during a high workload environment.. The Helicopter Directory (HD) - the content of the HD is only reviewed every two years and the photographs used are not routinely updated and may therefore present a visual image that is many years old and the direction from which photographs are taken varies.. The Operator EFB - although the EFB plates did “not differ in quality or in visual imagery” from those in the HD, their use in flight to corroborate correct identification of the platform would have been inappropriate.. Familiarity – The Captain’s perceived sense of familiarity with the Brae Field platforms were considered “likely to have overridden a more detailed scrutiny” of the HD Plates during briefing which could have led to the highlighting of the distinctively different features of the platforms.. Use of FMS - The pilots ignored the track distance available from the FMS display, which could have alerted them to the incorrect selection of Brae Bravo as the destination.. Expectation and Confirmation Bias - The Captain’s expectation that the destination platform would be sighted during the initial right turn from the southerly departure set up the conditions for confirmation bias to take hold. Workload - both the successive short sectors and the fact that this was the inexperienced First Officer’s first day of line training combined to create a high workload for the Captain which was considered to have “led to reduced scrutiny by him when selecting the (incorrect platform) as the destination” and to a focus thereafter on “the more immediate priority of the safe handling of the helicopter to the detriment of other sortie management priorities”.. Multi-crew environment - during early stage line training with an ab-initio pilot, many of the defences that are derived from operating in a multi-crew environment were undermined or effectively removed.. The Cause of the event was determined to have been “the pilots initially misidentifying and selecting the Brae Bravo platform, instead of the Brae Alpha platform, as the destination and subsequently