not detecting this incorrect selection” and noted that “several prevention controls that should have alerted the pilots to the incorrect platform selection and subsequently aided them in identifying (their error had) proved ineffective”. A number of Contributory Factors were also identified including: the inadequate identification by the pilots of the key features and differences of the platforms in the Brae field.. the decision to fly the short sector manually and to navigate visually, which whilst appropriate for the good in-flight visibility and the stage reached during line training, led to an increased workload for the PM Captain and reduced the attention given to the electronic cues that existed in the flight deck.. the short sector which provided a very small window of time for the pilots to identify, select and confirm the destination platform with little subsequent opportunity to review.. the inherent nature of early-stage line training which increased and effectively nullified the protections normally afforded by two-pilot operations.. the high workload which combined with the overriding influences of expectation and confirmation biases.. Overall, it was concluded that “this event highlights the challenges that exist while flying off-shore, even during benign conditions, during a typical sortie flown in the early stages of line training” and that many of the contributory factors found in the Investigation “have previously been identified as typical factors that contribute to wrong-deck landings”. Safety Action identified by the aircraft operator as “to be carried out” in relation to ‘shuttle’ operations was noted to have consisted of the following: Training to highlight complex requirements of shuttling and need to concentrate on all aspects of SOPs.. Highlighting the importance of following checklists at appropriate times.. A review of checklist use during ‘shuttle’ flights.. Highlighting task management during the pre flight brief for a ‘shuttle’ flight made during line training.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 August 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.