An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). It was established that the flight involved had been the third sector of a four sector sequence flown by the same crew beginning and ending at Aberdeen and involving successive stops at the three platforms of the Brae field in the northern North Sea, approximately 150nm northeast of Aberdeen in the sequence Brae Bravo, East Brae and Brae Alpha. The illustration below is annotated with the distances and bearings between the three platforms. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain, who had been PM for the flight involved, had a total of 10,968 flying hours of which 2,453 hours were on type and was experienced in offshore operations. The ab-initio First Officer had recently obtained his S92 type rating and was on his first day of line training. It was established that a detailed brief had preceded the departure from Aberdeen which included consulting the Helideck Directory (HD) in respect of all three offshore destinations. The HD is the standard reference for UK North Sea operations and includes full information on all offshore platform helidecks and the approaches to them supported by pictorial representations of each platform and its helideck. The pilots reported having assessed that “all three landings required a similar approach path, routing around the flare-stacks on the northern side of the platforms and turning left to land on the helideck in a southerly direction, whilst accepting light cross-winds”. This meant that all helideck landings would have to flown from the left seat and the Training Captain decided that he would act as PM for all sectors. Prior to taxiing at Aberdeen, the crew entered the complete route into the FMS routing. The flight to Brae Bravo was uneventful but on the second inter-platform sector between Brae Bravo and East Brae, the Captain had taken over took as PF when the First Officer experienced handling difficulties in the hover over the destination helideck. During the turnround, the Captain debriefed the arrival and the routing to the next destination “and noted that the needles slaved to the FMS were pointing in the expected direction”. As the First Officer turned right after a southerly takeoff, the Captain reported that he “saw the platform as expected” and noted that “the FMS needles pointed in the expected direction” and mentally noted “there’s the rig and the flare-stack to fly around”, as had been discussed during pre-flight planning. However, he had actually visually acquired the Brae Bravo platform which was about half the distance from East Brae to the intended destination Brae Alpha. The First Officer continued the flight manually and briefed the approach. The Captain reported having used the available time to coach the First Officer on the handling of the approach and carrying out the ‘Final Checks’ applicable to short inter-platform flights with the exception of the final two - arming the floats and confirming the deck name - so as to minimise interruption during the final