stages of the approach. The First Officer flew around the single flare-stack (see the HD plate below for Brae Bravo) to the north, turned left onto the approach and flew to the hover over the helideck. Although the floats were armed during the final stages of the approach, the Captain, who was unable to see the helideck throughout the final stages of the approach, did not read the deck name or prompt the First Officer to confirm it. On being advised by the platform radio operator that they had made an approach to Brae Bravo, the crew acknowledged, obtained confirmation that they could proceed and set off for Brae Alpha and subsequently arrived there without further problems. The Investigation noted that the HD information was supplemented in electronic form by an EFB (iPad mini) loaded with proprietary offshore platform information equivalent to that contained in the hard copy HD which, at the time of the investigated event, was also available in hard copy form. A comparison of the summary charts for Brae Bravo and Brae Alpha, reproduced side by side below, shows that, although they have similar helideck locations on the south-southwest corner of the platform, there are a number of differences, two of which should be immediately obvious. The Brae Alpha platform has two flare-stacks which rise diagonally from the northwest and northeast corners whereas the Brae Bravo platform has a single flare stack protruding horizontally from the lower northwestern side. Also, the Brae Alpha platform has two vertical derricks on the same side of the platform as its flare-stacks whereas the Brae Bravo platform has only a single vertical derrick. Operator SOPs were found to address the known risk of ‘Wrong Deck Landings’ (WDL) and it was clear that much of this guidance had been ignored prior to and during the flight from East Brae to the ‘Wrong Deck Approach’ (WDA) to Brae Bravo. The Investigation noted that a number of the controls aimed at both prevention and subsequent detection of a WDL or WDA had been ineffective: A shared appreciation of the potential for incorrect platform selection during pre-flight planning by using the HD plates to establish key identifying features and differences between platforms.. Neither pilot maintained adequate situational awareness whilst within the Brae Field and neither made appropriate use of the GPS navigation display which could have alerted them to the incorrect selection of the destination platform. In particular, no reference was made to the FMS displays of range to the platform or the routing to it, the radar remained in standby and no use was made of the ‘Navblue’ charts available on flight deck EFB during the pre departure brief at East Brae.. The helideck crew on Brae Alpha were unable to detect the WDA being made to Brae Bravo at the time ‘deck availability’ was requested and approved.. Neither pilot detected and recognised the WDA by reading the platform name as required by SOPs.. It was noted that all that had prevented the WDA