3 at the time of the accident had been installed in a different CF6 engine. This was then fitted to an Airbus A300 but soon removed when vibration was reported. After "ineffective inspection and maintenance", the same disk was then installed on a different CF6 engine which, as already noted, was installed on the accident aircraft 6 days before the accident.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "the Operator’s failure to modify the Number 3 engine in accordance with the requirements of an applicable AD and an ineffective crew response to excessive N1 vibration which then caused the uncontained engine failure”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: Insufficient operator maintenance & engineering performance. Lack of effective monitoring in operators line maintenance. Lack of support for engine parts and mandatory information from the manufacturer. Lack of effective monitoring in Mahan Air concerning operation, training and technical divisions.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made, one on 28 October 2015 whilst the Investigation was still ongoing and six more at its conclusion. The Interim Recommendation was: that All Operators of CF6-50C2 engines should accomplish the requirements of AD 2012-02-07 and immediately check the operation of this type of engine in their fleets closely.. The remaining Recommendations were as follows: that the ICAO Air Navigation Commission (ANC) should recommend that the Airworthiness Panel (AIRP) reviews the situation of embargoed countries in respect of continuing airworthiness and the receipt of mandatory information from the State of Design and take corrective action to implement the standards of Annex 8, Chapter 4, by Contracting States.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should implement ICAO SARPs as well as its own national regulations so as to ensure the establishment of an effective engineering system in air carriers which will maintain aircraft airworthiness at a standard-based level.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should establish a system to monitor matching between operating aircraft category and airport characteristics.. that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should require all aircraft operators to train pilots for similar occurrences in the simulator so that proper actions would prevent a similar occurrence.. that the National Transportation Safety Board should prepare an analytical report on safety concerns attributable to the effects of embargos on civil aviation activities and recommend to the government of the United States that equipment required under Annex 8 standards related to civil aircraft equipment should be removed from the embargo list to improve the safety of civil flights.. that the Federal Aviation Administration should review the findings of this accident report and improve the context of the AD No. 2012-02-07 to prevent such deficiencies between engine operators.. The AAIB noted but did not accept the following response by the NTSB about the Recommendation made to them: “Concerning the NTSB recommendation, the requested action is beyond the scope of the NTSB’s mission and we therefore believe it is not appropriate to propose this recommendation in the report. The U.S. government already makes an exception to the