An attempt was made to engage AP1 but this was unsuccessful because of the loss of No 3 hydraulic system and although AP2 powered by the only remaining hydraulic system was available, it was not engaged. Inspection after arrival at the assigned parking position found that the No. 3 engine Low Pressure Turbine was completely detached (see illustration below). Debris from it had hit No. 4 engine resulting in damage to its cowling and fan blades. Other ejected debris had hit the aircraft fuselage and the lower right hand wing surface. Wing surface impact caused significant damage to several hydraulic lines and to the inboard fuel tank from which most of the fuel was lost. Some parts of the main landing gear bay doors were also damaged by debris and ejected engine debris weighing approximately 10 kg which had fallen to the ground was found at three locations - some pieces had hit and injured livestock. It was found that according to GE, there had previously been at least 8 similar failures of the same engine worldwide and that having identified the root cause as high HP Turbine Rotor imbalance causing secondary vibratory damage to the associated LP turbine S3 disk, corrective action had been documented and made available in particular via FAA AD 2012-2-07. In each previous case, the LP turbine Stage 3 disk crack propagation which had occurred as a result of this vibration was in the disk forward spacer arm and this was found when examining the failed No 3 engine. This work established that continued engine operation could lead to a 360° crack which would cause separation of the complete LP Turbine from the rest of the engine as had happened in this case. A review of the maintenance history of engine No 3 and its LP turbine Stage 3 disk was carried out and it was found that the engine had been installed on the accident aircraft 6 days earlier and that in the 8 flights made by the aircraft between installation and the accident flight, repeated flight crew reports of vibration had been received. Each time, various interventions including but not limited to re-torqueing the spinner and balancing the fan had resulted in a brief and temporary reduction in vibration. A review of all maintenance activity by the Operator relating to the failed engine was carried out and it was found that: The new lower life limit for LP Turbine Stage 3 disks communicated in the 2012 FAA AD had been extended by the Operator and the AD had not been incorporated on the engine by the time the accident occurred. This was because Mahan Air was not supported by GE due to a US export embargo and so was unable to easily obtain the necessary upgrade kit and modified new disk easily and had therefore tried to prolong the use of the original disk.. About five months prior to the accident, the LP Turbine Stage 3 disk which was installed in Engine No