An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). Data from the SSFDR were successfully downloaded and used to assist the Investigation but relevant data on the CVR was found to have been overwritten. It was noted that the failed engine was a GE CF6-50C2. The prevailing weather conditions were benign and had no effect on either the engine failure or its aftermath. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the departure, had accumulated 24,500 total flying hours which included 360 hours on type. The 53 year-old First Officer had accumulated 3,783 total flying hours which included 639 hours on type. The Flight Engineer in position was a trainee undergoing an en-route check and being observed by an engineer (instructor) trainer. It was established that just after take-off from runway 29L, the No 3 engine vibration reading increased to 2.3 units whilst those of the other three engines remained at 0.4. The Captain had previously experienced similar engine vibrations and because of this did not take action to reduce engine 3 thrust - or shut it down altogether. Instead he continued the climb with equal thrust on all 4 engines and allowed the vibration to continue. Three minutes later, as the aircraft was climbing through 7,500 feet QNH (the reference altitude of Tehran Mehrabad is 3,962 feet), an uncontained failure of the No 3 engine occurred. Parts of the rear section of the engine detached and struck the adjacent outboard engine which also failed and debris also struck the aircraft structure. Impact damage resulted in the loss of the No 1 hydraulic system as well as those dependent on failed engines 3 and 4. ATC approved a request for the aircraft to stop its climb at 8,000 feet and enter a hold to attempt to restart engine no 4, but this restart was not successful. During this hold, there were considerable deviations in altitude due to loss of three of the four hydraulic systems which meant that pitch and roll and yaw control authority were all significantly compromised - the engine 4 restart attempt was actually commenced at a recorded 8,860 feet. The resulting loss of aircraft stability also led to serious discomfort for the passengers. After the unsuccessful attempt to restart engine No 4, a return to the departure airport on two engines was made without further event with a landing completed after 37 minutes airborne. Braking after touchdown was only available using the alternate system and nose wheel steering was not available so the aircraft had to be towed in from its stopping position on the runway. It was noted that contrary to the Operator's procedures, no emergency was declared to ATC. It was noted that the fact that flap 10 was still set by the time the engine failure occurred meant that essential stability in roll was achievable and it was explicitly concluded that this fact had "prevented a fatal accident".