The event occurred in Vietnamese airspace but the Investigation was carried out by the AAIB of the Singapore Ministry of Transport as State of the Operator. DFDR and QAR data for the event were downloaded by the Operator and copies provided to the Investigation. It was found that the left pilot seat had been occupied by a Senior First Officer undergoing command line training with a Training Captain occupying the right pilot seat as aircraft commander with a Safety Pilot in the principal supernumerary crew seat. The pilot under training had been designated as PF. It was noted that the incident aircraft was fitted with a version of the Honeywell RDR4B weather radar system with both automatic and manual tilt angle control, although it was noted that other aircraft in the same Operator’s B777 fleet were instead fitted with a version of the same radar which provided for only manual tilt angle control. Prior to flight, the aircraft commander had briefed the cabin crew that turbulence could be expected to be encountered one hour into the flight and would last for two hours. About three hours into the flight, in the cruise with the AP engaged at FL350 in smooth flying conditions with the seat belt signs off and the left and right seat pilots’ weather radar displays on their NDs set respectively to 80 nm and 160 nm ranges and in automatic tilt mode. The 80nm display had shown a small green return almost on track ahead - a weather cell of about 3 nm diameter. The PF selected the tilt to manual mode and at a range of 60nm, requested and obtained clearance to deviate 10nm left of track upwind of the cell with this deviation commenced at a range of 40 nm from the cell. After 2.5 minutes, the PF returned the aircraft to a track parallel to the original one having judged that sufficient deviation had been made for what appeared to be a relatively small and isolated cell with the aircraft clear of cloud and the silhouette of the cloud at the cell position visible. Given this visual evidence and since the flying conditions remained smooth, it was not considered necessary to switch on the seat belt signs or reduce to turbulence penetration speed. As the aircraft passed abeam the cell position some 4.5nm from the original track and the (green) returns from the edge of the cell, some new short and very fine green lines appeared on the display directly ahead and when the landing lights were turned on, “very light traces of cloud” were visible so the PF set the HDG 20° to the left away from the cell. Whilst the aircraft was in a shallow left bank to accomplish this turn, turbulence was encountered and the seat belt signs were selected on and speed reduction initiated but the aircraft (then) experienced severe turbulence that lasted for about eight seconds and occupant injuries were sustained, 5 to cabin crew and 21 to passengers,