one of which was relatively more serious. FDR data showed that during the encounter, vertical accelerations between 1.66 g and -0.27 g were experienced and recorded vertical speeds had varied between 800fpm up and 1340 fpm down with approximately 100 feet of altitude loss. After a doctor travelling on the flight had rendered assistance, he advised that four of the injured would need further medical attention on arrival. The aircraft commander determined that the appropriate course of action was to continue to complete the flight to destination and this was achieved without further event and a medical emergency was not declared. It was found that two other Singapore Airlines Boeing 777 flights had followed the same route as the one being investigated, one two minutes behind at FL 310 and the other six minutes behind at FL 360. Both of these aircraft were fitted with more advanced weather radar equipment which had entirely automatic tilt angle control, a memory for recent radar scans over the whole range from ground level to 60000 feet and the facility for crews to select horizontal ‘slices’ through these scans in 1000 foot increments to enable detailed weather cell analysis to be undertaken if required. Both aircraft had deviated from the same intended flight path as the flight under investigation around the same cell by 11nm and 16nm respectively. Both crews reported that they had observed a cluster of cells rather than a single cell on their weather radar, with red cell cores visible. It was established that the Operator routinely provided both crew training and supporting guidance on the use of weather radar to which all three crew members had been exposed. It was found that the “procedure suggested by the operator” to its 777 crews was “a track deviation of at least 20 nm in order to avoid a thunderstorm cell” but that there was no similar suggestion in the case of encountering weather cells less severe than a thunderstorm cell. It was noted that, at the range and manually set tilt angle used by the investigated aircraft crew at the altitude at which they were flying, their weather radar would not have detected that part of the cell which was below 20000 feet. Published guidance to crews quoted by the Investigation did not give any specific advice on use of the manual radar tilt function but did say “use (the) radar antenna tilt function to scan the reflectivity of the storms ahead. Assess the height of the storms. Recognise that heavy rain below, typically, indicates high concentration of ice crystals above.” The Investigation noted that the investigated aircraft crew had not made a PIREP after their severe turbulence encounter as suggested in Operator-issued guidance but that they subsequently accepted that such action should have been taken. A requirement in ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM for AIREP reports to be transmitted by aircraft which have encountered phenomena such as moderate or severe turbulence was noted by the Investigation without comment. A series of Safety