A simple set of acronyms has been provided which may make it easier for controllers to remember the immediate actions, or sequence of actions, to be followed on initial notification in event of unusual/emergency situation. The use of abbreviations and acronyms in the checklists is common in the ATC world and it seems logical, therefore, to recommend a few relevant checklist possibilities: RISC Recognise that there is a problem. Identify the relevant aircraft and arrange for special code Squawk. Separate - Give the pilots airspace in which to operate and give them time. Communicate with adjacent sectors/colleagues/supervisors as appropriate. TAS Time - Give the pilot time to sort out the immediate problem on receipt of first notification that there is a difficulty. Airspace - Give the pilot freedom of the adjacent airspace - get other aircraft out of the way, and off the frequency. Silence - The controller should clear the frequency and not raise more questions than are necessary. SSSS Squawk - Acknowledge the call; make sure the correct squawk is produced. Silence - Keep the Radiotelephony (RTF) to as low a level as possible - where possible assign a single frequency to the incident. Separate - Provide appropriate and adequate airspace for the pilot to execute any essential manoeuvres. Shout - Ask for assistance from the ATC supervisor and/or colleagues. QRST Quiet - Keep the frequency clear. Recognise that there is a problem when the message is received. Separate - Provide airspace. Time - Give the pilot time to work on it. ATIS Announcing and acknowledging the emergency or problem, getting the pilot to make the appropriate squawk. Taq - Giving the pilot time, airspace and quiet. Information exchange pilot/controller and controller/controller. Solving the problem as a team controller/controller and controller/pilot. ASSA Acknowledging the emergency or problem, getting the pilot to make the appropriate squawk. Separate the traffic and support the pilot in so far as is possible. Silence - Keep the RTF to a minimum; give the pilot time to think. Advise supervisor and appropriate colleagues on other sectors. ASSIST Acknowledge the call; get the squawk. Separate the aircraft from other traffic. Give it room to manoeuvre. Silence - on the frequency. Provide separate frequency where possible - this prevents unnecessary clutter for the pilots. Inform those who need to know and those who can help; inform others as appropriate. Support the pilots in any way possible - Start to think of alternative routings, etc.. Time - Give the pilots time to collect their thoughts, don’t harass them for information. Time produces good decisions. A number of European ANSPs have successfully adopted the ASSIST principle, which was pioneered by the Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH (DFS) who are entrusted with controlling the air traffic in Germany. Below is attached the ASSIST video, powered by EUROCONTROL: Read more ASSIST (video)