An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. The track followed by the aircraft was re-created from the available data and the illustration below taken from the official report was created. Following the request for a return as a result of the windshield failure it was noted that the clearance given to route to the overhead and then establish outbound on the ILS for an ILS DME approach to RWY 26 was acknowledged but not followed. It was established that, as the aircraft initially began to track as cleared, the aircraft navigation equipment had picked up a false ILS LLZ signal which produced an indication of LLZ capture, albeit with concurrent oscillations of both the LLZ and ILS GS command bars. It was noted that at the location where the false LLZ signal was received, the aircraft had been outside the LLZ specific coverage sector for the ILS at Kerry. It was established that the inexperienced First Officer had been unable to properly programme the FMS and had set it up for an approach to RWY 26 at the originally intended destination rather than Kerry, to which the return was being made. A steep descent had then been commenced in landing configuration on a track roughly parallel to the Kerry ILS LLZ but approximately six miles to the south of it. The Investigation determined that “this track took the aircraft directly towards high ground rising to in excess of 3,000 feet and it descended in cloud to a lowest height of 702 ft above the ground”. This inappropriate descent was attributed to “non-compliance with laid-down procedures and instructions, as well as non-adherence to CRM principles” and it was considered that a potential controlled flight into terrain was averted by the intervention of a controller in the ACC who was not working the aircraft and the simultaneous warning provided by the aircraft Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS). It was noted that, even after the recovery from the near CFIT, the aircraft track had continued to evidence further navigational difficulties and that for much of the flight, the aircraft had been operated below the applicable Minimum Sector Altitude while not under radar control. It was also noted that: The failure of the flight crew to comply with instructions and provide accurate information seriously compromised the Kerry TWR Controller’s situational awareness.. Notwithstanding the fact that the Kerry TWR Controller did not have access to radar data, he did not challenge the non-compliance of the crew with his instructions because he considered that such an intervention would have added to crew confusion and increased the pressures under which they were operating.. There was inadequate oversight of the operation of the aircraft by the Operator.”. The crew had not tripped the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) circuit breaker after the flight, although this was a requirement of the State of the Operator following an accident or incident.. The facts relating to the airworthiness aspects of the flight were determined as follows: The failure of