the left hand main windshield after take-off was caused by electrical arcing. This arcing generated an excessive amount of heat that caused damage to the inner laminated surface of the outboard glass ply. The damage penetrated the surface compression and entered the centre tension layer of the chemically strengthened glass, causing spontaneous fracture. The effect on forward visibility for the aircraft commander was not significant enough to present any actual difficulty for the visual transition to land.. The No. 1 engine was found to have sustained serious foreign object damage to the fan blades, the LP compressor and the HP compressor. However, the first indication of an engine anomaly was a stall event shortly before the engine was shut down on the ramp following completion of the flight. The foreign object involved was a hard-bodied object, probably of round shape, approximately 25 mm in diameter and made of mild steel. Contrary to flight crew comments about signs of engine malfunction when airborne shortly after the windshield failure, there was no connection between the latter and the engine damage. It was noted that even though they were aware of foreign object damage to the fan blades the crew subsequently performed a series of inappropriate engine starts, accelerations and decelerations. It was considered probable that the engine damage was exacerbated by these operations, culminating in a serious stall event on the final high power run.. The Investigation concluded that the Probable Cause of the event was that: “The crew suffered a serious loss of navigational and situational awareness while attempting to return to EIKY following a windshield fracture encountered shortly after take-off.” Five Contributory Factors were identified: The crew made a number of rushed and inappropriate decisions during the flight, thus displaying poor crew resource management.. The First Officer’s lack of recent flying hours is likely to have contributed to his loss of navigational and situational awareness.. A “false localiser” signal was received due to Approach mode being armed while the aircraft was outside the specific localiser coverage sector.. The Captain commenced a descent without having a valid ILS signal and without cross-checking other available navigation aids.. The situational awareness of the controller in Kerry Tower was compromised by erroneous position reports from the crew and non-compliance with his instructions, as well as a lack of direct radar information.. One Safety Recommendation was made: That the licensee of Kerry Airport, in conjunction with the Irish Aviation Authority, should review the provision of radar information to support the air traffic control service provided by Kerry ATS unit. (IRLD2010016). The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 30 August 2010 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: AAIU Synoptic Report No: 2010-012