An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that the stick shaker had activated 90 seconds after the aircraft had begun to accelerate to cruise speed after levelling at FL340. There had been no ‘STALL’ annunciation on either PFD or any ‘STALL STALL’ aural warning or warning horn. It was reported that the activation had occurred as the indicated stall speed on both PFDs had merged with the current airspeed and that this indicated stall speed had continued to increase until it merged with the Mmo so that the right edge of the airspeed tape was continuously red and white edged. There was no corresponding master warning on the Engine and Alert Display (EAD) and the stick pusher had not operated. In response, an immediate on track descent had been initiated and ATC advised of a requirement for a lower level. In response, ATC advised of opposite direction traffic. The stick shaker continued to operate as descent at approximately 2500 fpm continued and it was noted that the indicated stall speed on the PFDs had returned to normal as the aircraft descended through FL290 with the stick shaker ceasing at the same time with the aircraft then levelled at FL280. The flight crew had initiated an immediate on-track descent and advised air traffic services of their requirement to change level. The infringement of the prescribed procedural separation standards against opposite direction traffic at FL320, about which ATC had provided traffic information, was a direct consequence of the decision to begin and continue descent without clearance. An analysis of Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data showed that the stick shaker activation had been caused by the angle-of-attack sensors becoming static during the climb and it was concluded that this had been consistent with ice restricting the movement of the ‘slinger’ on which the sensor vanes are mounted. Whilst it was clear that there had not been a near-stall episode, it was noted that whilst the sensor vanes were not free to move, the stall protection system had effectively been inoperative. The weather conditions prior to the event were reviewed. It was established that it had been raining heavily during the turn round at Paraburdoo and that IMC had been encountered soon after departure with moderate turbulence and areas of rain until passing about FL200 although aircraft weather radar had not indicated any thunderstorms or areas of heavy precipitation on track and there was no recollection of any ice accumulating on the aircraft wiper blades, the usual indication of flight in icing conditions. However, the Bureau of Meteorology concluded that conditions may have been conducive to the formation of supercooled water droplets. It was considered by the Investigation that: “The almost simultaneous immobilisation of the separate and independent sensor vanes suggested that each was affected by the same in-flight condition. Furthermore, the immobilisation occurred within 1 minute of the total indicated air temperature (TAT) decreasing below 0° C and continued until a short time after the