TAT increased above 0° C during the descent. That, and the nature of the in-flight immobilisation of the angle-of-attack sensors, was consistent with ice having physically restricted the movement of each sensor’s unheated slinger and faceplate assembly, before melting with increasing TAT during the descent.” As a result of this event, Boeing and the OEM of the angle-of-attack sensor initiated a detailed design review of the component. This was advised to have consisted of an examination of the original certification process for the sensor, it’s electrical characteristics, the operability of the vane and case heater and the mechanical design of the vane assembly and slinger-faceplate assembly. It was noted by the Investigation that whilst the vanes themselves were heated, the ‘slingers’, the vane shafts and the face plates mounted flush on the fuselage were not. The Investigation findings were formally stated as follows: The aircraft’s angle-of-attack sensors immobilised during the climb at a relatively low airspeed and high angle-of-attack. That sensor immobilization was probably the consequence of ice restricting the movement of the sensors’ vane-slinger-shaft assembly.. The flight crew’s decision to commence an immediate descent in response to the activation of the stick shaker made an infringement of the separation standards unavoidable.. The immobilisation of the angle-of-attack sensors adversely affected the reliability of the aircraft’s stall warning system and could render the automatic stall recovery system inoperative.. The aircraft was not near a stalled condition of flight when the stick shaker warning activated.. The Final Report: Aviation Occurrence Investigation – AO-2006-154 Final of the Investigation was published on 26 September 2008. No Safety Recommendations were made but the fact that a detailed design review of the angle-of-attack sensor initiated as a result of the investigated incident by Boeing in conjunction with the sensor manufacturer was continuing was noted.