a large extent of the international aviation industry", did not address the actions required of cabin crew if the passenger oxygen masks deploy in the cabin and no relevant announcement from the flight crew follows.. There was very considerable evidence of the existence of systemic organisational safety deficiencies within Helios' management structure and safety culture and elements of this situation had been detected during independent audits prior to the accident.. It was considered that "organisational safety-related deficiencies existed within the Cyprus DCA from at least 1999" and that "although some corrective actions were exercised since 2003" many of these deficiencies had continued up to the time of the accident. It was further considered that "these deficiencies prevented the DCA from carrying out its safety oversight obligations".. In respect of the ATC response to the loss of R/T communication with the aircraft, it was noted that ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM stated that action should be taken if a report from an aircraft is not received within a reasonable period of time and it is left to regional air navigation agreements to prescribe what that period of time should be.. The Direct Causes of the Accident were formally recorded as follows: Non-recognition that the cabin pressurisation mode selector was in the MAN (manual) position during the performance of the: Preflight procedure; Before Start checklist; and After Takeoff checklist.. Preflight procedure;. Before Start checklist; and. After Takeoff checklist.. Non-identification of the warnings and the reasons for the activation of the warnings (cabin altitude warning horn, passenger oxygen masks deployment indication, Master Caution), and continuation of the climb.. Incapacitation of the flight crew due to hypoxia, resulting in continuation of the flight via the flight management computer and the autopilot, depletion of the fuel and engine flameout, and impact of the aircraft with the ground.. Four "Latent Causes" were also formally identified as follows: The Operator’s deficiencies in organisation, quality management and safety culture, documented over time as findings in numerous audits.. The Regulatory Authority’s diachronic inadequate execution of its oversight responsibilities to ensure the safety of operations of the airlines under its supervision and its inadequate responses to findings of deficiencies documented in numerous audits.. Inadequate application of Crew Resource Management (CRM) principles by the flight crew.. Ineffectiveness and inadequacy of measures taken by the manufacturer in response to previous pressurisation incidents in the particular type of aircraft, both with regard to modifications to aircraft systems as well as to guidance to the crews.. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Failure to return the pressurisation mode selector to AUTO after unscheduled maintenance on the aircraft.. Lack of specific procedures (on an international basis) for cabin crew procedures to address the situation of loss of pressurisation, passenger oxygen masks deployment and continuation of the aircraft climb.. Ineffectiveness of international aviation authorities in enforcing implementation of corrective action plans after relevant audits.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made whilst the Investigation was in progress a follows: Three were issued on 25 August 2005: that the NTSB