should invite the Boeing Company to consider taking action to emphasize flight crew training and awareness in relation to (a) the importance of verifying the bleed and pack system configuration after take-off and (b) the understanding and recognition of the differences between cabin altitude and take-off configuration warnings. [2005-37]. that the NTSB should invite the Boeing Company to clarify the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) (AMM) maintenance procedure for the Cabin Pressure Leakage Test (05-51-91) to explicitly specify the actions necessary to complete the maintenance test including returning the cabin pressure mode selector to the AUTO position. [2005-38]. that the NTSB should invite the Boeing Company to consider revising the Aircraft Maintenance Manual by adding an additional step requiring the reinstallation of crew oxygen mask regulators (if removed) as part of the process of putting the aircraft back to its initial condition. [2005-39]. One was issued on 20 October 2005: that the Cyprus Air Accident and Incident Investigation Board should ensure that all airlines under the jurisdiction of the Cyprus DCA standardise cabin crew procedures for access to the flight deck and for use of the flight deck door and include relevant information in the Operations Manual. [2005 – 40]. Two were issued on 23 December 2005: that the NTSB should invite the Boeing Company to consider enhancing the design of the Preflight checklist to better distinguish between items referring to the air conditioning and the pressurisation systems of the aircraft and to include an explicit line item instructing flight crews to set the pressurisation mode selector to AUTO. [2005-41]. that the NTSB should invite the Boeing Company to reconsider the design of the Cabin Pressure Control System controls and indicators so as to better attract and retain the flight crew’s attention when the pressurisation mode selector position is in the MAN (manual) position. [2005-42]. One was issued on 2 May 2006: that the Hellenic ACC should consider the need for an additional indication on the label attached to the target of a flight on the radar scope, to draw a controller’s attention when radio communication has not been achieved and that it should establish procedures to specify a time limit within which a controller should take the initiative to contact a flight that has not reported its position when crossing a compulsory reporting point (FIR boundaries, etc.). [2005-43]. At the end of the Investigation, a further Nine Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the EASA/JAA require all airlines to amend cabin crew procedures so that when the oxygen masks deploy in the cabin due to loss of cabin pressure or insufficient cabin pressure and if the aircraft does not suspend climb, level-off or start a descent, the senior member of Cabin Crew (or the cabin crew member situated closest to the flight deck) is required to immediately notify the flight crew of the oxygen masks deployment and to confirm that the flight crew have donned their oxygen masks. [2006-41]. that the EASA/JAA require aircraft manufacturers to install, in addition