to the existing cabin altitude warning horn, a visual and/or an oral alert warning when the cabin altitude exceeds 10 000 feet in newly manufactured aircraft and on a retrofit basis in older aircraft. [2006–42]. that the EASA/JAA require practical hypoxia training as a mandatory part of flight crew and cabin crew training. This training should include the use of recently developed hypoxia training tools that reduce the amount of oxygen a trainee receives while wearing a mask and performing tasks. [2006-44]. that the EASA/JAA and ICAO require aircraft manufacturers to evaluate the feasibility of installation of a CVR that records the entire flight. [2006-45]. that the EASA/JAA and ICAO require all company communications with the aircraft (operations office, technical base/stations, and airport stations) to be recorded. [2006-46]. that the EASA/JAA and ICAO require that aircraft manufacturers ensure that cabin altitude is recorded on the FDR. [2006-47]. that the EASA/JAA and ICAO study the feasibility of requiring the installation of crash protected image recorders on the flight deck of commercial aircraft. [2006-48]. that the EASA/JAA and ICAO implement a means to record international safety audits of the States’ Civil Aviation Authorities, which ensures that the findings can be tracked in depth, action plans are developed and implemented in shortest possible time; and impose the necessary pressure when they become aware that international obligations and standards are not being met by the Authorities. [2006-49]. that the Republic of Cyprus should support by all necessary resources the already under-way reorganisation of Cyprus DCA so that it may be better equipped to carry out the governmental aviation safety oversight functions and to meet its international obligations in the shortest possible time. [2006-50]. Safety Action reported to the Investigation whilst it was in progress included the following: Boeing revised the FCTMs for all Boeing 737 variants which added a new section reminding flight crews on how to understand and recognise the differences between the two meanings of the warning horn and reminding them of the importance of verifying the bleed and pack system configuration after take-off.. Boeing revised the AMM for all Boeing 737 variants to add a specific action to put the cabin pressure mode selector in the AUTO position after carrying out a cabin pressure leakage test and to require that any crew oxygen mask regulators that have been removed during maintenance, they must be reinstalled and tested prior to release to service.. Boeing made changes to the flight crew procedures associated with the Boeing 737 Cabin Altitude Warning System by issuing FCOM/QRH revisions which included modifications to some Normal and Non-Normal Checklists and changes in terminology.. The Hellenic ACC enhanced the capability of the radar software so that a visual indication is provided to a controller if radio communication between the ACC and an aircraft has not been achieved. It also introduced a three minute time limit within which a controller should take the initiative to contact a flight that has not reported a required en-route position and this requirement has