been prudent" to take this action.. During the Preflight procedure, the Before Start and the After Takeoff checklists completion, the flight crew failed to notice that the cabin pressurisation mode selector was not in the correct position for flight. The After Takeoff checklist section referring to the pressurisation system in the Helios' QRH had not been updated according to the latest Boeing revision. However, the lit indication that the pressurisation mode selector was in the MAN rather than the normal AUTO position "should have been perceived by the flight crew during preflight, takeoff and climb". That the aircraft was being operated with the MAN mode selected was confirmed by data stored in the recovered NVM of the No. 2 Pressure Controller.. The initial response of the flight crew to the Cabin High Altitude Warning - disconnection of the AP and retarding then advancing the thrust levers - indicated that they had interpreted the warning as a Takeoff Configuration Warning. This "indicated that the flight crew was not aware of the inadequate pressurisation of the aircraft". The warning was not cancelled by the crew and would have represented a continued intrusion to their decision making environment.. Following the annunciation of a Master Caution as the aircraft was around FL 170 / FL 180, the flight crew did notice an overhead system panel status alert for avionics cooling but not the one which indicated that the cabin oxygen masks had automatically deployed as the cabin altitude had exceeded 14,000 feet. They subsequently "became preoccupied with the Equipment Cooling fan situation and did not detect the problem with the pressurisation system".. Before hypoxia began to affect the flight crew’s performance, inadequate CRM contributed to the failure to diagnose the pressurisation problem. In this connection, it was noted that there was some evidence to suggest that the Captain was relatively authoritarian in his exercise of command and noted that the First Officer's training records featured "numerous remarks in the last five years […] referring to checklist discipline and procedural (SOP) difficulties".. Both pilots "probably lost useful consciousness as a result of hypoxia some time after their last radio communication on the company frequency […] approximately 13 minutes after takeoff" which was when the aircraft passed approximately FL 290. It was generally concluded that any of the occupants on board who were not wearing oxygen masks were likely to have begun experiencing a gradual decline of cognitive functions within 2 to 3 minutes of the aircraft reaching and levelling at FL340 soon afterwards.. The use of the same aural warning to signify two different potentially critical situations - Incorrect Takeoff Configuration and High Cabin Altitude - was considered to be inconsistent with good Human Factors principles. A history of incidents involving confusion between the Takeoff Configuration Warning and the Cabin Altitude Warning on the Boeing 737 type was noted as were a number of remedial actions taken which were considered to have been "inadequate".. The Manuals, procedures, and training in place at Helios "and to