unsuccessful. Nicosia ACC called Athens ACC to say that the aircraft was at the FIR boundary but was not answering calls with a request to let them know if the aircraft called them. It was observed on radar to be continuing on its flight-planned track. Eventually, not having heard from the aircraft, the Athens ACC controller called the flight in order to issue a descent clearance but there was no response to this or other subsequent attempts including on the emergency frequency and by relay aircraft. As the aircraft approached the KEA VOR south east of Athens, the ACC Radar Controller informed their Supervisor of the loss of radio communication and the Supervisor then notified Athens APP/TWR and the Air Force. On reaching the Athens overhead at FL 340 approximately 90 minutes after take-off, the aircraft was then observed to turn back to the KEA VOR where it joined the holding pattern. During the sixth holding pattern, the 737 was intercepted by two military aircraft and it was seen that the Captain's seat was unoccupied and the First Officer's seat was occupied by someone who was "slumped over the controls". After twenty minutes, "a person not wearing an oxygen mask" was observed to entering the flight deck and sit in the Captain’s seat and ten minutes after that, the left engine flamed out due to fuel exhaustion and the aircraft began to descend. As this descent began, MAYDAY messages were recorded on the CVR but not transmitted as the PTT button was not pressed. After a further ten minutes as the aircraft passed approximately 7,000 feet, the right engine also flamed out and shortly afterwards, the aircraft impacted hilly terrain in the vicinity of the village of Grammatiko. A post-crash fire occurred. There was insufficient evidence to determine the situation which had prevailed in the cabin following passenger oxygen mask deployment but it was considered that "the cabin crew would have expected initiation of a descent or at least levelling-off of the aircraft" in such circumstances. It was not possible to determine whether any of the cabin crew attempted to contact the flight crew or enter the flight deck after deployment of passenger oxygen masks. However, it was concluded that the person who was observed to enter the flight deck and sit in the Captain's vacant seat shortly before flameout of the first engine was a male member of the four person cabin crew who held a Commercial Pilot Licence. After reviewing all the evidence gathered, the Investigation made a series of detailed observations related to the conduct of the accident flight which, in summary, included the following: The unscheduled line maintenance input to the aircraft prior to its departure on the accident flight included a successful pressurisation test. The record of these maintenance actions in the Aircraft Technical Log was incomplete and the pressurisation mode selector was not returned to the normal AUTO position. The latter was "not a formal omission" although it was considered that "it would have