Unmanned free balloons need to comply with various requirements before they launch, e.g.: Authorization requirements: An unmanned free balloon needs to receive appropriate authorization from the state of launch. Additional authorization is required if the balloon will be operated over the territory of another state (light meteorological balloons are exception from this) and if operating over high seas, coordination with the appropriate ATS authority is required. Heavy balloons need authorization from the ATS authority if they are to operate below 6 0000 ft and there are clouds that obscure more than 4 octas of the sky or the visibility is below 8 km.. An unmanned free balloon needs to receive appropriate authorization from the state of launch.. Additional authorization is required if the balloon will be operated over the territory of another state (light meteorological balloons are exception from this) and if operating over high seas, coordination with the appropriate ATS authority is required.. Heavy balloons need authorization from the ATS authority if they are to operate below 6 0000 ft and there are clouds that obscure more than 4 octas of the sky or the visibility is below 8 km.. Surveillance requirements for heavy balloons: Must be detectable by primary radar or be equipped with devices that provide other means of tracking If SSR or ADS-B ground equipment is used, the balloon must be equipped with a Mode C transponder or ADS-B transmitter respectively. Must be detectable by primary radar or be equipped with devices that provide other means of tracking. If SSR or ADS-B ground equipment is used, the balloon must be equipped with a Mode C transponder or ADS-B transmitter respectively. Conspicuity requirements for heavy balloons If the balloon is to operate at night below 60 000 ft, it (including the payload) must be lighted If equipped with a trailing antenna that requires a significant force to brak (i.e. more than 230 N), the antenna must have coloured pennants or streamers. If the balloon is to operate at night below 60 000 ft, it (including the payload) must be lighted. If equipped with a trailing antenna that requires a significant force to brak (i.e. more than 230 N), the antenna must have coloured pennants or streamers. Termination equipment requirements for heavy balloons: At least two payload flight-termination devices or systems, whether automatic or operated by telecommand, that operate independently of each other At least two ways for terminating the flight of the balloon envelope that function independently of each other. This only applies to zero-pressure balloons as the use of payload termination devices will result in rapid ascent of supperpressure balloons and a consequent burst.. At least two payload flight-termination devices or systems, whether automatic or operated by telecommand, that operate independently of each other. At least two ways for terminating the flight of the balloon envelope that function independently of each other. This only applies to zero-pressure balloons as the use of payload termination devices will result in rapid ascent of supperpressure balloons and a consequent