An Investigation was carried out by an Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission appointed by the Nepalese Government. The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and downloaded but some FDR information was missing because it relied on sensors external to the recorder which had been disabled by the effects of the impact and fire. The CVR recording was used undertake Spectrum analysis of the CAM channel to analyse the sound of each engine as an “audio signature” and to identify the incidence of other noises, including one which corresponded with a ‘flash’ captured on CCTV appearing to come from one of the engines shortly before the aircraft became airborne. With the type-experienced aircraft commander acting as PF and accompanied by an inexperienced but correctly qualified co pilot, the aircraft made an intersection take off from the 3050 metre long runway 20 which provided an available runway length of 2112 metres. The aircraft accelerated normally until approximately 70 knots - well below the applicable V1/Rotation Speed (Vr) speed of 83 knots. At this speed, at about the same time as the aircraft hit a Black Kite (which would have had an estimated live weight of around 700 grams), a wrong call of “V1 Rotate” by the co pilot was followed by a brief but unsuccessful attempt to rotate the aircraft. The entire carcass of the bird was subsequently recovered from the runway and the Investigation found no evidence of any bird remains in either engine. Continued acceleration on the ground above 70 knots was less than normal but just before the aircraft became airborne, a small ‘bang’ or ‘thud’ can be heard on the CVR CAM channel which corresponds to the signatures associated with the engine rotation rate of one of the engines dropping by approximately 4% before recovering. At approximately 86 knots, which was above the applicable V1, Vr and V2, the aircraft had become airborne and began to climb away. The Investigation found that CVR audio signatures associated with the right engine had remained constant at 100% while the aircraft remained airborne but those for the left engine dropped to 95% of their nominal frequencies just after the landing gear was raised, and dropped further to 91% shortly afterwards. The aircraft reached a speed of 89 knots in the two seconds after becoming airborne but speed then dropped to 77 knots as it climbed to 100 feet aal. At this point, there was no longer sufficient thrust from the engines to overcome the drag of the aircraft and further speed loss continued as the aircraft drifted to the left of the runway centreline until successive stall warnings were activated and it then stalled from a left turn and, having departed controlled flight, impacted the ground in an extreme nose-low attitude. It was established that both engines had been operating and delivering low or flight idle power at the point of impact and that the propellers had not been feathered. The Investigation established that when the engines