decelerated. That resulted in excessive drag in such critical phase of ascent lowering the required thrust. The investigation was unable to determine the reason for the reduced thrust.. The flight crew did not maintain the airspeed above the stall speed and there was insufficient height available to recover when the aircraft departed controlled flight.. In addition the following Contributory Factors were also identified: The flight crew did not maintain V2 during the climb and so (that) the power required to maintain level flight was greater than it would otherwise have been.. The flight crew did not maintain the runway centreline which removed the option of landing the aircraft on the remaining runway. A total of fifteen Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the findings of the Investigation all aimed at supporting a general improvement in the safety regulation and management of aviation in Nepal. Three Interim Recommendations were issued on 29 November 2012 as follows: that the Operators and the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal must ensure that their respective weighing machines at the check in counter of all the airports are calibrated regularly by the appropriate authority of the Government of Nepal.. that the Operators and the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) must ensure that all the hand bags and checked baggage, especially when carried to and from STOL airports, are weighed and tagged with their weight mentioned in the respective tags before they are boarded, and load and trim sheets of all the departing aircrafts are prepared by qualified CAAN-authorised airline personnel.. that the Flight Safety Standards Department at the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, ensures that all Dornier 228 aircraft flying in Nepal are checked to confirm that the flight idle fuel flow of their engines has been set in accordance with the AMM and POH.. A further twelve Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal reviews its training requirements in relation to engine malfunctions at or near V1 to ensure that they are adequate for commercial pilots flying aircraft for which training is currently not carried out in a flight simulator.. that Sita Airlines Pvt. Ltd reviews the policy that prevents pilots from landing on the remaining runway following an engine malfunction just after V1.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal reviews the training requirements for airline personnel responsible for the loading of aircraft to ensure there is confidence that aircraft (is) dispatched properly loaded.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal reviews the suitability of the average weights used for passengers on flights within Nepal and modifies them if necessary.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal carries out periodic checks of aircraft loadsheets to ensure they have been completed correctly and accurately.. that Sita Air Pvt. Ltd ensures that passengers on its flights are given safety briefings before departure in accordance with FOR-Aeroplanes and its Operations Manual.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal monitors airlines within Nepal to