of the accident aircraft had been installed, the mandatory Aircraft Maintenance Manual check of Flight Idle fuel flow with the Speed Lever set to low during an engine ground run had not met the minimum permissible figure of 96.5 ±0.5%. Instead, the recorded figure had been 90%, within the Operator's own engine ground run performance check requirement for the flight idle fuel flow check to result in an engine rpm of “approximately 88%”. It was also found that there was no record of any airborne flight idle fuel flow check having been carried out by the operator in accordance with the procedure detailed in the Pilots Operating Handbook (POH). It was noted that “this lower than required rpm would result in a lower than required fuel flow rate which would result in higher drag from an engine at flight idle” and that “it could also result in the in-flight flight idle rpm dropping below 100% rpm with the Speed Lever remaining in high”. However, it was not possible to determine the potential effect of this on the trajectory of the accident aircraft. It was found that pilot training in aircraft handling, including loss of engine power and asymmetric flight, was carried out on the aircraft rather than in full flight simulator, so that control of an aircraft near V1 on the ground or at low altitude after take off could not be practised. The actual take off weight of the aircraft was calculated, using standard passenger weights, to have been 5914 kg whereas the load and trim sheet completed and accepted prior to the flight showed 5834 kg, just within the RTOW for the flight of 5,836 kg - less than the 6200 kg MTOW for the aircraft because of the effect of density altitude on aircraft performance due to Kathmandu airport being at an altitude of 4390 feet amsl. However, after comparing the actual climb performance of the aircraft with that achieved, the Investigation was satisfied that “overloading alone was not the cause of the lack of performance in the climb phase”. Also, whilst it was found that the trim sheet for the flight had recorded incorrect positions for the aircraft centre of gravity, it was established that this had not resulted in an out-of-trim condition. It was noted that the response of the airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services to the crash site was delayed because “Army personnel were blocking the route to the exit and personnel manning the exit required permission to unlock the gates to let the fire vehicles pass”. It was also noted that “once on public roads, the vehicles were delayed further by the weight of traffic and a crowd of people near the impact site”. The Investigation was unable to determine the cause of the low power which led to the loss of control but did identify the following Causal Factors: During (the) level flight phase of the aircraft, the drag on the aircraft was greater than the power available and the aircraft