Many memory aids are simple aphorisms used to remember certain principles. West is best, East is least – for applying magnetic variation to True tracks and bearings.. UNOS – Undershoot North, Overshoot South – to compensate for the lagging and leading action of compasses during turns.. Rules of thumb are common, although not always correct! From High to Low, look Below! – this applies to the effects on an altimeter when either pressure and/or temperature change to a lower value. In both cases the altimeter will be over-reading.. Multiply groundspeed by 5 – to calculate the rate of descent required to fly a 3 degree glideslope.. General rejoinders to “pay attention” and/or “prioritise”. Aviate, Navigate, Communicate – priorities in emergency and unusual situations.. Fly attitude' - a reminder that a pilot should gain familiarity with the aircraft type pitch attitude at various flight phases.. Pitch, Power, Performance” – priorities when executing a go-around.. Airlines tend to “design” their own memory aids to assist pilots in dealing with uncertain situations – problem-solving and decision-making. DECIDE – Detect, Estimate, Choose, Identify, Do, Evaluate (for a more detailed description visit Choice).. DODAR – Diagnose, Options, Decide, Act, Review.. T-DODAR - Time, Diagnose, Options, Decide, Act, Review.. SAFE - State the problem, Analyse the options, Fix the problem, Evaluate the result.. Some memory aids concern behaviour and professionalism. IMSAFE – self-checking for ability to operate: Illness, Medication, Stress, Alcohol, Fatigue, Eating.. Look, Think, Act – a general reminder to avoid reactive and instinctive behaviour.. Some memory aids apply as constant reminders that improve situational awareness. CRAFT – Clearance, Routing, Altitude, Frequency, Transponder. MEA – Minimum, Expected, Assigned – assuring oneself that the cleared altitude/flight level is safe.. Checklists are often remembered through mnemonics and acronyms, however, these will be specific actions for a particular type of aircraft. FLARE – Flaps, Lights, Auxiliary fuel pump, Radar transponder on, Engine mixture – example of after take-off checklist.. CIGAR – Controls, Instruments, Gas, Attitude (trim and flaps), Run-up – example of before take-off checks.. Briefings for all phases of pre-flight, flight and post-flight often follow set patterns to ensure all details are included. Pilots will use memory aids to achieve this, either written checklists or a mental hook. However, due to the importance of a comprehensive briefing in enhancing safety, pilots will more often use a written checklist, and in many cases this can be a requirement of the airline. For instance, a pre-descent briefing will need to cover many subjects: weather, top of descent position, descent profile, navigation, instruments, communication, terrain, approach, missed approach, diversion, responsibilities and crew tasks, contingency plans etc. Making an acronym to cover all this is not only difficult, but will expose pilots to memory and procedural errors.