difference. On the night, several individuals as well as their counterparts on other occasions acted as though the conduct of various external aircraft inspections was someone else’s responsibility; in fact, all had separate, key roles in detecting problems with the aircraft before departure. Had all such inspections been conducted diligently it is very likely that the pitot probe covers would have been seen and subsequently removed. Most of these problems could have been resolved with better communication. Nevertheless, the working environment allowed errors and miscommunications to occur and propagate because individual responsibilities and work processes were not well-defined. For flight crew, the occurrence also highlights the importance of vigilance, communications and decision-making in adverse circumstances. Had the flight crew reacted more quickly, the take-off could have been rejected at low speed. Flight crews need to bear in mind the typical symptoms associated with unreliable airspeed on take-off in order to detect this situation as early as possible and reject the take-off if still safe. If uncertain of the aircraft’s proximity to the decision speed when an anomaly is detected, Airbus flight crews should immediately apply full take-off thrust and attain 15° pitch attitude when they feel that the aircraft is close to the rotation speed to maximise aircraft performance. However, the flight crew’s delayed response vividly illustrates the falsity of the assumption that flight crews will always act as expected. Accordingly, the contribution of aircraft warning and indication systems design, combined with flight crew training and guidance, must be considered. Flight crews need to have information presented in a way that the importance of an adverse event, and possibly the right decision, is immediately apparent. From an organisational perspective, the occurrence shows how inconsistent approaches between multiple interacting organisations can have safety implications that are hard to predict. As the ATSB has stated before, it is important to ensure that procedures are harmonised to increase the likelihood that potential problems or mistakes are detected before causing harm. Local variations to procedures should be formalised to reduce the risk of the inconsistent completion of tasks, and to improve the organisation’s ability to identify and address potential safety concerns. In addition, with operators increasingly relying on external engineering and ground handling support, the ATSB encourages anyone in the aviation industry to identify procedural problems for review and enhancement. The 165 page Final Report was released on 16 March 2022. Following the publication of a Preliminary Report on 30 August 2018, a series of “Updates” on progress were then issued prior to this Final Report.