A Serious Incident Investigation into the event was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data was obtained from the FDR and the CVR as well as recorded data from both ATC data and Brisbane Airport CCTV. It was noted that the Captain, had been employed by Malaysia Airlines for 25 years, had a total of 14,411 hours flying experience which included 555 hours on type after transferring from the operator’s Boeing 737 fleet in May 2017. Exercising the privileges of his Air Transport Pilot Licence (ATPL) was restricted by the requirement that he must fly only as or with a Co-Pilot. The First Officer had a total of 6,544 hours flying experience which included 4,582 hours on type. He had been employed by the operator since 2009, initially on the Boeing 737 before transferring to the Airbus A330 fleet in 2011. Both pilots had arrived in Brisbane two days earlier and had an adequate rest period which precluded any fatigue. The Malaysia Airlines’ LAE who performed the “transit check” on the aircraft prior to its departure from Brisbane had qualified 18 years previously after serving an apprenticeship with the airline. The contracted “Support Engineer” who was also involved in preparing for the flight’s departure was also recorded as having 18 years experience as a LAE. The “Leading Hand” and “Despatch Coordinator” employed by Menzies Aviation, Malaysia Airlines’ contracted ground handling agent at Brisbane, were both trained and experienced in respect of the Airbus A330 aircraft type. After the aircraft had arrived at Brisbane approximately three hours earlier, the operator’s contracted “support engineer” at Brisbane placed covers on the aircraft’s three pitot masts. These covers were not removed during the subsequent inspections prior to departure, including the one performed by the Captain of the aircraft. The attempt to take off with these covers still fitted meant that no airspeed indications were available to the pilots and this was displayed to both pilots once the actual speed exceeded 50 knots. No attempt to reject the takeoff was made and it was continued until the aircraft became airborne after a 45 second takeoff roll. Shortly after this, the crew made a PAN call on the TWR frequency but the controller did not hear it and instead instructed the flight to change frequency. On doing so, the PAN call was repeated and responded to. The climb was continued to FL110 and the aircraft was then manoeuvred at that level whilst performing various actions which included shutting down all three air data systems. The latter automatically activated a safety function called the Back Up Speed Scale (BUSS) which displayed a ‘safe flight envelope’ on the pilots’ PFDs in place of airspeed tape or red flag (see the illustration below). By use of this system and associated airspeed management procedures, the flight was then positioned onto an approach. With all air data systems shut down, normal landing gear extension was not available and a free fall extension was used and a landing