The First Officer “did not announce an intention to maintain a certain thrust setting or pitch angle” but did subsequently report having maintained maximum continuous thrust (MCT) (which was the same thrust lever detent as that for the ‘FLEX’ takeoff and one setting below TOGA) and initially limited the pitch to 12.5° in order to reduce the risk of a tail strike. CVR data showed that the PM Captain had not confirmed or announced any deviations from the pitch attitude and thrust settings listed in the memory items of the Unreliable Airspeed procedure. Airborne. The First Officer maintained control in manual flight (having advised in response to the Captain’s query that the AP was inoperative and the second of the First Officer’s PAN calls was responded to. The aircraft was levelled off at FL110 and the First Officer obtained an ATC clearance to remain there to allow troubleshooting to be undertaken. At this time, various changes to the configuration of the Air Data Reference (ADR) systems were made and after the Captain had taken over as PF, all three ADRs were switched off. This led to the activation of the Back Up Speed Scale (BUSS) which thereafter provided a good substitute for missing PFD airspeed tape. Some relatively minor complications resulted from this including the need for manual control of cabin altitude, the substitution of pressure altitude with GPS altitude, the need for free-fall landing gear extension and a prohibition on use of the spoilers and speedbrakes. The controller asked the crew about their intentions and when they advised that they had no airspeed information, he responded with an offer to pass groundspeed information by providing regular groundspeed updates, which was accepted. The Captain commenced descent and the crew agreed on an ILS approach to runway 01 with a 20 mile final approach. Aware that Operator policy required the Captain to fly the approach and landing in “abnormal situations”, the pilots discussed the matter and the Captain concluded that it was better for him “to effectively monitor and manage the unfamiliar situation personally” therefore delegate the PF role to the First Officer who in any case had significantly greater experience on the A330. The subsequent approach and landing were completed without any further or unexpected complications. In the absence of airspeed data, flap and gear limiting speeds were unavailable during both initial climb and approach and subsequent calculations using airspeed estimates based on groundspeed, wind data, and atmospheric data indicated that the maximum flap extension speed was most likely exceeded by up to 14 knots during the climb through 4,000 ft, and by up to 5 knots during the descent through 7,500 ft. It was concluded that the maximum landing gear extension speed was probably not exceeded and in both cases, the required precautionary inspections did not subsequently identify any damage. It was also confirmed from FDR data that at no point in the flight had the aircraft approached an aerodynamic stall condition. An extensive analysis of all the factual