findings was performed and the principal conclusions were encapsulated in the extensive list of “contributing factors” reproduced below. Perhaps the most telling aspect of the event was that the aircraft was allowed to take off when ample opportunity to reject the takeoff was available. It was observed that the PM Captain failed to assertively announce the presence of the speed indication problem or clearly specify its nature which delayed the First Officer’s response. As the speed continued to increase, it was concluded that “limited coordination between them had reduced their capacity to interpret the situation and make a decision early enough to safely reject the takeoff”. It was also apparent that the prescribed responses to unreliable airspeed in the air do not assist the identification of and response to an unreliable (or absent altogether) airspeed during the takeoff roll for one or both pilots given the reliance on a cross-check at, in this case, the relatively high speed of 100 knots. A total of 21 Contributing Factors were formally documented based on the findings of the Investigation. Ten of these were classified as Safety Issues and are identified as such: In the absence of clear instruction or guidance, the Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia support engineer fitted pitot probe covers to the aircraft shortly after its arrival, as was done for some other airlines to mitigate the threat of wasp infestation. Later, the engineer left to perform tasks on another aircraft and did not return to the aircraft prior to its departure as intended.. Due to miscommunication or error, a Technical Log entry was not made following the fitment of pitot probe covers. As a result, when the Technical Log was reviewed prior to flight, the presence of pitot probe covers was not detected.. The Malaysia Airlines engineer saw the pitot probe covers fitted to the probes during the transit check, about 2 hours before departure, and intended to ask the support engineer to remove them. However, associated with the limitations of prospective memory, the operator’s engineer subsequently did not remember to do so.. The Captain did not expect, or detect, the presence of the pitot mast covers during their pre-flight exterior inspection (walk-around). They did not include a number of the required check items, including the right side pitot mast and looked at the left side pitot mast area (only) briefly.. The Malaysia Airlines engineer did not perform a final walk-around inspection of the aircraft, including a check for pitot mast covers, as required by the transit check that the engineer had certified as complete. The engineer assumed that the walk-around would be completed by the support engineer and/or ground handlers.. The Menzies Aviation person assigned as dispatch coordinator for the aircraft handed over that duty to another person immediately before pushback, and neither person conducted the required dispatch walk-around. This was the last procedural opportunity to identify the presence of pitot mast covers before the flight.. The aircraft was released for flight with covers fitted to all three pitot