followed after approximately an hour airborne. The main landing gear doors, which do not retract after a free fall gear extension, were slightly damaged by runway contact and nose wheel steering was not available. The aircraft therefore remained on the runway until a tow to the designated gate could be arranged. Only after an engineer boarded the aircraft after landing did the crew realise the reason for the lack of any airspeed indications. The ‘BUSS’ which replaces the PFD airspeed tape when Air Data Systems are off. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation made a comprehensive examination of the circumstances which enabled this sequence of events to occur. Arrival of the aircraft and initial ground activities. CCTV showed the aircraft arriving at its assigned gate from Kuala Lumpur three hours prior to the scheduled flight departure time (STD) of the return flight which would be operated by a different flight crew. It was noted that artificial lighting in the area where the aircraft was parked “provided good visual conditions, particularly around the forward part of the aircraft”. CCTV footage showed that the ground handling contractor Menzies Aviation did not perform an “arrival walk round” in accordance with their contract with the airline. The airline’s Brisbane-based LAE arrived at the airport after about 40 minutes and began the “maintenance transit check” required by the operator. After a further 15 minutes, another LAE from “Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia” (AMSA), a contractor used by the airline to escort the company LAE and support him in respect of non-certifying tasks as required, arrived at the aircraft and fitted covers to the three pitot masts. He stated that he had then been to the flight deck and informed the company LAE of his action but noted they had “not acknowledged what had been said” or made a corresponding entry in the Technical Log whilst he was still there. Although he stated that he “normally expected” such an acknowledgement, he had not questioned this. The company LAE, who was only temporarily covering Brisbane for the second of two consecutive daily turnrounds, did not recollect the support engineer advising of covers being fitted and added that he was “unaware of the common and recommended practice for the use of pitot mast covers at Brisbane” on account of a local problem with wasps entering pitot masts. Engineering Activities. The support engineer facilitated LAE access to the apron (required because he did not have a local security pass) and was instructed by them to add oil to the engines and the hydraulic system. The company LAE then conducted the external inspection component of the transit check during which CCTV showed that he had shone a torch on the area of the two left side pitot masts for about four seconds whilst walking towards the nose of the aircraft. He then appeared to look at the area where the right side pitot mast was located. The company LAE reported noticing that these covers were fitted to the aircraft and