Airlines risk assessment for the recommencement of operations into Brisbane had numerous errors and omissions that potentially reduced its effectiveness.. Although Malaysia Airlines identified the potential risk of pitot mast obstruction by wasps at Brisbane, and decided to address the risk with the use of pitot mast covers, it did not effectively communicate risks and required actions between departments and follow them through to completion.. Malaysia Airlines’ processes for the management of change did not follow recommended industry practices, and its risk and change management processes were not detailed and clear enough to assure: the appropriate level of involvement of subject matter expertise and safety groups. ­ that risk controls were implemented and monitored. [Safety Issue]. the appropriate level of involvement of subject matter expertise and safety groups.. ­ that risk controls were implemented and monitored. [Safety Issue]. Safety Action taken in respect of the event was noted to have included, in summary only, the following which addressed most of the detailed Safety Issues detailed in the Final Report: Malaysia Airlines: ­ added procedures requiring the placement of a placard on the flight deck as a visual alert for flight crews when pitot probe covers are fitted ­ made changes to engineering arrangements at Brisbane, reducing the likelihood of error ­ published a flight safety bulletin to flight crew about vigilance during walk-rounds ­ made numerous changes to the change and risk management processes.. ­ added procedures requiring the placement of a placard on the flight deck as a visual alert for flight crews when pitot probe covers are fitted. ­ made changes to engineering arrangements at Brisbane, reducing the likelihood of error. ­ published a flight safety bulletin to flight crew about vigilance during walk-rounds. ­ made numerous changes to the change and risk management processes.. Airbus: ­ implemented additional flight crew training standards about unreliable airspeed on takeoff, including walk-rounds, airspeed monitoring, systems knowledge, and non-technical skills ­ added guidance to the flight crew techniques manual on the importance of airspeed monitoring on take-off ­ commenced a review of airspeed indications in A330 and other aircraft types.. ­ implemented additional flight crew training standards about unreliable airspeed on takeoff, including walk-rounds, airspeed monitoring, systems knowledge, and non-technical skills. ­ added guidance to the flight crew techniques manual on the importance of airspeed monitoring on take-off. ­ commenced a review of airspeed indications in A330 and other aircraft types.. Menzies Aviation implemented improvements to its internal auditing programme.. In conclusion a series of Safety Messages based on the Investigation Findings included the following: At first glance, an observer might be puzzled as to how multiple checks can fail to detect the fitment of pitot mast covers before flight, or how a flight crew can complete a take-off without any valid airspeed being displayed. This occurrence illustrates how a range of individually straightforward factors can combine to nullify multiple critical safety barriers. For all individuals working in the aviation industry, the occurrence shows that coordination and diligence can make a