masts, preventing the air data systems from measuring airspeed.. There was limited and ineffective communication between the Captain and First officer in response to the speed flag on each of the primary flight displays (which appeared at about 50 knots groundspeed during the takeoff). This significantly reduced their coordination and capacity to interpret the situation with the limited time available.. While independently trying to diagnose a rare and unfamiliar problem during takeoff, the flight crew experienced high cognitive workload, time pressure, and stress. This reduced their capacity to effectively interpret the situation and make a decision early enough to safely reject the takeoff.. The Airbus guidance provided in the flight crew techniques manual and other manuals for assisting A330 flight crews to decide whether to continue or reject a take-off did not discuss unreliable airspeed indication scenarios. [Safety Issue]. In the Airbus A330, there was no auditory alert associated with nil or unreliable airspeed from two or more sources during take-off (a high workload, critical phase of flight). Comparatively, other critical failures provide both visual and auditory indications. [Safety Issue]. Although suitable for use in most situations, the streamers attached to the pitot mast covers supplied and used for A330 operations by Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia provided limited conspicuity due to their overall length, position above eye height and limited movement in wind. This reduced the likelihood of incidental detection of the covers, which is important during turnarounds. [Safety Issue]. Some Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia (AMSA) engineers extended the use of pitot probe covers (to mitigate the threat of wasp infestation) to operators that did not explicitly require it, including Malaysia Airlines. This increased the likelihood of error associated with the use of pitot mast covers because AMSA engineers were not controlling the engineering activities and were not permitted to make Technical Log entries. [Safety Issue]. Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia did not have a reliable method to account for tooling and equipment (such as pitot mast covers) prior to aircraft dispatch when providing non-certifying engineering support. [Safety Issue]. Menzies Aviation staff did not consistently carry out the required arrival and pre-departure aircraft checks of Malaysia Airlines aircraft, and Menzies Aviation audit processes were not effective at evaluating compliance with these requirements. [Safety Issue]. Malaysia Airlines flight crew and engineers did not fully complete the required aircraft inspections. [Safety Issue]. Malaysia Airlines did not clearly specify the division of engineering responsibilities between Malaysia Airlines and Aircraft Maintenance Services Australia engineers at Brisbane, leading to ambiguity with regard to who should conduct the final walk-around portion of the transit check. This risk was increased by the operator commencing and continuing flights to Brisbane with interim ground handling and engineering arrangements that varied from usual industry practice. [Safety Issue]. Malaysia Airlines did not develop and disseminate guidance and procedures about the use of pitot mast covers to flight crews and engineers, and there was limited awareness among those groups of the need for pitot mast covers at Brisbane Airport. [Safety Issue]. The Malaysia