stated that he had intended to talk to the support engineer about them but had then forgotten to do so. About an hour later, refuelling supervised by the company LAE, which took about half an hour, commenced. On its completion, both engineers returned to the flight deck and the company LAE passed the fuel uplift note to the flight crew and certified in the Technical Log that the transit check was complete. The support engineer asked the LAE if there were any further tasks required and was told that they were no longer required. Both engineers left the flight deck at 2246. The company LAE then took the cabin seat he had been assigned for his positioning flight back to Kuala Lumpur. It was found that there was no arrangement, formal or informal, for the support engineer to remain with the aircraft and he had returned to the office with some paperwork before going to assist some colleagues at another aircraft. He stated that he had intended to return to the Malaysian aircraft but was then assigned a rectification task on the other aircraft. By the time he was able to return, the aircraft had already departed. It was noted that the Malaysia Airlines transit check requirements included another inspection, an “engineering pre-departure walk-around inspection”, which was intended to ensure (among other things) that pitot mast covers had been removed and all doors and hatches were secured just prior to departure. The support engineer reported that they had understood from their tasking as provided by the company LAE that the pre-departure walk-around would be done by the ground handlers since they were responsible for despatch whereas the company LAE stated that they had assumed that the support engineer was responsible for dispatch coordination and would conduct the final walk-around. Both engineers agreed that the company LAE had not instructed the support engineer to perform a final walk-around nor had he asked about it. Flight Crew Pre Flight Activities. The two pilots arrived at the aircraft about an hour and 10 minutes prior to the STD shortly before refuelling began. No outstanding defects of relevance to the forthcoming flight were found in the Technical Log. It was agreed that the First Officer would be PF for the flight which meant that the Captain was responsible for checking that the gear pins and pitot covers were all in the flight deck stowage provided and for conducting the external pre flight check. It transpired that pitot covers “were not routinely carried with the operator’s aircraft and were not carried on this occasion” with both pilots subsequently stating that they had not seen pitot mast covers in use in any normal flight operations and had not been advised of their exceptional use in Brisbane. The Captain commenced his external inspection about 25 minutes prior to the STD and was recorded on CCTV briefly shining a torch over one of the left side pitot masts. He did not inspect the right side of the nose