and at interview “did not recall seeing any pitot covers fitted”. The Investigation considered the Captain’s “walk-around path, torch use (particularly dwell time on check items) and total time taken” as likely to have “omitted many of the required check items (and) was conducted without due attention”. Following the Captain’s return to the flight deck, the pilots compared their V speed calculations and agreed that the V1 was 153 KIAS and the VR as 160 KIAS. The First Officer then called for the Before Start checks which the Captain commenced by what on the CVR sounded like “gear pitot covers” but could also have been “gear pins and covers”. The First Officer immediately responded to this with “removed”’. Dispatch and Taxi. Ten minutes prior to STD, the main passenger door was closed and the airbridge retracted. The ground handling contractor had a team of their employees under the control of a ‘leading hand’ to deal with all non-engineering aspects of the departure and take responsibility for coordinating the dispatch. However, the assigned leading hand was found not to have received any operator-specific training and “believed that they were not qualified to perform coordination of the dispatch”. For that reason, it was found that just before the aircraft was due to depart, they had arranged for another Menzies ground handler from another Menzies team to coordinate the dispatch. According to the recollection of both individuals, the leading hand had asked if the new coordinator was “good to do the headset”’ and received a “thumbs up” signal. It was noted that Menzies procedures required the assigned dispatch coordinator to conduct a final walk-around before departure but the leading hand had not advised the newly assigned dispatch coordinator that a dispatch walk-around of the aircraft had not yet been conducted. The dispatch coordinator reported having assumed that as the aircraft appeared to be ‘ready to go’ at the time of the handover - the airbridge had been removed, the tug was connected and its driver was in the cab - the walk around had already been done. CCTV evidence confirmed that no ‘dispatch walk-around’ had been conducted and the dispatch coordinator put on their headset for communication with the flight crew and with the leading hand waited near the nose gear for pushback to be approved. The CVR recorded the First Officer asking the dispatch coordinator to confirm that ground checks were complete and received an affirmative response. Pushback then commenced two minutes ahead of the STD. The tug driver could not see the pitot mast locations as seated and the leading hand remained close to where the nose gear had been and “appeared to look in the general direction of the aircraft for about 18 seconds before turning to take equipment away from the bay”. The dispatch coordinator walked alongside the nose gear until the pushback was complete and would not have been able to look behind and above towards the location of the pitot masts. However, when the dispatch coordinator subsequently