stood back on the left hand side of the aircraft to show aircraft nose gear steering pin to the Captain as required (and recorded on CCTV) the left side pitot mast covers and their streamers would have been visible to him. During the relatively short subsequent taxi for a full-length take-off from runway 01, the pilots “were mostly engaged in conversation that was not pertinent to the flight” although this was terminated about three minutes before takeoff commenced. Takeoff. Because of very light surface wind speed, it was considered that the recorded groundspeed was probably very similar to airspeed, especially for the first 1,000 feet, so it was used as an approximation to airspeed during the flight. A rolling reduced thrust takeoff was commenced and at 42 knots, the Captain called thrust set. At this point, both PFDs should have had an airspeed reading which by design is active above 30 knots but there was none and at 50 knots, red speed flags appeared on both PFDs where the speed indication should have been and almost immediately, the Captain was recorded on the CVR as saying “ah, speed, speed” which was taken to indicate that he was aware of a speed indication problem. There was no response from the PF until the Captain was recorded making the Airbus standard 100 knot call which is required as a cross check of the two pilots’ airspeed indications. Over the next 5 seconds, both pilots clearly recognised the absence of their airspeed indications but no stop call was made by either and acceleration continued with the First Officer calling “go to ADR 3” and the Captain responding with “okay”. Fifteen seconds after the Captain had called 100 knots, the calculated V1 was passed and three seconds later, the First Officer initiated rotation. Calls of “positive climb” from the Captain and “gear up” from the First Officer followed as height increased through around 120 feet agl. Both pilots subsequently stated that they had not been aware of a “speed anomaly” until 100 knots - and the Captain did not recall making the 100 knot call. Recorded data showed that both PFDs continued to show red speed flags until rotation was tentatively commenced when one or both PFDs displayed the airspeed tape with an erroneous airspeed close to the minimum displayable speed of 30 knots. It was suspected that both displays had, for a while, then “intermittently transitioned between unrealistically low airspeeds and the red speed flag” and that possibly such transitions between successive one-second data points may have appeared as ‘flickering’. The First Officer reported that he had commenced rotation by judging the aircraft position relative to the end of the runway (and possibly by also referencing the groundspeed display). It was noted that a normal rotation involves increasing pitch towards 15° until lift-off, the same action as required by the memory items of the ‘Unreliable Speed Indication’ Checklist (which was not called for). These items also require thrust to be set to TOGA.