knob (on the FCU Control Panel) will command the aircraft to conduct a smooth level off to zero vertical speed”. It was considered that “it is possible that the reason the PF did not push the V/S-FPA knob is that this action is rarely required in normal operations whereas reselecting a flight level is a routine activity”. In respect of resolving discrepancies of view on clearances, it was noted that the Operations Manual Part ‘A’ required that, as had happened in this case, they should be resolved “with ATC and not between crew members” -, although in this instance, ATC clarification was not sought until after the PM had initially asked the PF to “level off” without giving a reason, an intervention which it was considered had temporarily confused the PF “as he was evidently unsure why it was made”. It was concluded that at the time of the occurrence, “the aircraft was still at an altitude where careful consideration should have been given to the aerodynamic handling aspects of high altitude operations” and that “industry recommendations are that consideration should always be given to aircraft energy management and the careful manipulation of flight controls (with) large and/or abrupt manual flight control inputs … avoided”. It was also concluded from the available CVR evidence that “the Flight Crew did not appreciate the effects of what seemed to them (even afterwards), a reasonable control input” when attempting to comply with their ATC clearance. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the incident was that “an abrupt manual pitch input resulted in higher than usual g forces being experienced by the Cabin Crew Members”. It was further determined that there were two Contributory Causes: The ATC Flight Level clearance was not immediately recorded when received.. Unclear communication between the Flight Crew when confusion arose over the cleared flight level.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Aer Lingus should review its training programs and procedures to ensure that its flight crew are familiar with the use of levelling off procedures and the risks associated with manual flight control input during high altitude operations. [IRLD2014012]. The Final Report was published on 27 May 2014.