instructions”. Accordingly, it was deduced that “Team Resource Management (TRM) training needs to be improved so that.... controllers… fully cooperate with each other”. It was noted that although in many other countries, MVAs are published, in Japan this is not so. The poor cooperation between the two pilots in respect of situational awareness as the incident situation developed was discussed. It was concluded that both pilots had recognised that the aircraft was flying east toward a mountainous area on the given radar heading and were reluctant to do it. It was considered “highly probable that they did not talk about the situation with each other”. It was considered highly probable that at the time of the TAWS activation, both had selected the WXR mode on their ND because of the prevailing bad weather but noted that if either of them had selected the ND terrain mode, it is possible that they would have detected the ground proximity risk sooner. It was also considered that “since the First Officer had selected the optional Vertical Situation Display (VSD) on his ND, it is probable that with effective CRM in action, proximity to the terrain so close as to lead to a TAWS activation would not have occurred. It was noted that the First Officer had stated to the Investigation that “he had a belief that a First Officer should play his/her part in a modest manner without violating other’s turf in the cockpit and that the important decisions are left to the PIC”. It was concluded that this might well explain why the First Officer had not given any useful advice to the PIC in this incident. However, it was noted that in the Crew Resource Management training previously completed by both pilots, they had been urged to “speak openly without hesitation”, and “frankly state your view”, and instructed that “speaking openly at an earlier stage leads to preventive actions”. Whereas when the aircraft was vectored toward the mountainous area and directed to descend to a lower altitude, neither pilot had “expressed their views openly or talked about the situation with each other”. It was concluded that “they did not fully practice what they had learned in the CRM training”. The Investigation does not appear to have directly considered the question of awareness or otherwise on the part of either pilot of the applicable MSA in the area where the incident occurred or their primary responsibility for maintaining safe separation from terrain. The Probable Causes of the Serious Incident were determined by the Board as follows: It is highly probable that this serious incident occurred because the aircraft experienced a ground proximity and its flight crew took an emergency manoeuvre (in) response to EGPWS warnings during its descent toward its destination aerodrome, Asahikawa Airport, under the ATC instructions.. It is probable that the ground proximity occurred because: the Radar Controller instructed the aircraft to descend below the MVA without confirming it its flight crew did not question the Radar Controller on the