An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten but DFDR and ATC R/T recordings were available and a successful download from the non volatile memory (NVM) in the TAWS unit was achieved. It was noted that although thirteen “busier” Japanese airports had been provided with Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) prior to the investigated event, this system was not installed at Asahikawa. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF. It was noted that the PF had only recently qualified as a commander on the aircraft type but had some prior experience as a First Officer on the type. By contrast, the First Officer was considerably older than the PF and had accumulated a great deal more total and type flying experience. It was found that as the aircraft had descended in IMC in accordance with a clearance to 5000 feet under ACC radar vectors, the forward-looking element of TAWS had generated a ‘Caution Terrain’ Alert as the aircraft reached approximately 6800 feet and was approximately 3200 feet above terrain below the aircraft. This had been quickly followed by a “TERRAIN, PULL UP” Hard Warning after which a climb was immediately commenced and the turn which was in progress towards a new radar heading was stopped. When the warning ceased with the aircraft 2200 feet above terrain, the pitch attitude was relaxed slightly whilst the climb was continued and the turn was resumed. However, within 30 seconds of the first PULL UP Warning beginning, another one occurred, this time generated by the TAWS Mode 2 function indicating an excessive terrain closure rate. The pitch attitude was again increased and the proximate terrain again remained unseen. It was subsequently established that on this second occasion, the aircraft had come to within as little as 655 feet of terrain in the vicinity of Mount Pippu which has a summit elevation of 7208 feet. The track and vertical profile of the aircraft in the period during which the warnings were generated is shown in the two Illustrations below taken from the Official Investigation Report for the part of the flight where the TAWS Warnings were generated. The track of the flight showing the two periods when it was below MVA whilst under radar control are shown in the diagram below also taken from the Official Report. It was established that the aircraft had been under ACC radar control inbound to destination and that the controller involved had ‘forgotten’ about the applicable NMVA of 10,000 feet amsl when issuing a descent clearance to 5000 feet amsl on a radar heading which would be guaranteed to take the aircraft towards terrain with tops up to around 7500 feet amsl. It was considered that as the Coordinator supporting the incident controller’s position had not noticed the error either, “it is possible that lack of effective cooperation between the Radar Controller and (their) Coordinator led to their failed correction of the inappropriate descent