of the event were confirmed by the Irish Meteorological Service as having been conducive to at least moderate turbulence and concluded that "ice crystals were likely to have been present at the time the incident occurred and at the levels at which the incident occurred" and that they "would have been the predominant water phase”. In respect of the likely size of water droplets also present, they noted that the available evidence suggested they would have been "large" and therefore capable of detection using aircraft weather radar. Boeing noted that the recorded SAT at FL235 had been -37º C and that the aircraft had probably flown through "a small cold core thunderstorm" which had significant ice crystal content present in its core. The Investigation noted that that the aircraft type involved benefited from 'Grandfather Rights' in respect of its airworthiness certification and was not required to comply with the current FAA standard for pitot probe ice protection which has extended the definition of icing conditions requiring system protection to include convective cloud ice crystal conditions. In respect of Human Factors, the following were considered: CRM and in particular the apparently limited extent of any meaningful communication between the two pilots once a problem had manifested itself.. The likely effect of startle or surprise on the First Officer's clearly inappropriate response to the sudden drop in his indicated airspeed. It was noted that "given the reliability of modern aircraft and their systems, pilots are rarely exposed to failures and malfunctions, and may become conditioned to an expectation of normality during everyday operations" so that "sudden, serious events may elicit a startle response" during which "pilots’ perception and reaction to certain sudden failures or instrument displays may not be appropriate" and may lead to the affected individual "focusing […] on the causal stimulus to the exclusion of other events taking place […] such as warnings, alerts and communications".. the circumstances which may encourage ineffective pilot use of airborne weather radar which it was considered had been the case in this event.. the possible effects of the 'window of circadian low' as relevant to the event.. The considerable history of inappropriate flight crew response to the sudden onset of one or more unreliable airspeed indications attributed to ice crystal icing or other causes was noted during the Investigation and a number of these events were explicitly identified, including: the 1996 unrecovered loss of control of a Boeing 757 after a night departure from Lima, Peru when all pressure-dependent flight instruments were giving false readings because the static ports still covered by tape after repainting.. the 2005 temporary loss of control of a Boeing 717 in the USA after the crew failed to notice that thrust was reducing after the engine inlet pressure sensors iced up because the engine anti icing was not on.. the 2009 continued night take-off of a Boeing 757 from Accra Ghana with a known airspeed discrepancy which led to crew confusion after unsuccessful attempts to deal with the fault