An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. Data from the FDR were successfully recovered but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten because its CB had not been tripped. It was noted that "the non-availability of the CVR denied the Investigation the opportunity to fully understand the cockpit environment at the time of the occurrence and to accurately account for the communications, discussions and actions of the Flight Crew as they responded to the unfolding events". The Investigation noted that United Airlines' Manuals in respect of access to recorders and the tripping of the CVR CB after a Serious Incident did not correspond to the requirements of ICAO Annex 6. It was noted that "the Commander initially appeared to be unaware of his obligations with regard to the requirements and conduct of a safety investigation in a foreign state". However, "following a briefing from an AAIU Inspector", the Commander provided a verbal statement and the First Officer provided "a frank, verbal, statement", both of these being obtained on board the aircraft shortly after its arrival in Dublin. The 59 year old Captain informed the Investigation that he did not keep a logbook but stated that he had accumulated around 32,000 total flying hours. United Airlines were able to provide details of his hours whilst in their employment and these included 8,769 hours on type. The 43 year old First Officer had accumulated 12,010 total flying hours which included 5,384 hours on type. The First Officer was PF for the investigated flight. It was established that whilst descending towards destination at 300 KCAS and 1500 fpm and passing approximately FL250, with the seat belt signs already selected on, turbulence had been encountered and shortly afterwards, precipitation had been entered. The First Officer stated that "when the turbulence subsided" he noticed a very low indicated airspeed on his instrument display and "believing that the aircraft was about to stall, immediately pushed the control column forward and applied full power without disengaging the autopilot or autothrottle". He stated that following this, his airspeed “went back up into the normal range”, but as soon as he began to raise the nose and reduce power, “it went back into a stall - or the indications of a stall” and he had "commenced a second pitch down manoeuvre". It was then ascertained that (only) the First Officers airspeed indication was false and so the Captain had taken control and returned the aircraft to normal flight. When the First Officer’s airspeed indications returned to normal, he had handed control back. At this time, an EICAS indication of a loss of hydraulic pressure in the centre hydraulic system was seen and the relevant checklist was actioned. A report was received from the cabin that the excursion from normal flight had resulted in "minor impact injuries" being sustained by some passengers and some members of the cabin crew. ATC were advised that as a result of an encounter with "severe turbulence" medical assistance was required on