during the climb.. the 2009 unrecovered loss of control of an Airbus A330 when there was a very brief period of loss of airspeed indications in the cruise at night due to ice crystal icing.. the 2009 temporary loss of control of a Boeing 767 when the crew responded to a faulty airspeed display without realising that only one display was faulty.. The significant Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The aircraft flew through, or close to, an area of convective cloud activity, in which ice crystals were the predominant water phase. Although prior to this, the Flight Crew reported that they had observed nothing more than light precipitation on the weather radar display, the convective weather in the vicinity should have been visible on the weather radar if it had been appropriately adjusted.. Following a short period of air turbulence, the First Officer noticed that his airspeed indication was low and concluded - on that basis alone - that there was a real loss of airspeed caused by the turbulence and that the aircraft was in danger of stalling. He then carried out what he termed was a “stall recovery manoeuvre” of his own volition which involved lowering the aircraft nose of the aircraft and increasing the engine power. He did not use the prescribed Standard Call “Max thrust, stow speed brake”, at the commencement of this action, and the Commander was unaware that the pitch down was being made because the First Officer believed that the aircraft was stalling. The First Officer then observed a second reduction in airspeed on his display and in response made further pitch down inputs. During these manoeuvres the aircraft exceeded Vmo by 30 KCAS.. Following these manoeuvres, it was recognised that there was a problem with the First Officer's airspeed indication and the Commander took over as PF and recovered the aircraft to normal flight path control.. The actions of the First Officer in response to the sight of a sudden drop in the indicated airspeed on his display may be attributed to ‘startle effect’.. It is probable that the loss of airspeed indicated on the First Officer's ASI was caused by a temporary blockage of the right main pitot probe by ice crystals. At the time the B757 received its Type Certificate the possibility of ice crystal icing was not considered. However, the event occurred at an altitude and temperature that was within the Ice Crystal Icing envelope which current certification requirements require to be considered in respect of Airspeed Indicating Systems.. Although the United Airlines ‘Stall Recovery’ and ‘Unreliable Airspeed’ checklists both included the instruction to disconnect the AP and the A/T, both remained engaged throughout the upset whereas disconnecting them may have assisted the Flight Crew in analysing the status of the aircraft.. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the event was "non-standard Flight Crew response to an unreliable low airspeed indication resulting from a temporary blockage of the right main pitot probe due to ice