arrival because some passengers had been injured. AFS attendance was also requested because of the loss of the centre hydraulic system. The remainder of the flight was subsequently completed without further event. However, on inspection it was found that the aircraft had sustained "significant damage" to the structure of the centre hydraulic system servicing bay which had led to the indicated loss of system pressure (see the illustration below). One cabin ceiling panel was also found to have been impact-damaged during the event. Minor injuries were found to have been sustained by 13 passengers and four of the cabin crew. The Investigation obtained written statements from both pilots. It was noted that the Captain "made no mention in any of his reports, of any communications between himself and the Co-Pilot regarding the manoeuvres performed by the Co-Pilot during the event". The Co-Pilot stated that he had mistaken the overspeed warning which had occurred during the event for a stall warning. Neither pilot reported noticing the EICAS 'IAS DISAGREE' Alert during the event or the Master Caution annunciation which would have accompanied it. It was considered that although the FDR had no record of this, the recording of such activation was only sampled on a discrete basis every 64 seconds so "it is probable that (such an Alert) was generated". It was noted that previously investigated unreliable airspeed events had also found that pilots' "have not recognised" this annunciation. FDR data showed that the rate of descent during the First Officer's intervention had briefly reached 12,000 fpm. Airspeed had reached 380 KCAS (30 knots above the AFM Vmo), pitch attitude ranging between -4.4º and -16.2º and the maximum negative 'g' loading had reached -0.36g. Control column pitch inputs had begun around 2 minutes after the initial encounter with turbulence which had all but ceased prior to the onset of a series of abrupt thrust lever and control column inputs, which had then lasted about 20 seconds. The AP and A/T were recorded as having remained engaged throughout. The airspeed had remained above Vmo for most of a period lasting just over a minute and the Master Caution activated by the 'IAS DISAGREE' Alert had annunciated for just over 20 seconds. Boeing was reported to have noted that since the event had been an "unreliable airspeed" occurrence it should have triggered the corresponding response detailed in the QRH. They also considered that the aircraft had "behaved as expected" in response to the control inputs and control surface deflections. United Airlines stated that the crew had recently completed a self study portion of the "Continuing Qualification Training Programme" which covered unreliable airspeed events. However although Boeing stall guidance was found to direct pilots to initiate the Approach to Stall or Stall Recovery manoeuvre as published in the QRH, United Airlines informed the Investigation that their QRH did not contain Stall Recovery procedures which were instead provided in the "Operator’s Flight Manual". Weather conditions in the vicinity of descent flight path at the time