that fumes were still present in the flight deck. After a brief exchange with both the [SCCM] and the attending ground staff, the captain made a PA announcement saying “Attention, Attention, this is the Captain, disembark the aircraft immediately” as per the option specified in [company standard operating procedures] separately from an emergency evacuation. Following this announcement, most passengers exited the aircraft using the left side doors at the front and rear of the cabin but passengers in the emergency exit seat rows opened the overwing emergency exits and “approximately 32 passengers disembarked onto the aircraft wings” of which half then used the corresponding escape slides. … It was noted that Airbus Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) does not include reference to “rapid disembarkation” and the procedure which the captain followed had been formulated by the airline. … The third edition (2017) of the IATA Cabin Operations Safety Best Practices Guide was noted to include … a suggested procedure which stressed that the announcement used to initiate a rapid disembarkation “should be different from the (emergency) evacuation command.” B773, Paris CDG France, 2013 — On 28 July 2013, with passengers still boarding an Air France Boeing 777-300, an abnormal “burnt” smell was detected by the crew and then thin smoke appeared in the cabin. The captain and the relief co-pilot left the flight deck to look for the source of the smell. Soon afterwards the cabin crew member at door 3D/G contacted the flight deck and reported to the remaining pilot that there was “a smell of sulphur in the area of door 5,” adding that passengers at the rear of the cabin seemed worried and were asking questions about the origin of the smell. On return to the flight deck, the captain decided to order an evacuation of the aircraft. Detecting “the onset of panic,” the chief flight attendant [SCCM] made a PA asking passengers to remain in their seats. Cabin crew at doors 3 and 4 armed the evacuation slides and those at doors 3G, 4 and 5 — then explained to relevant passengers their role as facilitators in the event of an evacuation. The ramp area manager then contacted the [flight] crew and reported that smoke seemed to be coming from the APU [auxiliary power unit], which prompted the crew to shut it down. Then, forty-five seconds after his initial PA, the captain made a further PA [ordering:] “Cabin crew, this is the cockpit, evacuate the passengers via the doors, only via the doors.”