A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Recorded data was successfully recovered from the aircraft CVFDR and from Air Traffic radar and voice communications, CCTV and video. CVFDR data ended as the aircraft overran the end of the runway - it was equipped with an impact switch designed to stop it in the event of an accident. The air traffic recordings included TCAS downlink data for an incident on approach from the accident aircraft and altitude information for a microlight during which the accident pilot observed and avoided the microlight in the Blackbushe circuit. This data was separately available to a resolution of 25 feet. This information, in conjunction with an examination of the accident site and the runway, enabled a comprehensive reconstruction of the final stages of the accident flight. It was found that the 57 year-old pilot had 11,000 total flying hours including 1,181 on the accident aircraft type. He had been employed by the aircraft operator as a Phenom 300 pilot since 2011. Prior to this employment, he was found to have worked as a flying instructor and as a Cessna 560XLS pilot and, for one year only, as a pilot on an airline-operated Airbus A320. On the morning of the accident, he had travelled from his hotel to Blackbushe in order to position the aircraft to Milan, collect the three passengers and convey them to Blackbushe. It was noted that according to his family, he had been "in good health both mentally and physically" before leaving the hotel that morning. The Saudi Arabian-based company which employed the pilot operated the accident aircraft privately for its owner and had a second Embraer Phenom 300 in its fleet. Between them, these two aircraft were found to have visited Blackbushe on 35 occasions in the year prior to the accident with the accident pilot flying on almost half of these visits. However, it was noted that "most of the destinations to which the Phenom 300 aircraft flew were large international airports in Europe and the Middle East" and "analysis of FDR data for both Phenoms showed that visual circuit arrivals were rare and seldom occurred other than at Blackbushe", an aerodrome which was outside controlled airspace, without any instrument approach procedures and with air traffic service provided by Flight Information Service (FIS) rather than ATC. It was further noted that although the operator was not subject to any regulatory requirement to operate under the same level of documentation as a commercial operator, it had "several features of a commercial transport undertaking, including an Operations Manual and Standard Operating Procedures". A reconstruction of the final stages of the accident flight established that in benign weather conditions, the aircraft had joined the visual circuit for runway 25 at Blackbushe on the crosswind leg before entering the downwind leg outside a much slower microlight aircraft expecting to extend downwind to allow it to land first. Subsequently, after disconnecting the AP and with the awareness of the other pilot and