approach policy which stated that "if a stabilised approach cannot be achieved before descending below the minimum stabilised approach heights, immediate action will be taken to execute a missed approach or go-around".. In respect of the earth bank at the end of the paved surface, the accident runway was not long enough for the regulatory requirements for the presence of a RESA to apply, so its presence was permissible.. Although since the accident flight had been private and there was therefore no regulatory requirement for it to use a licensed aerodrome or for rescue and fire fighting cover to be available, Blackbushe aerodrome was licensed and provided Category 2 RFFS cover which would have been sufficient for a commercial transport flight by an aircraft such as the one involved.. The delay to AFS arrival at the accident site despite the proactive alert given was attributable to a locked gate which was not mentioned on related briefing. This omission was contrary to national Licensing of Aerodromes provisions which include a requirement to fully detail the procedures for an emergency response within 1000 metres of each runway threshold.. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: "The pilot was appropriately licensed and experienced, and had operated into Blackbushe Aerodrome on 15 previous occasions. He was reported to be physically and mentally well. The aircraft was certified for single-pilot operations and the pilot was qualified to conduct them. The engineering investigation of the accident aircraft did not find evidence of any preexisting technical defect that caused or contributed to the accident. The meteorological conditions were suitable for the approach and landing and, at the actual landing weight and appropriate speed, a successful landing at Blackbushe was possible. HZ-IBN joined the circuit at a speed and height which would have been consistent with the pilot’s stated plan to extend downwind in order that the microlight could land first. The subsequent positioning of HZ-IBN and the microlight involved HZ-IBN manoeuvring across the microlight’s path, in the course of which the first of several TCAS warnings was generated. After manoeuvring to cross the microlight’s path, HZ-IBN arrived on the final approach significantly above the normal profile but appropriately configured for landing. In the ensuing steep descent, the pilot selected the speedbrakes out but they remained stowed because they are inhibited when the flaps are deployed. The aircraft’s speed increased and it crossed the threshold at the appropriate height, but 43 KIAS above the applicable target threshold speed. The excessive speed contributed to a touchdown 710 metres beyond the threshold, with only 438 metres of paved surface remaining. From touchdown, at 134 KIAS, it was no longer possible for the aircraft to stop within the remaining runway length. The brakes were applied almost immediately after touchdown and the aircraft’s subsequent deceleration slightly exceeded the value used in the aircraft manufacturer’s landing performance model. The aircraft departed the paved surface at the end of Runway 25 at a groundspeed of 83 knots. The aircraft collided with