it rolling through almost 350°before coming to rest on top of the detached wing, still largely intact. The first signs of fire could be seen almost immediately and the fire quickly became intense, consuming most of the aircraft. The AFISO had initiated a full emergency as the aircraft touched down, because he felt that “it was clear at this time that the aircraft was not going to stop”. However, the arrival of the AFS at the crash site was delayed by access difficulties and by the time they arrived the post crash fire was intense and any attempt at life-saving intervention was impossible. No evidence was found during the post mortems carried out on the four occupants of any injuries not related to the fire that could have caused or contributed to their deaths. The Investigation noted that the unstabilised approach had followed a change of plan in respect of the order of approach relative to the microlight aircraft which was already in the circuit when the accident aircraft arrived crosswind. There were clear indications of the initial situational awareness of the accident aircraft's pilot who had initially envisaged extending the downwind leg of his circuit to allow the microlight to land to prevent a conflict and satisfy the relevant rules. By joining the circuit overhead the runway, he had "maximised the time available to configure the aircraft, reduce speed and height, and manoeuvre towards the final approach within the airspace constraints". It was only after the microlight pilot's proposal to extend downwind and let the jet in first in response to an AFISO transmission saying “I’m not sure how this is going to work", that the accident aircraft pilot accepted the offer to position number 1 "after the contrary plan had been proposed and agreed". It was considered that "if an air traffic control service had been in place at Blackbushe, a suitably-qualified controller could have issued appropriate instructions to resolve the potential conflict, instead of relying on the suggestion of one of the pilots involved". Thereafter, as the consequences of this change of plan unfolded, the workload of the accident aircraft pilot rose which would have required him to "make rapid changes to his mental model". Multiple aural inputs and the need to make avoidance manoeuvres created a high-workload situation "in the course of what was already a more than usually demanding approach". It was considered possible that in these circumstances the pilot had "fixated on his initial strategy (landing) and lacked the mental capacity to recognise that the approach had become unstable and should be discontinued". It was also considered that the absence of a response to the AFISO transmission informing the pilot that he could land was "consistent with the pilot’s workload having reached a point at which he could no longer process his aural environment or perceive critical information". Other aspects of the accident circumstances identified included: The fact that the continuation of the approach to an attempt at landing had breached the Operator's stabilised