the Blackbushe AFISO, the microlight had been overtaken by climbing slightly to pass ahead of and above it. However, at approximately 1,000 feet aal as this climb began, a TCAS 'DESCEND' RA had been triggered by proximity to that aircraft. This was ignored and separation was maintained visually by continuing the climb. The RA then changed to 'Maintain' and then 'Adjust' Vertical Speed, possibly because of another light aircraft which was tracking southwards to the east of Blackbushe. The relative positions of the three aircraft at the time of these two TCAS RAs are depicted on the annotated diagram of aircraft tracks below. Following this climb over the microlight, the accident aircraft then flew a curved base leg onto final whilst descending at up to 3,000 fpm. As it passed 1,200 feet aal and the TCAS 'Clear of Conflict' was annunciated, the aircraft was 1.1 nm from the landing runway threshold at 146 KIAS with the landing gear down and flap 3 selected. The tracks of the accident aircraft and the two proximate aircraft annotated with their relative positions when the accident aircraft's second and third TCAS RAs were triggered [Reproduced from the Official Report] From there it continued its approach to 500 feet aal at an average of around 150 KIAS and an average of around 3,000 fpm. Passing 1,125 feet aal, the first of six TAWS 'PULL UP' Warnings were annunciated. The speed brakes were selected out at 675 feet aal but this had no effect since their deployment is inhibited when the flaps are extended. Passing 500 feet aal the descent rate was still 2,500 fpm and although the aircraft crossed the Runway 25 threshold at approximately 50 ft aal, this occurred at 151 KIAS compared to the calculated applicable target threshold speed of 108 KIAS. The aircraft floated and finally touched down 710 metres beyond the displaced runway threshold at 134 KIAS from which position, it was estimated that the landing ground roll required to stop the aircraft would have been at least 616 metres when only 349 metres of the promulgated landing distance remained. Deployment of the ground spoilers and application of the brakes occurred almost immediately. When the aircraft reached the end of the runway paved surface, its groundspeed was 83 knots. In the second before the end of the CVFDR data, "both thrust levers were recorded as having been advanced from the idle position and the spoilers had started to close". After departing the paved surface at the end of the runway slightly to the left of the extended centreline, the aircraft collided with a low earth embankment which led to the loss of the nose landing gear and doors and the aircraft briefly becoming airborne again before colliding with a group of unoccupied parked cars in a right wing low attitude before finally stopping about 70 metres beyond the earth embankment. CCTV evidence of the impact sequence showed that the separation of the entire left wing from the fuselage had led to