Because the title of this Article is “Managing Socio-Cultural Diversity”, we need to ask the questions – why manage it, and how do we manage it? Are there any positive attributes of socio-cultural diversity? If so, then shouldn’t these be encouraged rather than managed? Should we ignore diversity, tolerate it, reduce it, eliminate it, or increase it? If we aim to “neutralise” diversity in cultures, then is a mono-culture so desirable, what’s so good about that? This last question might be an easier one to answer – in today’s global business and social world, not a lot! After all, it is easy to see how an organisation and workplace that consists of employees from the same socio-cultural background is less likely to be creative, less likely to make people ask questions, more likely to become complacent and more likely to blindly shift along a risky path. Certainly in terms of global business, such an organisation is less likely to resonate with the market place and keep pace with progressive ideas from “outside”, be they safety or business orientated. Of course, the answer is not so simple. Culturally diverse workplaces are now common-place in aviation, perhaps more so in the Cabin and on the Flight Deck than the hangar floor (although it is reasonable to consider that engineers and air traffic controllers will only become more mobile in the future). So, like any change, new environments need to be accepted and understood, risks identified and measures taken to manage those risks. That is – manage the risks and not the differences. Therefore, it is worth adding something more positive to this equation, something that often gets overlooked, and that is - identifying the positive benefits of a diverse workplace culture and learning how to harness them for improvements in safety and efficiency. The following quote from a paper written by D. L. Van Dyke for the RAeS Montreal Branch[1]. sums it up nicely:Cultures have extraordinary capacity to create cohesiveness, to nurture growth and to give identity. Cultures provide norms that allow the diversity of mankind to coexist but they can also restrain flexibility, narrow scope and obstruct necessary change. International airlines are cultivated to traverse political, ethnic and social boundaries while offering products and services of uniform quality regardless of market setting. Knowledge of cultural influences can be leveraged to mitigate risk, contain costs and improve corporate effectiveness. Surprisingly, these noteworthy aspects of organisational behaviour are often overlooked or their effect underestimated. So, aiming to adapt positively to Socio-Cultural Diversity is probably a healthier, and more realistic, attitude to adopt than aiming to just manage!