In addition to the specific causes of barrier failure, there are many other factors that can contribute to MAC or influence its likelihood. The influences include: Traffic conditions. This includes the traffic density, complexity, mixture of aircraft types and capabilities etc.. ATCO performance. This includes fundamental issues such as workload, competence, teamwork, procedures, commitment etc, as well as the influence of ANSP safety management on these.. Flight crew training and corporate culture. This includes the same fundamental issues as for ATCOs, and the influence of aircraft operator safety management.. ATC systems. This includes systems such as flight data processing, communication, STCA etc, as well as the interaction with the human operator and the aircraft systems, and the procurement policy of the ANSP.. Aircraft equipment. This includes aircraft systems such as autopilots, transponders and ACAS, but also aircraft performance (e.g. rate of climb) and their physical size.. Navigation infrastructure. This includes the coverage and quality of navigation infrastructure.. Surveillance. This includes the coverage and quality of surveillance systems.. Flight plan processing. This includes the efficiency and reliability of flight plan submission, approval and distribution.. Airspace. This includes the quality and complexity of airspace design, route layout, extent of controlled or uncontrolled airspace, proximity of military operational or training areas etc.. Weather. This includes the occurrence of IMC conditions, storm activity and other turbulence that may influence conflict management and collision avoidance.. Key influences (common-causes) that may affect several barriers at once include: ATCO performance. This is critical for tactical conflict management and ATC collision avoidance, but may also influence flight crew performance, and hence airborne collision avoidance. An example occurred in the Überlingen accident, where the pilot incorrectly prioritised late ATCO instructions over an ACAS RA.. Flight crew inappropriate response to an ACAS RA, or mishandling of a response to an ACAS RA.. Common information sources. Any information downlinked from the aircraft to the ATC is a potential source of common cause failures. For example, if the aircraft location is supplied by Mode C to both ACAS and ATC surveillance, any failures in the transponder or inaccurate height information will affect tactical conflict management, STCA and ACAS warning. This may also occur for aircraft without transponders or where a military aircraft is part of a formation and not transponding Mode C. This may leave see & avoid as the only available barrier..