search and evacuation of the buildings should be done. This task becomes more complicated due to the unknown number of people in the buildings.. Sightseers should be kept as far away from the area as possible.. Rescue personnel should prohibit smoking and take precautions to eliminate other sources of ignition.. Fuel leaks are very likely to occur thus further complicating the situation e.g. by contaminating the waterways. Efforts should be made to minimize such events and to notify the respective authorities.. Fires may be widely separated and may spread rapidly because of scattered fuel, severed gas lines, damage to electrical systems, etc.. Water crashes Fire extinguishing and rescue operations may be extremely challenging as fuel can spread over the water. If practical, a blanket of foam may be applied to the area where the fuel is spread. RFFS personnel should consider the possibility of fuel rising to the surface and coming in contact with the engines that are still hot which can cause a fire. RFFS personnel should be aware of the possibility that aircraft wreckage may be floating because of air trapped inside. In such cases, opening a hole above the water level could let the air free and cause the wreckage to submerge before the rescue is complete. Therefore such wreckages are best approached below the water level. Depending on factors such as age and physical condition, hypothermia may prove lethal in a matter of minutes. Therefore, specialized equipment (e.g. flotation suits, wet suits, etc.) are required for rescue operations in cold weather. Air boats are the best alternative for aircraft accidents in swamps, marshes and tidal flats when neither boats nor most vehicles can be used.. Fire extinguishing and rescue operations may be extremely challenging as fuel can spread over the water.. If practical, a blanket of foam may be applied to the area where the fuel is spread.. RFFS personnel should consider the possibility of fuel rising to the surface and coming in contact with the engines that are still hot which can cause a fire.. RFFS personnel should be aware of the possibility that aircraft wreckage may be floating because of air trapped inside. In such cases, opening a hole above the water level could let the air free and cause the wreckage to submerge before the rescue is complete. Therefore such wreckages are best approached below the water level.. Depending on factors such as age and physical condition, hypothermia may prove lethal in a matter of minutes. Therefore, specialized equipment (e.g. flotation suits, wet suits, etc.) are required for rescue operations in cold weather.. Air boats are the best alternative for aircraft accidents in swamps, marshes and tidal flats when neither boats nor most vehicles can be used..