General information: No severe damage or fuselage break-up; High percentage of survivors;. No severe damage or fuselage break-up;. High percentage of survivors;. Considerations and specifics in RFFS procedures: RFFS personnel should consider the possibility of fuel fires despite the aircraft being relatively intact Occupants are likely to be able to extricate themselves and leave the aircraft on their own Regardless of the above, it is possible that people are trapped and/or severely injured and are unable to move RFFS personnel should initiate extrication procedures only after donning full protective clothing and self-contained breathing apparatus Handline teams should back up rescue personnel for protection from a flash fire.. RFFS personnel should consider the possibility of fuel fires despite the aircraft being relatively intact. Occupants are likely to be able to extricate themselves and leave the aircraft on their own. Regardless of the above, it is possible that people are trapped and/or severely injured and are unable to move. RFFS personnel should initiate extrication procedures only after donning full protective clothing and self-contained breathing apparatus. Handline teams should back up rescue personnel for protection from a flash fire.. Two typical examples of low impact crashes are belly landings and ditches. A belly landing (also known as wheels-up landing) is a planned event in which the flight crew makes a controlled emergency landing on the ground. This situation is usually caused by a gear or hydraulic failure. Considerations and specifics in RFFS procedures: Scraping along the ground may cause rupture of fuel lines and tanks, therefore application of 'foam carpet' before landing should be considered. Friction generates large amounts of heat and may produce sparks. Occurrence of fires is not uncommon but also not inevitable. Suppression efforts to minimize ignition are extremely urgent. RFFS personnel should consider the fact that it is almost impossible to maintain control of the aircraft and it may veer off the runway. Also, the place where the aircraft comes to rest is uncertain. RFFS apparatus should be staged safely away from the aircraft to avoid being hit. The aircraft should be pursued after it has passed staged vehicles. In case a fire occurs, an aggressive attack to keep the fire from the fuselage (especially at the exits) is critical for the safe evacuation of survivors.. Ditching is a planned event in which the flight crew knowingly makes a controlled emergency landing in water. The crew usually has enough time to plan their actions and to alert the rescue agencies. Considerations and specifics in RFFS procedures: Injuries are usually minor. Saving occupants from drowning may be a significant challenge for RFFS personnel. If properly organized, rescue vessels and personnel, trained in water rescue are very effective in such cases. Fire is unlikely to occur..