A number of factors (that can otherwise be considered safe or irrelevant) can contribute to an event if combined in a certain way. The most common of these are: Transfer too early – this leads to a controller providing ATS in another controller's airspace for a relatively long period of time while not having the tools, competence or situational awareness required. Possible consequences: Receiving an aircraft on the frequency gives the controller the ability to vary the point of boundary crossing a lot. This may create a conflict in the transferring controller's airspace that the transferring controller might not think were even possible. Depending on system implementation it is possible that some tools (e.g. MTCD) only work within the area of responsibility. Therefore, system support for conflict detection before the aircraft crosses the boundary may be limited. The receiving controller might not have the necessary competence to provide ATS within the transferring controller's airspace. They may not be familiar with the local peculiarities (e.g. hot spots). The receiving controller may not be fully aware of the situation in the transferring controller's sector (e.g. activated special use areas, aircraft without transponders, military aircraft, etc.). Receiving an aircraft on the frequency gives the controller the ability to vary the point of boundary crossing a lot. This may create a conflict in the transferring controller's airspace that the transferring controller might not think were even possible.. Depending on system implementation it is possible that some tools (e.g. MTCD) only work within the area of responsibility. Therefore, system support for conflict detection before the aircraft crosses the boundary may be limited.. The receiving controller might not have the necessary competence to provide ATS within the transferring controller's airspace. They may not be familiar with the local peculiarities (e.g. hot spots).. The receiving controller may not be fully aware of the situation in the transferring controller's sector (e.g. activated special use areas, aircraft without transponders, military aircraft, etc.). Transfer too late – generally, an aircraft is supposed to be transferred 1-2 minutes before crossing the boundary. For various reasons however, it is possible that the transfer took place exactly over the boundary or even after passing it. Possible consequences: Sometimes the hotspots in a sector (especially in [Free Route Airspace]] environment) are too close to the boundary. Transferring an aircraft too late may limit the options of the receiving controller to solve a conflict. Transferring an aircraft after crossing the boundary is also a situation when a controller provides ATS in an airspace they are not supposed to, similar to the transfer too early situation. In case of poor radio coverage, it is possible that the transfer of communication cannot be effected thus leading to a loss of communication (and possible separation infringement in RVSM airspace).. Sometimes the hotspots in a sector (especially in [Free Route Airspace]] environment) are too close to the boundary. Transferring an aircraft too late may limit the options of the receiving controller to solve a conflict.. Transferring an aircraft after