There are different levels of service provision for air to ground radio communications at uncontrolled aerodromes. These range from no service to provision of an Air/Ground radio service to an Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS) or Flight Service Station (FSS) with the nomenclature varying by country. The procedures associated with the various levels of service are as follows: No ground services: As indicated above, a common traffic advisory frequency is in use at aerodromes that do not have a specific frequency assigned. In the UK it is currently 135.475MHz whilst in Canada, 123.2 is used. The frequency is normally used within 5-10 NM and/or up to 1000 ft above the traffic circuit at the aerodrome in question but this is variable by both airport and country. Aircraft should announce their position and intentions at the normal reporting points using the callsign “traffic” after stating the name of the aerodrome at which they are operating. For example "Kingston Traffic".. Air/Ground radio service: Air/Ground (A/G) radio is the most basic form of radio ground station you will encounter at an aerodrome. The operator of an air/ground radio may provide traffic and weather information to pilots operating on and in the vicinity of the aerodrome. Such traffic information is based primarily on reports made by other pilots. The safe conduct of the flight remains the pilot’s responsibility as the radio operator has no power to issue clearances or instruct aircraft either in the air or on the ground.. The normal callsign is “Radio” after the station name. When operating in the A/G environment, the basic principle is that aircraft announce their position and separate themselves from other aircraft in accordance with the Rules of the Air and any published aerodrome procedures. Only carry out a manoeuvre (such as taxiing, take-off or landing) if you are satisfied if it is safe to do so and will not conflict with other traffic. AFIS or FSS: The Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS) and the Flight Service Station (FSS) are essentially a Flight Information Service provided at an aerodrome. It is a higher level of service than A/G radio; however it remains fundamentally a source of information rather than control. Generally, they will pass more comprehensive information on traffic than an A/G station would. In the UK, AFIS do issue mandatory instructions to aircraft and vehicles on the ground, up until aircraft pass a runway holding point. In Canada, FSS will accept flight plans and can relay IFR clearances to aircraft on the ground or in flight. The normal callsign for a FFS is "radio", for example "Resolute Radio" whilst for an AFIS it is “Information”, for example “Duxford Information”. In both environments, it remains a pilot responsibility to be satisfied that every action is safe and to announce their position and intentions while operating at the aerodrome..