Aerodrome Air Traffic Service (ATS) from a remote position is facilitated by the streaming in real time of the view from an assembly of fixed and moveable high definition digital video cameras situated at the remotely controlled aerodrome. This encrypted signal is used to replicate a view of the aerodrome and its vicinity onto a 360° LCD screen which is equivalent to reality but arguably better than the sector-limited view which would exist from a Visual Control Room on the aerodrome. Fixed cameras provide the main display and any necessary supplementary ones such as ramp close-ups and there are also one or more moveable cameras which can be directed as required from the RTS position replicating the way binoculars might be used in a conventional Tower. This visual situational awareness for the controller or flight information service operator is supplemented by a range of environmental sensors and microphones capturing sound and meteorological or other operational data. The system also easily facilitates a switch in ATS between ATC and FIS if required. Whilst the initial focus has been on day VMC operations, night and low visibility operations can also be supported with the installation of additional sensing equipment and use of infrared or night-vision lenses and three dimensionally-augmented reality overlays. If the circumstances justify it, an A-SMGCS can be installed to complement the RTS visual display available at the RTS location. On 3 July 2015, EASA issued guidance material on the implementation of ATS using a RTS for the single airport case only. This notes the criticality to an RTS of the means of communication between the location where ATS is being provided and the place where it is being provided from. The importance of ensuring redundancy needs, especially if these communications rely on a third party provider, is stressed. The AMC includes separate lists of 'operational hazards' for RTS provision of aerodrome ATC and FIS and their operational effects a well as a checklist for RTS implementation approval. Ongoing work by EUROCAE WG-100 to develop a Minimum Aviation System Performance Specification (MASPS) for the visual presentation which RTS requires is noted and related Guidance Material has also been issued by EASA under Part ATCO in respect of the training and licensing of controllers who are to work in RTS positions. Despite the currently-restricted scope of the EASA AMC, it is widely envisaged that some of the benefits of RTS may derive from its provision at more than one aerodrome from a single remote location, in which case that location is described as a Remote Tower Centre (RTC). Such an arrangement provides considerable flexibility, both pre-planned and ad hoc, in the provision of air traffic service in areas with a number of relatively low-traffic aerodromes or where the requirement for the provision of ATS may be unpredictable - diversions, SAR or civil State aircraft use for example.