assumed by the airport authority at some airports and by the airlines at other airports. For Air Canada operations at Halifax, the airline was responsible. However, it appeared that the airline had no prior plan in place to meet its responsibilities and a significant delay in inclement weather conditions resulted.. Some aspects of the Airport Operator's emergency response were compromised by the unreliability of the airport's standby electrical power system which became apparent in the aftermath of the accident.. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: Air Canada’s standard operating procedure (SOP) and practice when flying in flight path angle guidance mode was that, once the aircraft was past the final approach fix, the flight crews were not required to monitor the aircraft’s altitude and distance from the threshold or to make any adjustments to the flight path angle. This practice was not in accordance with the flight crew operating manuals of Air Canada or Airbus.. As per Air Canada’s practice, once the flight path angle was selected and the aircraft began to descend, the flight crew did not monitor the altitude and distance from the threshold, nor did they make any adjustments to the flight path angle.. The flight crew did not notice that the aircraft had drifted below and diverged from the planned vertical descent angle flight profile, nor were they aware that the aircraft had crossed the minimum descent altitude further back from the threshold.. Considering the challenging conditions to acquire and maintain the visual cues, it is likely the flight crew delayed disconnecting the autopilot until beyond the minimum descent altitude because of their reliance on the autopilot system.. The approach and runway lights were not changed from setting 4 to setting 5; therefore, these lights were not at their maximum brightness setting during the approach.. The system to control the airfield lighting preset selections for brightness setting 4 was not in accordance with the NAV CANADA Air Traffic Control Manual of Operations requirement for the omni-directional approach lighting system to be at its brightest settings.. The limited number of visual cues and the short time that they were available to the flight crew, combined with potential visual illusions and the reduced brightness of the approach and runway lights, diminished the flight crew’s ability to detect that the aircraft’s approach path was taking it short of the runway.. The flight crew’s recognition that the aircraft was too low during the approach would have been delayed because of plan continuation bias.. The aircraft struck terrain approximately 740 feet short of the runway threshold, bounced twice, and then slid along the runway before coming to a rest approximately 1900 feet beyond the runway threshold.. At some time during the impact sequence, the Captain’s head struck the glare shield because there were insufficient acceleration forces to lock the shoulder harness and prevent movement of his upper body.. The First Officer sustained a head injury and serious injury to the right eye as a