continue with the approach". On arrival at Halifax, the weather was not good enough to commence an approach and the flight entered the hold with around 50 minutes holding time available. After about 25 minutes, the visibility improved to 800 metres in moderate and drifting snow with a vertical visibility of 300 feet. The wind was virtually unchanged and from 350° at 20-26 knots and the crew decided that an approach could and should be made. Clearance was given and the approach was commenced with AP1 and A/T engaged and with a manual landing to follow in the event of a successful approach. As the aircraft levelled off at 2,200 feet QNH (300 feet below the procedure platform) with about 8 nm to go, the TWR controller requested snow ploughs on the runway to vacate the runway. As the aircraft reached the procedure FAF defined by a DME distance from the far end of the runway, the PF selected FPA mode and set -3.5° on the V/S-FPA knob (the chart VDA was -3.08)°. As indicated on the diagram below, the aircraft began its descent slightly early - 0.2nm prior to the FAF - and thereafter remained below and slowly diverged from the vertical profile relative to the runway compared to a -3.5° descent commenced at the exact FAF position. The Investigation noted that in the FPA guidance mode, the aircraft is susceptible to perturbations which, if not compensated for by manual corrections to the FPA, could alter the flight profile. If such perturbations are present during an approach and flight crews are following Air Canada’s practice, flight crews could be unaware of their effect on the selected flight path. An auto (radio height) callout of "400" was followed almost immediately by the calculated MDA of 813 feet QNH at 1.2nm from the runway threshold. Descent continued with no calls until, with about 1 nm to go to the threshold, the PM "observed some approach lights" and called 'Minimum, lights only' "to which the PF responded immediately with 'Landing'” and reported having seen some approach lights. By this time, the aircraft had descended through the published (chart) MDA of 740 feet QNH and had reached this point 0.3 nm earlier than the published distance. The AP remained engaged as the aircraft continued descending and there was no reduction in the descent rate. The pilots confirmed to each other that they could both "could see some approach lights" and 20 seconds after the "400" auto callout had occurred, "the landing lights were selected ON, followed in very quick succession by the PF disconnecting the autopilot, an automated call of “100,” an automated call of “50,” and the PM instructing to pull up". The aircraft then severed an electrical power cable that ran perpendicular to the runway and thus caused a loss of electrical power to the airport terminal building. About 1 second before the first ground impact, the PF selected the thrust levers to TO/GA and simultaneously selected his side-stick to the