will not be moved from an accident site in a timely manner.. If organisations do not practise transporting persons from an on-airport accident site, they may be insufficiently prepared to react appropriately to an actual accident which may increase the time required to evacuate the passengers and crew.. Fifteen Other Findings were also formally documented as follows: The (Cabin) Service Director assessed the evacuation flow as good and determined that there was therefore no need to open the R1 door.. The flight attendants stationed in the rear of the aircraft noted no life-threatening hazards. Because no evacuation order had been given, and deplaned passengers and fire fighters were observed walking near the rear of the aircraft in an area where the deployment of the rear slides may have created additional hazards or risks, the flight attendants determined that there was no requirement to open the L2 and R2 doors.. Although Transport Canada required the dual-exit drill to be implemented in training, it did not require all cabin crew to receive the training before an organisation implemented the 1:50 ratio.. At the time of the accident, neither the Service Director nor the flight attendants had received the dual-exit training, nor were they aware of the requirement for such training in order for Air Canada to operate with the exemption allowing 1 flight attendant for each unit of 50 passengers.. Although Transport Canada had reviewed and approved Air Canada’s Aircraft Operating Manual and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), it had not identified the discrepancy between the Air Canada SOPs and the Airbus Flight Crew Operating Manual regarding the requirement to monitor the aircraft’s vertical flight path beyond the final approach fix when the flight path angle guidance mode is engaged.. A discrepancy in the Halifax International Airport Authority’s standby generators’ control circuitry caused the 2 standby generators to stop producing power.. Air Canada’s emergency response plan for Halifax/Stanfield International Airport indicated that the airline was responsible for the transportation of passengers from an accident site.. Air Canada’s emergency response plan did not identify the airport’s Park’N Fly minibuses as transportation resources.. The Halifax International Airport Authority’s Emergency Response Plan did not identify that the airport Park’N Fly mini-buses could be used to transport the uninjured passengers, nor did it provide instructions on when and how to request and dispatch any transportation resources available at the airport.. The Air Canada Flight Operations Manual did not identify that the required visual reference should enable the pilot to assess aircraft position and rate of change of position in order to continue the approach to a landing.. In Canada, the minimum visibility that is authorised by the operations specification for non-precision approaches does not take into account the type of approach lighting system installed on the runway.. It is likely that, during the emergency, a passenger activated the L1 door gust lock release pushbutton while trying to expedite his or her exit, which allowed the door to move freely.. The passenger seatbacks were dislodged because the shear