fully nose-up position. One of the left main landing gear wheels made contact with an approach light which was located 260 metres from the runway threshold and almost immediately after that, the main landing gear, aft lower fuselage and left engine cowling struck the snow-covered ground of the embankment which sloped up towards the runway. The aircraft then struck the LOC antenna and then briefly continued airborne before striking the ground twice more and then sliding along the runway, coming to a stop approximately 580 metres beyond the threshold of the 3,200 metre-long runway. By this point, all electrical power to the aircraft had ceased and normal cabin lighting had been replaced by the automatically activated emergency lights. No evacuation order was given but passengers opened the 4 over-wing exits and began to evacuate the aircraft and cabin crew opened door 1L and "directed the passengers to exit" using it. Slides inflated normally upon opening of all these exits although at one stage whilst evacuation was in progress, door 1L was released from its secured-open position, probably by inadvertent action. TWR had immediately activated the crash alarm and within about 2 minutes, the emergency services arrived at the crash site as passengers were completing the evacuation. It was established that "all passengers had exited the aircraft within 5 minutes after it came to a stop, many wearing open-toed shoes, shorts, and t-shirts [and] some […] with their carry-on baggage", the latter despite an instruction as the evacuation commenced that this should not be done. It was almost an hour before all the passengers had been taken to an indoor holding area due to problems with ground transport. It was noted that runway 05 and its approach were equipped with high intensity lighting which included runway centreline lighting and a medium-intensity Omni-Directional Approach Lighting System (ODALS) which included five lights spaced approximately 90 metres apart that flashed sequentially every second. Although not seen by the crew during the accident approach, a PAPI was installed but the runway was not equipped with RVR sensing equipment. In respect of the way the accident approach was flown, the Investigation made a number of observations relative to Air Canada's SOP as approved by Transport Canada which included: Once the FPA had been selected and the aircraft had begun to descend, there was no requirement for the flight crew to monitor the altitude and distance from threshold, nor did they do so. This practice was contrary to the Airbus FCOM as adopted by Air Canada and anyway, the FCOM was not available to crew.. As flown, the accident approach had satisfied Air Canada's stabilised approach criteria.. Although it was concluded that the "required visual reference" needed in order to continue the approach below MDA had been met, the Air Canada Flight Operating Manual (FOM) did not identify that this visual reference should enable the pilot to assess the aircraft relative position and rate of change of position in order to continue an approach to a landing..