for their approach and although this had been acknowledged by ATC, the change from level 4 to level 5 did not occur. There was no clear evidence that this contributed to the accident but it was considered possible that it had and it was found that the lighting control system involved did not satisfy NAV Canada requirements.. In respect of the opening of only one main exit for the emergency evacuation, it was found that Air Canada had recently been permitted to operate their A320 fleet with the minimum-allowable cabin crew to passenger seat ratio of 1:50 on the basis of an exemption requiring that both initial and recurrent crew training included the opening of both left and right side exits at a given cabin position and the management of passenger flow at both of these exits where crew members were responsible for their opening. This "dual-exit drill" was required in order to close a gap that Transport Canada (TC) had identified in the content of existing training. However, it was found that TC had not required all cabin crew to receive the additional training before an airline was able to implement the 1:50 ratio and Air Canada had taken advantage of this option so that at the time of the accident, none of the cabin crew involved had received the training and none were aware of the requirement for it.. When determining the minimum visibility for an approach, both the EASA and the FAA take into account the type of Approach Lighting System (ALS) installed. In Canada the minimum visibility required to allow a non-precision approach to be carried out does not take into account the type of ALS installed on the runway and for any LOC approach in Canada, the MDH is always 250 feet and the minimum visibility is always 1600 metres (1 statute mile). It was noted that on a standard 3° descent, an aircraft would reach 250 feet agl at about 0.6nm from the runway threshold. If that runway was equipped with an Omni-Directional Approach Lighting System (ODALS), then the aircraft would be about 0.4 nm from the first light of the ODALS.. Runway 05 at Halifax did not have an ILS procedure. Past work had concluded that the cost could not be justified. According to NAV CANADA, the decision to conduct an assessment of the type of landing system for a runway is based on the efficiency of aircraft operations related to airport accessibility and usability. The Investigation noted that although the number of aircraft movements on runway 05 at Halifax had been steadily increasing and it had been the most frequently used runway during snow events in 2014, NAV CANADA did not consider an ILS was a change in accessibility that would necessitate a review of the type of landing system installed on the runway.. In Canada, there is no requirement that specifies who is responsible for providing transportation from an on-airport accident site to an emergency assistance centre and this responsibility is