pins had sheared, likely as a result of contact with passengers during the impact sequence or emergency egress.. Recovery of the uninjured passengers from the accident site was delayed owing to a number of factors, including the severe weather conditions; the failure of the airport’s 2 standby generators to provide backup power after the loss of utility power; the loss of the airport operations radio network; and the lack of arrangements for the dispatch of transportation vehicles until after emergency response services had advised that all passengers were evacuated and the site was all clear.. Given that the Captain rarely used continuous positive airway pressure therapy, he would have been at risk of experiencing fatigue related to chronic sleep disruption caused by obstructive sleep apnea. However, there was no indication that fatigue played a causal or contributory role in this occurrence.. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident whilst the Investigation was in progress included but is not limited to: Air Canada making a number of changes to its approach procedures and explicitly drawing the attention of its crews to the fact that FPA "is not a vertical navigation system" when used to fly non-precision approaches.. Air Canada will now be installing GPS on the 47 of its Airbus aircraft that are not already so-equipped and is also going to upgrade the software in the EGPWS in all its aircraft.. Halifax International Airport Authority has made improvements to the approach lighting for both runway 05 and runway 32.. Halifax International Airport Authority has upgraded its emergency response capability in a number of different and complimentary ways.. NAV CANADA has published a BARO-VNAV Approach with Vertical Guidance (APV) procedure for runway 05 at Halifax.. A further safety action taken is the alignment of the procedure to test the restraint system published in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) by Airbus with the detailed one published in the Component Maintenance Manual (CMM) by the restraint system manufacturer. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 15 February 2017 and it was officially released on 18 May 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.