An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from the DFDR and the 2 hour CVR. However, it was noted that electrical power to the latter was lost at about the time of the second impact and power to the DFDR was lost a few seconds later when the left engine separated from the aircraft. The EGPWS NVM was also downloaded but it was found that no EGPWS activations had occurred. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated 11,765 total flying hours which included 5,755 hours on type. He had been employed by Air Canada for over 9 years, flying as an A320 First Officer for the first 7 before achieving a command on type in 2013, after which he had flown approximately 1,200 hours. The First Officer had been employed by Air Canada for 15 years and had been an A320 First Officer throughout that time. He had 11,300 total flying hours which included 6,392 on type. It was established that the crew had been aware before and during the flight that the weather at their destination might be close to limits and noted that soon after departure from Toronto, despatch had advised that a Company flight had landed at Halifax off the second approach after going around from the first approach due to insufficient visibility. During the cruise, the latest Halifax weather was obtained and included a visibility of 400 metres in heavy snow. Should these conditions still prevail, the crew planned to hold for an improvement and divert to their alternate Moncton if there was no improvement. If an approach at destination was possible, it was determined that a LOC approach to runway 05 (threshold elevation 449 feet) would be appropriate and this was briefed accordingly. This approach (see the chart below) had a published MDA of 740 feet which, after the Company-required addition of 50 feet and a cold weather correction of 23 feet led to an adjusted MDA of 813 feet, equivalent to 350 feet above runway elevation. The Company's prescribed method of flying a LOC approach is described as 'coupled-selected' which means the AP is engaged in LOC/FPA (Localiser/Flight Path Angle) modes with the appropriate angle being the vertical descent angle on the procedure chart which is based on a vertical profile which will cross the runway threshold at about 50 feet agl. At MDA, Air Canada procedures required the PM to follow the 'Minimums' Call with either 'No contact', 'Lights only' or 'Runway in sight' and the response by a PF is to call either 'Go-around, flaps' or 'Landing'. The Investigation found that "Air Canada does not provide any specific training on or definition of what 'Lights only' entails" and that "when a PM calls 'Lights only', a PF expects that the PM has acquired visual references in order to continue with the approach (to which) the typical response is for the PF to call 'Landing' and to