Although the PM was required to follow their 'Minimums' call at MDA by one of three qualifications - 'No Contact', 'Lights Only' or 'Runway in Sight' - Air Canada did not provide any specific training on or definition of what 'Lights Only' meant.. Continuation of flight below MDA based on the required visual reference being available required that the AP must be disconnected whereas in the accident approach, this was not done until over 20 seconds after descent below MDA by which time the aircraft was not more than 30 feet above runway elevation. This violation was also in direct breach of both an AFM limitation and applicable State Regulations.. In considering in general why the approach was continued in conditions which made it extremely difficult to safely control aircraft below MDA using the available external visual reference, it was concluded that in the absence of salient triggers to promote reconsideration, the crew could have been subject to plan continuation bias. It was considered likely that in the challenging conditions which prevailed, the flight crew had delayed disconnecting the AP until well below MDA because of their reliance on it. In reality, the limited number of visual cues and the short time that they were available combined with potential visual illusions and possibly the below-maximum brightness of the approach and runway lights had reduced the crew’s ability to detect that the aircraft’s approach path was taking it short of the runway. By the time they eventually became aware that "the runway environment did not look as it should have done" and commenced a go-around, it was too late to prevent impact. A number of other safety issues were identified including but not limited to the following: Since January 2009, the Captain had been identified as suffering from Obstructive Sleep Apnoea (OSA) and although the sleep specialist consulted at the time did not recommend that the Captain should stop flying, they prescribed a specific therapy - Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) - to control the OSA. Air Canada advised the Captain to continue with his flying duties and this was supported by the Safety Regulator who concluded that the OSA was being "managed effectively" and approved the Captain to continue with flying duties. From 2010, the Captain "experienced some difficulties using CPAP therapy and rarely used it" but the specialist involved "reiterated that the Captain was fit to continue with his flying duties". The Investigation considered that whilst it would be reasonable to expect that the guidance provided to AMEs would include information on OSA, this was found not to be the case. Transport Canada (TC) indicated that "it has an undocumented protocol for the assessment and ongoing surveillance of OSA in pilots [but that] the actual method and practice used are typically left up to the individual AME and the Regional Aviation Medical Officer (RAMO) who based their judgements on what they know about OSA and on what the pilot has reported to them”. In the Captain’s case, because no