daytime sleepiness had been reported, TC deemed him to be medically fit. It was concluded that "if TC does not consistently follow its protocol for the assessment of aeromedical risk and ongoing surveillance in applicants who suffer from obstructive sleep apnea, some of the safety benefit of medical examinations will be lost, increasing the risk that pilots will fly with a medical condition that poses a risk to safety". There was, however, no evidence that the Captain's OSA had had any effect on accident causation.. The First Officer was the only occupant who sustained a serious injury during the crash and this was attributed entirely to the fact that the automatic locking feature of his inertia reel shoulder harness was, unknown to him and unrecorded as such, unserviceable. If the shoulder-harness assembly is unserviceable and does not lock during a sudden acceleration, then the seat occupant is at a much greater risk of injury or death during an accident. Performing a proper pull test verifies that the shoulder-harness assembly is airworthy and therefore capable of restraining the occupant of the seat during an accident. It was found that although the restraint system maintenance manual provided inspection intervals and criteria to determine whether the shoulder-harness assemblies were in an airworthy condition, this information was not included on the Airbus maintenance task card nor, as a consequence, on the Air Canada maintenance task card. In the absence of published instructions, it was found that Air Canada had been using a check to verify that the shoulder harness inertia reel would lock under a forward acceleration and that the damage noted on the subject shoulder harness was consistent with conducting a pull test without first extending the strap. It could not be determined when the damage which had caused the unserviceability - a fractured plastic flange - had occurred and it was concluded that if an aircraft manufacturer’s maintenance instructions do not include the component manufacturer’s safety-critical test criteria, there is a risk that components will not be maintained in an airworthy condition.. When the rear fuselage struck terrain prior to the runway, the cabin floor was punctured when some of the structure below it (Frame 65 vertical beam and door net stanchions of the bulk cargo compartment) was forced upwards. Although no one was injured as a result, the holes in the cabin floor could have posed an obstacle to rapid passenger egress had these exits been used. The Investigation noted that after similar damage to FR65 (located close to the rear galley) of the A320 which ditched off Manhattan in 2009, Airbus had implemented a design change which addressed the FR65 part, however there is still a risk that the stanchions (or any vertically mounted, non-structural beam (channel, tube, etc.) installed between the floor and ceiling of a cargo compartment) will penetrate the cabin floor when the fuselage strikes the water or ground.. The flight crew had requested that the approach and runway lighting be set to the maximum level 5