To comply with the operator’s general operating procedure (First Officers may not taxi the aircraft), the Captain taxied the aircraft the very short distance from the apron to the runway before handing control to the First Officer once the aircraft was lined up on the runway with the required flaps 5 set. On being informed that the flight was ready for departure, the flight information service officer (FISO) advised that the runway was clear and gave the surface wind. The First Officer then began to advance the thrust levers towards the required 70% N1 whilst holding the toe brakes and the Captain reported having selected the secondary engine instruments on the lower centre screen and held one finger over the relevant button ready to clear the display after the run-up was complete and also prepared to start his timer to achieve the required 30 second run-up once the run-up thrust was reached. The First Officer stated that as he continued to increase the thrust towards 70% N1, the aircraft had begun to “slide and yaw”. This possibility, although unlikely on an uncontaminated runway, had been briefed and that if it occurred, the brakes would be released and the takeoff continued which the Captain confirmed when the unexpected movement began. Having released the brakes following the Captain’s confirmation, the First Officer concentrated on directional control but failed to press the TOGA button before immediately removing their hand from the thrust levers, an action intended to allow the Captain to place their hand on them until V1 in case of a decision to reject the takeoff. The Captain did not notice this omission having prioritised his response to an almost concurrent call from the FISO asking for confirmation that they intended to turn right after takeoff to which he responded in the affirmative. Crucially, the Captain also did not make the mandatory check that takeoff thrust was correctly set and also did not make the mandatory “thrust set” standard call, an omission unnoticed by the First Officer. As the aircraft approached 80 knots, the Captain stated that he had been “aware that something was not right” but could not resolve what it was. He considered that the acceleration was “slightly low” but thought that this might be due to (unreported) runway surface contamination. The crew made the normal calls at 80 knots without further comment but on reaching the 93 knot V1 and continuing, both pilots stated that they had been aware that “something was not right”. On attempting to initiate rotation at VR, the First Officer recalled finding that the aircraft was “very heavy” in pitch and as he looked down to the PFD he saw that there was no vertical command displayed and had therefore focused on flying a pitch attitude to maintain airspeed. The achieved airspeed was “hovering around V2” which he described as “like flying an engine failure on takeoff in the simulator” and announced “we need more power”. At this prompt, the Captain finally noticed that takeoff