The event was reported by the aircraft operator to the UK CAA and the UK AAIB. The latter then contacted the Safety Investigation Authority of Finland, which delegated the conduct of the Serious Incident Investigation to the UK as State of the Operator and a Field Investigation was carried out. Relevant recorded data was downloaded from both the FDR and the QAR but such data on the 2 hour CVR would have been overwritten prior to the aircraft completing its flight to the UK. No relevant radar recordings were available for Kuusamo airport and the airport’s RTF recording equipment was found to have been inoperative for in excess of two months prior to the investigated event (although it was subsequently repaired eight days after the event had occurred). It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain had a total of 15,490 hours flying experience which included 3,344 hours on type and the First Officer had a total of 4,582 hours flying experience which included 2,399 hours on type. Neither pilot had operated to/from Kuusamo before. It was also noted that although Kuusamo Airport sometimes provided ATC service, this provision was dependent on the expected traffic level and ATC service there had been downgraded to a FIS shortly before the aircraft landed after its inbound flight. The FISO on duty had ten years’ experience in that role and had recently completed simulator recurrent training in this role. The investigated departure followed an earlier inbound passenger flight operated by the same aircraft and crew. It was decided that the First Officer would act as PF for the positioning return flight and determined that the Takeoff Weight would be 52,100 kg (the MTOW was 70,530 kg) so both pilots would have been expecting a greater than usual acceleration during the takeoff roll. Although the inbound aircraft had landed on runway 30, departure was planned from runway 12 - both directions involving a 5 knot crosswind component. The runway-related conditions for departure were unchanged from those for the earlier landing with a covering of 3mm of dry snow, an air temperature - 8°C and a light wind being reported. This meant that RWYCC 5, defined as “braking deceleration is normal for the wheel braking effort applied and directional control is normal”, was applicable although contrary to the specified RWYCC criteria, the airport was reporting RWYCC 4. This made no difference to operational requirements and a de-rated takeoff thrust of 89% N1 was set. However, although the runway was not contaminated, the airport apron was, so it was decided to taxi with the flaps up and select them only when about to line up on the runway, the beginning of which was almost abeam of and very close to the apron. Because of this apron contamination, standard operating procedures required that a pre-takeoff engine run-up to 70% N1 for 30 seconds against the brakes should be carried out once lined up on the runway to ensure that any ingested ice was cleared from the engines.