thrust had not been set and manually advanced the thrust levers to 89% N1. Once at 2,400 feet QNH (approximately 1500 feet aal) thrust was reduced and after a further 1,500 feet, acceleration and flap retraction was commenced. Once clean, ‘LVL CHG’ mode was selected to continue the climb which resulted in the restoration of the FD vertical command indicator and the remainder of the flight was completed without further event. An examination of the FDR data showed that although the maximum system braking pressure was the standard 3,000 psi, the First Officer had only applied a pressure of “600-700 psi” before beginning to increase the thrust from idle towards the agreed engine run-up setting so that 12 seconds later, as the engine speeds approached 70% N1, the aircraft began to move forwards. At a recorded groundspeed of 6 knots, a radio transmission was made from the aircraft, followed by another one at a recorded 53 knots airspeed. Passing 80 knots, the acceleration was approximately 2.25 knots/second. V1 (93 knots) was reached 32 seconds after brake release and after rotation was begun at VR (122 knots). It was then a six further seconds before the aircraft became airborne 400 metres before the end of the 2,500 metre-long runway and began climbing at 600 fpm at the reported indicated airspeed of around V2 (131 knots). Despite gear retraction and a reduction in pitch attitude, no further acceleration was recorded until the thrust levers had been advanced to the 89% N1 takeoff setting at 250 feet agl when approximately 1400 metres beyond the end of the runway as a right turn was commencing. Although a rejected takeoff at V1 would have been achievable, had an engine failure occurred after V1, the aircraft would have been unable to get safely airborne with the 70% N1 thrust on the remaining engine. An annotated plan view of the takeoff and second segment climb. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The initiating factor of a takeoff with insufficient thrust set was the failure of the First Officer to use adequate brake pressure for the engine run up. Boeing advised that even assuming RWYCC 4, the relatively light weight of the aircraft and the carbon brakes fitted to it, the brake pressure required to prevent the wheels rotating during the engine run up would have been in the range 1000-2000 psi dependent on the brake temperature and, to a lesser extent, the humidity. They also advised that in such conditions, the aircraft weight and CofG made it “unlikely that the tyres would have slipped on the runway surface”. The First Officer’s resulting surprise at the unexpected movement he detected was followed by a failure of both pilots to follow the normal standard takeoff procedure. The Captain had been distracted from his primary command responsibilities by engaging in non-critical radio communications. What was not possible for the Investigation to explain was why it took so long for either pilot to identify why the takeoff roll and initial climb performance