compiled and included in the Official Report as an Appendix. These events - which had a range of primary origins and consequences - included (in addition to the already-mentioned Belfast event) the following: a Boeing 747-8 at Narita in 2017. a Boeing 737-700 at Singapore Seletar in 2017. a Boeing 787-9 at London Gatwick in 2018. a Boeing 787-9 at Tel Aviv in 2018. a Boeing 737-800 at Amsterdam in 2018. an Airbus A320 at Sharjah in 2018. an Airbus A320 at Lisbon in 2019. an Airbus A321 at Glasgow in 2019. a Boeing 737-800 at London Gatwick in 2020. a Boeing 737-800 at Lisbon in 2021. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The aircraft took off with insufficient thrust set because the TOGA button was not pressed. It was not pressed because the [First Officer] was startled by the aircraft moving as he commenced the run-up against the brakes. The aircraft started to move because insufficient brake pressure was applied. Human checks designed to detect the insufficient thrust were ineffective because both pilots were attending to other tasks. The commander was responding to a radio call from the FISO during the start of the takeoff roll. Neither pilot detected the low thrust until after the aircraft was airborne. The AAIB and other Safety Investigation Agencies have investigated numerous previous takeoff performance incidents, and this incident provides further evidence that the current barriers in place to prevent such incidents are not always effective. Safety Action taken prior to completion of the Investigation by Jet 2 was noted as having included, but not necessarily have been limited to, the following: Enhanced OFDM procedures were introduced to detect any further instances of inadequate brake pressure application prior to static engine run-ups.. The inclusion of a static engine run-up in the next recurrent simulator check for all pilots to include ‘some distraction’ during the start of the takeoff roll.. Amended their FCOM procedure for pre-takeoff engine run-ups.. Added a requirement to the OM-C to notify before commencing takeoff the intended direction of turn after takeoff for all FIS departures from Finnish airports.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the UK Civil Aviation Authority, in conjunction with other regulatory authorities, develop a set of technical specifications and, subsequently, develop certification standards for an on-board system that will alert the crew of an aircraft to abnormally low acceleration during takeoff. [2022-018]. that the UK Civil Aviation Authority encourage all UK Air Operator Certificate holders to implement into their flight data monitoring programme algorithms to detect the precursors relevant to the monitoring of takeoff performance detailed in the European Operators Flight Data Monitoring Document, Guidance for the implementation of flight data monitoring precursors.. The first of these Recommendations was a restatement of a similarly worded Recommendation [2018-014] made as a result of the investigation into the 2017 Belfast Serious Incident referred to above which was directed to EASA in conjunction with the FAA prior to