were ‘not right’ until 250 feet agl. In respect of the First Officer’s use of inadequate brake pressure, it was noted that after being given an opportunity in the simulator to experiment with the brakes, he had “found the brake pedals have significantly more travel than he had previously been using”. An operator review of their historic OFDM data also found two events where it was likely that insufficient brake pressure had been applied during static engine run-ups. In respect of the radio communication between the FISO and the Captain as takeoff was commencing, it was noted that a belated request was made by the former for confirmation of the direction of turn after takeoff. She had been expecting to receive this when the flight advised it was ready for departure but had not immediately requested when it was not mentioned in their call. The FISO reportedly “felt that she was required to clarify (the flight’s) intentions” despite being aware of ICAO operational safety procedures stating that a FISO is not allowed to “issue any instructions to an aircraft during takeoff” so could not have done so had the crew not confirmed a right turn. It was found that a Finnish AIP requirement for “aircraft with a MTOW exceeding 2000 kg to make a right turn after taking off from runway 12 at Kuusamo" was included in the aircraft operator’s IFR chart information used by the crew and noted that the flight had already been cleared to a waypoint to the south of the airport. However, another AIP requirement covering operations at airports with only FIS which was unknown to the pilots and their operator was found to state that any intention to turn right after takeoff must be “reported to the AFIS unit”. In respect of type-experienced pilots’ ability to perceive slower than normal acceleration, the 2.25 knots per second acceleration rate at 80 knots during the Kuusamo takeoff was compared with the distribution of acceleration rates recorded at that speed in a sample of 73,669 Boeing 737-800 takeoffs covering a range of OAT and airport elevations. This found that the Kuusamo takeoff acceleration was significantly below 99.7% of them, supporting a conclusion that visual cues for slow acceleration do not differ enough for pilots to detect it until they are presented with “an atypical visual scene” such as the end of the runway approaching”. The AAIB noted that its investigation of another similar low-thrust late-takeoff by an aircraft of the same type at Belfast International in 2017 had, although it had different origins to those to those in this event, also involved a lack of perception of abnormally slow acceleration by the pilots involved and had been the basis for a Safety Recommendation on the need for ‘Takeoff Acceleration Monitoring Systems (TAMS)’ which had not yet been followed by any definitive action. As part of the current Investigation, a non-exhaustive list of 32 takeoff performance events worldwide for the period of just under five years since mid-2017 was