the vent door shaft. The person that closed the aft cargo door stated that he proceeded as usual, without any particular difficulties, and that he did not notice any abnormalities. The official Report identifies the following causes of the accident: "The accident was the result of the ejection in-flight of the aft cargo door on the left-hand side. The sudden depressurization that followed led to the disruption of the floor structure, causing six passengers and parts of the aircraft to be ejected, rendering number 2 engine inoperative, and impairing the flight controls (tail surfaces) so that it was impossible for the crew to regain control of the aircraft. The underlying factor in the sequence of events leading to the accident was the incorrect engagement of the door latching mechanism before takeoff. The characteristics of the design of the mechanism made it possible for the vent door to be apparently closed and the cargo door apparently locked when in fact the latches were not fully closed and the lock pins were not in place. It should be noted, however, that a view port was provided so that there could be a visual check of the engagement of the lock pins. The defective closing of the cargo door resulted from a combination of various factors: Incomplete application of Service Bulletin 52-37 [DC-10SC812 DOORS - Cargo- Modify and Adjust Door Mechanism Assembly].. Incorrect modification and adjustments which led, in particular, to insufficient protrusion of the lock pins and to the switching off of the flight deck visual warning light before the door was locked.. The circumstances of the closure of the door during the stop at Orly, and, in particular, the absence of any visual inspection through the view port to verify that the lock pins were effectively engaged. Although at the time of the accident, inspection was rendered difficult by the inadequate diameter of the view port.. Finally, although there was apparent redundancy of the flight control systems, the pressure relief vents between the cargo compartment and the passenger cabin were inadequate. Additionally, all the flight control cables were routed beneath the floor. These factors placed the aircraft in grave danger, in the case of any sudden depressurisation, causing substantial damage to that part of the structure. All these risks had already become evident nineteen months earlier, at the time of the Windsor accident [Similar accident which occurred in Windsor, Ontario, Canada on 12 June 1972 with causal factors including depressurisation of DC-10 due opening of cargo door in-flight]. However, no efficacious corrective action had followed. The Investigation Commission recommended that particular attention should be paid to the efficacy of the cargo closing, locking and checking systems, and also to the behaviour of the flooring in the case of sudden depressurisation of the cargo compartments. The case Turkish Airlines DC-10 has also drawn attention to the possible consequences of damage to a control circuit, damage which should never inhibit the operation of the vital control circuits. For the complete list of safety