This is an extract form the official report on the accident issued the French Secretariat of State for Transport, Investigation Commission: "Three or four seconds before 1140 hrs, the noise of decompression can be heard on the cockpit voice recording, the co-pilot said: “the fuselage had burst” and the pressurisation warning sound sounded. […] The flight data recorder shows that, in the seconds after depressurisation, the speed of No. 2 engine dropped sharply and the aircraft turned left (9°) and went into a nose-dive attitude. This nose-down attitude increased rapidly (down to -20°) and the speed increased (360 kts) although Nos. 1 and 3 engines had been throttled back. The pitch attitude decreased progressively to -4° and the speed became steady around 430 kts." Analysis of the DC 10 wreckage showed that one of the pieces which detached in-flight was the rear cargo door (See Figure 1). Two occupied triple seat units were ejected from the aircraft due to the depressurisation. All the horizontal stabiliser and elevator control cables, routed beneath the floor of the DC-10, were severed. The severed control cables made it impossible to control the aircraft pitch attitude. Investigators found that a support plate, which prevents forced closing of the locking handle and the vent door when the door is not fully latched and locked, was not installed on this door. Maintenance records of modifications accomplished on this airplane by McDonnell-Douglas reflected that the support plate had been installed. Investigation of the accident revealed that prior to takeoff, the cargo door was not properly latched and locked (See Figure 2) and the flight deck aft cargo door warning light went out prematurely because of an incorrectly rigged warning switch. Examination of the latch actuator revealed insufficient extension of the actuator shaft (277.5 mm versus 297 mm for full extension). This resulted in the torque tube not rotating far enough to move the latch hooks into the "over-center" position. See DC-10 Cargo Door Latch Animation for an illustration of this process. (The animation is courtesy of "FAA Lessons Learned from Transport Airline Accidents" http://lessonslearned.faa.gov/). Additionally, the lock pins were not properly rigged to engage had the torque tube been properly rotated. The four lock pins on the lock tube were 1.6 mm short of the rear face of the restraining flanges. With the latch hooks not "over center" and the lock pins not engaged, the loads applied to the latch hooks from fuselage internal pressure were transmitted through the latching mechanism to the latch actuator support bracket, failing the two attachment bolts. When the two attachment bolts failed, the detached latch actuator enabled the latch hooks to slip off the latch spools, resulting in the sudden opening of the cargo door. The accident report states that tests on a door with the same definition as that of accident aircraft revealed that the vent door could be closed without excessive force in case of incorrect adjustment of the lock tube and the bent link between the locking handle and