(ASDE-X) was not programmed to activate alerts for an aircraft landing or departing from a taxiway and, therefore, when the local controller scanned the ASDE-X display, system safety logic bars indicated that the approaching aircraft was correctly aligned with runway 27R. It was also noted that the installed airport lighting system did not provide ATC personnel with the capability to individually control each of the lighting circuits in accordance with guidance contained in the specifically applicable FAA AC 150/5345-56. Flight evaluations of the airport lighting system carried out as part of the Investigation indicated that there were a number of visual cues that could have been misleading. These included a plethora of taxiways signs along both sides of taxiway M which appeared to be white when seen from the air at night and could thus be mistaken for runway edge lights. In addition, the blue LED lights used on the ‘touchdown’ end of taxiway ‘M’ could appear brighter than the adjacent incandescent lights on the aerodrome and the alternating green and yellow lights in the ILS critical area were considered capable of giving the appearance of a runway centreline. However, the same flight evaluations also indicated that when either the approach lights or ILS for runway 27R were available and used, it was quite obvious when the aircraft was not aligned with the required runway. It was also found that “the color of the blue taxiway edge lights became distinguishable at about 500 feet above ground level while on approach”. The full NTSB Final Report of the Investigation: OPS10IA001 includes the following Probable Cause, determined by NTSB on 15 November 2010 as: “The flight crew’s failure to identify the correct landing surface due to fatigue”. It was also concluded that Contributory Factors were: the flight crew’s decision to accept a late runway change. the unavailability of the approach light system and the instrument landing system for the runway of intended landing. the combination of numerous taxiway signs and intermixing of light technologies on the taxiway.. No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the event.