Numerous types of batteries have been developed and variants of some of them are used in aviation applications. These include: Lead Acid. A lead acid battery cell contains an anode made from lead oxide and a cathode of elemental lead immersed in an electrolyte solution of sulfuric acid. In some lead acid batteries, the electrolyte is suspended in a silica gel or impregnated into a fiberglass mat to make the battery non-spillable. While lead acid batteries have good energy storage and power provision properties, they are quite heavy and their energy density is relatively low. If overcharged, lead acid batteries can sometimes vent hydrogen gas which can result in an explosion or lead to a fire. Lead acid batteries are often used as the main battery(s) in an aircraft.. Nickel Cadmium (NiCd). Nickel-cadmium cells have an anode made of cadmium hydroxide and a cathode of nickel hydroxide that are immersed in an electrolyte made up of potassium, sodium and lithium hydroxides. Nickel-cadmium batteries require relatively low maintenance, are reliable and have a wide operating temperature range. NiCd batteries are subject to memory effect and may experience thermal runaway if overcharged. Many countries impose strict disposal regulations on NiCd batteries because of the heavy metals used in their manufacture. NiCd batteries are suitable for many aircraft applications inclusive of main aircraft batteries.. Nickel-Metal Hydride (Ni-MH). Nickel-metal hydride cells have an anode made of a metal alloy capable of absorbing and releasing hydrogen. The cathode is made from nickel hydroxide and both are immersed in an electrolyte solution of potassium, sodium and lithium hydroxides. Small capacity cells of this type of battery are sealed and are maintenance free. Their principal shortcoming is that they require precise charge level monitoring to control gaseous exchanges and to minimize heating while under charge. Ni-MH batteries have a high energy density and are ideal for high-capacity requirements. In aircraft, Ni-MH batteries are often used to power systems such as the emergency door and floor escape path lighting as well as portable entertainment devices and electronic flight bags.. Lithium-ion/Lithium-polymer. Lithium-ion (Li-ion) and Lithium Polymer (Li-poly) batteries, also described as 'lithium secondary batteries' are rechargeable. Their cells have an anode of graphite and a cathode consisting of a combination material which is able to accept and release lithium ions repeatedly (for recharging) and quickly (for high current) such as lithium manganese oxide (Li-Mn2O4). A non-aqueous electrolyte, mainly comprised of a mixture of organic carbonates, is used. Charging or discharging a Li-Ion battery involves an exchange of lithium ions between the electrodes. Typical cell output voltage is between 3 and 4.2 volts depending primarily on the materials used to construct the cathode.. Lithium Metal. Lithium Metal batteries, also described as 'lithium primary batteries' are non-rechargeable. Their electrochemistry is most commonly based on Lithium-Manganese Dioxide (Li-MnO2) cells which have a graphite anode and a Lithium dioxide cathode..