An Investigation was commenced by the Ukrainian National Bureau of Air Accident Investigation (NBAAI) and subsequently delegated to the Dutch Safety Board (DSB). The FDR and CVR were recovered from the wreckage by "individuals unknown to the team" and, on 21 July were "handed over to a Malaysian official in Donetsk by representatives of the armed group controlling the area". They were passed to the DSB on 22 July and subsequently successfully downloaded by the UK AAIB. No evidence or indications of manipulation of the recorders was found and both had stopped recording simultaneously 7 seconds after the last transmission received from the crew who had acknowledged a routine instruction from ATC. All relevant radar recordings were provided by Ukrainian ATC but such recordings were not forthcoming from the authorities in the nearby Russian Federation which had radars capable of monitoring the airspace of interest to the Investigation. The reason given to the Investigation for this was that "because the crash had occurred outside Russian Federation territory, no radar data was saved, nor was it required to be by national requirements". The Investigation noted that in this respect, the ICAO Annex 11 requirement for States to retain such data for 30 days (or beyond where relevant to accident investigation) did not distinguish between data within or beyond the boundaries of the State and that Russia had not filed a Difference with ICAO as required. Russia did provide screen shots and video film of radar displays seen by controllers to the Investigation but since this was not "raw data", its integrity could not be verified. At the time contact was lost, it was established that the aircraft was flying in unrestricted controlled airspace on a designated route at a flight level which was 1000 feet above the upper limit of a Temporary Reserved Area (TRA) (TRA) notified as active in the form prevailing on the day of the investigated event from 14 July. This TRA was established due to hostilities between armed groups and Ukrainian armed forces and prior to 14 June had been active with a lower upper limit. The main wreckage site was located 4.6nm on a bearing of 080° from the last available radar position of the aircraft in flight. No distress messages were received from the aircraft but a signal was received from the ELT. Due to the prevailing security situation, it was not possible to begin wreckage recovery until four months after the event and two further site visits for the same purpose followed in the spring of 2015. The recovered wreckage was found to have several hundred small holes and ricochet marks in the forward fuselage pieces and various embedded components not from the aircraft and of external origin were found in some of these wreckage pieces. No evidence of any flight crew or airworthiness factor which had any bearing on what was detemined to have happened was found. It was noted that whilst a few airlines had been avoiding the airway being used by