a decelerometer. This was used as a means to report values for friction on a linear scale in increments from 0 to 1, with 1 being equivalent to the theoretical maximum decelerating capability or friction on a dry runway. These values were referred to as the Canadian Runway Friction Index (CRFI). However, this measurement is not valid on slush-covered runway such as the one which prevailed and the most recent value was in any case not passed to the crew prior to landing. The Investigation concluded that the cause of the excursion was that: “The poor friction characteristics of the runway, due to slush contamination, did not allow the crew to correct the aircraft's ground track after touchdown and the aircraft slid off the side of the runway”. Following the occurrence, the aircraft operator indicated that it would take the following steps to reduce the likelihood of further runway excursions in conditions where slush might be encountered: Publish a Flight Operations Bulletin advising flight crews of the potential for CRFI reports to become invalid quickly after the reading was taken, particularly during changing weather conditions where temperatures are at or near the freezing level and surfaces are contaminated with snow, slush, ice or standing water, or where precipitation or visible moisture is present during the approach and landing.. Direct crews to consider delaying a landing and consider the validity of CRFI reports only after the runway has been swept giving due consideration to depth of contaminates between the time of the CRFI measurement and the landing. CRFI reports taken prior to the removal of contaminants from the runway should be considered unreliable and extreme caution should be taken prior to landing in such conditions.. Require crews to confirm the type of runway de-ice treatment used prior to the CRFI being taken on ice-covered runways.. Include a review of winter operations, with emphasis given to runway conditions, in recurrent ground school and simulator programs.. Add discussion on aircraft directional energy after break out and prior to landing on contaminated runways to recurrent ground school and simulator training programs.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 17 December 2002 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: TSB Aviation Investigation Report A02A0038