These key terms have been selected from EASA and NTSB documents. UK AAIB likewise uses terminology and concepts derived from the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO)’s safety management and investigation expertise. Small UAS (sUAS) — The NTSB, like the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), defines this as an unmanned aircraft weighing less than 55 pounds (25 kilograms) on takeoff, including everything that is onboard or attached to the aircraft.. Accident in Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 — An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which, in the case of a manned aircraft, takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked, or in the case of an unmanned aircraft, takes place between the time the aircraft is ready to move with the purpose of flight until such time it comes to rest at the end of the flight and the primary propulsion system is shut down, in which: (a) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of: — being in the aircraft, or, — direct contact with any part of the aircraft, including parts which have become detached from the aircraft, or, — direct exposure to jet blast,. (a) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of: — being in the aircraft, or, — direct contact with any part of the aircraft, including parts which have become detached from the aircraft, or, — direct exposure to jet blast,. — being in the aircraft, or,. — direct contact with any part of the aircraft, including parts which have become detached from the aircraft, or,. — direct exposure to jet blast,. except when the injuries are from natural causes, self- inflicted or inflicted by other persons, or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew; or (b) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which adversely affects the structural strength, performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft, and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component, except for engine failure or damage, when the damage is limited to a single engine, (including its cowlings or accessories), to propellers, wing tips, antennas, probes, vanes, tires, brakes, wheels, fairings, panels, landing gear doors, windscreens, the aircraft skin (such as small dents or puncture holes) or minor damages to main rotor blades, tail rotor blades, landing gear, and those resulting from hail or bird strike, (including holes in the radome); or (c) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible;. (b) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which adversely affects the structural strength, performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft, and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component, except for engine failure or damage, when the damage is limited to a single engine, (including its cowlings or accessories), to propellers, wing tips, antennas, probes, vanes, tires, brakes, wheels, fairings, panels, landing gear doors, windscreens, the aircraft