The following summaries typify events in 2017–2021 investigative work and safety by UK AAIB. Final sUA accident reports, safety guidance and analyses from other States can be found on websites of ICAO and their counterpart aircraft accident investigative bodies. “Controlled flight into wind turbine, Bristol sewage treatment works, 5 March 2020.” AAIB investigation to DJI Phantom 4 (UAS registration n/a) 050320. Published 10 September 2020. — During an aerial survey of a sewage treatment works, the unmanned aircraft flew into a wind turbine, the height of which the pilot had misjudged. The unmanned aircraft system (UAS) was being used to conduct an aerial survey of a sewage treatment works that contained four wind turbines in the survey area. The pilot was using the NATS Drone Assist app as part of the flight planning and risk assessment of the flight; however, the app did not mention the wind turbines, so the pilot looked up “wind turbine height” on the Internet, which returned a height of 328 ft. A search was also made for any guidance material on flying in the vicinity of wind turbines, but none was found. The pilot had been made aware of aeronautical charts during UAS pilot training, but did not use them when planning and risk assessing a flight. “Drone collision with structure, Sampson House, London, 8 February 2020.” AAIB Investigation to DJI Inspire 2 080220, UAS registration n/a, UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch, published 11 June 2020 — During an operation to take photographs at height on a construction site, the drone became erratic. The remote pilot attempted to land the drone immediately, but it became uncontrollable. The remote pilot then attempted to fly the drone away from obstructions, but it collided with a concrete structure on the site and was catastrophically damaged. It is likely the loss of control and collision were caused by the drone not correctly setting the ‘home-point’ despite this appearing to the remote pilot to be correctly positioned on the transmitter screen. This combined with poor GPS and compass following from the beginning of the flight lead to erratic manoeuvring and a subsequent attempt at a fly away. Despite the confined nature of the construction site within a heavily built up area, the operator had taken all the required mitigations and safety measures to ensure that there was no risk to any other persons even when control of the drone was lost. “UAS crashed shortly after takeoff because the operator turned the transmitter off,” Solent Airport, Hampshire, 2 May 2020.” AAIB investigation to Believer (UAS, registration N/A) 020520, published 8 October 2020. — The flight was part of a test programme prior to the start of commercial operations to the Isle of Wight. The accident UAS was considerably smaller than the production aircraft but it was representative in terms of the avionics and communications. It crashed shortly after taking off because the safety pilot switched the radio control transmitter off before the automatic flight control system was engaged. Several safety actions