An Investigation was carried out by the UK Airprox Board. Although the event occurred outside controlled airspace, a relevant R/T recording and a high quality radar recording of the occurrence was available from the ANSP which had been providing FIS to one of the aircraft involved. It was established that the Citation had initially requested a direct routing to its destination, Biggin Hill, whilst working London Control over the English Channel and six minutes later (and 11½ minutes prior to the CPA) had been instructed to contact London Information whilst in descent to an indicated FL050 and passing FL182 whilst still in controlled airspace. On checking in with London Information, the Citation pilot "reported being on" an RNAV STAR designated for London City arrivals, despite this not being their destination and advised their intention to "leave the STAR once they had descended out of controlled airspace". The London Information FISO "confirmed that it would be a Basic Service once they left controlled airspace" (the base of which was FL 075). The Citation pilot stated that the aircraft would cross the UK coastline "in the Eastbourne area" and the FISO requested that they report doing so. Shortly after the Cessna pilot had reported passing FL75 and "turning towards the Seaford area", the FISO "allocated the London FIS Conspicuity code 1177 and confirmed it was (now) a Basic Service" and that the flight would be "transferred to Farnborough Radar as they passed Eastboume". About 2 minutes later, the Cessna pilot reported having left FL050 for 3,500 feet QNH and 2½ minutes after that reported crossing the coast "in the descent to 2,300 feet" (an altitude which would keep the aircraft beneath the London TMA). In reply, the FISO instructed the aircraft to squawk 7000 and freecall Farnborough Radar on a frequency provided. One minute later, at 3,500 feet QNH and prior to making the initial call to Farnborough, the Citation passed very close overhead the unseen C42. The Citation pilot stated that he had been routing towards the Mayfield VOR. As the two aircraft had approached each other, it was estimated that the Citation's speed was 240 knots and the C42's speed was 55 knots - a closing speed of almost 5nm per minute. The C42 pilot stated that they had been conducting a student training flight on stalling and in order to stay clear of congested airspace at lower altitude he had climbed to 3,700 feet QNH where he had been demonstrating to the student that only a small amount of aileron was required to maintain an accurate and constant heading. Having seen the other aircraft on an almost reciprocal track, they had "executed a steep turn to the right". The other aircraft was seen to be heading in a northerly direction "apparently with no evasive action taken". At the time of the conflict, the C42 had been "listening out" on the unmanned Deanland Airfield air-ground radio frequency and was not receiving any form of ATS. The C42 pilot had subsequently