An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB). Recorded ATC data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the ACC involved; corresponding data from the airport ATC Unit involved was no longer available when sought. It was noted that the conflict occurred in airspace classified as Class 'C'. The weather conditions were excellent, with no cloud below 26,000 feet and visibility in excess of 45 km. It was established that the Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) aircraft involved was being flown by two pilots but only the commander, occupying the left seat, was type rated; the other pilot was handling radio communications. The VFR aircraft involved was being flown by a single pilot. It was recorded that although both commanders had considerable professional flying experience, both had less than 250 hours on the aircraft types they were flying at the time of the investigated conflict. It was established that the Citation had filed a Flight Plan which envisaged changing from instrument flight rules to visual flight rules at waypoint VALOR. Prior to VALOR, the aircraft was working Geneva ACC sector L123 and cleared to route towards VALOR via GVA at FL250. Meanwhile, the Piaggio IFR departure from Sion in the direction of SPR was imminent and just before take-off, the Sion controller routinely coordinated the departure and the initial flight level with Geneva ACC INI SE sector by telephone. Shortly afterwards, the Citation was transferred to Geneva ACC INI SE sector and confirmed its intention to cancel IFR in the vicinity of VALOR. Descent to FL210 was given. At this time, it was noted that the Swiss military flight service was active which means that military traffic has priority in airspace outside permanent ATS routes and military ATC provides ATS for IFR flights inbound to Sion from VALOR until handoff to Sion approach control. Contact was made with the military control centre by Geneva to appraise them of the Citation traffic and stated that the aircraft should leave VALOR on heading 080 at FL190. The ACC controller planned to have the Citation descend quickly so that it could continue its flight VFR and enter the Swiss Class E airspace located below the Class C airspace and so he cleared the Citation to descend to FL 180 advising that to continue visually, it would be necessary to descend below Class 'C' airspace which would mean "entering Swiss territory below FL 130 to which the response was that a descent to either FL 130 or FL 120 could be made". The Piaggio was then cleared by Sion to take off and climb to FL 180, making a call when passing 13,000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings and the Citation was cleared only to FL170 because of traffic passing below. The military control centre was advised that the Citation would cancel IFR in descent without entering military-managed airspace. The Sion controller was advised of this plan and, in reply to his request for a position on the Citation, was advised that