not occurring more than 60 seconds ahead of the predicted loss of prescribed separation. If two aircraft are changing levels as they converge towards the same level, as in this case, the system assumes they will both acquire this level on reaching it and an alert is generated when they are less than or equal to 1900 ft vertically from the same level and there is a concurrent risk of losing lateral separation. The observations of the Investigation included the following: The controller initially in position at the ACC formulated a different separation plan than the one initially envisaged with military control without informing radar planner, who subsequently took over his position, of this.. The controller who took over the ACC position shortly before the loss of separation had little room for manoeuvre to prevent a hazardous crossing.. Generally, a change of operator just before a potential conflict is not optimal.. The Sion controllers' opportunities to respond were very limited because the Citation was not on their radar screens until just before the conflict occurred and it was not in radio contact with them either.. There is no specific procedure governing the departure from Sion of IFR traffic when it occurs simultaneously with VFR traffic inbound to Sion which is arriving from either Swiss Class 'C' airspace or French Class 'D' airspace.. The Citation pilot accepted the instruction to descend to FL 130 (Class 'E' airspace) but did not comply with it, even though he possessed a VFR chart of the region, the only onboard resource enabling him to locate the Franco-Swiss frontier.. The Citation pilot delayed cancelling his IFR flight plan and it was then no longer possible for him to fly directly to Sion without entering Class C Swiss airspace. He neither modified the control of his aircraft in order to comply with the air traffic control instruction nor informed them about his inability to comply.. The Investigation determined that the Cause of the Serious Incident was "the hazardous convergence of two aircraft flying in opposite directions, one on approach under visual flight rules, the other departing under instrument flight rules, following non-compliance with an instruction given by air traffic control to the pilot on approach". A Contributory Factor was also identified: An inadequate air traffic control tactic. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was noted to have included: The provision of a radar image from Geneva ACC at the Sion controller's work station with effect from January 2014.. The issue of a reminder to controllers on clearance limitations in the presence of potentially conflicting inbound VFR and outbound IFR traffic.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) should ensure the implementation of a specific procedure for Sion airport, governing the departure of IFR traffic, subject to the arrival of VFR traffic operating within Swiss class C airspace, respectively class D airspace over French territory. [No. 496]. The Final Report was