it was "north of Mont Blanc, 20....15 nautical from Mont Blanc". The Citation was then re-cleared to continue descent to FL 150, which was the minimum IFR flight. Having confirmed that flight conditions where the aircraft was were "excellent", the controller asked the pilot to call him back when he was ready to cancel IFR and advised him of the IFR departure from Sion and also asked the pilot to increase his rate of descent. In response the Citation increased from 1400 fpm to 2400 fpm. The controller was due to handover his position and although he advised his relief that he intended to complete the crossing of the Citation and the Piaggio before he left the position, the change actually took place before the crossing had occurred. Almost immediately, the Piaggio appeared on the ACC radar screen climbing through FL 088. The Citation was descending through FL 170 and was 20 nm to the north west of the former. As the Citation was reaching FL 150, the new controller gave the relative position of the Piaggio - "at your eleven o'clock, twelve nautical climbing to level one hundred and twenty" to which the pilot responded that it was not yet in sight and offered to descend lower. Having confirmed that he was ready to cancel IFR, that was done and the Citation was cleared to "descend at your discretion". The Citation crossed the Franco-Swiss border at FL 149 as the Piaggio was climbing through FL 133 at a range of 7.4nm. Sion was advised by the ACC controller that the two aircraft would cross with the necessary vertical separation, but when Sion noticed the Citation on their radar display, traffic information was immediately given to the Piaggio. At this time, the ACC Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) was triggered visually with the Citation descending through FL 149 and the Piaggio was climbing through FL 134 with 6.9 nm between them. Nine seconds later, the ACC controller, who had requested that the VFR Citation remain on his frequency, gave updated traffic information to the Citation, advising that the Piaggio was climbing through FL140 at a range of 6 nm, to which he received the reply that the Citation was descending through the same level. Fifteen seconds later, the two aircraft were 100 feet and 4.2nm apart and after a further ten seconds, 650 feet apart at 2.8nm, with the Citation passing FL139. Sion did not have STCA. Neither pilot had visual contact with the other's aircraft at any time. It was determined that the Closest Point of Approach (CPA) had been 2.8nm laterally and 650 feet vertically 3nm north east of waypoint VALOR in the vicinity of FL140. The STCA logic in the case of opposing climbing/descending traffic was considered. It was found that in the airspace involved, the system is set to generate an alert if a convergence is predicted to occur at distances less than 4.9 nm laterally or less than 750 feet vertically subject to an alert