levers. Such routines have become automatic “programs” that run while the pilot allocates the conscious attention on something else - typically on where he or she wants to fly the aircraft. In the hierarchy of performance levels, the next level is rule-based performance. In rule-based performance, the person is confronted with a situation where attention must be focused on making a decision or creating a solution. However, the situation is a well-known one, for which the person has been trained. Therefore, as soon as the situation has been identified, the person can easily apply a known solution and carry on with the original activity, often returning to the skill-based level. The name “rule-based” reflects the existence of learned solutions providing if-then “rules” that can be applied to the situation - not necessarily rules in the classical sense, i.e., regulations or norms. The automatic routine of taxiing on an empty straight taxiway may be interrupted by the observation of an animal running in front of the aircraft, requiring momentary attention, diagnosis of the situation and a decision on the action to take. What is the animal? How far away is it, and where is it going? Is there a risk the aircraft will be damaged? Should the aircraft be slowed down, stopped or can taxiing continue normally? Training and experience allow a person to construct a collection of rules, to know when to apply these rules and to know which cues to use to identify a situation correctly. For instance, at the time when windshear and microburst phenomena were still not well known within the aviation community, many flight crews found themselves in a surprising situation where it was difficult to understand what was happening, and without any effective solutions to apply. Sometimes the consequences were disastrous. Since these phenomena have become better known, crews have been trained to identify the situation rapidly and correctly and to apply the correct flying techniques. The most attention-consuming performance level is the knowledge-based level. In a completely new situation, without the help of any existing solutions, the person is forced to face the task of trying to derive an on-the-spot solution based solely on knowledge of the system. When such a situation emerges in the context of a complex system and under time pressure, the analytical capacity of human cognition may be quickly surpassed, and the chances for a successful outcome are seriously compromised. Preventing crewmembers from getting into such testing situations is one of aviation’s guiding principles. Two cases that involved a total loss of hydraulics, the DC-10 at Sioux City, Iowa in 1989 (uncontained engine failure) and the A300 near Baghdad in 2003 (hit by a missile), serve as rare examples where the flight crew was successful in the almost impossible task of learning to fly and land a damaged aircraft using engine power only. In these cases the flight crew could rely only on the on-the-spot reasoning, experimenting and overall knowledge of the aircraft and flying. Errors and violations have different