In everyday parlance, the term “error” is used in a very broad sense. For a more detailed discussion of the topic, we need more precise definitions. The classification used here is in line with James Reason’s definitions[1]. Errors are intentional (in)actions that fail to achieve their intended outcomes. Errors can only be associated with actions with a clear intention to achieve a specific intended outcome. Therefore, uncontrolled movements, e.g. reflexes, are not considered errors. The error itself by definition is not intentional, but the original planned action has to be intentional. Furthermore, it is assumed in the above definition that the outcome is not determined by factors outside the control of the actor. Violations are intentional (in)actions that break known rules, procedures or norms. The fundamental difference between errors and violations is that violations are deliberate, whereas errors are not. In other words, committing a violation is a conscious decision, whereas an error can be made while a person is consciously trying to perform in an error-free manner. Cases of intentional sabotage and theoretical cases of unintentional violation (breaking a rule because the person is not aware of the rule) are outside the scope of this flight operations BN. Therefore, it is important to realize that within the scope of this discussion that a person committing a violation does not intend the dramatic negative consequences that sometimes follow a violation — usually it is believed in good faith that the situation will remain under control despite the violation. It is worth noting that many sources, even in the domain of aviation safety, use the term “error” in a wider sense, covering both errors as defined here and violations. Errors can further be divided into the two following categories: Slips are actions that do not go as planned, while lapses are memory failures. For example, operating the flap lever instead of the (intended) gear lever is a slip. Forgetting a checklist item is a lapse. Plans that lead to mistakes can be defective (not good for anything), inappropriate (good for another situation), clumsy (with side effects) or dangerous (with increased risks). Different error types are often associated with what are termed performance levels. At any point in time, a person usually performs several tasks simultaneously. For example, a pilot may be flying the aircraft manually (reading instruments, analysing the situation and giving inputs to flight controls), going through the checklist read by the pilot not flying (PNF) and remaining vigilant for any radio traffic. In order to be capable of such multi-tasking, despite limited attention resources, human cognition is able to perform familiar tasks with minimal attention and the most familiar tasks automatically. This capability can be modeled with Rasmussen’s skill-based, rule-based, knowledge-based presentation of performance levels. Rasmussen’s model is briefly introduced below. Applying learned routine skills in normal, well-known situations is skill-based performance. When flying the aircraft manually, an experienced pilot does not need to focus the attention on the physical routines of moving the controls and operating the thrust