Preventing crewmembers from getting into such testing situations is one of aviation’s guiding principles. Two cases that involved a total loss of hydraulics, the DC-10 at Sioux City, Iowa in 1989 (uncontained engine failure) and the A300 near Baghdad in 2003 (hit by a missile), serve as rare examples where the flight crew was successful in the almost impossible task of learning to fly and land a damaged aircraft using engine power only. In these cases the flight crew could rely only on the on-the-spot reasoning, experimenting and overall knowledge of the aircraft and flying. Errors and violations have different forms at different performance levels. Slips and lapses typically emerge at the skill-based level. There are several known mechanisms behind slips and lapses. It is known, for example, that mental “programs” that are most commonly used may take over from very similar programs, which are less frequent or exceptional. The captain learns that a structural repair has been performed on his aircraft prior to the flight due to earlier ground damage, and decides to take a look at it during the walkaround. However, when he later starts the walkaround check, he quickly falls into the normal routine “program” of performing the walkaround, completely forgetting his intention to check the damage repair. He realizes his lapse only once back in the cockpit. Violations at the skill-based level are routine violations: violations that have become part of the person’s automated routines, like routinely exceeding the speed limit slightly when driving. Mistakes are results of conscious decision making, so they occur at rule-based and knowledge-based performance levels. In both cases, the two typical areas that can lead to problems are: Identifying the situation correctly. Knowing the correct solution (rule) to apply.. At the knowledge-based level, the challenge is to process an overflowing quantity of information and to understand it in such a way as to be able to make both a correct diagnosis and appropriate decisions. In contrast, at the rule-based level the flow of information may be well within processing limits, but the partially unconscious process of situation diagnosis and the quality of previously learned solutions (rules) become critical. Violations at the rule-based level are usually situational: the person performs the corner-cutting he or she judges necessary or useful to get the job done. Violations at the knowledge-based level are usually so-called exceptional violations, and sometimes are quite serious in their nature. Errors and violations together form the unreliable part of human performance. It is often stated that 70-90 percent of current aviation disasters are due to “human factors.” While the reality is somewhat more complex, it is true that current accidents usually contain important human performance elements. Errors and violations contribute to accidents both directly and by making the consequences of other problems more serious. In a complex (at least a priori), high-risk system - such as commercial aviation - there are multiple layers of defenses against known types of accidents. Therefore, an accident involves several contributing factors, some usually being