People in management positions often find it difficult to deal with human errors. Simple reactions such as asking people to be “more careful” very rarely bring improvement. The seemingly easy solution to add warnings in documentation usually turns out to have a very limited effect. Another natural reaction is to train people more, hoping errors will then be avoided. While various technical and non-technical skills can be improved by training and thereby have a positive impact on certain types of mistakes, training does very little to prevent slips and lapses. Effective managers must accept the fact that errors cannot be completely prevented no matter how much people are trained and how many warnings are put in the operational documentation. The first step in successful error management is to understand the nature of the errors that occur and the causal mechanisms behind them. This is problem identification. Real solutions for the problems human errors cause often require systemic improvements in the operation. For example, a systemic change could involve improving working conditions, procedures and knowledge in order to reduce the likelihood of error and to improve error detection. Another way is to build more error tolerance into the system, i.e., limit the consequences of errors when they do occur. Achieving such systemic solutions requires first adopting a global, organizational approach to error management rather than focusing only on the individuals committing the errors. Even the best safety program cannot prevent all errors. Therefore, the best strategy to adopt is error management. This chapter focuses first on effective error management strategies in general, and then discusses the specifics of managing slips, lapses and mistakes. A classic manual engine start routine introduces the potential for engine damage through human error - e.g., by wrong timing of opening and cutting off fuel flow. The automatic engine start sequence on FADEC-equipped aircraft prevents these errors by precise monitoring of the key engine start parameters, correct timing of each step in the sequence and automatic shutdown if anything abnormal occurs. Applying good ergonomics to a cockpit design reduces errors. Shaping the flap, spoiler and landing gear levers to symbolize their functions produces both visual and tactile cues and reduces slips involving the use of the wrong lever. The clear and logical visual design of instruments and displays, like the presentation of speed and altitude on the Primary Flight Display, reduces errors in reading them. Conservative operational margins in performance models ensure that reasonably small errors in aircraft loading and weight and balance calculations do not endanger the flight in critical phases such as takeoff. Slips and lapses are an unfortunate byproduct of the useful human capability to perform actions “automatically,” without full attention. The mechanisms causing slips and lapses function at an unconscious level. Therefore, even if slips and lapses can be reduced through good design of the working interfaces, procedures and environments, it is impossible to prevent all of them. The last example further illustrates the fact that effective solutions usually require operational changes at