spoiler and landing gear levers to symbolize their functions produces both visual and tactile cues and reduces slips involving the use of the wrong lever. The clear and logical visual design of instruments and displays, like the presentation of speed and altitude on the Primary Flight Display, reduces errors in reading them. Performance calculation software can warn the flight crew when some input values are outside the reasonable range, making the error immediately visible (cued by the environment).. Red flags on locking and safety pins can help detect pins that have been left in position: they can be seen in the wrong place (still at landing gear during taxiing) or their absence in the correct place can alert the crew.. Crosschecking is a way to apply error detection as an error management strategy (facilitating detection by another person).. So-called forcing functions are design features that force a person to detect and correct an error before continuing the task, e.g. the refuel panel of the Hawk trainer cannot be closed if the fuel switch underneath is left in the “ground” position.. The “undo” function in computer software is perhaps the best-known application of an error recovery feature.. The possibility to introduce an automatic pull-up function as an extension of the EGPWS has sometimes been discussed. Such a function would introduce forced error recovery.. Conservative operational margins in performance models ensure that reasonably small errors in aircraft loading and weight and balance calculations do not endanger the flight in critical phases such as takeoff. Slips and lapses are an unfortunate byproduct of the useful human capability to perform actions “automatically,” without full attention. The mechanisms causing slips and lapses function at an unconscious level. Therefore, even if slips and lapses can be reduced through good design of the working interfaces, procedures and environments, it is impossible to prevent all of them. Controlling factors that are known to contribute to errors, such as unnecessary distractions; sterile cockpit principles aim to reduce distractions.. Standardized procedures reinforce the correct sequences of actions and thus have a positive impact on both slips and lapses.. Levers designed with good tactile feedback reduce the risk of slips.. Use of checklists reduces the risk of lapses.. An airline was worried about several instances in which flight crews failed to set flaps to the correct takeoff flap settings and had to be reminded by the takeoff configuration warning. In response, the airline changed the checklists to place the flap item before the taxi phase, avoiding distractions encountered while taxiing.. The last example further illustrates the fact that effective solutions usually require operational changes at the organizational level. Due to the somewhat unpredictable nature of slips and lapses, the key management strategies are detection, recovery and tolerance. Fortunately, most slips and lapses are detected, usually by the person who made the error. Also, when a slip or lapse is detected, it is usually easy to recover. To facilitate detection, it is crucial that the aircraft provides the flight crew with immediate