In simple terms, violation management consists of understanding the reasons for violations and then trying to eliminate these reasons. In an ideal situation, the organization facilitates learning from difficulties in the operations and fixing them before people need to “fill the gaps” by committing violations. There are known factors that increase the probability of violations: This set of factors is sometimes called the “lethal cocktail”. Often the conditions that induce violations are created because the organization cannot adapt fast enough to new circumstances. The violator may be a very motivated person trying to do things “better” for the company. This explains why management pilots are often more likely to commit violations, especially in small companies where business pressures are strongly felt. As with errors, it is important to look for the root causes of violations in an organization. Solutions focused at the root-cause level will be the most effective. It is also important to recognize that it is not always productive to punish a violator because the violation may be committed due to factors beyond his or her control. However, this in no way is intended to undermine the importance of individual responsibility for one’s own actions. Dangerous and reckless behavior should never be tolerated. However, some routine or situational violations may have been imposed on the individual by deficient organization or planning, and any individual put in the same situation might find it difficult not to commit a violation. Acceptance of a non-compliant way of doing the job may have become part of the local working culture, which also means that the whole group — including management — is responsible for the violation, not just the individual actually committing it. The ultimate goal is to establish a working culture where violations are neither necessary nor an acceptable option. Like all cultural issues, this establishment can take considerable time and effort. Chances for success are greatly enhanced if the employees themselves are involved in setting the limits of what is acceptable in their own work. The limits must then be clearly communicated and imposed. On a continuous basis, violation management can take four different forms: