Best practice embedded in the ASSIST principle could be followed (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time) : A - acknowledge the descent (the declared malfunction and emergency if applicable), ask for the crews’ intentions when the situation permits S- separate other aircraft from the emergency aircraft and issue essential traffic information about the emergency descent S - silence the non-urgent calls (as required) and use a separate frequency where possible to talk to the emergency aircraft; I - inform the adjacent ATC units if the aircraft is approaching or is near to their areas of responsibility; inform your supervisor and relay the flight crew’s intentions S - support the flight with any information requested and deemed necessary. If necessary inform the crew of the minimum safe altitude. T - provide time for the crew to assess the situation, don’t press with non urgent matters. The controller should be prepared to: Acknowledge the emergency on RTF. Take all necessary action to safeguard all aircraft concerned. Provide a heading, if requested or otherwise necessary for risk management. Provide separation or issue essential traffic information, as appropriate. State the applicable minimum safe altitude, if necessary (REMEMBER: The aircraft should not descend below the lowest published minimum altitude which will provide a minimum vertical clearance of 300m (1000 ft) or in designated mountainous terrain 600m (2000 ft) above all obstacles located in the area specified.). Make an emergency broadcast if necessary. After emergency descent, and when the situation permits, ask for pilot intentions and other important information, such as : Intention to divert Injuries sustained by occupants Damage to aircraft. Intention to divert. Injuries sustained by occupants. Damage to aircraft. Consider the aircraft as remaining in an emergency situation until confirmed otherwise. The aircraft could be ready to continue flight without any further complications after the emergency descent if no structural damage was sustained and there are no significant system malfunctions. However, be aware than often a crew is unable to assess the type or extent of any damage whilst in flight..