The Investigation concluded that the accident was caused by: “the asymmetric lift loss at takeoff which led to aircraft stall right after the liftoff, collision with the ground and obstacles, aircraft destruction and ground fire” and that “the lift loss was most probably caused by the contamination of the wing leading edge with precipitation in the form of snow after the anti-icing which occurred as the crew did not engage the Wing Anti-Ice before the takeoff” It was also noted that exceeding the AFM limits for rate of rotation when taking off with a contaminated wing could have contributed to the loss of control and that “the inefficiency of the stall protection system at takeoff due to the hypersensitive wing as to contamination of its leading edge cannot completely guarantee prevention of similar accidents in the future”. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: Operators of the CL-604 should consider the practicability of: arranging of debriefings to study the causes and contributing factors to this accident; arranging of training for the flight crews operating this aircraft type when preparing for the cold weather period operations concerning the aircraft aerodynamics highlighting the possibility of stall in case of contaminated wing with deposits of ice, snow, frost etc. as well as the de-icing/anti-icing rules and use of Wing Anti-Ice system; recommend that Captains operating CL-604 type aircraft with a co-pilot with low (less than 200 hours) experience on this aircraft type conduct takeoffs and landings as PF when there is contamination, precipitation, low braking action, or significant crosswind component.. arranging of debriefings to study the causes and contributing factors to this accident;. arranging of training for the flight crews operating this aircraft type when preparing for the cold weather period operations concerning the aircraft aerodynamics highlighting the possibility of stall in case of contaminated wing with deposits of ice, snow, frost etc. as well as the de-icing/anti-icing rules and use of Wing Anti-Ice system;. recommend that Captains operating CL-604 type aircraft with a co-pilot with low (less than 200 hours) experience on this aircraft type conduct takeoffs and landings as PF when there is contamination, precipitation, low braking action, or significant crosswind component.. Bombardier should consider the practicability of working out more efficient recommendations for pilots to avoid stalling at takeoff due to wing contamination.. Jet Connection Business Flight should review the content of their “Abbreviated Checklist” in order to avoid the omissions of items stipulated by the manufacturer’s Documentation.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 6 June 2011 and a ”courtesy” English Language translation of the Final Report:CL-604 D-ARWE was made available shortly afterwards.