Good practices for runway controllers which could reduce the risk of runway crossing incursions include: Any active runway crossing clearance should be regarded as of equivalent significance to a take off or landing clearance. Where controllable lit stop bars are not installed at every designated holding point, aircraft taxi clearance limits prior to the expected crossing of an active runway should always correspond to positions where this facility exists. If a frequency change is not required to cross an active runway, the clearance to do so should not be given any earlier than it would be if such a change was required. The issue of crossing clearances which are likely to result in late landing clearances should be avoided. Where circumstances permit, runway crossing clearances should be given as near to either end of a runway as possible and, where this is not possible, full length take offs should be preferred. In the event that it is realised by a pilot or driver that an incursion has occurred and that a collision has become a possibility, it is essential that any instruction to either party to stop or to continue is made promptly and appropriately. All active runway crossing clearances should be issued with a requirement to report clear of the runway after crossing and this confirmation should be obtained before any use of the same runway for take off or landing is authorised. A handover briefing to facilitate a change of runway controller should seek to avoid the interval between the issue of any runway crossing clearance and the subsequent “runway vacated” call. Whenever possible, runway crossing clearances should minimise the time which an aircraft or vehicle is on the active runway. Aircraft under tow are best positioned prior to crossing as close as possible to a suitable exit taxiway. The use of standard taxi routes for runway crossing is strongly advised.. When the time is critical, controllers should consider informing the crossing aircraft/vehicle of traffic which will subsequently land or take off on the same runway. Since pilots require a general overview of their expected taxi routing, it may be appropriate in the case of complex detail to provide such an overview first and then divide the detail of the message into segments, placing the clearances and instructions in sequential order. This should help reduce the chances of pilot misunderstanding, while still providing the complete picture..