The major provisions of these amendments concern whether a certificated sUAS operator is eligible to conduct operations over people, according to these categories: Category 1 — Eligible sUAs must weigh less than 0.55 pound (.25 kilogram), including everything on board or otherwise attached, and contain no exposed rotating parts that would lacerate human skin. Remote pilots are prohibited from operating an sUA as a Category 1 operation in sustained flight over open-air assemblies unless the operation meets the requirements for standard remote identification or remote identification broadcast modules established in the Remote ID Final Rule. No FAA-accepted means of compliance (MOC) or declaration of compliance (DOC) is required.. Category 2 — Eligible sUAs must not cause injury to a human being that is equivalent to or greater than the severity of injury caused by a transfer of 11 foot-pounds (14.91 joules) of kinetic energy upon impact from a rigid object, does not contain any exposed rotating parts that could lacerate human skin upon impact with a human being, and does not contain any safety defects. This category requires an FAA-accepted MOC and an FAA-accepted DOC by the applicant. Operating rule — Remote pilots are prohibited from operating an sUA as a Category 2 operation in sustained flight over open-air assemblies unless the operation meets the requirements for standard remote identification or remote identification broadcast modules established in the FAA’s Remote ID Final Rule.. Operating rule — Remote pilots are prohibited from operating an sUA as a Category 2 operation in sustained flight over open-air assemblies unless the operation meets the requirements for standard remote identification or remote identification broadcast modules established in the FAA’s Remote ID Final Rule.. Category 3 — Eligible sUAs must not cause injury to a human being that is equivalent to or greater than the severity of injury caused by a transfer of 25 foot-pounds (33.9 joules) of kinetic energy upon impact from a rigid object, does not contain any exposed rotating parts that could lacerate human skin upon impact with a human being, and does not contain any safety defects. This category requires an FAA-accepted MOC and an FAA-accepted DOC. Operating rules — The remote pilot must not operate the sUA over open-air assemblies of human beings. The remote pilot may only operate the sUA above any human being if operation meets one of the following conditions: (a) The operation is within or over a closed-access site or restricted-access site and all human beings located within the closed-access site or restricted-access site must be on notice that an sUA may fly over them; or, (b) The small unmanned aircraft does not maintain sustained flight over any human being unless that human being is directly participating in the operation of the small unmanned aircraft; or located under a covered structure or inside a stationary vehicle that can provide reasonable protection from a falling small unmanned aircraft.. Operating rules — The remote pilot must not operate the sUA over open-air assemblies of human beings. The remote pilot