An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The landing was confirmed to have been normal. It was established that the first awareness of a fire was a report to ATC GND from another aircraft in respect of the left main gear. The flight crew had no indications of a fire and were unaware of any problem as well as not realising that the transmission of the other aircraft was about them. The ATC GND controller observed yellow and white flames coming from the left main gear and initiated procedures for an Aircraft Ground Incident (AGI). The RFFS arrived and whilst they attempted to extinguish the flames, copious quantities of what the RFFS Watch Commander assessed as ‘smoke’ were produced and because he considered that the fire was getting out of control, he advised the aircraft commander to evacuate the aircraft. This was ordered and the right hand exits used. As the evacuation had been the subject of a number of video recordings, it was decided to investigate it in more detail. It was found that there was visible heat damage on the left main gear where the anti-abrasion sheaths on the No 10 brake unit hydraulic pressure hose and temperature probe conduit had melted. There was also slight damage to fuselage skin adjacent to door 3R, heat damage to the No 10 tyre and to hydraulic hoses on the left main landing gear. No indications were found of any hydraulic or fuel leaks on either the left main gear leg or within the corresponding wheel bay. Because there had been previous instances of wheel fires on this operator’s Boeing 777 aircraft upon arrival at Manchester, these incidents were re-examined and it was found that all the affected wheels had been fitted to the aircraft at Karachi, with the fires all occurring on the ‘second’ landing thereafter at Manchester. It was considered likely that, in all these incidents, solvent escaping from heated heat shields was ignited and briefly burnt, in some cases also extending to the ignition of excessive grease either on the axle or thrown onto the brake pack during the first landing. It was concluded that the most likely reason for the majority of the fires occurring at Manchester was that it is here the aircraft normally undertakes its first landing with a full payload following a wheel change at Karachi. This means that brake packs would be likely to be hotter than after landing at Lahore, with the result that the heat shields could sometimes become sufficiently hot for the entrapped solvent to escape as a vapour and ignite, probably, on contact with the hot brakes. The Investigation determined that the probable cause of the fire, established as being in the No 10 main landing gear wheel, was: “the maintenance practice used when cleaning the wheel heat shields. It was (considered) likely that these had been immersed in a flammable solvent, which allowed the ceramic fibre insulation material contained within to become contaminated. The fire (had)