in these lines at such intersections. It was also noted that the runway shoulders of the incident runway had been constructed so as to be "capable of supporting an aircraft if it runs off the side of the runway". It was noted that at night, Denver taxiway and runway lighting was usually kept at 'stage two' intensity out of a possible five stages unless otherwise requested and was at this level at the time of the investigated event. All the green taxi centreline and lead-on lights were found to have been functioning normally and, in the absence of overwritten CVR data, the Investigation was unable to establish why this continuous line of lights onto the centreline "did not catch the flight crew’s attention". It was concluded that there was "no other adjacent lighting conditions that could give the erroneous perception that the right (north) runway edge line and lights could be the runway centreline". The failure to reject the take off once the misalignment had been recognised and the subsequent failure to promptly inform ATC of the possible presence of FOD on the runway were considered. In respect of the former, the Captain's absolute discretion to reject or continue take off in the event of an abnormal situation occurring at low speed was noted, although the associated requirement that if a "condition or situation that may affect the safety of flight is observed, it will immediately be voiced (and) if a rejected take-off is not required, the Captain will call 'continue' ” which was not reported to have occurred. In respect of the latter, it was considered that it would have been "appropriate" to inform ATC. It was found that neither of the pilots were frequent users of Denver - it was the Captain's second night departure and the First Officer's first departure from the airport. It was noted that having been instructed by ATC to maintain visual contact with the aircraft departing ahead, this may have had the effect of reducing the attention given by the Captain to ground visual aids whilst aligning the aircraft for take-off. It was considered "likely that the Captain relied on peripheral vision to align the aircraft and may have perceived the white runway side stripe marking, which intersected the taxiway centreline, as the runway centreline marking (which) would explain why the aircraft was initially aligned to the right of the right runway edge lights". It was noted that there had been three very similar previously documented (but not investigated) events in January/February 2006 during which unidentified aircraft damaged the runway 25R edge lights at night and that there had been another since the event under investigation. These other events were not reported and thus had only been discovered during routine runway/taxiway inspections so that as with the late reporting of the investigated event, prior to debris discovery, other aircraft were at risk of damage. The formal statement of Causes and Contributory Factors was as follows: "The Pilot Flying likely relied on peripheral vision