to taxi the aircraft because of the requirement to maintain separation with the aircraft departing ahead. This, combined with the aerodrome markings, resulted in the misalignment of the aircraft and the initiation of the take-off from the asphalt runway shoulder instead of the runway centreline." Three Findings as to Risk were also identified as follows: (1) A rolling take-off reduces the crew’s time for conducting a thorough outside visual check and verifying runway alignment before initiating the take-off roll. (2) Taxiways B1 and A2 centrelines curve onto the runway edge line. At night, this could result in pilots aligning their aircraft with the runway side stripe marking instead of with the runway centreline. (3) This occurrence was reported to company dispatch and air traffic services two hours after the event. During that time, debris left by the broken lights could have posed a hazard for other aircraft using Runway 25R. Finally it was formally documented as an Other Finding that "the other three similar events that happened on Runway 25R at Las Vegas were not reported (and) failure to declare such events deprives investigators of important data that could help to identify the contributing factors that lead to this type of event". Safety Action taken by the Las Vegas Airport Authority as a result of the investigated event was noted to have included modifications to taxiway markings at the threshold of runway 25R as follows: at taxiway B1, the radius of the taxiway centreline was extended past the runway edge line to meet the runway centreline in the displaced threshold arrow area.. at taxiway A2, the radius of the taxiway centreline that curves to the runway edge line was erased, and the taxiway centreline now extends to the threshold markings.. However, these actions only had the effect of standardising the taxi lines onto the runway at these two points with the one that was already in place at the taxiway used by the incident aircraft at the time it was misaligned and so were actions not derived directly from the circumstances of the investigated event or directed at the prevention of an identical occurrence. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 1 February 2007 and such action followed. No Safety Recommendations were made.