The Investigation was delegated by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) to the Canadian Transport Safety Board (TSB). The Operator removed and downloaded the aircraft DFDR and sent the data to the TSB. Relevant CVR data was overwritten. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had accumulated approximately 11,000 total flying hours which included about 3000 hours on A320 series aircraft split equally between time as Captain and time as Co-Pilot. The First Officer had accumulated a total of approximately 10,500 total flying hours which included about 1900 hours on the type variant involved. It was established that the aircraft had been taxied onto departure runway 25R at the full length from taxiway B in accordance with clearance (see diagram below). The green taxiway centreline lights continued past the runway holding point along the curved taxiway centreline across the white runway edge line until they reached the runway centreline. It was noted that the runway did not have centreline lights, just white centreline markings which followed an initial 425 metres of displaced threshold arrows at the beginning. Runway edge lights were white except for those on the displaced threshold section between taxiways B and A2 which were red in the take-off direction. All edge lights except those in the taxiway merge areas were raised. A rolling take off had been made. During the initial stages of the takeoff the pilot was initially unaware of the misalignment because he was "scanning the airspeed and the engine instruments" without also (as also required by SOPs) "observing that the aircraft is on the runway centreline when the thrust levers are advanced and the take-off phase is activated". After completing this internal scan, the First Officer reported that he "looked outside and saw a red light in front of the aircraft (and) realised that the aircraft was not on the runway centreline". He informed the Captain "who had already started to correct to the left". DFDR data showed that this change of direction "corresponded to a six-degree heading correction and was made approximately 11 seconds into the take-off run at a speed of 64 knots". At the beginning of this corrective action, the aircraft had been approximately 245 metres from the runway threshold, approximately 9 metres to the right of the runway edge lights and approximately 35 metres feet right of the centreline of the 45 metre-wide runway. During the initial take-off roll, the pilots reported that they had "felt a sensation similar to the aircraft going over pavement joints (which) was considered unremarkable". The aircraft was found to have "regained the runway surface" in the vicinity of the displaced threshold markings, at which point, it had been accelerating through 113 KCAS. It was noted that continuity of the white runway surface edge line at taxiway intersections was in accordance with the applicable FAA AC150/5340-1 and Volume 1 of ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 Aerodrome Design and Operations but contrary to Canadian practice which includes introducing breaks