It is necessary that NVGs be certified to a minimum standard of TSO-C164 (equivalent of ANVIS 9 with Omnibus 4 Image Intensifier Tubes). Goggles introduced post release of TSO-C164 must meet the performance requirements of RTCA/DO-275. NVGs must additionally be battery powered (not supplied by aircraft electrical power) and equipped with an automatic power supply change over, or a minimum 30 minute battery warning to the user. Each crew member must then use the same model of NVG and on-board a spare set of NVGs of the same model must be carried and be readily accessible by the crew . Forecasted weather conditions along the planned route must meet Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) or better. The weather forecast must provide illumination prediction (moon, starlight) and risk of reduced visibility in blowing snow, dust, or haze. Helicopters must also be fully Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) compatible and certified for dual IFR operations in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. A risk assessment must be performed and documented and the crew briefed on it prior to each NVG activity. A flight dispatch procedure must be developed and implemented that covers mission development, flight planning, risk assessment, mitigation and authorisation processes . Helicopters must be produced or modified with an NVIS certification under an approved Supplementary Type Certificate (STC) or Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) AC 27-1B MG 16 (or equivalent) and/or FAA AC 29.2C MG 16 (or equivalent). Helicopters must be crewed by two-pilots with dual controls and instruments for full IFR operations and must be equipped with a fully steerable searchlight (preferably infrared) capable of being operated from either pilot station. They must also be equipped with either a dual output radar altimeter, or two independent radar altimeters equipped with visual and aural height warnings with variable height alert that can be set by the flight crew. Helicopter must additionally be equipped with a Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) that meets the requirements of TSO-C194 and with a three-axis autopilot to relieve crew workload. Where practicable for the aircraft type, a moving map capability must be fitted to enhance crew situational awareness. Multi-engine aircraft are to be used when conducting flights on NVGs . Requirements must foresee that all flight crew have a minimum of 50 hours of night (VFR or IFR), unaided flight time. The commander must have ten hours pilot-in-command NVG flight time logged and the aircraft operator provide role-based scenarios for NVG crew in a CRM recency context. Where specialist NVG operations are considered (for example, confined area, hook, hoist, marine pilot transfer) qualifications as required by each role must be certified by the NVG training provider . Flight crew training and checking must be conducted in accordance with a detailed syllabus approved by the competent authority and included in the operations manual. The flight crew training syllabus must include the following items: NVIS working principles, eye physiology, vision at night, limitations and techniques to overcome these limitations; preparation and testing of NVIS equipment; preparation of the helicopter for