flap and full reverse thrust was 2,100 metres. Two NOTAMs relevant to the event were extant prior to the departure of the flight from Teheran, with their period of validity having commenced at 0500 the day prior to the overrun. The one advising of the temporary reduction in runway length, to which the flight crew were alerted at Dispatch, was A0058/19. It included approval for aircraft landing on runway 09 to make a 180° turn after completing a landing if necessary (the 2,400 metre runway length exceeding the available turn off at exit ‘B by 100 metres). A second related NOTAM - A0060/19 - effective from the same time and further advised in relation to the reduction on runway length that the 09 ILS would be out of service with only non precision LNAV approaches to that runway available. The Investigation noted that according to ICAO Annex 14 Attachment ‘A’, “a displaced threshold affects only the LDA for approaches made to that threshold; all declared distances for operations in the reciprocal direction are unaffected" and on that basis concluded that advice of the similar reduction in the 09 LDA should have been explicit in the first NOTAM. The fact that two NOTAMs were issued about a series of changes all related to the reduction in the normally-available runway length was noted to contradict remarks contained in ICAO PAN-AIM (Doc10066) that "each NOTAM shall be as brief as possible and so compiled that its meaning is clear without the need to refer to another document”. The absence of any NOTAM information describing the installation of elevated red lights to mark the end of the reduced length runway 09 was also noted to be contrary to the corresponding guidance contained in the ICAO Aeronautical Information Services Manual (Doc 8126) which stated that NOTAM issue is required to notify the "interruption of or return to operation of major components of aerodrome lighting systems". The Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the inadequate Dispatch briefing, the flight crew’s failure to properly review the briefing information provided by Dispatch, the inadequacy of the NOTAM information issued concerning the reduction in runway length and the provision of an ILS approach by ATC when this had been officially notified as unavailable. The Investigation formally determined that the Cause of the Serious Incident was "the wrong perception of the flight crew regarding the content of the NOTAMs issued in respect of the displaced threshold of runway 27 at Yerevan”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Insufficient risk assessment by the airline in respect of the NOTAMS issued for the destination airport.. Lack of supportive information from the destination airport operator about the issued NOTAM on reduced runway length.. Ineffective flight crew training in respect of NOTAMs and their potential relevance to the arrival briefing.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) ensure that risk assessment of new routes for non scheduled