An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) after delegation from the Armenian Civil Aviation Committee on behalf of the State of Occurrence. The FDR was removed from the aircraft and data relevant to the event were downloaded but the CVR was found not to have been isolated after the event and relevant data from it was therefore overwritten. It was noted that the 51 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 7,800 flying hours which included 3,210 hours on type. The 55 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,955 flying hours which included 3,000 hours on type. It was established that prior to boarding the aircraft for the flight to Yerevan, both pilots attended a briefing in the airline’s Dispatch Office and received from the Dispatcher the flight document folder and a specific briefing about the Yerevan landing distance NOTAM which included reference to a reduction in the landing distance for both directions of the runway there from the normal 3,850 metres to 2,400 metres. The subsequent flight proceeded normally until within Armenian airspace and nearing Yerevan. The Yerevan ACC controller advised the flight that radar vectoring to an ILS approach to runway 09 could be expected and after transfer to APP Radar, the flight was “informed of the displacement of the runway 27 threshold by 1,450 metres”. As previously advised, radar vectors to the 09 ILS followed and the flight was subsequently transferred to TWR where it was cleared to land at 6nm from touchdown with a spot wind of 190°/4 knots. Shortly after this, TWR added that the flight should expect to exit the runway at intersection ‘B’ after landing. NB: Exit ‘B’ is 2,300 metres from the landing threshold of runway 09. The landing was made by the Captain “with the assumption of a 3,850 metre LDA” being available and he therefore did not take any action to ensure that the aircraft would be able to stop within the actually-available 2,400 metre LDA. As a consequence he “suddenly encountered a row of elevated lights across the runway” when it was too late to stop without an overrun. He decided “in the spite of existence of obstacles, to continue without immediate braking to avoid sustaining of damage to landing gear”. The aircraft subsequently collided with one of the elevated lights as it departed the end of the designated runway length and the TWR controller instructed the aircraft to stop which was acknowledged and complied with without any further obstacles being encountered. No explanation was advanced as to why the ATC advice given to the crew whilst on finals and acknowledged to expect to exit the runway at intersection ‘B’ (which was 100 metres before the end of the declared LDA) was not followed. It was found that according to the QRH, at the prevailing aircraft ELW of 151 tonnes, the landing distance required on a dry runway using 43°