opens the fuel valve to the engine; movement to the middle position closes the fuel valve to the engine, which shuts down the engine; and movement to the aft position causes the propeller to feather. When the UAV is controlled by PPO-1, the condition lever at the PPO-2 console controls the camera's iris setting. Moving the lever forward increases the iris opening, moving the lever to the middle position locks the camera's iris setting, and moving the lever aft decreases the opening. Typically, the lever is set in the middle position. […] Checklist procedures state that there should be pilots in both the PPO-1 and PPO-2 seats before switching control of the UAV from one PPO to the other. CBP stated that its procedures call for the avionics technician to assume the duties of a co-pilot for the purpose of assisting with the checklist items before switching control from one PPO to the other. This did not occur during the accident sequence. The pilot stated that he did not use the checklist when making the switch. Checklist procedures state that before switching operational control between the two consoles, the pilot must match the control positions on the new console to those on the console that had been controlling the UAV. The pilot stated in an interview that he was in a "hurry" and that he failed to do this. The condition lever on PPO-2 was in the fuel cutoff position when the switch from PPO-1 to PPO-2 occurred. As a result, the fuel was cut off to the UAV engine when control was transferred to PPO-2. […] There is an audible warning when an engine failure occurs. However, the same tone is used for every warning; the sound was not distinctive for a loss of engine power. The avionics technician stated that he heard the warning, but thought it was activating because they lost the Iridium satellite. In addition to the aural warning, the pilot should have seen a loss of torque and an exhaust gas temperature warning on the heads-down display. The Communications/Air Traffic Control section (COA) of the report states that the air traffic services in Albuquerque Air Route Traffic Control Center (ZAB) were provided with mandatory training regarding the COA. The training consisted of a 30-minute briefing and PowerPoint presentation. Further in Communications/Radar section the Report states: Both the ZAB controller and the OMIC [operations manager in charge] stated that they expected the UAS to fly the same course that it flew on several other lost-link events, which took it through a corridor just north of Nogales, Arizona, at 15,000 feet to a final recovery at FHU [Libby Army Airfield - from where the flight originated]. Following the loss of radar contact and radio communications, ATC (the ZAB controller) queried the UAV pilot regarding the location of the UAV. According to the controller, the UAV pilot did not know the location of the aircraft. While ATC considered the loss of radar contact and radio communications with UAV