runway 17 but a satisfactory alignment on the extended centreline was not achieved and just under 6 minutes into the flight, it was discontinued from around 400/500 feet aal. The landing gear was selected up and the flaps were returned to zero, the latter in stages. The aircraft then began to position for a landing on runway 35, and entered the right downwind leg for that runway at about 1000 feet aal, clean and positioned, according to the surviving Navigator, “more or less” onto the extended centreline at 3½ nm and fully configured for landing. However, when approximately 1.2 nm from the threshold and at about 330 feet aal, a further go around was commenced and there were no further transmissions from the aircraft. Flap retraction was commenced but speed did not increase and FDR data showed that one minute and 20 seconds after beginning the go around, the aircraft had entered a stall when turning left into the direction of the failed engine at “a very low altitude” and at a speed of only around 120 knots from which no recovery was made. The wreckage of the aircraft was located approximately 1.6 nm west of the aerodrome in shallow sea water. All occupants had been recovered from the wreckage by local fishermen prior to the arrival of the emergency services, at which point, the sole survivor was taken to hospital with multiple injuries. The weather at the time of the departure, for the two attempted visual approaches and when the loss of control occurred after the second go around was recorded as wind calm and the visibility 800 metres in fog. This was considered suitable for takeoff on the planned route but it was noted that there was no precision approach procedure at Cox’s Bazar, only an NDB. The cause of the engine failure was not determined, but inspection of the 10th stage compressor did disclose evidence of internal damage from unknown causes. The Causes of the accident were formally documented as follows: Failure to initiate a rejected take off during the takeoff roll following the indication of engine failure.. Failure to adhere to the company SOP following the detection of the engine failure during takeoff. Considering the poor visibility at Cox’s Bazar Airport, diverting to the alternate Chittagong Airport located only 50 nm away which had provision for an ILS approach could have helped the crew to complete a proper one engine out precision approach landing. The aircraft flew at a much lower speed - 121 knots - than the minimum clean configuration speed which was 157 knots.. The aircraft stalled while making a turn towards the side of the failed engine at a very low altitude.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that All Relevant AN26 Flight Crew need to be properly trained to correctly apply the engine failure procedure during and immediately after takeoff.. that Flight Crew CRM courses should give emphasis to the decision making process.. that the