An Investigation was carried out by the Bangladesh Aircraft Accident Investigation Group (AAIG). Both the FDR and the CVR were both recovered from the aircraft in an apparently externally undamaged condition and both were subsequently taken to the Ukrainian National Bureau of Air Accident and Incidents (NBAAI) for readout. The FDR data were successfully downloaded but the CVR data could not be recovered because of internal damage to the equipment. The recorded ATC communications with the aircraft were also available and a transcript was made. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, had a total of 13,315 hours flying experience which included 6,896 hours on type and the 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,438 hours flying experience which included 1,195 hours on type. The aircraft flight crew also included a 36 year-old Flight Engineer and a 48 year old Navigator both with the same recorded total of 3,924 hours flying experience including 2,946 hours on type. All four crew members were of Ukrainian nationality and all appeared to have Russian as their first language but the three who made radio transmissions prior to and during the accident flight appeared to be able to use the English language without difficulty. Their Ukrainian licences had all been validated by the Bangladesh CAA to allow them to operate Bangladeshi-registered aircraft operated by a Bangladeshi AOC holder. It was noted that the Cox’s Bazar-based aircraft operator was a commercial cargo air carrier that had been formed in 2013 and primarily carried baby shrimps from Cox’s Bazar to Jessore, refuelling as required en route at Chittagong. Initially, it had wet leased two AN-26B aircraft from a Ukrainian operator, one of which was the accident aircraft. In 2014, both aircraft were re-registered in Bangladesh and thereafter dry leased from the same owner. It was established from FDR data that just four seconds after the takeoff roll of the fully loaded aircraft from runway 35 began and with the speed still below 40 knots, the left engine oil pressure recorded on the engine torque meter system “spontaneously decreased” from the value when full power had been set - 1,350 psi - to 925 psi, which indicated that takeoff power was reduced to cruise power. The takeoff was continued and after a 37 second takeoff roll, the aircraft became airborne at a speed of 107 knots. Almost immediately, the left engine failed completely. ATC were advised of an engine failure (although which engine was only clarified in a subsequent transmission) and an immediate return was requested and approved. Although no emergency was declared, the airport emergency services were put on standby by ATC. The flaps were retracted and the airspeed eventually settled at around 160 knots, close to the applicable minimum clean speed. A maximum altitude of 1,280 feet aal was reached and was not thereafter exceeded. The aircraft was manoeuvred in a figure of eight pattern with the intention of returning to land on