An Investigation was carried out by the Myanmar Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). The aircraft SSFDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and sent to the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) where their data were downloaded. The 51 year-old Captain had a total of 9,646 flying hours experience which included 1,474 hours on type and the 25 year-old First Officer had a total 580 flying hours experience of which all except 175 hours were on type. It was established that an initially commenced ILS approach to runway 21 at destination with the First Officer as PF had been discontinued at 2000 feet on instructions from ATC and the flight instructed to climb to 8000 feet and hold at the ‘HGU’ VOR because of adverse weather. ATC had then advised to expect the airport to be closed for two hours on that account but when there was a slight improvement less than half an hour later, the flight was cleared for a second approach to the same runway despite the continuing presence over the airport of a thunderstorm and accompanying heavy rain. This time ATC advised that the ILS was no longer available and a LOC/RNP approach was therefore flown. The final approach was reported by the Captain to have been slightly high compared to the correct PAPI indication - one red/three white with a wet runway sufficiently visible to continue to a landing. Recorded flight data suggested that although the First Officer had remained as PF, the latter stages of this second approach were characterised by intermittent control column inputs from the Captain as well as considerable verbal ‘coaching’. It was also apparent from the recorded flight data that the approach had been flown at a speed consistently well above the appropriate flap 15 VREF of 122 KIAS, generally about 25 knots above it, which meant the approach was unstable when assessed against the applicable stabilised approach criteria. Below 30 feet agl over the runway, both pilots were recorded as having simultaneously made similar but opposite control column inputs, the Captain making a forward (nose down input) and the First Officer a rearward (nose up) one. A reportedly smooth touchdown just over half way along the 3,413 metre-long runway was followed by approximately 7 seconds on the ground in the centre of the runway. During this time, three successive transient compressions of the main landing gear separated by two equally transient releases of compression occurred. The Captain is then recorded as announcing that he is taking over control and the aircraft then became airborne again as the pitch angle was increased to 8° over 4 seconds. On reaching a maximum of 44 feet above the runway, the power levers were moved into the beta range and the aircraft, still with a forward speed well in excess of 100 knots descended at around 1800 fpm and impacted the right hand edge of the runway extremely hard in a slightly nose-down attitude. The landing gear collapsed, the right wing partially detached,