An Investigation was carried out in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 procedures by a Committee of Inquiry constituted by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Data from the DFDR and CVR were successfully downloaded and used to support the Investigation. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain was one of the Operator's 12 Check Pilots and had 7104 hours total flying experience, the majority of which had been obtained during a 32 year career as a pilot in the Indian Air Force. He had joined Air India Charters immediately on retiring from the Air Force and had qualified to operate the 737-800 as Co-Pilot in 2008, before being promoted to Captain a year later and to Check Pilot six months prior to the accident. He had 2088 hours on the incident aircraft type, of which 1467 were in command. The 28 year-old First Officer had joined the Operator after pilot training and had qualified to operate on the 737-800 almost 20 months earlier. He had 850 hours experience on the incident aircraft type. Both pilots were familiar with operations at Mangalore. It was established that, with the aircraft commander as PF and after confirmation from ATC that the prevailing visibility, which had been below limits, was now 800 metres and the RVR was 1200 metres (the latter being the minimum permitted), an ILS Cat 1 approach to runway 24 at Mangalore was approved and commenced. Adequate fuel for diversion to two alternates, Kochi (Cochin) and Kozhikode (Calicut), was available. Landing clearance was given at 6nm with the surface wind reported as calm and no advice that the previously-communicated visibility or RVR had changed. Soon afterwards, the Captain asked the First Officer to "look out for lights" - which was considered to have distracted him from his duty as PM to continue to monitor the flight instruments and call deviations until the PF announced the acquisition of the required visual reference at or prior to DA. DFDR data confirmed that the approach had been flown normally (Vref 141 KIAS) and remained stabilised with the AP engaged until the prescribed Decision Altitude (DA) of 520 feet QNH (212 feet ARTE) was reached. Three seconds prior to the auto callout of 'Minimums' the First Officer had called "approaching minimums". However, after DA the aircraft continued below DA without visual reference. Four seconds after the minimums auto call, the AP had been disconnected and the aircraft began to go below the ILS GS as the rate of descent increased. Immediately prior to the 100 feet agl auto callout, the CVR recorded the First Officer calling "lights in sight". Finally, soon after the 10 feet agl auto callout, "an unusual scraping sound was heard followed by a bounce to a second touchdown after which the thrust reversers were activated". The initial touchdown occurred right wing first without any prior reduction of thrust from the earlier approach setting with a rate of descent of about 950 fpm - a vertical acceleration of 3.253g was recorded. A