Captain entered "suspected hard landing" in the Aircraft Technical Log after completing the flight he had not reported the occurrence to ATC over the radio or after observing aircraft damage on a post-flight external inspection. The engineer who was supposed to meet the arriving aircraft – but only arrived later – also did not inform ATC after discovering the damage and being aware of the 'hard landing' defect entry. The result was that debris on the runway threshold was not discovered until approximately two hours later during a routine inspection, upon which it was simply removed which the Investigation considered demonstrated that "the runway inspection team members are not adequately aware about investigating deviations observed from normal situations as in this case the value of material evidence like aircraft tyre marking in the undershoot area and loose stones in such incidents". It was, however, noted that no other aircraft had landed between the undershoot and the first subsequent routine inspection which discovered the debris. It was formally determined that the Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was "incorrect control inputs on short final during transition from IMC to VMC and apparent momentary loss of depth perception by the Captain due (to) prevailing foggy and low altitude cloud conditions". Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The failure to initiate a go-around on short final after autopilot disconnection while flying under marginal weather conditions and inadequate visual reference.. Inadequate crew co-ordination/CRM during the final approach for the landing under marginal weather conditions.. The Captain’s failure to scan/monitor and control the aircraft attitude on short finals.. The fixation of both pilots on visual cues (especially after minimums/autopilot disconnection) and looking out for lights, instead of looking in and out to guard against visual illusions.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air India Charters should immediately enhance the awareness of its crew in respect of the hazards of transitioning to visual reference from Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) when the visibility is deteriorating and there is a crosswind component, and reviews its crew training on landing under marginal weather and low visibility conditions.. that Air India Charters should provide appropriate corrective training as deemed fit for the Captain and First Officer involved. The emphasis should be given to operations in marginal weather conditions. Practice in approaches with transition from IMC to VMC conditions in cross wind with and without the use of automated approaches should be included.. that Air India Charters shall in future ensure prompt reporting of any abnormality noticed by flight crew/AME during or after a flight to all concerned authorities/ATC in the interest of safety. In the event of any possibility that any debris or FOD may have resulted from the flight or take off/landing profile of any aircraft, the flight crew must inform ATC by the fastest means so that (any risk) of damage to other aircraft operated at the airport may be prevented by a Runway Inspection by the