bounce to 20 feet agl lasting 7 seconds followed before a second touchdown which registered 2.007g. The auto brake was activated at the first touchdown and the speed brakes were partially deployed. Auto brake application and full speed brake deployment followed at the second touchdown. Tyre marks in the undershoot area were found to begin 32 metres (right main gear) and 15 metres (left main gear) prior to the runway threshold. Damage to the aircraft was found to include a hole in the underside of the left hand horizontal stabiliser and extensive superficial damage to the left side of the fuselage, both caused by debris impact, as well as damage to the main landing gear wheels and their tyres to the extent that all four wheels required replacement as part of the return to service process. It was noted that the Aerodrome Meteorological Service at Mangalore did not issue TREND forecasts and that RVR measurement were carried out manually on request from ATC. It was noted that ATC reported having been unable to see the landed aircraft for two minutes on or exiting from the runway and that the shortest distance between the TWR cabin and the edge of runway 24 was 182 metres. It was also noted that half an hour after the investigated event, visibility was being reported at 200 metres, with this and other evidence all pointing to a deteriorating visibility trend as the aircraft neared its intended touchdown. It was concluded that "the crew was subject to visibility lower than what was expected or reported by the ATC/Met" and noted that "the visibility information was very critical in the preparation and decision to be made by the crew with respect to the landing". By the time the runway was acquired visually, it was considered that it was too late for the pilot to properly control the aircraft. It was additionally surmised that the aircraft had (not necessarily intentionally) been "put into a pitched down attitude by the Captain in order to gain better visual reference of the runway/runway lights" and that "in concentrating on gaining visual reference at low altitude" he had, in the process, lost focus on the increasing rate of descent, the aircraft pitch attitude and descent below the glide slope. The hard landing was considered to be a direct consequence of the (unappreciated) high rate of descent, late acquisition of visual reference and lack of prior thrust reduction as the auto callouts of height reduced in 10 foot increments below 50 feet agl. There was no reported explanation of the Captain for the violation of DA but on the CVR after the incident, the Captain was recorded as saying that "less than 50 feet when they were about to flare out, there was a right cross wind and […] they lost the depth perception" and that "after the bounce they had the runway in sight and they were coming back on the runway they decided to continue….". It was noted that although the