An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the Tutor had been conducting an air experience flight for an Air Cadet and that the single seat glider was flying cross country on a 300 km task that had been suggested by his gliding club. At the time of the accident both aircraft were operating in uncontrolled airspace notified as the Oxford Area of Intense Aerial Activity (AAIA) which was relatively congested, especially with gliders, in the prevailing good weather conditions. Neither aircraft was in receipt of an air traffic service at the time of the collision and both were relying on the ‘see-and-avoid’ principle for collision avoidance. No onboard traffic alerting system fitted to the Tutor and the FLARM collision alerting system fitted to the glider was not designed to detect the transmissions from transponders such as that fitted to the Tutor. When the collision occurred, at approximately 4150 ft amsl, the glider was on a constant track and the evidence indicated that the Tutor pilot had not seen the glider before he pulled up into a vertical manoeuvre. When the glider pilot became aware of the Tutor and attempted to take avoiding action this was unsuccessful. The outer section of the left wing of the Tutor had struck the fin and right tailplane of the glider causing the glider tail section to break away. There was no evidence that any part of the glider had penetrated the cockpit of the Tutor and it was concluded that after the collision, the aircraft had been capable of controlled flight. The apparent lack of recovery of the aircraft or of any attempt to abandon it once it was out of control, led to the conclusion that it was likely that the pilot had sustained a fractured spine as a result of the impact of the collision. Following the collision, the cadet was suspected to have released their harness and moved the canopy operating handle to the open position but that, although they had been shown the Tutor passenger safety video prior to flight, the first action required to remove the canopy prior to abandoning the aircraft - removal of the red ‘jettison’ handle from its housing, had not been taken. It was found that the Tutor pilot had a chronic medical condition, Ankylosing Spondylitis, which restricted the mobility of his head and therefore affected his ability to maintain a look out to the prescribed RAF standard. The Investigation determined that the Cause of the collision was that “neither pilot saw each other in sufficient time to avoid the collision.” Contributory Factors were identified as that: The Tutor pilot’s medical condition, Ankylosing Spondylitis, limited his ability to conduct an effective look-out.. The high density of traffic, in an area of uncontrolled airspace, increased the risk of a collision.. A total of 13 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. Whilst the Investigation was in progress, the following Recommendation as made on 21