^ Previous AAIB Safety Recommendations Following mid-air collisions involving two gliders in April 2004 and a helicopter and microlight aircraft in July 2004, the AAIB issued the following Safety Recommendations to the CAA: Safety Recommendation 2005-006. It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority should initiate further studies into ways of improving the conspicuity of gliders and light aircraft, to include visual and electronic surveillance means, and require the adoption of measures that are likely to be cost-effective in improving conspicuity. The CAA rejected this recommendation. In their response they stated that ‘…it is considered most practicable at this time to enhance publicity of the risk of collision through poor or inadequate visual outlook.’ Safety Recommendation 2005-008. It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority should promote international co-operation and action to improve the conspicuity of gliders and light aircraft through visual and electronic methods. The CAA rejected this recommendation insofar as it was directed to light aircraft for the same reasons given in their response to Safety Recommendation 2005-006. At the time, the CAA stated that they had no regulatory power to require adoption of the recommended measure by gliders. In 2008 the CAA proposed to widen the mandatory carriage of Mode S transponders to the majority of the aviation community. Following a public consultation exercise, the CAA withdrew this proposal and instead introduced small volumes of airspace where transponder carriage would be mandatory.. Following mid-air collisions involving two gliders in April 2004 and a helicopter and microlight aircraft in July 2004, the AAIB issued the following Safety Recommendations to the CAA: Safety Recommendation 2005-006. It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority should initiate further studies into ways of improving the conspicuity of gliders and light aircraft, to include visual and electronic surveillance means, and require the adoption of measures that are likely to be cost-effective in improving conspicuity. The CAA rejected this recommendation. In their response they stated that ‘…it is considered most practicable at this time to enhance publicity of the risk of collision through poor or inadequate visual outlook.’ Safety Recommendation 2005-008. It is recommended that the Civil Aviation Authority should promote international co-operation and action to improve the conspicuity of gliders and light aircraft through visual and electronic methods. The CAA rejected this recommendation insofar as it was directed to light aircraft for the same reasons given in their response to Safety Recommendation 2005-006. At the time, the CAA stated that they had no regulatory power to require adoption of the recommended measure by gliders. In 2008 the CAA proposed to widen the mandatory carriage of Mode S transponders to the majority of the aviation community. Following a public consultation exercise, the CAA withdrew this proposal and instead introduced small volumes of airspace where transponder carriage would be mandatory.