The event was investigated by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). Recorded data from both the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) were successfully recovered and evidence that a malfunction of the nose landing gear diminishing its normal function was found on site. It was established that shortly after landing on runway 22, strong vibrations began which increased as the groundspeed dropped. The aircraft began to veer left and the aircraft commander acting as PF was unable to obtain normal response to directional control inputs. He stated that it had not occurred to him to use differential braking as a means to keep the aircraft on the runway because “the sequence (of events) occurred so quickly.” At a groundspeed of 45 knots, the aircraft had departed the left side of the runway and shortly after this, the Nose Landing Gear (NLG) had hit a concrete inspection pit and collapsed. After skidding for 30-40 metres, the aircraft had then come to a stop after travelling approximately 400 metres since the position where the first vibrations had been apparent. It was found that the nose landing gear torque links had been removed and subsequently re-installed during defect rectification work some 26 days earlier, since when the aircraft had made 37 flights. It was found that the re-installation had been carried out incorrectly and that some details of the task in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual were incomplete to the extent that they could have contributed to the error made. It was noted that three years earlier, Airbus had advised European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) of two similar incidents, one to an A300-600 and one to an A310 which had not led to a runway excursion, but on the grounds that the NLG steering is only relevant below 70 knots groundspeed and that, in the event of malfunction, differential braking can be used in its place, EASA had decided that this type of event “had no impact on the airworthiness of the aircraft”. In respect of avoidable damage to aircraft leaving the paved surface, it was noted that “the BEA accident database contains four lateral runway excursions that occurred in France during which either the nose or main landing gear had collapsed after an impact with a concrete inspection pit that was on the ground surface.” Reference to mitigation of the potentially damaging effects of obstructions on runway strips in both Supplement ‘A’ to ICAO Annex 14 Aerodromes, Volume 1 ‘Design and technical operation of aerodromes and in the ICAO Aerodrome Design Manual (Doc 9157) was noted. The likelihood that EASA “should, during 2013, make a rule integrating the points from Annex 14 mentioned” was also noted. The formally stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: Incorrect installation of one or more washers on the nose gear torque link centre hinge made it impossible to lock the hinge shaft nut effectively. The unscrewing and the detachment of the latter in service caused the loss of nose gear steering. Free