towing the A340 was about to pass stand E77, neither he nor the person on the aircraft flight deck had noticed the presence of the Avro protruding from stand E77. 18 minutes after the Avro had landed and 12 minutes after it had stopped partly in the E77 stand position, the A340 right winglet hit the Avro tail. The impact caused “substantial damage to the Avro but only relatively minor damage to the A340". The Investigation considered that a number of “latent risk factors” may have contributed to this including poor natural light, an assumption that the Avro was actually within the marked area of stand E77 and an assumption that the Avro was a departing awaiting permission to push back onto the taxiway he was using after his tow had passed. An overall context of complacency whilst carrying out a “non-stressful and routine task” was considered to have been likely. The unfamiliarity of the Avro flight crew with both stand E77 and the fact that a positioning flight would not automatically be met on arrival by their handling agent had collectively resulted in the aircraft being partly outside the marked area of the stand for an extended period which meant that by the time the collision occurred, its A-SMGCS target had reverted from a (white) data-tagged secondary one to a (blue) primary one showing just the aircraft registration even though the aircraft transponder had remained on in accordance with SOP. It was found that this post landing reversion to a primary target - a built-in feature of the installed A-SMGCS at Copenhagen - had occurred in between the request made by the tug driver for A340 repositioning clearance and the issue of the requested clearance by the controller. The Conclusions of the Investigation as to the Cause of the Accident were that “independent expectations had led to three diverging mental realities affecting the sequence of events”. These were identified as: The tug driver perceiving the Avro as standing (wholly) within the marked area of aircraft stand E77 and expecting that it was outgoing traffic but in sequence behind his tow.. The Avro flight crew awaiting and expecting aircraft stand entry guidance and in its absence stopping their aircraft approximately 14 metres in front of the aircraft stop line on stand E77.. The Apron Controller expecting that the Avro would have fully parked given that approximately nine minutes had passed since its arrival at stand E77.. The Final Report was published on 23 March 2017. No Safety Recommendations were issued.