An Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Unit of the Danish Accident Investigation Board. Data from the Avro SSCVR were recovered but found to be of no use as the controlling circuit breaker had not been tripped after the collision and the recording only commenced 23 minutes after it had occurred. However, ATC communications and A-SMGCS data and Security Camera recordings were available. It was determined that the prevailing weather conditions “had no influence on the sequence of events” and noted that appropriate aerodrome charts had been available to both the Avro flight crew and the A340 tug driver. However, it was also noted that natural light levels were low and 'night' conditions were imminent at the time of the collision. It was found that the 41 year-old Avro RJ Captain (9,613 total flying hours including 5,663 hours on type) had made regular but infrequent visits to Copenhagen over the previous 12 years but had no previous experience of using stand E77 or either of the similarly-configured adjacent stands E76 or E78. The tug driver involved had 15 years of operator aircraft towing experience at Copenhagen and the Investigation considered that “the towing of (the A340) was a routine and non-stressful task”. It was established that the Avro had arrived at its designated parking stand E77 after following the correct taxi instructions six minutes after landing but the crew had then found that the expected ground handling personnel were not in attendance. They reviewed the apparent wing tip clearances in respect of both their arrival and the subsequent self-manoeuvring which would be required to depart from the stand and decided that they were not sure these were sufficient. They had therefore decided to stop their aircraft on the stand lead-in line approximately 14 metres short of the stand painted stop mark and call their handling agent to attend. This meant that the aircraft was not within the designated stand area and that the tail was sticking out into to the taxiway. Whilst waiting for the arrival of the handling agent, the crew kept all engines running, the anti-collision lights on and maintained a listening watch on the promulgated APRON frequency on which they had received their taxi-in clearance. There was no response to their (several) calls on the handling agent frequency. Meanwhile, a clearance had been requested and given by the APRON controller using a discrete radio communication channel for the Airbus 340 to reposition along a route which passed stand E77. At that point, “it was the perception of the controller that (the Avro) had fully parked at aircraft stand E77”. The repositioning was being undertaken using a towbarless tug whose driver was in contact with ATC and in charge of the movement with another person on the flight deck of the aircraft to operate the APU and the aircraft external lights. It was noted that there was no radio means of communication between the tug driver and the person on the flight deck. As the tug driver