such as towers, approach and en route centres. Familiarisation visits are generally conducted by a mixed team, consisting of: When assessing an ANSP’s Safety Culture, the assessment team must have an understanding of, and empathy with, the entire local environment in which the ANSP operates. As Hofstede notes, “ …people in other countries may think, feel, and act very differently from yourself, even when confronted with basic problems of society…”. The assessment team can conduct external literature and document reviews and websites reviews, for instance, to access relevant information. Reading about the historical background of the country may also assist in understanding the national culture. Specific information about an ANSP’s Safety Culture can be gained from a number of sources to complement data obtained through the questionnaires and familiarisation visits: This information assists the assessment team in understanding the reporting processes in place, people’s involvement in the processes and the quality of the feedback and outcomes. These details can be collected prior to the launch of the survey or during the site visits. The subsequent interviews and workshops provide additional opportunities to collect information about the organisational structure and context, social environment and financial health. The interviews and workshops are intended to collect useful and complementary information to support the ANSP Safety Culture diagnosis. During interviews and workshops, ANSP members usually serve as informants, who interact with the assessment team using their own terms and concepts to express their point of view. It is important to run multiple workshops, since different workshop groups may not always say the same things. Current practice in EUROCONTROL recommends a total of 5-6 workshops with 4-6 participants plus external facilitators. The workshops and interviews are designed to elicit views from ATCOs, Technical staff and management on a range of issues, including the prevailing culture through its impacts on safe behaviour, reporting of errors and incidents, and communication about safety priorities. The enablers and motivators, and barriers and disincentives to Safety Culture emerging from these activities, provide insight into the Safety Culture dynamics of the organisation. The final goal is to integrate the information from the workshops and interviews with the findings of the Safety Culture questionnaire, to highlight the full range of Safety Culture issues within the organisation. Interviews are normally conducted with one person at a time. Personnel typically involved in the Safety Culture interviews include: In general, individual interviews are carried out with ANSP senior and middle managers to collect in-depth information about Safety Culture. However, additional interviews with airport and regulator management (where possible) can help to gain a wider overview of how safety is valued by all stakeholders dealing with safety within the aviation system. Each workshop should be conducted with members of the same employee group. The ideal number of participants should not exceed 7 to 10 people. Ideally, participants will be members of different teams or shifts and of different ages, experience, etc., so that a variety of perspectives and experiences can be discussed. It can be useful