the reporting processes in place, people’s involvement in the processes and the quality of the feedback and outcomes. These details can be collected prior to the launch of the survey or during the site visits. The subsequent interviews and workshops provide additional opportunities to collect information about the organisational structure and context, social environment and financial health. The interviews and workshops are intended to collect useful and complementary information to support the ANSP Safety Culture diagnosis. During interviews and workshops, ANSP members usually serve as informants, who interact with the assessment team using their own terms and concepts to express their point of view. It is important to run multiple workshops, since different workshop groups may not always say the same things. Current practice in EUROCONTROL recommends a total of 5-6 workshops with 4-6 participants plus external facilitators. The workshops and interviews are designed to elicit views from ATCOs, Technical staff and management on a range of issues, including the prevailing culture through its impacts on safe behaviour, reporting of errors and incidents, and communication about safety priorities. The enablers and motivators, and barriers and disincentives to Safety Culture emerging from these activities, provide insight into the Safety Culture dynamics of the organisation. The final goal is to integrate the information from the workshops and interviews with the findings of the Safety Culture questionnaire, to highlight the full range of Safety Culture issues within the organisation. Interviews are normally conducted with one person at a time. Personnel typically involved in the Safety Culture interviews include: ANSP Top Management, e.g. CEO, Safety / Quality Manager, Operations Deputy Director, Technical Deputy Director, Financial Deputy Director. ANSP Middle Management, including ATCOs Supervisors, Maintenance Supervisors, Trainers.. Subcontractors (if possible). In general, individual interviews are carried out with ANSP senior and middle managers to collect in-depth information about Safety Culture. However, additional interviews with airport and regulator management (where possible) can help to gain a wider overview of how safety is valued by all stakeholders dealing with safety within the aviation system. Each workshop should be conducted with members of the same employee group. The ideal number of participants should not exceed 7 to 10 people. Ideally, participants will be members of different teams or shifts and of different ages, experience, etc., so that a variety of perspectives and experiences can be discussed. It can be useful to have one workshop aimed at the executive management of the ANSP (the CEO may be interviewed separately). Another workshop might comprise personnel who do not work on the front line, such as Human Resources and Security. Remaining workshops would then comprise groups of 4-6 ATCOs, engineers and shift supervisors. Each workshop requires two facilitators one of whom will take detailed notes.