The launch starts with a presentation of the entire process to senior and middle managers, representatives of operational staff (either separately or jointly), and other stakeholders if required (e.g., unions). Further presentations to separate working-groups can also be planned if necessary to motivate ANSP staff and ensure their active participation. The kickoff presentations should introduce the assessment team to ANSP management and personnel and should cover: the purpose and intended outcomes of the assessment. the process involved, including how information will be collected, analysed and used. the requirements of survey participants and the importance of their contributions. confidentiality terms. These must be explained to all participants who will be involved in the data gathering phase. any questions or concerns raised by ANSP personnel.. The presentation must capture the interest of the participants to ensure their commitment. It is an opportunity to ‘sell’ the project to those who will be giving their time to participate. It is thus important to promote the benefits to employees of a good Safety Culture, and to alleviate any concerns (‘threats’) they may perceive. The Safety Culture questionnaire is a set of statements that respondents are asked to agree or disagree with by marking their choice on a five-point scale. The statements are divided into 4 sections; a general section for everyone, one section for controllers, another for technical staff (engineers, technicians and maintenance support) and a third set for managers. Two open-ended questions are included to collect further comments on the questionnaire itself and other relevant issues that personnel feel have not been covered by the questionnaire. The questionnaire is designed to elicit responses on a variety of topics that indicate how the ANSP approaches and manages safety in practice. Distribution - The questionnaire can be distributed either by dissemination of hard-copies or by electronic means (e.g., the ANSP intranet, by notifying relevant personnel of the link to the electronic questionnaire). The questionnaire should only be completed once by each individual in the organisation and personnel should have access only to those sections that concern them (i.e., ATCOs should only have access to the section for ATCOs and not the section designed for maintenance technicians). Promotion and Sample Size - To ensure the validity of the questionnaire data it is important to have a representative sample size (at least 30% of the identified target groups, and ideally 50- 80%). Therefore, the launch of the questionnaire should be combined with the familiarisation visits to the different units and locations (by the external assessment team) to explain the purpose of the survey and promote it. The ‘champion’ should also help to distribute the questionnaires and encourage people to complete and return them. Management support and encouragement are extremely valuable during this phase. Collection - Once completed, the questionnaires are returned directly to the assessment team. The main objectives of familiarisation visits are to: provide the assessment team with a general impression of the climate and operational environment of the ANSP, and. enable the assessment team to interact