An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the QAR. The recording of the latter ended almost a minute earlier than that of the FDR due to data buffering. Recordings from various airport surveillance cameras were also obtained. It was established that the aircraft had been radar-vectored towards a straight-in visual approach to runway 28L. The Instrument Landing System (ILS) was out of service and, in the prevailing excellent in flight visibility, the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) had advised that a visual approach should be expected. The ILS LOC was radiating normally and the installed Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems were working. The flight crew consisted of a trainee Captain acting as PF and in the left hand seat accompanied by a Training Captain acting as PM and designated as aircraft commander in the right hand seat. The relief First Officer from the augmented crew was occupying one of the supernumerary seats in the flight deck but the relief Captain had left the flight deck. The PF advised that he intended to keep the AP engaged and capture the LOC whilst managing the descent using the AFCS. The MDA and Missed Approach stop altitude for the LOC procedure were set. The aircraft had intercepted the extended centreline at about 14nm from the runway threshold slightly above the nominal 3° glidepath. An ATC instruction to maintain 180 KIAS until 5nm from the runway was accepted but the rate of descent was insufficient so that by the time the aircraft reached the 5nm point, it was well above the 3° glidepath. Difficulty in managing the descent continued and in an attempt to increase the rate of descent, the PF (inappropriately) selected FLCH SPD mode and the A/T changed from SPD mode to THR mode. These actions resulted in the commencement of a climb because the aircraft was, by this time, below 2000 feet and therefore below the selected altitude (for the LOC missed approach procedure) of 3000 feet. In response to the commencement of the unwanted climb, the PF disconnected the AP and moved the thrust levers to flight idle. The latter action caused the A/T to change to HOLD mode in which it no longer controls airspeed. The PF then pitched the aircraft down and increased the descent rate. Neither the PF, the PM nor the Observing First Officer noticed the A/T mode changing to HOLD. Shortly after this, recorded flight data showed that the aircraft had passed 1300 feet at a range of 2.9nm from the threshold and with an approximate 1000fpm rate of descent. The PAPI would have indicated all white lights at this time. As the aircraft reached 500 feet aal, the point at which Asiana SOPs required that the approach must be stabilised, the PAPI would have confirmed that the aircraft was slightly above the intended height but although