the airspeed, which had been decreasing rapidly, had just reached the calculated Vapp of 137KIAS (based on a Vref of 132 KIAS), the thrust levers were still set to flight idle and the descent rate was around 1200fpm, the latter being far higher than the rate needed to maintain the necessary vertical profile - about 700fpm. This situation indicated that the approach did not meet the established Asiana criteria for a stabilised approach and that a go around should be commenced immediately, but it was not. From there on, the approach “became increasingly unstabilised” as descent below the required vertical profile continued. The PAPI display would have transitioned to three and then four red lights, indicating an increasing deviation below the indicative glidepath. With the A/T engaged and only flight idle thrust commanded, airspeed continued to decrease until, at about 200 feet, the flight crew at last recognised their situation. However, there was no immediate attempt to initiate a go around and, by the time thrust was added and the pitch increased, the aircraft was less than 100 feet agl and in a position where the low energy state of the aircraft meant that it was no longer possible to successfully transition to one. As the airspeed reached 104 KCAS, and the aircraft was at 46 feet agl, stick shaker activation began. This was followed by a call - from the PM - for a go around, the first and only such call by any crew member, at 29 feet agl. 2.5 seconds later, the main landing gear and the aft fuselage struck the seawall situated just prior to the landing threshold with the airspeed recorded as 106 KCAS. The impact led to the tail of the aircraft breaking off at the aft pressure bulkhead. The remainder of the aircraft then “slid along the runway, lifted partially into the air, spun anticlockwise through about 330°” before impacting the ground to the left of the runway a final time. The final stages of the approach reconstructed as a vertical profile from recorded flight data are shown below. The two photographs below show the fuselage following the fire that rapidly took hold and the location of the main wreckage relative to the runway threshold, the adjacent sea wall and the detached tail. Soon after the fuselage and its still-attached wings came to a stop, a fire started in the separated right engine which had come to rest next to the right hand side of the fuselage. The Cabin Manager, having sought instructions from the flight crew as to whether an evacuation should be ordered in the absence of any prior such instruction directly from the flight crew, was told by them that no evacuation was necessary and that passengers should remain seated. Whilst she was making a PA to that effect, a junior member of the cabin crew at the rear of the aircraft, was already aware from the situation apparent from that position that an immediate evacuation was imperative. He asked