The Investigation found no evidence of any pre-accident unserviceabilty which was relevant to the conduct of the approach. The way the aircraft had been operated was therefore examined in terms of the way the flight crew had performed and the context for that performance. It was established that the Training Captain who had been the pilot in command for the accident flight had been employed by Asiana since leaving the Korean Air Force. He had been promoted to the rank of Captain in 2001 on the Boeing 767 and had transferred to the Boeing 777 fleet in that rank in 2008. He had completed Asiana requirements for promotion to Training Captain, referred to on the Investigation Report as "Instructor Pilot", May and June 2013, becoming qualified as such on 12 June 2013. The accident flight was the first time he had supervised a trainee pilot. The Investigation noted the existence of the Asiana Flight Operations Manual (FOM) and the Asiana Pilot Operating Manual (POM), the former laying down general guidance and procedures and the latter more detailed instructions. The Investigation established that where the POM was more restrictive than either the FOM or the Boeing FCOM or FCTM, it took precedence. The content of the POM relevant to the conduct of the accident approach was noted to include the following: Flight crew must always monitor airplane course, vertical path, and speed; verify manually selected or automatic AFDS changes and when selecting a value on the MCP, verify that the respective value changes on the flight instruments.. That flight crew should use the FMA to verify mode changes for the A/P, F/D, and A/T and that to “call out loudly and clearly to the changes on the FMA and thrust mode display when they occur are a good CRM practice.”. “Operations by A/P and A/T have preference to improve safety, to reduce workload and to enhance operational capability.”. “Operating within terminal areas where air traffic congestion could be expected, the PF and the PM [should] make full use of A/P and A/T.”. Flight crew should use the A/P and A/T together and recommended use of A/T during all phases of flight, including manual flight.. The PF should notify the PM when disengaging or disconnecting the A/P and/or A/T by calling out “manual flight” upon disconnecting the A/P and “A/T disconnect” upon disconnecting A/T and the PM should verify that the change is indicated by a change in AFDS status or mode annunciation on the FMA and then [also] call out the change.. Under “Crew duties”, it is stated that whilst manipulating the controls and switches on the MCP is the PF’s responsibility, "when flying manually, the PF should direct the PM to make changes on the MCP".. The pilot who is in charge of “flight mode change” must call out accomplishment of a mode change, and the other pilot must respond with a confirmation and that "the PM should call out every FMA change".. The Investigation also noted that, in respect