of the use of FLCH SPD mode, the FCTM stated that “non-ILS approaches are normally flown using VNAV, V/S, or [flightpath angle] FPA pitch modes. The use of FLCH is not recommended after the FAF.” The Investigation was told by the Asiana Boeing 777 fleet Chief Pilot that: the airline recommended using as much automation as possible.. it was permissible for Asiana pilots to disengage the AP above 1,000 ft, but turning the AP off at 8 nm from the airport and at 2,800 ft, for example, would not be recommended.. the used of FLCH SPD on final approach "not recommended" although there was no explicit requirement to that effect.. when executing a manually flown visual approach, it was mandatory to have the A/T on for final approach.. The Investigation was told by two Asiana Captains with previous experience at other airlines that "most Asiana First Officers preferred to make automated landings or to leave the A/P engaged to 1,000 ft agl or lower before taking over and landing manually". An Asiana contract simulator instructor stated that manual flying was a “big scare for everybody” and that he believed that "pilots avoided flying manually because of concern that they might do something wrong and the company would blame them if they performed a go-around or had a hard landing that was captured by onboard flight data monitoring devices". This person also noted stated that "manual flying training that included the approximate power settings and pitch attitudes required to achieve a 3° glidepath was not in the training syllabus". In specific reference to visual approaches, the POM was found to describe how to set up downwind, base, and final legs using the FMC arrival page and how to use distance from the runway end and timing techniques to fly the visual traffic pattern. It also stated that on final approach,, the recommended approach path angle was 2.5° to 3° which was equivalent to about 300 ft of height for each mile from the runway. And in respect of stabilised approaches, the POM stated, “every flight crewmember must confirm and monitor a stabilized approach”, and “if a stabilized approach is not established, go-around” accompanied by a note that stated “deciding to make Go-Around does not mean that the procedure has been done wrong, but it means that crews follow[ed] the company safety policy and executed safety procedure normally.” The Investigation identified a number of 'Safety Issues which, in relation to the way the approach was flown included the following: The flight crew did not consistently adhere to Asiana’s SOPs involving selections and callouts pertaining to the autoflight system’s mode control panel.. The PF had a faulty mental model of the airplane’s automation logic.. The PM did not have the opportunity during his instructor training to supervise and instruct a trainee during line operations while being observed by an experienced instructor.. The use of flight directors during visual approaches flown by Asiana pilots amounted to no more than (flawed) informal practice.. Asiana’s automation