require Boeing to develop enhanced 777 training that will improve flight crew understanding of autothrottle modes and automatic activation system logic through improved documentation, courseware, and instructor training. [A-14- 37]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, once the enhanced Boeing 777 training has been developed as requested in Safety Recommendation A-14-37, require operators and training providers to provide this training to 777 pilots. [A-14-38]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require Boeing to revise its 777 Flight Crew Training Manual stall protection demonstration to include an explanation and demonstration of the circumstances in which the autothrottle does not provide low speed protection. [A14-39]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, once the revision to the Boeing 777 Flight Crew Training Manual has been completed, as requested in Safety Recommendation A-14-39, require operators and training providers to incorporate the revised stall protection demonstration in their training. [A-14-40]. that the Federal Aviation Administration convene a special certification design review of how the Boeing 777 automatic flight control system controls airspeed and use the results of that evaluation to develop guidance that will help manufacturers improve the intuitiveness of existing and future interfaces between flight crews and autoflight systems. [A-14-42]. that Boeing revise the 777 Flight Crew Operating Manual to include a specific statement that when the autopilot is off and both flight director switches are turned off, the autothrottle mode goes to speed (SPD) mode and maintains the mode control panel-selected speed. [A-14-56]. Three were made in respect of the operation of automated transport aircraft generally and the application of any guidance to Boeing wide body aircraft types and were as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration convene an expert panel (including members with expertise in human factors, training, and flight operations) to evaluate methods for training flight crews to understand the functionality of automated systems for flightpath management, identify the most effective training methods, and revise training guidance for operators in this area. [A-14-41]. that the Federal Aviation Administration task a panel of human factors, aviation operations, and aircraft design specialists, such as the Avionics Systems Harmonization Working Group, to develop design of context-dependent low energy alerting systems for airplanes engaged in commercial operations and establish requirements for such systems, based on the guidance developed by the panel. [A-14-43]. that Boeing, using the guidance developed by the low-energy alerting system panel created in accordance with recommendation A-14-43, develop and evaluate a modification to Boeing wide-body automatic flight control systems to help ensure that the aircraft energy state remains at or above the minimum desired energy condition during any portion of the flight. [A-14-57]. Three were made in respect of the crashworthiness of the accident aircraft type and the relationship of this to the protection of occupants in survivable accidents and were as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration conduct research that examines the injury potential to occupants in accidents with significant lateral forces, and if the research deems it necessary, implement regulations to mitigate the hazards identified. [A-14-44]. that the Federal Aviation Administration conduct research