The Investigation found no evidence that the post crash fire had been fuel fed. Rather, the oil tank of the detached right hand engine, positioned near to the fuselage was "breached and partially melted" and "thermal damage signatures around the oil tank were consistent with an oil-fed fire". However, whilst the fuselage near the engine was severely heat damaged, there had been no penetration of fire through the skin. Rather, it was concluded that the fire had spread to the cabin from the under-floor cargo bay taking a path "up an environmental control system riser duct bay......and into the overhead area". The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as "the flight crew’s mismanagement of the airplane’s descent during the visual approach, the pilot flying’s unintended deactivation of automatic airspeed control, the flight crew’s inadequate monitoring of airspeed, and the flight crew’s delayed execution of a go-around after they became aware that the airplane was below acceptable glidepath and airspeed tolerances". It was further determined that the following had Contributed to the accident: the complexities of the autothrottle and autopilot flight director systems that were inadequately described in Boeing’s documentation and Asiana’s pilot training, which increased the likelihood of mode error. the flight crew’s non-standard communication and coordination regarding the use of the autothrottle and autopilot flight director systems. the pilot flying’s inadequate training on the planning and executing of visual approaches. the pilot monitoring/instructor pilot’s inadequate supervision of the pilot flying. flight crew fatigue which likely degraded their performance. Safety Action notified to the Board whilst the Investigation was in progress included major changes to pilot training by Asiana and significant enhancements to support improved emergency services response to aircraft accidents at San Francisco Airport by the City and County of San Francisco. A total of 27 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation. Four were made in respect of the aircraft operating procedures and the related pilot training process at Asiana Airlines and were as follows: that Asiana Airlines reinforce, through your pilot training programs, flight crew adherence to standard operating procedures involving making inputs to the operation of autoflight system controls on the 777 mode control panel and the performance of related callouts. [A-14-52]. that Asiana Airlines revise your flight instructor operating experience (OE) qualification criteria to ensure that all instructor candidates are supervised and observed by a more experienced instructor during OE or line training until the new instructor demonstrates proficiency in the instructor role. [A-14-53]. that Asiana Airlines issue guidance in the Boeing 777 Pilot Operating Manual that after disconnecting the autopilot on a visual approach, if flight director guidance is not being followed, both flight director switches should be turned off. [A-14-54]. that Asiana Airlines modify your automation policy to provide for more manual flight, both in training and in line operations, to improve pilot proficiency. [A-14-55]. Six were made in respect of the operation of the accident aircraft type in general and were as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration