There are two main scenarios that should be anticipated. Some of the relevant aspects are outlined below (further references are provided in “Further Reading”). a. Aircraft in flight with a suspected case of communicable disease on board Cabin crew guidance on how to identify a possible communicable disease are provided in Annex 9 – Facilitation and the health part of the aircraft General Declaration. Cabin crew procedures for managing travellers with a communicable disease by IATA:General Guidelines for Cabin Crew: SUSPECTED COMMUNICABLE DISEASE (Dec, 2017). Communication procedure for the pilot-in-command to notify the arrival (and departure) aerodromes of a public health event (in accordance with ICAO Procedures for Air Navigation Services – Air Traffic Management). Following this procedure will not only comply with public health and aviation regulations, but will also accelerate procedures on landing and reduce unnecessary delays.. PANS-ATM DOC 4444, Chapter 16, Miscellaneous Procedures: 16.6.1 The flight crew of an en-route aircraft shall, upon identifying a suspected case(s) of communicable disease, or other public health risk,... on board of the aircraft, promptly notify the ATS unit with which the pilot is communicating, the information listed below: a) Aircraft identificationb) Departure aerodromec) Destination aerodromed) Estimated time of arrivale) Number of persons on boardf) Number of suspected case(s) on board; andg) Nature of the public health risk, if known. 16.6.2 The ATS unit, upon receipt of information from a pilot regarding suspected case(s) of communicable disease, or other public health risk, on board the aircraft, shall forward a message as soon as possible to the ATS unit serving the destination/departure, unless procedures exist to notify the appropriate authority designated by the State and the aircraft operator or its designated representative. 16.6.3 When a report of a suspected case(s) of communicable disease, or other public health risk, on board an aircraft is received by an ATS unit serving the destination/departure, from another ATS unit or from an aircraft or an aircraft operator, the unit concerned shall forward a message as soon as possible to the public health authority (PHA) or the appropriate authority designated by the State as well as the aircraft operator or its designated representative, and the aerodrome authority. Communication procedure at the arrival and departure aerodromes when notification of a public health event on an inbound aircraft is received (a local procedure needs to be developed in collaboration with the public/port health authority and included in the aerodrome emergency plan). Parking position of the affected aircraft. Note that the appropriate parking position for an affected aircraft is probably not a remote stand, unlike most other emergency situations that involve arriving aircraft (see guidelines on the ACI website).. Management of aircraft arrival including: chain of command, personal protective equipment requirements, information to be provided to passengers, crew and staff, customs and immigration, baggage handling (procedures should be developed jointly by stakeholders in the aviation sector, together with public/port health authority). Anticipated delay for a non-serious case – most in-flight health events will not result in declaration of a public