a heading now 24° left of the runway centreline and thereafter flew a go around in accordance with SOPs. At the request of the First Officer, the Captain then took over as PF and after radar vector to finals, flew another stabilised approach with a similar crab angle to that used on the first approach. This time, touchdown again occurred without full removal of the approach crab angle with the aircraft longitudinal axis aligned 10° to the left of the runway centreline and increasing. It peaked at a misalignment of 24° when full right rudder was belatedly applied. The Captain also applied full right aileron, which resulted in an 8° bank to the right which was enough to lift the left main gear clear of the runway. The aircraft then departed the left side of the 45 metre wide runway whilst simultaneously in a right turn resting on the nose and right main gear. After seven seconds clear of the runway, the aircraft began to track parallel to it for a further 7 seconds before regaining it. It was noted that normal landing procedures would have required the Captain to hand over the control column to the First Officer at 80 knots but by then the aircraft had already left the runway. Stills from a video recording taken by a witness outside the aerodrome boundary showing the aircraft during its first (left) and second (right) attempts to land. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The illustration above showing the aircraft leaving the runway during the second landing also shows a taxiway sign for taxiway ‘L’ just ahead of that taxiway. The aerial survey showed that the left wing passed over this with clearance calculated as just over 1 metre. Whist this sign was outside the 4.2 metre diameter of the six bladed propeller, it was higher than the lowest point of the rotational arc and whilst all airside signage is designed to be frangible, it was considered that had the propeller hit the sign, some damage to the aircraft would have been inevitable. The Investigation found that neither pilot had received much training on crosswind landing procedures nor did they or the aircraft operator appear to have recognised the degree of relative risk to which the crew would be exposed to during a relatively normal crosswind landing. Their type rating had not required recording of crosswind landings as a discrete item in the training programme despite being a required element of the type rating. Although both recalled completing one crosswind landing during their FFS sessions, neither recalled receiving any specific training in the relevant handling techniques, and stated that the wind used for this landing had been nowhere near the 34 knot AFM limit. Whilst the syllabus for their subsequent line training had included crosswind landings, this could be and was signed off as a discussion item. Following successful line checks, both pilots were then released to unsupervised flying duties. They then both subsequently completed their first routine recurrent FFS training