An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Airport CCTV recordings were available and clearly showed the taxi track of the aircraft as it moved towards and into the GA Apron. It was found that the 43 year-old Captain had 7,900 total flying hours which included 2,687 hours on type. He had been acting as PM and for that reason had been occupying the right hand pilot seat in accordance with operator requirements that the PF must always occupy the left hand seat, all pilots on the fleet being qualified to occupy either seat. The taxi route after landing was to the west end of the ramp beyond stand 15 which is designated as the GA Apron (see the illustration below). The plan was for the aircraft to be marshalled to a nose-in position facing the Jet Centre building. Other aircraft were parked either side of this position and two ‘wing walkers’ were in position to assist the marshaller. The approximate positions of the other two aircraft relative to the allocated parking position are shown on the second illustration below. The aircraft identified on this second illustration as VQ-BSF was parked on the western end of the GA Apron "further forward than normal" and was soon due to depart so its crew were in their seats. Another Falcon 7X was parked on Stand 15, facing approximately north. It was established that the aircraft had initially been marshalled ahead until it was clear of the other Falcon 7X on 15 to its left, somewhat beyond what the PF, who had previous experience of parking on this apron reported afterwards, had thought would have been the normal turning point. The marshaller then indicated a left turn towards the terminal building and as this was commenced, the Captain in the right hand seat monitored the right wing tip. The marshaller then indicated that a tighter left turn was needed and as the turn tightened, the right wing tip speeded up and the wing walker monitoring the right wing tip belatedly realised that there would not be enough clearance, and in an attempt to alert the marshaller crossed his arms in front of his chest instead of above his head - the latter being the correct way to signal 'STOP'. The Marshaller was looking to his right at the time and did not see this. Almost immediately the aircraft's right winglet embedded itself in the nose of VQ-BSF. The crew felt the impact and immediately stopped the aircraft. The Investigation found that all the ground handling staff involved had been trained as required and were current. It was noted that the apron where the collision occurred was "relatively small" and had no ground markings for parking or taxiing except the entry line and stand 15 with the aircraft accepted covering a wide range of sizes. Both the AIP and the Operator’s Jeppesen charts carried on the aircraft contained instructions to pilots to follow the marshaller’s instructions. It was noted that under the applicable