them as soon as possible.. To carry out a review of the most frequented destinations to determine which present the highest risk, and then conduct formal risk assessments of those identified as requiring one, and include the findings in the Company Route Guide.. The London City Jet Centre should conduct a further risk assessment and hazard identification of its apron operations taking a view of ‘what, when and if’ activities should take place and what enhanced mitigations can be put in place to reduce risk. Conducting this with the involvement of the fleet is recommended, and it should include future potential aircraft types - such as the Falcon 8X.. Whilst acknowledging that Recommendation 3 may result in findings that include this one, it is recommended independently that the London Jet Centre establish a suitable position, and then paint, a ground marking on the west side of the apron that defines the limit for parked aircraft to project.. London City Jet Centre should determine whether the use of a dedicated radio channel is feasible and potentially a safety enhancement for ground operations on their apron.. The Fleet should include in its recurring CRM training an increase in emphasis on the concepts of ‘group think’/’risk shift’ and the fact that generally when a sense of unease is experienced it is with good cause and should be acted upon.. The Airport Operator. The parking positions for the Falcon 7X should be identified and the position of their main and nose wheels marked on the apron surface.. All the Jet Centre’s marshallers should receive refresher training on the correct ICAO marshalling signals.. Marshalling wands must be used for all manoeuvring not just at night or in reduced visibility.. Initially, marshallers and ‘wing walkers’ would be equipped with belt mounted horns to provide an audio STOP signal. This (should) subsequently be replaced providing digital radios on a dedicated frequency.. A new supervisory level appointment would be created to oversee all parking.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 12 October 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.