requirements for clearance distances on marked parking stands, the 26.21 metre wingspan Falcon 7X aircraft would be classified as a Code 'C' aircraft which would need a minimum clearance distance of 4.5 metres. Reference was made to the 'Ramp Instructions' document for the Jet Centre Ramp which was found to cover staff requirements, procedures and signals to be used when marshalling aircraft. Guidance in this document included the following: Care must be taken to ensure that the aircraft is protected during marshalling manoeuvres. On some types of aircraft, the pilot may not be able to see the aircraft wingtips; therefore, it is essential that precise signals are (used) to inspire confidence in the marshaller’s ability. A wing tip marshaller should be used at all times.. Particular attention must be paid to the effect of ‘wing growth’ during turns particularly where the turn is near an obstruction - ‘wing growth’ is where, due to the swept wings of many jet aircraft types, the wings appear to ‘grow’ in length during sharp turns.. Marshallers should lead the aircraft with signals, indicating aircraft changes in direction with steady signals rather than a rapid change of signal which may induce an over-reaction from the pilot.. There may be a need to manoeuvre aircraft in close proximity to other aircraft whilst on the Jet Centre ramp. This can prove very dangerous and must be approached with caution. It is the responsibility of the staff member marshalling/towing the aircraft to ensure they have sufficient numbers of wingmen present.. Whilst operating during times of restricted vision such as night time/fog the use of reflective wands must be used during all aircraft movements to ensure full vision is obtained by the crew and clear signals throughout.. The "wing growth" effect covered in the Airport Operations document and quoted above was identified as key to the collision given the absence of the safe clearance margin which would have been required for a marked stand. It was noted that the sharp left turn given by the marshaller would have pivoted the aircraft around the stationary left wheel, so that the radius of turn would have been "from the left main wheel to the right wing tip, the arc of which subtends a greater distance out from the centre of the fuselage" - see the illustration below. The formally-stated Cause of the collision was that it "occurred due to the late left turn directed by the marshaller and him not seeing the STOP signal from the right wing walker, due to his attention being focussed on the left wing walker". One Contributory Factor was also identified - "the effect of ‘wing growth’". . Safety Action identified in the form of recommendations from the internal investigations by both the aircraft operator and the airport operator were noted to be as follows: The Aircraft Operator. The Corporate Fleet should review the ‘Bowties’ under development to assess, in the light of the findings of this report, the robustness of the barriers and then introduce