These barriers, when deployed and employed correctly, are capable of alerting ATC, pilots and drivers in time to prevent normal safety margins from being eroded. Two subsets can be defined, i.e. the ones that prevent go-arounds from happening and those that prevent a conflict should a missed approach be initiated. The barriers that are available before the initiation of a go-around are: Airport design and runway lighting. The limitation of this barrier is that it will not have an impact on less-than-optimum ATC or unexpected pilot action. Examples of design and lightning features: Clear line-of-sight from ATC to all runway touchdown zones, including remote cameras; Angled or wide runway entry/exit points, promoting shorter runway occupancy, e.g. rapid exit taxiways (RETs); Rapid exit taxiway indicator lights (RETILs).. Clear line-of-sight from ATC to all runway touchdown zones, including remote cameras;. Angled or wide runway entry/exit points, promoting shorter runway occupancy, e.g. rapid exit taxiways (RETs);. Rapid exit taxiway indicator lights (RETILs).. Airport safety nets and runway incursion prevention tools. These are various tools, both hardware and software, which can help in preventing runway incursions. This in turn prevents the presence of the traffic on the same runway, and thus prevents the need for a go-around. Airport safety nets have some limitations, though - they will not aﬀect movement which follows an incorrect or unwise clearance and will not have an impact on long-term but forgotten clearances. They will also not aﬀect runway vacation requests or go-around requests which are not immediately acted upon. Examples of safety nets and RI prevention tools: ATC clearance conformance monitoring alerts and conﬂict detection; 24-hour use of illuminated stop bars and procedures so that a lit stop bar is never crossed and ATC never clear an aircraft/vehicle to cross a lit stop bar; Runway entrance lights (RELs); Airport moving maps for aircraft and vehicles; Transponders in vehicles and analogous ATC functionality.. ATC clearance conformance monitoring alerts and conﬂict detection;. 24-hour use of illuminated stop bars and procedures so that a lit stop bar is never crossed and ATC never clear an aircraft/vehicle to cross a lit stop bar;. Runway entrance lights (RELs);. Airport moving maps for aircraft and vehicles;. Transponders in vehicles and analogous ATC functionality.. ATC defensive controlling. This includes working techniqes which can prevent low-level go-arounds primarily caused by less-than-optimum controlling techniques. This barrier, however, will not prevent events initiated by pilot action or runway incursions. Examples of defensive controlling: Non-aggressive approach sequencing. Avoiding positioning aircraft too close, too fast, too high on the approach or too marginally behind preceding aircraft. Low-risk runway occupancy planning. Avoiding the creation of situations which are always going to be marginal, relying on everyone to expedite on and oﬀ the runway and no room for unexpected factors. Requesting the aircraft to enter or exit the runway at a specific position. If the ATC plan relies on an aircraft vacating the runway at a particular exit point, the pilot should be advised well before action is required. Constant evaluation of