The first process for making these distinctions is referred to as an Effectiveness / Feasibility evaluation. This can be undertaken via management meetings, or as a workshop activity, run by a facilitator who understands the process, and with participation from a range of stakeholders in the Safety Culture improvement project. Step 1: Determine the likely effectiveness of the change, through discussion of the following questions: What is the expected effect / benefit on safety management?. What would be the extent (e.g., whole ANSP versus local) and depth of the effect? How durable or lasting would the effects be - long-term or temporary?. Is there any ‘downside’, that is, potential risk or adverse colateral effect from the change (e.g., risk transfer or creation of new risks)?. Step 2: How feasible is the action, in terms of factors such as cost, practicality and difficulty: What is the financial cost?. What operating constraints or limitations apply? How will the target population be affected by and respond to the intervention?. How complex and widespread will the impact be on the organisation as a whole, on policies, procedures and practices; on structures; on regulatory compliance; and on socio-political systems (powers, status, corporate interests).. Key steps in planning and managing cultural change are: Establish commitment to the project. Clearly define the scope, objectives and timeframe. Identify and allocate funding. Agree in advance the measures of success. Prepare a project plan (summarising issues above). Identify risks, and ways to manage these. Assign responsibilities for activities to the Project Team. Set up monitoring processes (for resources, objectives, output and timeliness). Report progress and communicate achievements. Celebrate success!. It should be remembered also that cultural change projects are somewhat intangible, in that the desired changes in attitudes may be hard to see, and the behavioural effects may be gradual and subtle. This means momentum for the project may fall away unless commitment and project controls are actively maintained, and the project is given ongoing prominence in the organisation - through regular reporting and communication of progress. A commitment to safety by the organisation’s senior management group is essential to the existence of a positive Safety Culture. The simplest way for managers to show commitment is through their behaviour - the things they say and do. Two preliminary steps are important: First, become informed about the organisation and its risks; about the nature of Safety Culture; and about the impact of (collective) decisions and actions on safety. This information can come from the formal culture assessment activities, research, and informal information gathering.. Second, develop integrated strategy and supporting plans for safety improvement that recognise the importance of Safety Culture and guarantee the necessary level of resourcing, regardless of financial pressures.. To begin changing behaviour, identify exactly what it is that distinguishes managers who are highly committed to safety from those who are not interested in, or only pay ‘lip-service’ to safety. These ‘management safety competencies’ allow managers to ‘walk the talk’, for example, by: Promoting safety and communicating the right