transmissions from ATC or other aircraft are not cut out.. Always report any radio interference experienced whether or not it affected safe operation.. Make use of other aircraft to relay messages when operating at extreme range or when poor propagation is suspected.. If Prolonged loss of communication is suspected, select 121.5 MHz and listen out for any transmission from intercepting aircraft.. Controllers Do not pass RTF frequency changes as part of a multi-part clearance. Do not delay passing any vital instruction until after a frequency change (e.g. heading or level change to avoid confliction). Pay close attention to read-back of RTF frequency changes and correct any error. On observing or being informed of radio interference, arrange for transfer of affected aircraft to another RTF frequency. Report any radio interference to the appropriate national authorities. If loss of communication is suspected, attempt to contact the aircraft by other means, including relay through other aircraft, through the previous operating agency/RTF frequency and through the operator, who may be able to contact the aircraft by other means, e.g. Selective Calling System (SELCAL) or Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System. If attempts to restore two-way communications with the aircraft are unsuccessful, inform the appropriate military authorities. Keep the military authorities informed of action taken by the ATS unit as well as any further action intended. When contact is not quickly established, do not delay precautionary clearance to conflicting aircraft on frequency on the assumption that contact will soon be established. Use of CPDLC greatly reduces the chance of a frequency change errors.. Do not pass RTF frequency changes as part of a multi-part clearance.. Do not delay passing any vital instruction until after a frequency change (e.g. heading or level change to avoid confliction).. Pay close attention to read-back of RTF frequency changes and correct any error.. On observing or being informed of radio interference, arrange for transfer of affected aircraft to another RTF frequency.. Report any radio interference to the appropriate national authorities.. If loss of communication is suspected, attempt to contact the aircraft by other means, including relay through other aircraft, through the previous operating agency/RTF frequency and through the operator, who may be able to contact the aircraft by other means, e.g. Selective Calling System (SELCAL) or Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System.. If attempts to restore two-way communications with the aircraft are unsuccessful, inform the appropriate military authorities. Keep the military authorities informed of action taken by the ATS unit as well as any further action intended.. When contact is not quickly established, do not delay precautionary clearance to conflicting aircraft on frequency on the assumption that contact will soon be established.. Use of CPDLC greatly reduces the chance of a frequency change errors..