Operators Ensure that flight crews, cabin crews and ground engineers are aware of the loss of communications issue through publicity. Ensure that SOPs for copying, setting and cross-checking frequency changes, and for loss of communication are sound, and that they are followed by all pilots. Install radio anti-blocking devices if appropriate. To aid returning to the previous frequency if communications are lost, leave the previous frequency on the pre-select until a new frequency is allocated.. Ensure that flight crews, cabin crews and ground engineers are aware of the loss of communications issue through publicity.. Ensure that SOPs for copying, setting and cross-checking frequency changes, and for loss of communication are sound, and that they are followed by all pilots.. Install radio anti-blocking devices if appropriate.. To aid returning to the previous frequency if communications are lost, leave the previous frequency on the pre-select until a new frequency is allocated.. Establish policy for the wearing of headsets which requires their use by both pilots at all times on piston/turboprop and short haul jet flights - say up to 2 hours - and clearly establishes the circumstances on which they are not required to be worn, if any.. Pilots Do not switch immediately to the next sector frequency following read back of controller’s instruction. Ensure confirmation of your read back is received. Always follow standard procedures for copying, setting and cross-checking RTF frequencies. As soon as a loss of communication is suspected, check radio equipment settings and audio panel settings and carry out a radio check. If any part of a message for you is garbled or unclear, request confirmation or clarification. Always use headsets during times of high RTF loading. Always wear a headset when members of the flight crew are involved in other tasks and may not be monitoring the RTF. If the squelch control is adjusted to reduce the effect of interference, take care to ensure that transmissions from ATC or other aircraft are not cut out. Always report any radio interference experienced whether or not it affected safe operation. Make use of other aircraft to relay messages when operating at extreme range or when poor propagation is suspected. If Prolonged loss of communication is suspected, select 121.5 MHz and listen out for any transmission from intercepting aircraft.. Do not switch immediately to the next sector frequency following read back of controller’s instruction. Ensure confirmation of your read back is received.. Always follow standard procedures for copying, setting and cross-checking RTF frequencies. As soon as a loss of communication is suspected, check radio equipment settings and audio panel settings and carry out a radio check.. If any part of a message for you is garbled or unclear, request confirmation or clarification.. Always use headsets during times of high RTF loading. Always wear a headset when members of the flight crew are involved in other tasks and may not be monitoring the RTF.. If the squelch control is adjusted to reduce the effect of interference, take care to ensure that