UA operations are classified in three risk-based categories: "open" is a category of UA operation that, considering the risks involved, does not require a prior authorisation by the competent authority before the operation takes place;. "specific" is a category of UA operation that, considering the risks involved, requires an authorisation by the competent authority before the operation takes place and takes into account the mitigation measures identified in an operational risk assessment, except for certain standard scenarios where a declaration by the operator is sufficient;. "certified" is a category of UA operation that, considering the risks involved, requires the certification of the UA, a licensed remote pilot and an operator approved by the competent authority, in order to ensure an appropriate level of safety.. Only the "open" and "specific" operations are covered by the prototype regulation. The "open" category is further divided into four subcategories, based on technical requirements, operational limitations and requirements for the remote pilot or operator. The subcategories are: subcategory A0: operation of UA posing a negligible risk of severe injury to people on the ground or damage to manned aircraft, and requiring neither specific remote pilot competence nor age limitations;. subcategory A1: operation of UA complying with requirements ensuring that they pose a negligible risk of severe injury to people on the ground or damage to manned aircraft, and requiring neither specific remote pilot competence nor strict operational limitations;. subcategory A2: operation of UA complying with requirements ensuring that they pose a limited risk of severe injury to people on the ground or damage to manned aircraft, operated by registered operators, and equipped with geofencing and electronic identification;. subcategory A3: operation of UA complying with requirements imposing technical mitigations like geofencing and electronic identification, posing a higher risk of severe injuries to people on the ground or damage to manned aircraft and operated by registered operators with higher competence.. For operations in the "open" category, risks are to be mitigated through a combination of safety measures, e.g. requirements and limitations on the operation, the UAS, and the personnel and organisations involved as well as other limitations to be defined by the competent authority for geofencing purposes or for particular airspace areas. For operations in the "specific" category, risks are to be mitigated through safety measures identified in an operational risk assessment or contained in a standard scenario published by EASA.