planned with the flaps set to 9° rather than the normal 25° which is contrary to the specification for approaches which requires either flaps at 15° or flaps at 25°. Although the intended Vref was reported to have been “selected” as appropriate for the non-standard flap setting at 129 knots, FDR data showed that the actual approach had been much faster, with the speed about 20 seconds before touchdown being approximately 188 knots. It was also apparent that “extensive operating of the flight control surfaces in order to keep the flight path lined up with the runway centreline” had been necessary during the approach and that the speed at touchdown was still very high at a recorded 170 knots. Detailed examination of the failed landing gear assembly concluded that it had been in all significant respects serviceable and had “failed on overload due to the high rate of descent” and the effects of the hard and very high speed touchdown. It was found that although a component in the left main gear shock strut had been incorrectly installed during a recent overhaul, this had not been directly or significantly contributory to the collapse of the complete assembly, which had occurred “at vertical acceleration-generated loads very near the maximum permitted loads (and in the presence of concurrent) horizontal and lateral acceleration”. The Operator’s applicable Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as included in the Operations Manual were reviewed: Non-Precision Approaches. The specified procedure included selecting flaps to 15° no later than 2nm from the FAF/FDP and continuing to reduce speed to “below 140 knots”. Stabilised Approaches.. It was noted that the Operator required generally that all approaches should be stabilised by 1,000 feet above the runway threshold and must be stabilised by 500 feet above it and that any unusual approach procedure or abnormal condition requiring a deviation from the ‘specified elements’ of a stabilised approach requires a special briefing. These ‘specified elements’ were found to include the requirement that after the FAF, no more than ‘normal’ corrections should be required to maintain the correct flight path to a landing within the touchdown zone, that indicated airspeed should be between Vref and Vref+20 knots and that the rate of descent must be no greater than 1,000 fpm. Approach criteria specific to the Jetstream 41 were noted as including a requirement that they must “at times be stabilised, unhurried and flown configured as described in […] SOPs” with stabilisation achieved and maintained “not later than 1,000 feet agl in IMC and not later than 500 feet agl in VMC”. Maximum Crosswind Component for Landing. The maximum demonstrated crosswind component for the Jetstream 41 is 30 knots, whereas during the whole range of wind direction, the maximum gusts would have put the aircraft above this figure. Airport Categorisation. Rhodes, which only has a precision approach to runway 25, was identified by the Operator as a Category ‘B’ airport due operational restrictions according to surface winds which create difficult conditions in certain circumstances. The corresponding entry