An Investigation was carried out by the Hellenic Air Accident Investigation and Aviation Safety Board (AAIASB). FDR data were successfully downloaded at the UK AAIB but data from the 30 minute CVR had been overwritten as the action to interrupt its electrical supply after an accident as prescribed in the Operator’s Operations Manual Part ‘A’ had not been taken. It was found that the 47 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, had been employed by the Operator for almost nine years and was qualified as an Instructor and Examiner on type. He had accumulated a total of 11,117 flying hours which included 3,574 hours on type and since May 2013 had the Operator’s Flight Operations Manager position. He had been on duty for 75% of the allowable maximum of 190 hours in the 28 days prior to the accident. The 49 year-old First Officer had been employed by the Operator since 2010 and had accumulated 3,834 hours total flying experience which included 1,334 hours on type. It was established that the flight had departed Heraklion for the 35 minute flight to Rhodes with the crew aware that the surface winds at destination were generally from the south or southeast at a mean speed of 17 knots gusting to 36 knots. On contacting Rhodes TWR 24 minutes after takeoff from Heraklion, the crew were advised that the mean surface wind velocity was from 110° (varying between 020° and 160°) at a mean speed of 20 knots gusting to 38 knots. The TWR controller then reminded the flight crew as per the airport entry in the AIP that a landing was “not recommended” in the prevailing strong wind shear and turbulence and further wind checks showing no significant change as the flight continued towards an intended landing on runway 07 were accompanied by an explicit repeat of the same reminder. Since the aircraft continued with its approach to runway 07, the TWR controller followed their penultimate wind check with about 4nm to go with the remark that ”runway 07 is free for landing” having already alerted the airport RFFS to position their appliances in the designated at-runway standby positions in accordance with prevailing local procedures. Just under two minutes later, the aircraft touched down right main gear first at a recorded 1.8g which was in excess of the 1.5g threshold for a hard landing. Almost immediately the left main gear collapsed and the aircraft then travelled for a further 40 seconds before coming to a stop, veering to the left before doing so but stopping just before departing the paved surface. RFFS vehicles reached the aircraft soon afterwards and having observed fuel leaking from the damaged aircraft, immediately applied foam. In the absence of any fire risk, it was decided that the occupants should leave the aircraft by the rear right emergency exit and this began, according to ATC, about 5 minutes later and took approximately 10 minutes. It was noted that the crew had landed as