An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board. It was established that the only prior warning which the flight crew had received of the imminent engine run down 45 seconds before it occurred was an Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) warning of low fuel pressure output from both boost pumps in the left main fuel tank. Subsequently, the left engine had been successfully restarted passing approximately FL230, 18 minutes after the rundown, with both engines operating normally thereafter and the remainder of the flight completed without further incident It was found that whilst preparing for the departure of the flight from Toronto, the flight crew had noticed a discrepancy between the indication on the fuel totaliser (9600 kg) and the amount entered as remaining by the previous crew in the Aircraft Technical Log (7600 kg). When they entered the fuel upload which had been made into the Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System using 7600 kg from the previous flight, the ACARS unit indicated that there was insufficient fuel for the flight. When the crew manually changed the amount of the arrival fuel to 9600 kg, the ACARS accepted the upload entered. A further indication which was indicative of a fuel discrepancy was then found by the crew in that the rudder trim had been left set at three units left at the end of the previous flight whereas it would usually be less than one unit from neutral. The setting might have been taken as an indication that the aircraft had been flown whilst trimmed left-wing down, a status consistent with there being less fuel in the left main wing tank than the right main wing tank. The FQIS flight deck indications were recorded as 18500 kg in both main tanks and 24 500 kg in the centre tank making a total fuel load of 61500 kg, a figure also indicated by the Flight Management Computer (FMC) and compatible with the figure for required fuel on the operational flight plan of 61300 kg. It was noted that Air Canada procedures at the time required the Captain of the aircraft to resolve any fuel loading discrepancy before departure but failed to specify the way this should be done. Once the flight had departed, en route fuel checks were made and did not at any time indicate a problem with fuel endurance in relation to the apparent fuel available in relation to the intended destination or appropriate fuel reserves. However, the crew noticed that the left main tank fuel quantity blanked out intermittently during the flight. The crew therefore relied on the fuel quantity indicated by the FMC, which calculates the fuel remaining by subtracting the fuel consumed by the engines from the total amount input at engine start. When the engine flamed out, the FQIS flight deck display showed 5700 kg of fuel in the right main tank with the left main tank indicator blank. The FMC showed the total fuel remaining was 10 900