kg. After landing, the actual fuel remaining on board was 4700 kg, 5000 kg less than the FMC indicated. In the absence of any evidence that there had been a fuel leak, it was concluded that the fuel load on the aircraft must have been 5000 kg less than was indicated after fuelling. It was noted that despite departing with significantly less than the required minimum fuel on board, en route conditions had resulted in the flight arriving at destination with adequate fuel to proceed to the flight-planned alternate. The Investigation found that the Flight Data Recorder (FDR), which records total fuel quantity from the FQIS, had recorded zero fuel quantity for most of the flight, indicating a failure in the FQIS. It was then discovered that the aircraft had had a history of left tank fuel indication problems during the five weeks prior to the occurrence. There had been a total of five defect reports stating that the left fuel quantity indication had gone blank or was inoperative. Each of these had each been resolved by the raising of an Acceptable Deferred Defect with the aircraft then released to service under Minimum Equipment List (MEL) provisions which included the requirement to verify the fuel quantity measuring sticks before each departure. Various maintenance actions had been taken prior to clearance of the first three of these defect entries but the fourth was signed off as fixed without any maintenance work being done when the system performed normally on two consecutive flights and the fifth, made six days before the investigated occurrence, was incorrectly actioned so that the MEL conditions relevant to the defect were not being applied. After the incident flame-out, a defect entry was again made for the left fuel quantity indication being blank and again the aircraft was dispatched using an ADD. Eventually, rectification was achieved by replacement of a wiring harness in the left wing which accounted for both the faulty FQIS readings and the premature automatic shut-off of the refuelling of the left main tank. The Investigation found as to Causes and Contributing Factors as follows: The fuel quantity indicating system was defective. As a result, during refuelling the left main wing tank shut off prematurely when the tank was approximately 5000 kg less than full; fuel quantity indications were incorrect; and, during the flight, fuel quantity and balance warnings were inoperative.. A maintenance control error removed the fuel quantity indicating system defect from the aircraft deviation list. As a result the aircraft was dispatched without the fuel load being validated using measuring sticks in accordance with the MEL.. The Operator’s procedures do not specify how to resolve fuel quantity discrepancies, nor does flight dispatch advise the crew of the reported arrival fuel. As a result, when the crew adjusted the fuel quantity to get the ACARS to accept the fuel upload, it defeated the intent of the fuel check and did not resolve the discrepancy. The result was acceptance of an inadequate fuel load.. The