The following causal factors are identified in the Report: "The pilots were unaware of a significant discrepancy between the approach parameters on the approach chart and those within the navigation database because they had not compared the two data sets before commencing the approach.. Confusion regarding the correct approach profile and inappropriate autopilot selections led to an unstable approach.. The unstable approach was continued below Minimum Descent Altitude without the landing pilot having the required visual references in sight.. The UK CAA’s guidance and the regulatory requirements for approval to conduct MNPA were fragmented and ill-defined.. The operator’s planning and implementation of MNPA (Managed Non‑Precision Approaches) procedures included incomplete operational and written procedures and inconsistent training standards.. The ability of the installed EGPWS to provide sufficient warning of inappropriate terrain closure during the late stages of the approach was constrained by the lack of a direct data feed from the GPS navigation equipment.". The following Safety Recommendations are made in the Report: "Airbus should revise the expanded information ‘Pull up to full backstick and maintain’ of the A320 Emergency Procedure for the EGPWS Alert “TERRAIN TERRAIN PULL UP ” to remove any ambiguity about the amount of rearwards sidestick that should be applied.. Airbus should expedite publication of guidance material relevant to flight and ground operations by Airbus aircraft types in conditions of blowing sand or low drifting sand.. The European Aviation Safety Agency, in conjunction with industry, should review the current GPWS/TAWS system design criteria (ETSO-C151a), and installation certification criteria, with particular emphasis on the timeliness of alerting when close to the runway. Revisions to these standards arising from this review should apply retrospectively to all aircraft currently covered by the TAWS mandate.. The UK CAA should publish guidance to pilots regarding the appropriate action when faced with a conflict in approach parameters between their approach charts and an FMS database authorised for managed non-precision approaches..