An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and their relevant data were successfully downloaded. The flight was being used as part of the First Officer’s initial line training. The 55 year-old Training Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, had a total of 7,500 hours flying experience of which 2,240 hours were on type. The 47 year-old trainee First Officer also had a total of 7,500 hours flying experience of which just 18 hours were on type and the rest had been accumulated mainly on single-engined light aircraft on which he was instructing prior to being recruited by Miami Air. The Captain had been with the operator over 11 years and after 8½ years employment as a First Officer had been promoted to Captain 3½ years prior to accident. He had flown just 5 hours in the previous 30 days. A Company engineer was occupying the flight deck supernumerary seat. The aircraft departed with an inoperative left thrust reverser recorded as an ADD under the provisions of the MEL and the flight was uneventful until descent towards the intended destination was under way. This involved some routine deviation for weather avoidance purposes and with heavy precipitation around the destination, it was not initially clear whether an approach to runway 10 or to runway 28 would be best with the Captain eventually settling for the former and an RNAV GPS approach which the radar controller advised would be routinely monitored with PAR in accordance with naval practice. The speedbrakes were not armed for the approach. As the landing gear was selected down, landing clearance was given accompanied by a spot wind of 240° at 10 knots. Half a minute later with the flight passing 1390 feet QNH (the runway threshold elevation was 21 feet) and about 3.5 nm to go, the controller advised that the flight was “well above” a 3º glidepath which would have meant that the PAPI would have been showing all white indicating an approach angle in excess of 3.5º. The speed at this time was 5 knots above the applicable VAPP at 158 KCAS and the rate of descent 1,062 fpm with a 7 knot tailwind component. Ten seconds later, the AP was disconnected and the rate of descent increased slightly as the Captain called for the Landing Checklist which was then run. With about 2.8 nm to go, the altitude was about 1,100 feet, the rate of descent had reduced to 1,000 fpm and the speed was at VAPP with a 13 knot tailwind component and the flight still slightly above the PAPI target. However, over the next minute, pitch control inputs increased the airspeed to 170 KCAS whilst the tailwind component remained similar. About 1.6 nm from the (displaced) threshold of the 2,440 metre-long runway the flight was at an altitude of about 680 feet and back to in excess of a 3.5° glidepath (4 whites visible on the PAPI) - a