vertical profile which was then sustained for the rest of the approach. Recorded flight data also showed that from 3.5 nm out, the aircraft had been offset about 30 metres to the right of the extended runway centreline and then, with about 1 nm to go, the aircraft banked to the right which increased the deviation to 220 feet when the aircraft was about half a mile from the threshold at 360 feet QNH. As the aircraft was then banked left to regain the centreline, the rate of descent increased to a recorded maximum of 1,580 fpm as six successive EGPWS Sink Rate Alerts were occurred. These continued until after the displaced runway threshold had been overflown at 120 feet agl at VAPP+17 knots with a 10 knot tailwind component. Touchdown occurred with a recorded 14 knot tailwind component approximately 6 metres to the right of the centreline and just beyond the TDZ at 168 KCAS, equivalent to 20 knots above the applicable VREF. Once on the ground, the aircraft was steered left until it reached 3 metres left of centreline and then began to move back towards the right. The right thrust lever was set to idle reverse and the speedbrakes were then manually selected. The right thrust lever was then retarded to detent 2, the ‘normal operations’ position, as the autobrakes were applied briefly before left side manual braking, which automatically disengaged them, was commenced. Manual braking then continued for the remainder of the landing roll but to little effect. It was also evident from FDR data that after touchdown, the aircraft had crossed the runway centreline from left to right about 1,100 metres beyond the displaced landing threshold and continued to the right before beginning a return to the centreline. It was still 16 metres to the right of it when the aircraft departed the end of the runway after which it travelled approximately 350 metres before continuing through the seawall before finally coming to a stop in shallow tidal water some distance offshore. The cabin crew reported two “crashes” followed by the passenger cabin going dark. There was no communication from the flight crew but soon afterwards, the Captain came out of the flight deck and instructed them to begin evacuating the aircraft. The forward left door (1L), slide inflated normally but then twisted and when it could not be detached, the forward right door (1R) was opened but although the slide there inflated normally, it then began to deflate. The other forward-stationed cabin crew attempted to deploy a life raft from the 1R door, but this also deflated and passengers were then redirected to the overwing exits. The cabin crew at the rear reported realising that the aircraft was in water and had therefore blocked both rear exits and instructed passengers to put on their life jackets and use the overwing exits, which had both already been opened by passengers. Two of the three remaining life rafts carried on the aircraft were deployed off the