trailing edges of both wings and attached to them by lines. Once full of passengers, these were unhooked by the cabin crew so that RFFS personnel who were standing in the water could take them to the shore and then returned to the wings to repeat the process until there were no more passengers waiting. The fourth life raft was retrieved and launched from the right overwing exit but began to deflate and was only used once so the final six passengers and remaining crew were then taken ashore by a rescue boat. On reaching dry land, all occupants were checked for any injuries and only one instance of a minor injury was found. The Captain stated during subsequent interviews that when he attempted manual braking during the landing roll, “the aircraft did not decelerate and he did not recollect any antiskid activation”. However, he also said that he had never considered a go-around and that, as far as he knew, the runway had not been contaminated. Both pilots stated that ATC had not volunteered runway condition or braking action reports and CVR data showed that the crew had not requested such information. The Captain of another aircraft which was parked on the ramp and preparing for a passenger flight at the time of the excursion stated to the Investigation that “there had been a lot of lightning in the area before (the accident flight) landed but none at the time of the landing". However, both pilots of this aircraft stated that there was “blinding rain” when the landing occurred and noted that the accident aircraft only became visible to them just before it landed. The Investigation as to cause focused primarily in understanding what aspects of aircraft handling during the approach and landing and/or landing performance contributed to the overrun. The tailwind component, the excessive approach speed and the delayed manual deployment of the speedbrakes all increased the energy with which the airplane departed the runway and contributed to the severity of the accident. However, an assessment of actual landing performance showed that even if the aircraft had landed at the applicable VREF and within the TDZ, it would not have been able to stop before reaching the end of runway because of standing water - with depths close to that meeting the definition of “flooded” - on parts of the runway. The likely role of aquaplaning in the failure to decelerate was therefore examined. White tyre marks were found over the entire length of the landing roll and provided evidence that the main landing gear had remained in contact with the runway throughout rather than being lifted clear of it which would have occurred if dynamic aquaplaning had occurred. This and the extremely low wheel braking friction coefficient actually achieved were instead considered to indicate that the viscous aquaplaning had occurred. This type of aquaplaning is associated with the build-up of water pressure under the tyre “due to viscosity in a thin film of water between a portion