There are no definitions for absolute icing severity in aviation forecasting. However, the relative qualifications light, moderate and severe are generally used (in respect of airframe icing risk only) in a way which has at least reasonable consistency regionally in the context of the type of forecast in which they are used. It is understood by most forecasters that a term like ‘light icing’ will be interpreted rather differently by a commercial transport flight crew and a private pilot wondering whether they are likely to be able to undertake their planned flight clear of all icing conditions. As a consequence, low level icing forecasts are usually presented in such a way that they are specifically accessible to pilots of light aircraft vulnerable to the effects of any icing. However, the forecasts provided primarily for commercial air transport will use moderate and severe icing in terms which reflect their likely significance to aircraft which are certificated for routine flight in ‘icing conditions’ because they are equipped with appropriate ice protection systems. This use of higher level forecast presentations by general aviation can produce misunderstandings about the icing conditions that might be expected, and sometimes lead to inappropriate flight planning. The point is that the relative forecasts of icing severity cannot and do not take account of their user and the aircraft they are flying, so the interpretation of forecasts is as much a matter of judgement as monitoring the apparent icing reality once in the air. With all the above caveats, a brief look at the usual ‘descriptions’ and ‘definitions’ of icing conditions used by forecasters may still be helpful. The descriptions all assume that an aircraft is certificated for “flight in icing conditions”. It is generally accepted that, although aircraft certification for flight in icing conditions rarely includes any stated restrictions, no aircraft is approved for flight in severe icing conditions, and that severe icing conditions may occur at any ice accumulation rate. In North America, the terms clear, rime or mixed are more often used in forecast material than elsewhere and are both intended and taken as a proxy for droplet size regardless of other factors such as temperature and liquid water content. In this use, a forecast of rime icing indicates smaller drop sizes and a forecast of mixed or clear icing indicates larger drop sizes but with only a vague and undefined boundary between the two. Finally, a “clean aircraft” at rotation is an essential requirement for flight in or into icing conditions for those aircraft so approved. It is achieved by the use of appropriate ground de-icing or anti-icing fluids which have a sufficient holdover time for the prevailing conditions. Anti Icing is nearly always achieved by thickened fluids which adhere to the airframe and then progressively shear off during the take off roll so that they have all been shed by 100KIAS. There is no approved fluid protection against freezing rain or freezing drizzle conditions and so departure in them is generally not possible.