their clearances from the runway controller or to listen out on that frequency whilst crossing but are instead able to obtain such clearances from GND controllers who obtain them from the relevant runway controller and then pass them to their traffic, which remains on their frequency while crossing.. Calgary has a Stage 1 A-SMGCS which is referred to as ASDE in the Unit Operations Manual. There is also an MLAT system from which information is integrated with radar data to create traffic locations on the ADSE.. Since the new parallel runway 17R/35L opened in 2014, runway 29 had seen less use. The opening of the new runway was subject to a comprehensive risk assessment but this did not consider the secondary implications of its introduction into service.. Since parallel runway operations had begun, there had been four identical incursions of runway 29 when designated as an active runway. No significant risk mitigation measures resulted from the first three of these and only the most minor of the three recommendations from the internal investigation of the fourth one in November 2015 was implemented with the other left for “consideration”.. Between the third and fourth identical events, NAV CANADA had received a report on the same safety issue under its ‘ARGUS’ Confidential Safety Reporting Program which aims to “provide managers with timely information regarding otherwise unidentified perceived system safety and risk management deficiency and/or allows employees to make suggestions as to where safety performance might be enhanced”. This report raised concerns about controller proficiency in the use of Runway 29 as an active runway given the relative rarity of this. The response to this report “indicated that local management and the Calgary Tower Operations Committee were discussing the inclusion of Runway 11/29 simulation in local yearly refresher training” and also stated that the same Committee “was looking into technical and procedural cues that could be implemented to support Runway 11/29 operations”. In the six months before the fourth event occurred, no relevant action had been taken.. In respect of the type of error made by the GND controller in this event, it was identified as a “habit intrusion” attentional error in which an intended sequence of actions is replaced by “a stronger, well-rehearsed schema”. It was noted that “necessary conditions” for this type of error to occur have been identified as: the conduct of well-practised tasks in familiar surroundings; an intention to depart from routine; and the presence of a strong schema outlining the usual pattern of actions.. the conduct of well-practised tasks in familiar surroundings;. an intention to depart from routine; and. the presence of a strong schema outlining the usual pattern of actions.. The implications of these observations for controller training in infrequently used procedural skills such as use of 29 as an active runway were noted as best addressed by frequent reinforcement of such skills to enhance retention and proficiency. In terms of the wider Runway Incursion risk, the Investigation noted that whilst the annual total of all recorded