An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). Sufficient relevant recorded data and testimony was available to enable a detailed reconstruction of the events leading up to the incursion. It was noted that the benign prevailing weather conditions had played no part in the incursion. It was noted that the GND controller involved had 15 years’ experience of which 11 were at Calgary and had been on duty for 4 hours at the time of the occurrence. It was found that runway 11/29 had been transferred from GND to TWR control 10 minutes prior to the conflict after a change in forecast wind velocity had led, some 40 minutes earlier, to the decision to change the active runways from 17L and 17R to 29. Soon after the changeover of runway 11/29 to TWR control, the A320 was cleared by GND to taxi to the 29 holding point - position [5] on the illustration below. Five minutes later, the same GND controller cleared the A226 to taxi on ‘W’ and ‘A’ to hold short of runway 29 – shaded position [6] on the illustration. The A320 was instructed by GND to change to TWR and, on checking in, was cleared to continue taxiing onto the runway and to take off. However, the controller did not then update the computer display system. Almost a minute later, the GND controller cleared a just-landed CRJ900 to the main apron and immediately updated the computer display system. He then proceeded to update the computer display system for the SA226 “to reflect the clearance instruction to hold short of Runway 29” and immediately informed the same aircraft that it was cleared to cross Runway 29. He then further updated the computer display system to reflect the revised clearance limit of the intersection of taxiways ‘A’ and ‘J’ to await the passing of the CRJ 900 on taxiway ‘J’. Soon afterwards, the A320 began its takeoff and soon after that, the SA226 crossed the runway 29 holding point, both aircraft being in compliance with their respective clearances. Twelve seconds later, the SA226 was crossing the centreline of runway 29 - shaded position [7] on the illustration and the A320 crew first saw it ahead as they accelerated through 100 KIAS. They decided to continue on the basis that the conflicting aircraft was likely to clear before they reached it. Three seconds after the SA226 crossed the northern hold short line - shaded position [8] on the illustration, the A320, by now just airborne, crossed over the taxiway ‘A’ centreline at a ground speed of approximately 136 knots. Only the ATC aspects of the event were examined. The late sighting of the crossing aircraft by the A320 crew and their decision to continue with the takeoff after sighting the obstruction ahead were not investigated. Significant aspects of the provision of ATC at Calgary were noted as including: in line with general NAV CANADA MATS procedures, aircraft crossing active runways are not required to receive