Canadian runway incursions during the six year period 2011-2016 appeared to have peaked, 21 of the 48 of those incursions categorised as having a serious outcome (defined as ICAO Class ‘A’) had occurred in the single year 2016. Runway Incursions remain on the TSB Watchlist as they have been since 2010. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The runway incursion occurred after the combined ground controller cleared the SA226 to cross runway 29 while Air Canada flight 221 was departing on runway 29.. Due to a strong habit intrusion error, the combined ground controller reverted to the frequently practised routine of instructing the aircraft to cross Runway 29 without prior coordination with the tower controller.. The infrequent use of runway 29 during the day, together with the absence of relevant training scenarios or simulation of runway 29 operations, meant that controllers rarely encountered situations where the need to coordinate prior to executing crossings of Runway 29 was re-enforced.. The runway jurisdiction system did not provide a sufficiently compelling cue to ensure that the ground controller did not revert to the well-practised routine of clearing aircraft across Runway 29 without coordination.. The one formally-stated Finding as to Risk was as follows: If proposed safety actions are not tracked to completion, there is an increased likelihood that identified safety risks will not be effectively mitigated.. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence by ANSP NAV CANADA was noted as having included the following: Virtual stop bar procedures have been added on airport surface detection equipment (ASDE) for use during Runway 11/29 operations.. A new “monitor” control position has been implemented. The position is to be open during runway 11/29 operations or “chinook operations” (operations in strong westerly winds). The location of the monitor position provides an efficient visual scan of the ASDE, Runway 29 and taxiways G, C, A, J, and W.. A number of modifications which are relevant to runway 11/29 operations have been made to the controllers’ computer display system.. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 17 January 2018 and it was officially released on 5 February 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.