the prevailing conditions without proper risk assessment" and that this confidence had developed because of past experience of successful landings on short runways. In respect of management oversight of the operation, the Investigation found that "other than the (mandatory) training and proficiency checks in the simulator, the operator had not established a system to monitor the pilot performance and compliance with company procedures especially during routine operations". Voice data examined "did not record any Checklists being read or crew briefing performed" during either the accident approach or the prior approach to Ende. This data for the accident flight "revealed that some company procedures had been neglected" and they "did not show a satisfactory standard of pilot performance". Overall, the Conclusion of the Investigation was that neither the accident approach to Kupang nor the earlier approach to Ende were conducted in accordance with the published visual approach (Ende) or the published instrument approach (Kupang) charts. Also, in neither case did the approaches meet the minimum requirements of the company stabilised approach criteria so that both should have resulted in the initiation of a go-around and "anomalies in the normal operating behaviour of both pilots had gone undetected". It was also found that there were no controller Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) covering the use of visibility charts or for determining what wind direction should be communicated based on the three available sources or for the dissemination of significant runway condition information to enable pilots of aircraft on approach to determine likely braking action. Three Contributory Factors which contributed to the accident were formally identified as follows: The steep authority gradient resulted in a lack of synergy that contributed to a failure to correct the improper condition.. Improper flight management on the approach resulted in the aircraft being not fully configured for landing and a prolonged high speed touchdown combined with a low brake pressure application resulted in insufficient runway for deceleration.. The deviation of pilot performance was undetected by the Operator's management oversight system.. Safety Action taken as a result of this event and known to the Investigation included the following: Kalstar Aviation are developing a Flight Operations Quality Assurance (FOQA) System as a means of routinely monitoring pilot performance.. Kalstar Aviation have enhanced pilot recurrent CRM training, reorganised the management of pilot training, emphasised the importance of flying stabilised approaches and going around from unstabilised ones and reminded all pilots of the required responses to EGPWS annunciations.. The AirNav Indonesia District Office Kupang updated Controller SOPs covering the use of the visibility chart and the determination of wind information.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Kalstar Aviation should ensure that their pilots perform the (prescribed) operational procedures such as checklist reading and crew briefings properly and consistently. [04.O-2016-73.2]. that Kalstar Aviation should develop an oversight system that will ensure that procedures are implemented properly and to monitor pilot performance. [04.O-2016-78.1]. that Kalstar Aviation should ensure that a comprehensive Safety Management System is implemented