Because of the multiple barriers that are in place, most collisions do not have a single cause, but multiple causes, typically one for each unsuccessful barrier. “Unsuccessful” is a general term covering all types of failure causes, including technical reasons, human error (e.g. lack of response or misjudgement), impracticability (e.g. not enough time) or lack of coverage (e.g. equipment not fitted). Barriers may also be by-passed (e.g. if a conflict is created at the tactical stage, strategic conflict management is then inapplicable). Further details on the causes of unsuccessful tactical conflict management are given in the article on loss of separation. Examples of the causes of unsuccessful collision avoidance are: Unsuccessful STCA warning: No STCA coverage of area of conflict. STCA failure to give warning in time, e.g. due to transponder failures, surveillance failures, STCA software failures, STCA parameters detuned to minimise false alarms etc. ATCO failure to respond in time, e.g. the ATCO is distracted and misses the warning, or believes the warning is incorrect. ATCO failure to recover separation in time, e.g. due to inadequate communication with the pilot or inadequate response from the pilot.. No STCA coverage of area of conflict.. STCA failure to give warning in time, e.g. due to transponder failures, surveillance failures, STCA software failures, STCA parameters detuned to minimise false alarms etc.. ATCO failure to respond in time, e.g. the ATCO is distracted and misses the warning, or believes the warning is incorrect.. ATCO failure to recover separation in time, e.g. due to inadequate communication with the pilot or inadequate response from the pilot.. Unsuccessful warning from other ATCOs not directly responsible for separation: No independent ATCO monitoring of area of conflict. Other ATCO failure to detect conflict in time, e.g. for reasons as above. Other ATCO failure to communicate warning to responsible ATCO in time. Responsible ATCO failure to recover separation in time.. No independent ATCO monitoring of area of conflict.. Other ATCO failure to detect conflict in time, e.g. for reasons as above.. Other ATCO failure to communicate warning to responsible ATCO in time.. Responsible ATCO failure to recover separation in time.. Unsuccessful ACAS warning: ACAS not installed on the aircraft. ACAS failure to detect the conflicting aircraft or issue a resolution advisory in time. Pilot failure to respond with appropriate timely collision avoidance manoeuvre, e.g. does not respond, or incorrectly prioritises ATC instructions Avoidance action invalidated by incorrect opposing action from the other pilot.. ACAS not installed on the aircraft.. ACAS failure to detect the conflicting aircraft or issue a resolution advisory in time.. Pilot failure to respond with appropriate timely collision avoidance manoeuvre, e.g. does not respond, or incorrectly prioritises ATC instructions. Avoidance action invalidated by incorrect opposing action from the other pilot.. Unsuccessful visual warning: Other aircraft in effect concealed, e.g. by IMC, darkness, flight deck surfaces or Empty Field Myopia. Flight crew failure to observe the other aircraft in time to make avoidance action. Pilot failure to respond with appropriate timely collision avoidance manoeuvre.. Other aircraft in