had decided to “wait about five minutes in case the wind direction changed again” during which time the sequence of consecutive go-arounds began. He then spoke with the forecaster who advised that the situation “involved convective currents of variable direction and that he estimated they would dissipate in one hour”. Nine minutes after the first go around had occurred, the decision to change the runway configuration was made. It was considered that the TWR Supervisor had had insufficient weather information to make a timelier configuration change decision. It was also considered that such a decision should be taken and timed in conjunction with the ACC Supervisor since there would be an unavoidable workload increase for the TMA sectors affected. In respect of airport weather information, it was noted that although a SPECI report had been issued for the airport 25 minutes prior to the wind direction change that led to the go-arounds (which occurred between the issue of two routine METARs), “a SPECI is not issued for a sudden change in wind speed or direction”. It was also noted that the ICAO Annex 3 requirement for the validity of a TAF or METAR was only that it should cover a radius of 5 miles from the aerodrome reference point (ARP). It was noted that the State weather agency had now acknowledged that “other type of products, not defined in Annex 3 of the ICAO Convention, are needed”. It was noted that a related convective weather event at Madrid on 29 April 2016 had previously been investigated by the CIAIAC. The published Final Report (published only in Spanish) had not made any Safety Recommendations because the measures considered by the Commission for the Study and Analysis of Notifications of Air Traffic Incidents (CEANITA) and taken by the organisations involved in the event “were deemed appropriate”. However, it was found that the recommendations made by the CEANITA had not been fully progressed and that the intent of some of them had been met by analysis and ‘debate’ which had not led to action which fully addressed the ATC issues that are liable to arise in relation to episodes of convective weather like the one which had now been investigated. The Cause of the losses of separation was determined as “the complex operational situation in the airspace of the Madrid TMA”. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The unavailability of weather information tools that cover the entire airspace of the Madrid TMA.. The sudden change in weather conditions, and specifically, in the wind speed and direction.. The time needed to make the decision to change the runway configuration.. Eight Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that ENAIRE (ANSP) collaborate with AEMET (Spanish National Weather Agency) to improve the weather forecast available at the airport control tower and at the airport. [REC 16/19]. that AEMET collaborate with ENAIRE to improve the availability of information on forecast weather conditions information at both the Madrid-Barajas control tower and