Whilst it was considered that action taken during the investigation - the issue of appropriate an Alert Service Bulletin (ASB) by Boeing and a corresponding Airworthiness Directive by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) making the ASB actions mandatory - sufficient to prevent a direct re-occurrence, a series of more general Safety Recommendations were made and are reproduced below as published in the Investigation Report: Operators should ensure that Thrust Reversers are fully stowed after ground maintenance was performed and in particular to conduct a visual inspection (the gap at the front of the translating cowl) to ensure the Thrust Reversers has motored to the fully stowed position. The Boeing Aircraft Company should advise operators that there may be a possible hazard to personnel / equipment in the proximity of Thrust Reversers as it may deploy during the Auto-Speed-Brake maintenance / tests.. The Regulatory and certificating authorities of all States of Design and States of Manufacture should introduce requirements to: Review all software control and hardware control logics and combinations thereof to ensure that all probable defect possibilities are identified. Review the processes used to introduce modifications to control software since issuance of the original type certification, e.g. consider a recertification process. Verify that appropriate resolutions for such occurrences have been developed and are in place to prevent un-commanded actions that can result in an accident. Improve the robustness of the software/hardware logic through the introduction of additional parameters to consider prior to an automatic change in critical control surfaces. Introduction of a flight deck crew “alert / approval / override” facility prior to an inadvertent change to critical control surfaces. Account for spurious mechanical and electrical failures and their impact on the software and hardware logic system.. Review all software control and hardware control logics and combinations thereof to ensure that all probable defect possibilities are identified.. Review the processes used to introduce modifications to control software since issuance of the original type certification, e.g. consider a recertification process.. Verify that appropriate resolutions for such occurrences have been developed and are in place to prevent un-commanded actions that can result in an accident.. Improve the robustness of the software/hardware logic through the introduction of additional parameters to consider prior to an automatic change in critical control surfaces.. Introduction of a flight deck crew “alert / approval / override” facility prior to an inadvertent change to critical control surfaces.. Account for spurious mechanical and electrical failures and their impact on the software and hardware logic system.. Operators should provide flight crews with more basic hand flying and simulator flight training on new generation aircraft to address the technological developments in aviation, inclusive of effective stall training.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 15 June 2010 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: REF: CA18/3/2/0717 Final Report