had to be stopped and five seconds later, one of the coordinators made a less than clear transmission on the de icing frequency “Etian seven one five you are going to wrong … stop stop Etian stop stop stop”. Eight seconds after this transmission began, the right-hand wing of the 787 collided with the light mast. Following the collision, the aircraft continued moving slowly forward for another four seconds before coming to a stop approximately four metres further on with the nose of the aircraft turned slightly to the right and the nose landing gear 0.75 metre off the stand 991 centreline. Once stopped with the park brake applied, the 787 crew, unaware of the collision, contacted the de-icing coordinator to inform them of the type of de-icing they required and were then told of the collision. The Captain stated that although he had noticed the nose of the aircraft pulling right as it came to a stop, he had thought that the cause of this had been the aircraft skidding slightly. In the absence of any evidence of fire, the passengers and crew remained on board. The first RFFS vehicle to respond reached the scene after 10 minute and all 69 occupants were subsequently disembarked via mobile air stairs. Damage to the wing occurred at a position adjacent to the front of the surge fuel tank which, due to the low fuel load carried (9 tonnes against a capacity of 107.5 tonnes), was not punctured, although it would have contained fuel vapour. Damage to the leading edge of the right wing. [Reproduced from the Official Report The Immediate Cause of the accident was determined as the de-icing coordinator’s instruction to taxi onto a different de-icing stand (991) to the one he and his colleague had previously planned (992). Other Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the following: The absence from Norway AIP or any NOTAM information about what de-icing stand could be used by the various aircraft categories.. The fact that the aircraft flight crew had no other access to information about which de-icing stands were authorised for their type of aircraft at Oslo.. The absence of any markings, lighting, signage or other technical barriers to indicate to the crew that they had been assigned the wrong de-icing stand.. The de-icing coordinators did not have adequate technical aids to ensure that they assigned the correct de-icing stand based on aircraft category.. It was observed that some type of anti-collision aid, such as a wingtip camera, would have clearly indicated to the crew that there was insufficient clearance between the wing and the light mast and prevented a collision. It was also noted that AIP entries for other Norwegian Airports operated by Avinor do not provide any information about the maximum wingspan allowed at de-icing platforms. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included: SAS Ground Handling (SGH) has: required that for all aircraft