The Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN) was not notified of the event, but after learning of it from media sources the following day, an Investigation was immediately commenced. The delay in reporting the accident and the failure to electrically isolate the two-hour CVR after it had occurred meant that its data were lost. However, relevant recorded ATC ground radar and communications data and CCTV pictures were available. It was deemed unnecessary to download data from the FDR. It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain had a total of 20,137 hours flying experience which included 2,697 hours on type and the 28 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,868 hours flying experience which included 1,215 hours on type. A third pilot, who was “undergoing line training”, was present on the flight deck for the departure. The operator’s aircraft type was the one normally used for this service. The airport provision of ground de-icing was based on the availability of three dedicated de-icing platforms. At the time of the accident, runway 19L was active for departures and so the ‘B-North’ platform, situated at the north-eastern end of the airport, was in use. De-icing services provided by various suppliers were coordinated by SAS Ground Handling (SGH). The SGH office, from which the “de-icing coordinators” involved were working, was located next to a different de-icing platform ‘A-South’, situated at the south-western end of the airport (see the illustration below). Two de-icing coordinators were on duty in that office at the time. To manage the provision of de-icing services, they relied on information from ATC ground radar, the traffic lists generated by the A-CDM and monitors displaying CCTV pictures from cameras at the de-icing platform(s) in use. They also used a proprietary computer software de-icing management system called ‘Wise’ to assign a de-icing platform and a de-icing truck to each aircraft. It was learned from the two de-icing coordinators involved that it was “common practice” to submit an electronic request to the allocated de-icing personnel using the ‘Wise’ system only after an aircraft had arrived on its designated de-icing stand. This request includes the aircraft flight number, its category, the de-icing stand it is using, the type of de-icing fluid and the extent of de-icing required. It was noted that aircraft were divided into different categories for de-icing purposes designated by letters in alphabet sequence beginning at ‘A’ based on their wingspan, a system which assigned the Boeing 787 to category ‘E’. At the B-North platform, only the central stand of each sub-set of three - stands 992, 995 and 998 (see the illustration below where stands 991 and 992 out of the sub set 991, 992 and 993 are ringed in red) could be used by aircraft of Category ‘D’ or greater. The de-icing platforms were not within the designated airport manoeuvring area so aircraft on them were not subject to clearance or any other type of ATC service and temporarily under the control of the de-icing service providers. The three available