de-icing platforms. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was established that prior to the aircraft pushing back from its parking gate, and about 30 minutes before it arrived at the de-icing platform, the crew had used datalink to make a request for de-icing. Following the subsequent pushback, a clearance had been obtained from GND to taxi using taxiways ‘Z’, ‘V’ and ‘S’ towards the B-North de-icing platform. As it reached there, the GND controller instructed the crew to contact ‘De-icing’ on 121.855 MHz whilst continuing to listen out on GND. Prior to the aircraft calling on their frequency, the two de-icing coordinators reported having discussed the current traffic situation, indicating that their assessment of their workload at that time was “low to moderate”. They reported having agreed that the 787 and a following Atlas Air Boeing 747 should be assigned the ‘centre-of-sub-set’ de-icing stands 992 and 995 respectively, the 747 entering 995 only after a KLM Cityhopper Embraer 190 had vacated stand 994. However, on contacting the De Icing frequency as instructed, the 787 crew were told by De Icing Coordinator 2 to taxi “proceed to stand 991” and call when ready for de icing to commence which was read back correctly. The illustration below shows the situation as the 787 enters stand 991 whilst the Atlas 747 allocated stand 995 waits for the Embraer 190 to vacate stand 994. CCTV recordings showed that the 787 taxied as instructed at a slow speed. The aircraft Captain, who was taxiing the aircraft, subsequently stated that he had seen the light mast to the right of the aircraft and assessed that although clearance from it was “marginal”, he had been “confident the airport had control of the situation”. Nevertheless, he did ask his First Officer if he could see the distance between the wing tip and the light mast but, as the 787 wing tip is not visible from the seated pilot position, he had only limited ability to estimate the likely clearance. The Captain reduced the taxi speed further for the last few metres prior to the collision but said that no signals had been seen from the ground crew to indicate that they were on a collision course with the light mast. The B-North de-icing platform showing aircraft locations as the 787 approached the mast. [Based on ground radar data and reproduced from the Official Report] Prior to the 787 being instructed to enter stand 991, two SGH de-icing vehicles with an operator in each were parked at the forward limit of the stand. These vehicles, unlike some newer ones also in service were not fitted with a VHF radio which would have enabled either to communicate directly with aircraft flight crew if necessary. The driver of one of these vehicles saw that the 787 was being directed onto stand 991 and was aware that this stand could not be used by an aircraft of this size. He therefore called the de-icing coordinators directly to tell them that the aircraft