An Investigation was carried out by the ATSB. It was noted that the Captain had accumulated over 20,000 flying hours including approximately 2270 on the A330. The First Officer had accumulated just over 10,000 including approximately 1000 on the A330. It was established that, shortly before the crew had been about to begin descent with the Captain as PF and the AP engaged, ATC had "cancelled all speed restrictions, requested a high-speed descent and advised the crew to expect track shortening" and the high speed descent was accepted. Approaching approximately 20 nm from destination and in descent just above 4000 feet ATC asked the crew to report when visual which, already having the runway in sight, they then did - although the Captain later told the Investigation that "visibility was affected by sun glare and terrain shadowing due to mid-level scattered cloud". At this stage, the aircraft "was about 2,000 ft below a nominal 3° descent profile and 1,500 ft above the lower limit of controlled airspace". After further descent clearance, 3000 feet altitude was reached when 14 nm from touchdown and "on a bearing displaced 45° from the extended landing runway 16 centreline". This position was 800 feet above the lower limit of controlled airspace and about 1,800 feet below the operator-recommended nominal 3° descent profile. Then, leaving 3000 feet, the Captain selected a 1000 feet altitude target (equivalent to 550 feet agl) and began to descend in 'Open Descent' mode. The First Officer subsequently stated that he had not heard the Captain verbalising these actions and had been unaware that the altitude selector had been changed. The resultant rate of descent remained high (about 2000 fpm) although the aircraft was already well below a 3° descent profile. The Captain reported that despite not being on or near the extended runway centreline, he had been monitoring the ILS GS deviation indication and that it had been continuing to indicate that the aircraft was above the glide slope. Despite the fact that other valid flight path information was available he continued to use this indication as his "primary vertical flight path guidance". Meanwhile, the First Officer stated that he had been monitoring the aircraft flight path by visual reference to the ground and he had considered the approach to be "proceeding normally" until he realised from looking out that the aircraft was too low. He reported having then cross-checked the ILS GS deviation on his PFD and finding that it showed the aircraft to be below-profile. This had prompted him to warn the Captain that the aircraft was too low and in response, the Captain had selected V/S mode at 500 fpm on the FCU. However, eight seconds later and 9nm from touchdown, two EGPWS ‘TERRAIN’ alerts occurred with the aircraft at about 600 feet agl. Activation of an EGPWS 'PULL UP' followed almost immediately and the Captain responded by initiating a full recovery climbing to 4000 feet. At the point this action was taken, the aircraft was 1900 feet