below a nominal 3° approach vertical profile and had also just left controlled airspace. On completion of the recovery and reaching 4000 feet, radar vectors were provided for an ILS approach to runway 16 and this and the subsequent landing were normal. After the occurrence, ANSP Airservices Australia advised that the MSAW system "had been inhibited in certain areas to the north-east of Melbourne to reduce the number of false alarms in those areas" and that "when a flight is cleared for a visual approach, its corresponding cleared flight level is set to zero feet on the controller’s air situation display which automatically inhibits the MSAW aural alarm and display for that flight. In respect of pilot Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) applicable to visual approaches, it was noted that Qantas had a prohibition on the use of Open Descent Mode for 'final approach' and also required that the rate of descent when between 5000 feet and 1000 feet agl should not be greater than the aircraft height agl. Any excessive rates of descent required the PM to call ‘Rate of Descent’ and the PF "to acknowledge and adjust accordingly". In the investigated approach, once the aircraft was descending below 2000 feet agl, this maximum rate was mainly exceeded and, as the aircraft descended through 1000 feet agl, the achieved rate of descent was almost double the maximum permitted. It was also noted that an EGPWS PULL UP Warning occurring in "daylight visual conditions, with terrain and obstacles clearly in sight" could be considered cautionary subject to "positive action was to be taken until the alert stopped or a safe flight path was assured". Use of ILS GS indications when an aircraft was not on the ILS LOC was not specifically addressed in Qantas SOPs, but the ILS signal protection requirements in ICAO Annex 10 only cover the integrity of the GS within 10 nm of the runway and up to 8° either side of the ILS LOC. It was considered that the evidence available suggested that "the crew did not have a shared mental model of how the approach would be flown" and that "the absence of a shared mental model increased the risk that the First Officer would not identify and respond appropriately to the Captain’s actions". It was also considered possible that "general limitations of human monitoring capability....may have influenced the First Officer’s performance". More generally, it was considered that "Operators may benefit from considering the adequacy of their guidance on how FCU target altitude selections should be used during visual approaches" since if such guidance was sufficient, it would reduce the risk of inadvertent descent below an intended flight path. Finally, the Investigation noted a number of previous incidents investigated by the ATSB in which use of 'Open Descent' mode had led to inadvertent significant deviation below the intended flight path The Findings of the Investigation were formally documented as follows: Contributing Factors During the latter stages of a visual approach the Captain assessed the aircraft’s flight