An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian NTSC. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were successfully replayed with the exception of the absence of the cockpit area microphone channel which had no data. The FDR was of limited value as it was designed to record only 11 parameters. It was established that an engineer had been occupying the flight deck supernumerary seat, that the First Officer had been PF and that a reduced thrust take off was being made. Runway 18, which is 2150 metres long, was used for the take off. When the aircraft did not become airborne following rotation to the prescribed attitude, and the stick shaker was reported to have activated, the initial response of the aircraft commander had been to increase the thrust. When this did not produce the expected effect, a rejected take off had been initiated with aircraft around 25 knots above V1. An overrun followed during which the aircraft was steered around obstructions. A review of the available evidence led to the conclusion that the take off had been attempted without correct configuration of the wing - with the trailing edge flaps and leading edge slats stowed. It was noted that the TOWS had not activated and that “The examination on the aural warning CB shows that the CB can not latch in due to wear on the latching mechanism. Such wear should be remedied by replacing the CB. This, however, was not done. Instead, for some reason, the maintenance of the previous owner/operator installed pull-out guard on the CB. Such failure to understand the problem contributes to the accident.” Other findings related to an inadequately secured galley cart which broke loose during deceleration and obstructed the exit from the flight deck into the passenger cabin and a failure of the rear right slide to deploy. Because the left hand side of the aircraft at rest had been deemed too high above the ground for use of left hand side exits by the cabin crew who had also believed that they had seen smoke (rather than the probable dust from the terrain) in the vicinity of the forward right hand exit, the evacuation had been completed almost entirely by use of the single right side over wing exit. The Investigation concluded that: “Since there is no indication that flaps system failure or flap asymmetry contributes in the failure of flap to travel to take-off configuration, the most probable cause for the failure is the improper execution of take-off checklist. Failure of the maintenance to identify the real problem on the aural warning CB, causes the CB to open during the accident and therefore is a contributing factor to the accident.” The Final Report KNKT/02.01/03.03.011 was published on 1 February 2003 and contained 9 Safety Recommendations as follows: That the Directorate General of Air Communications: Ensure that the trolley stowage in the cabin were strong enough so that the trolley would not lose easily.. Ensure that the escape slides