Crossing point is the point where the tracks of the two aircraft intersect. Closest Point of Approach (CPA) is the point when the distance between the aircraft is at its minimum. The position of the crossing point is easy to determine because it only depends on the planned trajectories of the aircraft and does not take into account the speeds (and wind). It is also easy to determine which aircraft will reach the crossing point first (even if they are flying at different speeds). Calculating the precise distance at the moment when the first aircraft reaches the crossing point requires some simple math: D=(D2-D1)+(V1-V2)*t1, where: D is the distance at the crossing point;. D1 is the distance from the first aircraft to the crossing point;. D2 is the distance from the second aircraft to the crossing point;. V1 is the speed of the first aircraft;. V2 is the speed of the second aircraft; and,. t1 is the time which the first aircraft needs to reach the crossing point.. This formula means that in order to calculate D, one needs the current difference of the aircraft positions and a correction (V1-V2)*t1, which accounts for one of the aircraft being faster. When aircraft 1 is faster, D increases with time (aircraft 1 gets ahead). When aircraft 2 is faster, D decreases (aircraft 2 is closing on aircraft 1). Rules of thumb: 6 knots of speed difference means that in 10 minutes the value of D will change by 1 NM;. 60 knots of speed difference means that a faster aircraft behind reduces D by 1 NM each minute; and,. 30 knots of speed difference means that a faster aircraft behind reduces D by 1 NM every two minutes.. The CPA is more complicated to calculate because it depends on the angle at which the tracks cross, and this dependency requires trigonometry to calculate exactly. Due to the nature of the cosine function, it is sometimes possible that a relatively small difference of the track angle of one aircraft results in a dramatic change of the correction. Rules of thumb, given no wind and both aircraft are flying at the same speed: A crossing angle of 90 degrees means that separation will be reduced by 30% between the crossing point and the CPA. As a result, 7.2 NM at the crossing point are needed to achieve 5 NM at the CPA.. As a result, 7.2 NM at the crossing point are needed to achieve 5 NM at the CPA.. A crossing angle of 60 degrees means that separation will be reduced by 20% between the crossing point and the CPA. As a result, 6.3 NM at the crossing point are needed to achieve 5 NM at the CPA.. As a result, 6.3 NM at the crossing point are needed to achieve 5 NM at the CPA.. A crossing angle of 30 degrees means that separation will e reduced by 10% between the crossing point and the CPA. As a result, 5.6 NM at