initially but then lost it. It was not clear at what point transfer of control of the Learjet had actually occurred but it was concluded that the significant increase in bank angle had been inappropriate and the direct cause of the collision. The Learjet went out of control after sustaining substantial impact damage and the effects of a fire which began as a result of it and was destroyed by the terrain impact which followed. Twenty seconds after the collision, the Eurofighter pilot transmitted a MAYDAY call advising that a collision had "probably occurred". The second Eurofighter, which had been too far in trail to observe the collision in any detail, confirmed "severe" impact damage to the leader aircraft and consequential right engine malfunction, and then escorted it back to Nörvenich where a successful single engine landing was accomplished. Having determined the detailed circumstances relating to the collision, the Investigation focused on the organisational context in which it had occurred. It was found that the applicable German Air Force Flight Operations Manual "did not contain a description of the Renegade procedure". The procedure for interception missions was found to state that "civil aircraft, deployed on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, should be treated as military aircraft" without also applying the Air Force regulations on separation to such aircraft. These specified "a minimum distance of 1,000 ft slant range during air combat" which could be reduced to 500 feet subject to visual contact. The reduced range could only be further reduced "if the pilots involved have agreed on and determined a minimum distance" which did not occur prior to the commencement of this mission. The requirement in ICAO Annex 2 Appendix 2 for States to publish a standard method by which civil aircraft will be intercepted if this is deemed necessary was noted as was the additional guidance provided in Attachment 'A' to the same Annex and the more comprehensive guidance contained in the [ICAO 'Manual concerning the interception of civil aircraft' Doc 9433. It was found that the civil operator of the Learjet also undertook transport flights using a number of Learjet variants and held an AOC for such purposes. It had introduced procedures detailing hazard and risk evaluation in 2012 and its Operations Manual included a section on formation flying. However, it was specifically observed that unlike the detailed Air Force procedures in case of loss of visual contact with a leader aircraft in close formation, this Manual contained no guidance on this eventuality - or its avoidance - at all. It was also noted that flights without passengers such as the accident one did not take place under the provisions of the AOC since they constituted 'Aerial Work' which "did not require permission by an aviation authority because up until 21 April 2017 the European regulations regarding Specialised Operations do not have to be applied in Germany". The LBA Flight Operations inspector responsible for the operator since December 2010 stated that he had "never conducted an inspection