An Investigation was carried out by the German Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU). It was noted that the collision had occurred during a "Renegade" exercise in which two military fighter jets - a Quick Reaction Alert (QRA) deployment - were to conduct an interception and identification exercise on a specifically-deployed contractor aircraft operated by a civilian company which considered that "conducting flights for the armed forces was the main task of the company". Both the Learjet and the two Eurofighters were equipped with CVR and FDR and these and the video recordings of the head up displays of the two Eurofighters were successfully downloaded. The flight paths of all three aircraft were recorded by both military and civil air navigation service radar and these recordings were available. The exercise during which the accident occurred took place in Class 'E' airspace with both aircraft under the control of the same military Control and Reporting Centre (CRC) but each speaking on a different frequency to controllers seated adjacent to each other. A simulated guard frequency had been notified to both aircraft. The Learjet had two pilots on board, with the Commander acted as PM and the Co-Pilot as PF until the landing at Büchel which was expected to be the destination to which the 'target' Learjet would be escorted to complete the exercise. The PM had conducted radio communications and taken responsibility for navigation, using a portable computer - considered to constitute a Type B EFB - to determine positions and distances. The 50 year-old Commander was formerly an Air Force pilot and had about 7505 hours total flying experience including 3554 hours on the accident aircraft type. He had been employed by the aircraft operator for over 10 years, initially as a Co-Pilot and then, since 2007 as a Captain. The operator stated that prior to the accident under investigation, he had last flown a 'Renegade/QRA' mission on 8 November 2010. The 43 year-old Co-Pilot was also formerly an Air Force pilot and had about 3560 hours total flying experience including approximately 745 hours on the accident aircraft type. He had been employed by the aircraft operator for almost 2 years. According to the operator, he had last participated in a 'Renegade/QRA' mission on 25 November 2013. The 33 year-old Eurofighter pilot had about 1465 hours total flying experience including approximately 406 hours on type. It was found that he had flown 42 interception and identification missions in 2013 and 17 in 2014 but his statement that "these missions often ended after the identification without intervention" was noted. It was established that, with the Learjet at 8000 feet, the Eurofighter formation was instructed to simulate transponder selection to standby and shortly afterwards, with the formation approximately 6 nm from and below the Learjet target, the leader reported having visual contact and the Learjet crew was advised accordingly. The formation leader advised the CRC controller that he would conduct the approach without radar guidance and was told that the Learjet "is a