represented during the training.. that the Luftfahrtamt der Bundeswehr (LufABw) (the Military Aviation Authority) should ensure that during interception of civil aircraft a high degree of flight safety is guaranteed. The Renegade procedure should be sufficiently described and rendered more precisely so that the collision risk of aircraft involved is minimised even in the event of unexpected flight manoeuvres of the intercepted aircraft. Therefore the requirements of single-seat military aircraft should be taken into account more strongly when describing the procedures. The demand on the pilots in regard to the attention and task distribution in individual phases of the procedure should be rendered more precisely and the pilot of the second military aircraft should be more involved in the support to guarantee continued observation of the intercepted aircraft. (04/2015). that the Luftfahrtamt der Bundeswehr (LufABw) should ensure that companies acting as civil contracting partners for the Bundeswehr conducting aerial target demonstrations meet the highest Bundeswehr standards in regard to their flight operations and flight safety organisations. In case the civil contracting partner does not hold an Air Operator Certificate (AOC) issued by a civil aviation authority, the LufABw should ensure that the civil contracting partner is organised such that hazard analyses are conducted in regard to their aerial target demonstrations operations which are suited to ensure a high degree of operational safety. In (the) case (where) the civil contracting partner is a civil air operator certified by the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA), regular information exchange should take place between the LufABw and the LBA in regard to special operational and flight safety issues involved in supporting the LBA. (05/2015). that the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA) (the Civil Aviation Authority) should effectively supervise the service providers working for the armed forces in terms of their operation. Therefore the LBA should cooperate with the LufABw in order to better understand the military special features. Therefore, regular information exchange should take place between the LBA and the LufABw in respect of special operational and flight safety issues. (06/2015). that the Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA) should ensure that operators have an effective Safety Management System. It should especially guarantee that the Safety Management System analyses the essential operating modes of an operator in regard to flight safety risks and, if applicable, take actions to minimise the risks. (07/2015). that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should add the term 'aerial target demonstrations' to the list of examples mentioned in Commission Regulation (EC) No 965/2012 Part Specialised Operations (SPO) SPO.GEN.005 Scope (a). (08/2015). The Final Report was completed on 13 August 2015 and subsequently published.