declared probable renegade, you can expect three POB, two pilots, and one probable hijacker." The formation leader approached the Learjet from astern with the second aircraft following approximately 2nm behind and about 1000 feet below. The Learjet was cruising at just over 250 KIAS. A descriptive report based on close inspection of the target was made. The Learjet crew were advised that an "obey-check" would be performed on the left side and that "after three minutes you should obey". The lead Eurofighter pilot stated that he had then flown to a position "slightly higher and to the left in front of the Learjet" and FDR data showed the wings had been rocked several times, before he reported to his CRC controller that the aircraft was "not following left-hand turn". Concurrently, the Learjet crew reported to their controller that they had "received a first wing-rock" and were waiting three minutes before obeying. At the three minute point, wing rocking was again used by the lead Eurofighter at a position slightly above and in front of the Learjet, whose crew were advised by their controller "for your information, you overwhelmed the hijacker and now you will obey the orders of the QRA and call them on the guard". This radio communication was completed just as the lead Eurofighter, having rocked its wings, had commenced a left-hand turn. After two seconds, FDR data showed its bank angle had reached approximately 20° and after a further two seconds had increased to approximately 27° after which it remained stable and in a constant-rate turn. According to the Learjet FDR, its AP had been disconnected during the wing rocking prior to the commencement of the Eurofighter's turn and, after a brief wing-rocking acknowledgment, the Learjet crew began their left turn almost immediately after the Eurofighter had begun to do so. Almost immediately, the Copilot stated that he could no longer see the Eurofighter and asked the Commander to take over; bank angle was increasing through 13°. In a 4 second transmission beginning 5 seconds after the Learjet had commenced its left turn, the lead Eurofighter pilot reported to his CRC controller that "the aircraft is responding by rocking wings and following in a left-hand turn". During this transmission and the two further seconds until the collision, it was found that the altitude, indicated airspeed and bank angle of the Eurofighter had remained almost constant. At the same time as the transmission ended, the Learjet Commander had instructed the Copilot to take over the portable computer being used, at which point the bank angle left was 52°. Collision occurred two seconds later with the Learjet FDR recording a left bank angle of 46° and the Eurofighter FDR a left bank angle of 26°. It was subsequently calculated that the distance between the two aircraft at the beginning of the turn had been only 30 metres, that the Copilot would have rapidly lost sight of the Eurofighter and that the Captain would have had a slightly better view