flight" on an AOC flight or otherwise, during that time. The LBA had also approved the Operator's "SMS Handbook" but the Investigation concluded that since a proper hazard and risk assessment for all types of flight operation had not been conducted, the SMS could only be seen as incomplete. It was noted in this respect that "no documentation was found showing that the LBA had specifically supervised the implementation of the operator's safety management system". In terms of the common interest of the civil and military aviation authorities in the safe conduct of exercises involving aircraft from both of their oversight responsibilities, it was found that there had been a complete absence of information exchange "regarding the specialities and flight safety aspects of aerial target demonstrations". In respect of the wider subject of operational safety, the Investigation noted that at the time of the investigated accident Germany had not prepared a State Safety Programme (SSP) and was of the opinion that Germany "shows deficits in all five areas mentioned in the ICAO Safety Management Manual regarding the State Safety Programme." The Investigation also considered that the Learjet CVR recording "showed deficiencies in regard to the application of crew resource management principles ... noticeable in cooperation, communication, leadership behaviour, situational awareness and the decision making process". The Investigation formally documented the Causes of the collision as follows: Immediate Causes: During positioning for the intervention the collision risk due to unexpected manoeuvres of the intercepted airplane was not sufficiently taken into consideration.. The Learjet crew did not take into account the risks due to possible limitations of the field of vision and the distraction by using the computer when deciding about the task distribution.. Due to insufficient situational awareness during the intervention, the Learjet crew continued the turn with an excessive bank angle despite the loss of visual contact with the Eurofighter flying at the inside of the turn.. Systemic Causes: The operator had not specified in detail how the crew should distribute their tasks during Renegade exercises.. Neither the operator commissioned to conduct the aerial target demonstration nor the Air Force had sufficiently described the Renegade training nor had a commensurate risk analysis been done.. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Operator should ensure that during aerial target demonstrations a high level of flight safety is reached. Therefore such flights should be investigated in regard to latent flight safety risks and actions be determined to minimise these risks. For aerial target demonstration flights as part of Renegade mission trainings, the following points should especially be considered during risk analysis (03/2015): Applicability of cross cockpit procedures Use of portable computers during critical flight phases Procedures for loss of visual contact Application of flight manoeuvres suitable for the kind of target represented during the training.. Applicability of cross cockpit procedures. Use of portable computers during critical flight phases. Procedures for loss of visual contact. Application of flight manoeuvres suitable for the kind of target