the relatively low cabin altitude exceedance to just over 10,400 feet had been only brief and “prompt flight crew action reduced the possibility of medical effects on cabin crew and passengers”. However, had the cabin altitude continued to climb, it was noted that “the effects of not donning oxygen masks would have been more serious”. It was noted that this PRA is intended to be output at a peak level equivalent to someone shouting and that if a cabin PA is made from the flight deck whilst a PRA is playing, the PRA is paused until the live PA has finished. However, it was found that after such a PRA resumption, the amplitude of the cabin PA system was reduced to a level just above normal conversation due to a software fault not previously appreciated. It was noted that a completed NTSB Investigation into a Boeing 787-8 event in 2013 had identified a number of deficiencies in the quality of the EAFR CVR audio recordings and concluded that “The poor audio recording quality of the enhanced airborne flight recorder could impede future aircraft investigations because the recorded conversations and other cockpit sounds might be obscured”. Because of this finding, the NTSB made a corresponding Safety Recommendation (A-14-126) to the FAA to “require Boeing to improve the quality of (1) the enhanced airborne flight recorder radio/hot microphone channels by using the maximum available dynamic range of the individual channels and (2) the cockpit area microphone airborne recordings by increasing the crew conversation signals over the ambient background noise”. It was noted that as of April 2018, this Safety Recommendation was still ‘OPEN’ and that the same replay speech quality issues were present when the EAFR replays relevant to the latest event were made. It was further noted that both the ATSB and the BEA France had also experienced the same issues during their investigations of Boeing 787 events. However, during the current Investigation, it was also found that there was a significant difference in the normal dynamic recording range when the flight crew were using oxygen mask rather than headset microphones and that replay was corrupted by interference in the form of intermittent extraneous noise. The current Investigation found that that this problem was caused by the combination of an attenuated sidetone signal introduced to solve an unrelated problem with the headset microphone signal and the oxygen mask microphone signal, the latter having a much higher amplitude. It was noted that Boeing “was aware of this during certification, but considered that it was acceptable”. Issues were also identified with the effectiveness of certification requirements for the Boeing 787 EAFC CVR system, both the certification of the EAFR itself, which was certified by its manufacturer as meeting the requirements of the corresponding Technical Standard Order (TSO) C123B and the certification of the CVR system as installed in an aircraft by the FAA under CFR Part 25 Subpart F 25.1457. The latter was also the subject of an NTSB Safety Recommendation (A-14-127) as