a result of the same investigation referred to above in which the FAA was asked to “either remove the current exception to EUROCAE ED-112A, “Minimum Operational Performance Specification for Crash Protected Airborne Recording Systems” chapter I-6 in TSO 123B, “Cockpit Voice Recorder Equipment,” or provide installers and certifiers with specific guidance to determine whether a cockpit voice recorder installation would be acceptable”. The outstanding systemic issue as seen by Boeing was that the evaluation of installed CVR systems remains subjective given that that neither EAD-112 nor its successor EAD 112A provided any guidance on how to measure installed CVR performance objectively rather than subjectively. It was noted that there are a number of objective analysis techniques that can be applied to audio recordings ensure that a minimum standard of speech intelligibility is achieved for CVR replay. It was also noted that both ED112 and its successor ED-112A specify one such technique, a ‘Speech Transmission Index’ (STI) test, in which an acceptable result must be obtained before the certification of a CVR unit. However, under prevailing EASA regulations, this test was not also applicable to the performance of the CVR system when installed on an aircraft. The Investigation also identified a software problem related to the volume of the cabin decompression pre-recorded announcement (PRA) in the passenger cabin which is being addressed by the Operator’s safety action. The formally-documented Conclusions of the Investigation were presented in three subject areas as follows: 1) Loss of cabin pressure The inability of the aircraft to maintain normal cabin pressure was found to have been caused by the right lower recirculation fan becoming detached from the inner duct, which allowed air from the AC unit to leak to atmosphere rather than provide the required cabin pressure on a sector where the left air conditioning system had been disabled before flight. When the aircraft was operated during the incident flight with only the right air conditioning system available, the system did not have sufficient capacity to overcome the effect of the leak. It was concluded that the lower right recirculation fan had not been correctly attached to the inner duct when the fan had been installed on 18 April 2017. 2) Cabin Pre Recorded Announcement (PRA) The deployment of the oxygen masks in the cabin was accompanied by the cabin decompression PRA. However, the level of the PRA was reported as not being audible. The apparent lack of an accompanying PRA caused confusion amongst the cabin crew as to the exact nature of the situation and the initial response by the cabin crew was uncoordinated, with some passengers not donning their oxygen masks. The cause of the low volume of the PRA was subsequently identified as a software issue in the cabin audio system, whereby the volume of the announcement was attenuated following use of the cabin address system from the flight deck. 3) CVR performance It has been found that digital ‘spikes’ evident in the crew channels, as identified by the NTSB during the readout