to the inner recirculation duct in the right air conditioning (AC) system which allowed a leak of cabin air.. The failure of maintenance to identify that the continuing air leakage, which persisted as a consequence of this incorrect fitment of the sleeve on the right AC system, would affect the pressurisation system performance if the aircraft were flown with the left AC unit disabled.. Fracture of a component (the tie-rod) within the L2 CAC of the left air conditioning system which was found to have resulted from a manufacturing quality control failure.. Damage to the L1 CAC of the left AC system as a result of ingestion of part of the failed L2 CAC tie-rod and its nut which disabled the left AC system before the incident flight commenced.. Other observations included: Whether further physical movement of the components of the incorrectly fitted right AC system fan/duct coupling had occurred during the incident flight after the right system was required to pressurise the aircraft on its own was not known.. The incorrect work on the right AC system fan/duct coupling was partly a consequence of the inaccessibility of those components and the lack of tactile feel enabling an incorrectly assembled coupling to be easily identified.. The fact that the AHM “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740” - which had been generated because of the incorrect installation of the replacement recirculation fan - did not result in any priority action appeared to have been influenced by the perception of a high frequency of data and messages received on the 787 AHM system.. The manufacturing quality shortfall which led to the left AC system L2 CAC component failure was attributed to a batch problem and addressed as such.. The potential for damage to the L1 CAC resulting from the ingestion of the failed part of the L2 CAC was not explicitly considered during the original system Fault Mode Effects Analysis (FMEA) carried out by the manufacturer although other system-level failures that could cause the loss of both CACs in one pack had been considered and accounted for at the design stage.. The procedures for release of the aircraft to service prior to the incident flight were correctly followed but did not ensure that the operating system would continue to function with the normal level of reliability. Although the individual who authorised this release to service had access to information on the status of the right AC system, they were unaware of the incorrect fitment of the fan/duct coupling or its influence on the performance of the right hand pressurisation system.. The fact that this announcement had been almost inaudible to most occupants was a matter of concern. The apparent lack of an PRA to accompany oxygen mask drop was noted to have “caused confusion amongst the cabin crew as to the exact nature of the situation” and had resulted in their initial response being “uncoordinated and ineffective, with the majority of the cabin crew reacting by returning their service carts to the galleys”. Fortunately,