of the EAFRs fitted to the 787-8 involved in the Boston post-flight fire in 2013, were introduced by the EAFR manufacturer’s ground replay software, IGS. This issue has now been resolved and the AAIB has communicated this to other accident investigation laboratories. The NTSB has previously identified other deficiencies in the quality of the CVR recordings on the Boeing 787 and issued Safety Recommendation A-14-126 to address these. The AAIB has in the current investigation now identified that ATC communications can be masked when the flight crew are using the oxygen masks, due to the disparity in the recorded dynamic range of the sidetone and oxygen mask signals. It is noted that testing of the installed performance of CVR systems is currently largely subjective and has led to variation in their performance. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that that Federal Aviation Administration require Boeing to modify the audio system fitted to the Boeing 787, so that sidetone signals recorded on the cockpit voice recorder crew channels are not masked when flight crew oxygen mask microphones are in use. [2018-008]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency initiate a review to consider whether a repeatable and objective analysis technique can be applied to audio recordings to establish consistent installed performance of cockpit voice recorder systems. [2018-009]. that the European Organization for Civil Aviation Equipment (EUROCAE) amend their document ‘Minimum Operational Performance Specification for Crash Protected Airborne Recorder Systems’ (currently ED-112A) to include a repeatable and objective analysis technique to establish consistent installed performance of cockpit voice recorder systems. [2018-010]. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated event was noted as having included the following: Boeing has: revised the AMM installation procedure for the two recirculation fans made changes to its Fault Isolation Manual (FIM) in respect of the appropriate response to AHM “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740” so that it now includes checking for recent maintenance activity on the cabin pressurisation system, including the recirculation fans made changes to the triggers for AHM ‘Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740’ so that only alerts that are “deemed valid” are presented to aircraft operators.. revised the AMM installation procedure for the two recirculation fans. made changes to its Fault Isolation Manual (FIM) in respect of the appropriate response to AHM “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740” so that it now includes checking for recent maintenance activity on the cabin pressurisation system, including the recirculation fans. made changes to the triggers for AHM ‘Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740’ so that only alerts that are “deemed valid” are presented to aircraft operators.. The Aircraft Operator has: revised its process for dealing with AHM “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740” advised that it is updating the audio system software fitted to its Boeing 787 fleet to prevent the volume of the cabin decompression PRA from being attenuated.. revised its process for dealing with AHM “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740”. advised that it is updating the audio system software fitted to its Boeing 787 fleet to prevent