the flight deck to clarify the situation but was unable to return to the cabin until the aircraft was levelled at FL100 when, having confirmed that the cabin altitude was at 7,000 ft and reducing, the flight crew removed their oxygen masks and completed the QRH checklist for Cabin High Altitude. The Captain asked the CSD to advise the third pilot, who had remained in the flight crew rest area on a fixed ‘drop down’ oxygen mask, that he could return to the flight deck and directed that the cabin crew and passengers could remove their oxygen masks “if required”. The cabin altitude continued to reduce to below 4000 feet where it stabilised and having reviewed the aircraft status, the Captain decided to return to Heathrow. On the way back, which proceeded without further event, approximately four tonnes of fuel was jettisoned to facilitate a landing below MLW. From a cabin crew perspective, the abnormal circumstances resulted in some confusion. Although the instruction to the cabin crew to cease cabin service and return to their seats had been communicated to the forward (First Class) cabin, before this message could be passed on to the rest of the cabin crew, the cabin oxygen masks were deployed. This deployment was automatically accompanied by a Pre Recorded Announcement (PRA) which contained instructions on how to don the oxygen masks. However, the volume of the PRA was so low that it could not be heard above the background cabin noise level and “as a result of not hearing the PRA, and in the absence of any other serious indications of depressurisation, the cabin crew were confused as to what was happening”. Many of them thought that the oxygen masks had deployed inadvertently and they just returned their cabin service carts to the galleys and took their seats there instead of following their prescribed actions in the event of depressurisation. It was reported that “the passengers appeared unaware of the emergency [and] some remained asleep and many did not fit their oxygen masks”. It was noted that some of those who did fit their masks did so incorrectly. As cabin crew awareness of the situation developed, they began shouting instructions to the passengers to fit their oxygen masks and due to the uncertainty of the situation, the CSD fitted a portable oxygen system and went into the flight deck to ascertain what was happening. At this time, several other members of the cabin crew also used portable oxygen systems, with a number reporting afterwards that these systems were “difficult to extract from their stowage locations and use due to the ‘cumbersome’ oxygen bottle”. Some also reported finding it difficult to tell whether they were working correctly. During the return to Heathrow several members of the cabin crew and some passengers reported having felt unwell, although none required medical attention in flight or on arrival back at Heathrow. It was noted that the 787 air conditioning and pressurisation system uses four electrically-driven centrifugal impellers, which are