A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant recorded data was available from the duplicated Enhanced Airborne Flight Recorders (EAFR), flight data for the entire flight and CVR audio from climbing through FL110 eastbound until the end of the flight. Useful data were also available from the aircraft’s Central Maintenance Computing Function (CMCF) and from the Aircraft Health Monitoring (AHM) system, a ground-linked service that generates messages which can also be accessed by a flight crew but do not on their own require any action by them. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain had a total of 14,200 flying hours of which 1238 hours were on type. The experience of the First Officer was not documented. It was established that the intended flight sector was rostered for a three-pilot crew and although initially planned as an ETOPS flight, had to be re-planned as a non-ETOPS flight after the flight crew noticed on boarding the aircraft that the Technical Log contained an ADD in respect of the left Air Conditioning System which had been disabled in accordance with the MEL. An amended flight plan with a maximum altitude of FL 350 (which allowed the overhead crew rest areas to be used during the flight) was filed and the necessary additional two tonnes of fuel was uploaded. At FL200 during the climb, the third pilot left the flight deck for the flight crew rest area and 25 minutes after takeoff, the aircraft reached FL350. Two minutes later, an EICAS annunciation of ‘CABIN ALTITUDE PRESSURE BLOCK’ occurred and it was seen that the cabin altitude was increasing at about 300 fpm and that both outflow valves were indicating closed. After discussing remedial options, the crew initially requested a descent to FL310 to see if the cabin altitude would stabilise and upon receipt of the required clearance, began a descent in FLCH mode at idle thrust. However, the cabin altitude continued to increase and the Captain asked the First Officer to contact the Cabin Service Director (CSD) to brief her on the situation and request that cabin service be suspended. When the cabin altitude continued to increase, the Captain declared a PAN to ATC and as he did so, the cabin altitude reached 10,000 feet and the EICAS cabin altitude warning was activated. This coincided with the First Officer speaking to the CSD which resulted in some confusion on the part of the CSD as to whether the cabin crew should go onto oxygen or (as intended) just seat themselves near an oxygen mask. On completion of this exchange, the First Officer joined the Captain on oxygen and they completed the QRH memory items for Cabin High Altitude, including manual deployment of the cabin oxygen masks. The PAN was upgraded to a MAYDAY and a rapid descent to FL100 was made. Passing FL 258, the cabin altitude reached a maximum of 10,429 feet before beginning to reduce. During the descent the CSD, wearing a portable crew oxygen system, entered