called ‘Cabin Air Compressors’ (CACs). Two CACs identified as L1 and L2 and two CACs identified as R1 and R2 provided compressed air to the left and right side of the cabin respectively. Left and right side air conditioning units can each function with only a single CAC per side operating. Each side also has a single recirculation fan. After the aircraft’s arrival in Heathrow after its previous flight, a Technical Log entry made by the off-going Captain in respect of a pressurisation system abnormal status message was investigated by engineering. Although they were unable to find a cause for the message, they did find that the L2 CAC shaft had failed and part of it was missing. After removing the inlet of the L1 CAC for comparison with the L2 CAC, they found that the missing material from the L2 CAC was in its inlet and had damaged its blades. With little time to go before the scheduled departure, the aircraft was released to service with the left AC system disabled, in accordance with the MEL. After the turnback of the Delhi-bound aircraft to Heathrow, a further examination of the system was monitored by the AAIB and it was found that the right-hand inner recirculation duct was disconnected from the lower right-hand recirculation fan and once the duct and fan had been removed, it was apparent that the coupling and seal joining the two had been incorrectly aligned when last assembled. It was deduced that this had then led to damage to the left L1 CAC. It was found that the right-hand side recirculation fan had been changed 11 days prior to the incident flight and that on the aircraft’s first flight following this intervention, the aircraft’s ground-based Aircraft Health Monitoring (AHM) system generated “Maintenance Alert Message 21-0209-C740”. This message indicated that a ‘high leakage/low inflow’ of the cabin pressurisation system had been detected. Engineering assessed this message and set up a work request to carry out a pressurisation leak check of the aircraft which was recorded in the aircraft electronic flight log with latest completion to be by 5 May 2017. During the 15 further flights prior to the incident flight, the same Maintenance Alert Message was generated by the AHM system but the work request latest completion date was not altered. It was noted that the engineer who worked on the air conditioning system prior to release to service for the incident flight was in possession of documentation that included all outstanding maintenance activity including the outstanding requirement for a pressurisation leak check by 5 May 2017. However, it was found that it “was not a requirement that engineers review this particular information as it was included for information purposes only”. In summary, it could therefore be concluded that the loss of cabin pressure in flight had been due to a number of interrelated factors impinging on the serviceability of the Environmental Control System (ECS): Incorrect fitment of the sleeve and coupling joining the replaced recirculation fan