B763, Chicago O'Hare IL USA, 2016 — On 28 October 2016, an American Airlines Boeing 767-300 made a high speed rejected takeoff after an uncontained right engine failure. … Thirty-five seconds after the aircraft had come to a stop, the captain called for the evacuation checklist. The second and third steps in this checklist involve depressurising the aircraft, which the captain subsequently stated took “a long time.” The cabin crew began the evacuation as soon as the aircraft stopped, with the first exit (2L) being opened by one of the cabin crew 10 seconds after the aircraft stopped, and the adjacent 3L exit being opened by a passenger at about the same time. The front exits 1L and 1R were opened 18 and 22 seconds after the aircraft stopped and finally exit 4L was opened 38 seconds after the stop. There was no record of evacuation from exit 1R but the first passenger out on the left hand side was recorded using the left hand overwing evacuation slide 15 seconds prior to left engine shutdown — and spool-down took a further 10 seconds. … [The captain] stated that whilst [the evacuation] checklist was being run, he could hear a “commotion” on the other side of the flight deck door and realised that the cabin crew had begun an evacuation. He added that after completing the fourth step in the evacuation checklist, which was to shut down the left engine, he had made a cabin PA [i.e., an announcement on the public address system] ordering an evacuation, and [that he] had activated the emergency evacuation signal switch. The crew then completed the remainder of the checklist and vacated the flight deck into the cabin. … They were met by the senior cabin crew member (SCCM), who informed [flight deck crew] that all passengers and all the other cabin crew were already off the aircraft. The only serious injury during the evacuation was to a passenger who … subsequently stated that, on reaching the ground after using the left overwing exit slide, he “stood up to get away from the airplane and was blown over by the jet blast coming from the back of the left engine.” A320, en-route, east of Cork Ireland, 2017 — On 2 November 2017, the flight crew of an Airbus A320 climbing out of Cork detected a “strong and persistent” burning smell and, after declaring a MAYDAY, returned to Cork, where confusing instructions from the crew resulted in a combination of the intended precautionary rapid disembarkation and an [unintended] emergency evacuation using escape slides. … After stopping on the runway for an assessment of the situation, it was judged safe to taxi to stand and once there, a “rapid disembarkation” was ordered which was misinterpreted by some of the 143 passengers as an emergency evacuation and resulted in the overwing exits being used by some. … Once on the stand, the aircraft engines were shut down and the crew made a further assessment of the situation noting