might form an expectation, or conduct a ‘reasonableness' check of the speed/weight relationship for their aircraft during takeoff. [Significant safety issue]. The failure of the digital flight data recorder (DFDR) rack during the tailstrike prevented the DFDR from recording subsequent flight parameters. [Minor safety issue]. The lack of a designated position in the pre-flight documentation to record the green dot speed precipitated a number of informal methods of recording that value, lessening the effectiveness of the green dot check within the loadsheet confirmation procedure. [Minor safety issue]. Safety Action in response to the accident and the investigation of it by the ATSB itself in initiating and completing a Safety Study on “Take-off performance parameter errors: A global perspective” was noted. After taking account of Safety Action by Emirates, Airbus, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as described in the Report, the ATSB made one Safety Recommendation: That the FAA take action to address the existing take-off certification standards, which are based on the attainment of the take-off reference speeds, and flight crew training that was based on the monitoring of and responding to those speeds, and do not provide crews with a means to detect degraded take-off acceleration. (AO-2009-012-SR-079). In respect of the outstanding concern about the issues raised by ‘Cross Crew Qualification and Mixed Fleet Flying’ the Investigation determined that the best way to progress this matter was to direct ‘Safety Advisory Notices’ to the FSF and to IATA requesting respectively that: The Flight Safety Foundation consider developing guidance to assist flight crews form appropriate mental models in respect of the weight and corresponding take-off performance parameters for a particular flight. The use by operators of mixed fleet flying increases the importance of that guidance. (AO-2009-012-SAN-086). The International Air Transport Association to encourage its members to develop guidance to assist their flight crews form appropriate mental models in respect of the weight and corresponding take-off performance parameters for a particular flight. The application by operators of mixed fleet flying increases the need for that guidance. (AO-2009-012-SAN-087). The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 16 December 2011: Aviation Occurrence Investigation AO-2009-012 Final. ​​​​​​