An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data recording was found to have ceased as the aircraft had become airborne and this was attributed to the dislodgement of the FDR from its mounting rack immediately behind the rear pressure bulkhead to where it was found after the flight, lying (undamaged) on the lower fuselage skin below and slightly to the rear of the mounting rack. Fortunately, a DAR (Digital ACMS Recorder) was also fitted and had recorded most of the FDR parameters as well as others in Non-Volatile Memory (NVM). The trajectory of the aircraft during the take off was established from the evidence available. The aircraft rear lower fuselage had contacted the 3657 metre long runway at three locations, starting at 265 metres, 173 metres and 110 metres from the end of the runway. It had then overrun the end of the runway onto the stopway and across the grassed clearway, becoming airborne three seconds after the selection of Take-off / Go-around (TO/GA) Mode thrust. However, before gaining altitude, the aircraft had struck a Runway 34 lead-in sequence strobe light and several antennae, the latter impacts having disabled the Runway 16 ILS. A small depression at the end of the 60 metre stopway had resulted in the rear fuselage briefly losing contact with the ground and the final ground contact mark had ended 148 metres beyond the end of the paved runway surface (and beyond the 120 metre Clearway). Inspection of the aircraft lower rear fuselage found the lower skin to have been abraded by contact with the runway surface and in some areas worn through its full thickness with grass and soil caught in the airframe structure. One service panel had been dislodged and was subsequently found beyond the end of the take off runway along with numerous pieces of metal from the abraded skin panels. It was established that performance calculations for the take off had been made using the Airbus Less Paper Cockpit (LPC) system on a single Electronic Flight Bag. In accordance with the Operator’s SOPs, the second EFB carried was used only as a backup in the event of a malfunction in the one being used. An aircraft take off weight of 100 tonnes less than the actual weight available to the flight crew was inadvertently entered into the EFB and the effects of that error on speeds and thrust settings were not subsequently noticed by any of the four pilots present. When the aircraft failed to become airborne after two ‘Rotate’ calls using the reduced thrust calculated, the aircraft commander had applied TOGA thrust and a few seconds later the aircraft had become airborne. Whilst still airborne, the crew had established for themselves the origin of the difficulty getting airborne as the gross error in the entered take off weight when the EFB was accessed to begin the landing performance calculations. The Investigation found that there had been a complete failure of the procedural