cross checks to detect the gross error of weight or its effects. The operating First Officer, who had also been PF for the take off, was found to have made the initial weight input error and the required cross check by the aircraft commander of the take-off weight in the FMGS with that used in the take-off performance calculation was then not made. The aircraft commander had entered the EFB performance figures into the FMGS and crosschecked them with the First Officer against the erroneous values that had previously been copied onto the flight plan. He had then handed the EFB back to the First Officer, who had stowed it before they completed the loadsheet confirmation procedure together. During that procedure, it was found that the First Officer had correctly read the weight from the FMGS as 361.9 tonnes but, when reading the same weight from the flight plan, had stated 326.9 tonnes before immediately correcting this to 362.9 tonnes. This procedure also included the First Officer reading out the (wrongly recorded) ‘green dot speed’ (best speed for climb once clean, affected only by aircraft weight and altitude) of 265 knots from the FMGS which was accepted by the aircraft commander. During the take off roll, using an assumed temperature calculation of reduced thrust which had been produced using the wrong (low) take off weight, the rate of acceleration had not been perceived as lower than required. The rotation rate used was found to have been as prescribed and the tail strike had been the result of continued rotation following the second ‘rotate’ call which led to the aircraft reaching the geometric limit of 9.5° after which TOGA thrust was applied. It was considered “unlikely that the flight crew had time to recognise that the aircraft had not lifted off at the expected pitch attitude of about 8°.” In this respect, it was noted that, at the prevailing rotation rate, it would have taken only about half a second to increase the pitch by 1.5°, making the PFD an ineffective means of identifying the exceedence. It was noted that, whilst climbing to 7000 feet to commence fuel dumping, it had become apparent that the aircraft was not pressurising. No specific reason could be established for the apparent sight and smell of smoke in the rear cabin that had accompanied it but it was considered that the change in aircraft attitude as descent was commenced probably led to dust and odours from the earlier damage. The Investigation distinguished two aspects of the accident as: the over rotation which led to the tail strike. the long take off roll which led to the overrun. The Investigation examined in detail the ways in which a number of cross checks built in to the procedures for establishing take off data had all failed. The “lack of recognition of the degraded take off performance (relative to that needed) until very late in the take off run” was considered to have compounded the use of erroneous