take off data which had created the conditions for the accident. However, it was noted that pilots rated for mixed fleet operations, as in this case for the A330-200, A340-300 and A340-500, there was an exposure to a large range of take off weights and (perceived) accelerations. Given that distraction was considered to have played a major part in facilitating error, a detailed examination of the effectiveness of risk management in this area was made. It was considered that: The operator had identified other flight phases as critical to the safety of flight, such as taxi, takeoff and climb, and had a sterile cockpit rule for those phases. There was no such management practice to reduce the potential for distraction during the take-off performance calculation and checking process.. The provision by the operator of briefings to flight crews on distraction management in the months prior to the accident appear to have been ineffective in this accident.. In respect of the augmenting crew, it was considered that: The lack of clear direction on the role of, and required input from the augmenting crew during the pre-departure preparation further increased the distraction risk to the operating flight crew.. The presence of augmenting crew in the cockpit during the pre-departure phase (in itself) created a distraction for the operating crew.. In respect of the SOPs involved, there was concern that, as usual, they were “typically designed on the basis that information flow… is sequential and… procedures are conducted in a linear fashion based on this sequential information flow” whereas research has shown such a linear flow is atypical in line operations which “increases the likelihood that, following a distraction, the flight crew will re-enter a procedure at an incorrect point.” It was concluded after eliminating all other possible causes and establishing the chain of events with all the available evidence that “the over rotation and tail strike were due to the incorrect rotation speed and flap configuration for the actual weight of the aircraft”. The preface to the Findings included the remarks that “although there are a number of factors identified directly relating to this accident, the accident needs to be taken in the context of the long history of similar take-off performance events.” Consequently, the recommended safety responses as result of the Investigation are “those that address the whole situation, not just those that address the specific factors identified in this accident”. Five Safety Issues were identified: The existing take-off certification standards, which were based on the attainment of the take-off reference speeds, and flight crew training that was based on the monitoring of and responding to those speeds, did not provide crews with a means to detect degraded take-off acceleration. [Significant safety issue]. The operator’s training and processes in place to enable flight crew to manage distractions during the pre-departure phase did not minimise the effect of distraction during safety critical tasks. [Significant safety issue]. The available Cross Crew Qualification and Mixed Fleet Flying guidance did not address how flight crew