Apart from following guidance provided in Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) and / or the Operations Manual, the best way of way to avoid high concentrations of very small ice crystals is the effective use of the aircraft weather radar to ensure that significant convective activity at altitudes below typical jet aircraft cruise levels is detected and the assumption then made that at the levels above this should be avoided. When particular susceptibility to ICI is known, deviation by more than the typically-recommended margin of 20 nm from all areas where large convective cells are present is advisable. Where particular engine types have been identified as at risk pending modification, a distance of 50 nm from such areas is usually recommended. Avoid flying over the anvil of a Cumulonimbus cloud. Image from wikicommons. This tactical strategy can be supported by considering the ICI risk when reviewing meteorological forecasts at the pre flight planning stage. Since there will not be any forecast of areas to avoid specifically because of an ICI risk, the probability that it is likely to be a feature of all large convective systems in tropical latitudes, especially those over oceanic or coastal areas, should be the assumption. Operationally, the best advice should be provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) and / or the Operations Manual. However, subject to any specifically applicable requirements or guidance, it is currently considered that the use of a thrust setting above Flight Idle during initial descent from high cruise altitudes in the tropics is a sensible precaution. A number of clues to the presence of ice crystals at densities with the potential to affect engine function have been deduced from past events and include: An air temperature significantly in excess of the corresponding International Standard Atmosphere temperature.. The presence of some turbulence but rarely more than at light-to-moderate intensity.. Areas of heavy rain detected on weather radar below the freezing level.. The appearance of St Elmo's Fire on the flight deck windscreens.. The appearance of small droplets of moisture on the flight deck windscreens - the result of impacting ice crystals being melted on contact with heated screens.. Transient failure of the TAT annunciation due to ice crystal accretion within the pitot probe /head which exceed the capacity of the heating system.. The absence of airframe icing..