Satellite data has confirmed that areas of very small ice crystals in high concentrations exist within, and in the vicinity of, convective weather systems (whilst large scale convective systems are more likely to produce ICI this can also happen in smaller storms, just less regularly). This is most likely to occur in tropical latitudes where these systems are at their most extensive because warmer air can "hold" much more moisture, especially so when such convection occurs over the oceans where greater uptake of moisture is possible. Such strong convection produces cloud tops that, in some cases, can break through the Tropopause (Satellite evidence shows that even relatively small storms, in terms of spatial extent, can break through the tropopause). High altitude ice crystals may be present for some time after the active convection which produced them has begun to decay. They are extremely small - probably only about 40 microns in diameter - and even at high concentrations, are unlikely to be evident visually even by day. With a radar reflectivity of only about 5% of that of average-sized raindrops, they will not appear on airborne weather radar displays because the temperatures which prevail at the altitudes where they are mostly found are too low for super-cooled liquid water to survive - so that what are now termed 'glaciated conditions' exist. At lower levels though, small ice crystals can occur in the presence of some supercooled water droplets and this combination has been termed "mixed phase" conditions. The main risk of encountering high crystal concentrations appears to be downwind from the tops of large areas of convective cloud - the area where the visible anvil shape is seen when viewed from a distance. Overshooting tops (dome-like protrusions from the top of an anvil cloud) are an indicator that significant convection is occurring and that ICI may be a possibility. A clear distinction should be drawn between the high concentrations of very small ice crystals which have caused engine malfunction and the entirely different collections of larger crystals at lower densities that give rise to high level Cirrus, Cirrostratus and Cirrocumulus cloud, which are not hazardous.