High altitude ice crystals will not adhere to the external airframe, or protrusions from it, because these are considerably warmer than the ambient temperature as a result of kinetic heating. Therefore, their presence will not activate conventional ice detectors. The microphysics which underlies the potential hazard, in respect of engine malfunction, is extremely complicated and has tended to manifest itself in slightly different ways in different incidents. This is because any undesirable effect caused by the ingestion of very small ice crystals at high densities has usually been shown to have been a function of details in engine design not originally foreseen as relevant. The common feature of most investigated incidents appears to be the initial accretion and aggregation of the ice crystals on relatively warm surfaces within the forward part of an engine followed by their subsequent detachment and partial melting as they progress through the engine core. Un-commanded thrust reduction may occur because of either direct or indirect effects of this passage and, even without any effect on engine function discernible to the flight crew, engine damage can result. The sign that a significant ICI encounter is in progress has usually been seen in a gradual reduction in engine rpm and a simultaneous rise in EGT. Thrust lever movement becomes ineffective and engine ‘rollback’ may continue until a sub-idle condition is reached. Other incidents attributed to ICI have arisen when a disrupted intake airflow has created an abnormal pressure gradient in the engine core which has led to a sudden airflow reversal. The majority of recorded events of engine malfunction attributed to this cause have occurred during the early stages of descent from high altitude with thrust reduced to Fight Idle. Recorded events in the cruise have usually followed a progressive build up of ice during a much longer period of exposure to high crystal densities than has appeared to be required to cause effects in the flight idle/descent case. However, it has sometimes been challenging to identify where the ice accretion actually occurred since any effects will not necessarily occur whilst the accretion is still continuing and it appears that the glaciated conditions at an intensity to cause problems occur in relatively small 'pockets'. It is currently being suggested that such localised areas of high ice crystal density have up to 8 grams per cubic metre of Ice Water Content (IWC) compared to the current engine design standard for super cooled liquid water which is only 2 grams per cubic metre. In this respect, the effect which these ice encounters appear to have had on engine function represents a new challenge rather than a failure to meet existing reliability standards.