Uncontained engine failures can affect both the fan and the turbine sections; certification requirements and tests as well as related engine and airframe designs account for both scenarios. Certification requirements are "multi-layered" as they include the following 4 layers: Systems safety assessment (e.g. FAR 25.1309),. Common cause analysis,. Particular risks analysis (e.g. engine "rotor burst"),. Zonal analysis (also involved in the uncontained engine failure assessment).. EASA CS-25 (Certification Specification Large Aeroplanes): The European equivalent of FAR-25.. The effects and rate of failure of an engine case rupture, uncontained engine rotor failure, engine case burn-through, and propeller debris release are minimised by compliance with CS-E, Engines; CS-P, Propellers; CS 25.903(d)(1), CS 25.905(d), and CS 25.1193. CS 25.903 (d) (1) reads as follows: "(d) Turbine engine installations. For turbine engine installations - (1) Design precautions must be taken to minimise the hazards to the aeroplane in the event of an engine rotor failure or of a fire originating within the engine which burns through the engine case. (See AMC 25.903(d)(1) and AMC 20-128A.)" AMC (Acceptable means of compliance) 25.903 (d) (1) is relative to torching flames while AMC 20-128A sets forth a method of compliance with the requirements of CS 23.901(f), 23.903(b)(1), 25.903(d)(1) and 25A903(d)(1) of the EASA Certification Specifications (CS) pertaining to design precautions taken to minimise the hazards to an aeroplane in the event of uncontained engine or auxiliary power unit (APU) rotor failures. The guidance provided within this AMC is harmonised with that of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) AMC 20-128 A is a significant document that provides background information, definitions, design considerations, accepted design practices; engine and APU failure model and considerations for safety analysis. The paragraph on design considerations addresses location of engine and APU, location of critical systems and component, external shields and deflectors. The paragraph on accepted design practices identifies design practices that address the risks of uncontrolled fire, loss of thrust, loss of aircraft control, passenger and crew incapacitation, loss of structural integrity. These design practices currently in use by the aviation industry that have been shown to reduce the overall risk, by effectively eliminating certain specific risks and reducing the remaining specific risks to a minimum level. EASA CS-E.510 (Certification Specifications - Engines - Safety Analysis) - Aircraft-level Failure classifications are not directly applicable to Engine assessments since the aircraft may have features that could reduce or increase the consequences of an Engine Failure condition. Additionally, the same type-certificated Engine may be used in a variety of installations, each with different aircraft-level Failure classifications. CS-E 510 defines the Engine-level Failure conditions and presumed severity levels.. FAA US FAR 33[footnote 1] covers engine certification aspects.. US FAR 25.XXXX[footnote 2] covers engine installation and airframe design aspects..