The factors listed below would usually not be sufficient (on their own) to cause loss of separation but can exacerbate the situation: ATCO Work-Load. Obviously, high workload situations make people more prone to making errors. It is important to know, however, that low-workload situations may lead to the same end result: A high workload situation may cause the controller to skip (intentionally or not) an important action (e.g. checking for an immediate conflict before issuing a clearance). A low workload situation can result in errors due to complacency. A steep peak of the workload (i.e. a "tidal wave" of complex traffic) may result in missing one out of ten important details (e.g. a sharp turn after the sector entry point or an abnormally slow/fast traffic). A steep decline of workload after a (well-managed) complex situation may result in over-relaxation.. A high workload situation may cause the controller to skip (intentionally or not) an important action (e.g. checking for an immediate conflict before issuing a clearance).. A low workload situation can result in errors due to complacency.. A steep peak of the workload (i.e. a "tidal wave" of complex traffic) may result in missing one out of ten important details (e.g. a sharp turn after the sector entry point or an abnormally slow/fast traffic).. A steep decline of workload after a (well-managed) complex situation may result in over-relaxation.. Volume of traffic. Even if this does not result in high complexity (e.g. a lot of conflicts, traffic avoiding weather, etc.), the sheer volume of aircraft may cause a controller to miss something or make an error.. Military traffic operating out of the segregated area in civil airspace normally requires special attention (e.g. more coordination effort and extended monitoring) and may drive the focus away from another situation.. Flight crews (military or civil) unfamiliar with the applicable rules and procedures in a particular volume of airspace could increase workload by e.g. not properly (or timely) compliance with ATC clearances and instructions, requests for repetition, etc.. Failure to pass an IFR aircraft timely traffic information about VFR aircraft in its vicinity.. Issue of a VFR clearance in airspace where the only prescribed traffic separation is IFR against IFR when the ability of the VFR aircraft to comply with its clearance and maintain an effective visual lookout may be compromised by weather conditions.. Poor (or missing) coordination between adjacent sectors or units.. Transfer on the wrong frequency may result in the inability of both controllers to issue timely instructions or a communication loss.. Obscured track labels (e.g. due overlapping, filters, colour representation, etc.).. Interruption or Distraction may draw the controller's attention away from a potential conflict or may contribute to forgetting to perform an action.. Fatigue in general reduces a person's working capacity and may even cause a microsleep (i.e. a person seems to be awake but is actually not)..