The BEA recommended that: "the DGAC [General Directorate for Civil Aviation] study the possibility of generalizing a procedure relating to passing through stabilization height, consistent with procedures relating to GPWS/TAWS alarms.. Brit Air ensure that the content of its Operations Manual is consistent.. the DGAC introduce awareness-training on the low-speed operating characteristics of the CRJ-100, and other aircraft presenting comparable characteristics during go-around, into its training programs;. the DGAC inform foreign regulatory bodies of the above recommendation.. the DGAC, in association with its foreign counterparts, put in place a training-approval regime concerning training of Crew Resource Management trainers.. the DGAC ensure the incorporation of such factors in CRM training.. the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) study the possibility of imposing the combining of localizer and glide information on instruments used for the approach phase.. the DGAC study the possibility of extending to precision approaches, not preceded by radar guidance, the instruction to report back when the aircraft is established on its final approach flight path;. the DGAC take measures to clarify utilisation of radar, and limitations of same, in particular for the surveillance function.. the DGAC study the introduction into training and practice sessions for cabin crew of near-real situational simulations.. the DGAC impose carrying a megaphone when the presence of a cabin attendant is required by regulations.. the DGAC study the possibility of specifying the checks to perform prior to opening of emergency exits, for example, by use of pictograms on exits themselves, or through the available cabin safety instructions, in order to prevent opening of said exits in the event of outside hazards.. the DGAC impose the use of headset microphones in the climb and descent phases, or at the very least, below the transition level or altitude, in compliance with paragraph 6.20 of Annex 6 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.".