make a good decision, one concentrates on a single source of information". It was considered that the investigated event "highlights the need for a go-around to be performed when the approach is destabilised below minima" despite the fact that such a decision "may be difficult to take" whilst "remaining the proper one in such circumstances". The Investigation did not formally record a Cause or Contributory Factors for the event but instead documented its Conclusions which included the following description of the final stages of the flight: Two seconds after passing DA, the flight crew encountered intense rain to the extent that the PIC had to switch the wiper on to the “Fast Setting”.. Five seconds later, at 157 Feet AGL, the FO lost visual reference with the runway and decided to hand over control of the aircraft to the PIC instead of performing a go-around.. When the PIC took over controls of the aircraft, he saw only a row of white runway edge lights, which he believed to be the runway centreline lights. He provided inputs through the control stick and piloted the aircraft towards that row of lights which was the right runway edge lights.. The aircraft touched down on the runway pavement, close to the right edge of the runway. Shortly after, the aircraft veered onto the grass patch to the right of the runway edge.. Unable to bring the aircraft back to the runway, the PIC brought the aircraft to a stop on the grass patch and ordered an emergency evacuation.. Safety Action taken by Air Asia Berhad during the course of the Investigation were noted as having included the issue of a "reminder" to all its pilots which covered the following: Proper handing and taking over control of aircraft. Rejected landing procedures. Operator’s criteria of the required visual reference to the intended landing runway. Associated risk of cross wind conditions during landing and the recovery techniques. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Air Asia Berhad should consider introducing simulator training for go-around below minima in response to weather conditions that result in the rapid reduction or loss of visual reference to the runway.. The Final Report was completed on 21 May 2015 and subsequently published in English.