An Investigation was carried out by the Brunei Air Accident Investigation Team (AAIT) with assistance provided by the AAIB Singapore in accordance with an MoU on Air Accident Investigation. Data from the accident aircraft FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded and used to support the Investigation. The 29 year-old Captain, who had been promoted to command just over 5 months prior to the accident, had accumulated 6,100 hours total flying experience of which 2,554 hours were on type. His command experience totalled 340 hours. The 23 year-old First Officer had 970 hours total flying experience of which 640 hours were on type. It was established that the sector had been conducted with the First Officer as PF and that the ATIS wind velocity for the approach had been 280°/11 knots and the visibility 8,000 metres. On checking in with Brunei Radar, the crew were advised that the surface wind was unchanged but visibility was now 5000 metres. On asking if there were any showers in the vicinity, the controller responded that there were not. Thirteen minutes later, with the aircraft established on final approach to runway 03, the TWR controller issued a landing clearance accompanied by a spot wind of 270°/11 knots, updating the wind 1½ minutes later (2½ minutes prior to the subsequent touchdown time) to 210°/7-10 knots (i.e. equivalent to a tail wind component of 7-10 knots). About this time, the Captain reported that he had observed that it had begun to rain in the vicinity of the runway and upon his request, the TWR controller advised that "there was rain only at the threshold of runway 03". A stabilised final approach was flown and at a recorded 965 feet agl, the Captain briefed his First Officer to perform a go around "if visual reference with the runway cannot be established". The runway approach lighting system was called in sight at a recorded 637 feet agl and the PAPI as in sight at 581 feet agl. At a recorded 313 feet agl, the First Officer announced that he would land and disconnected the AP. 'Minimums' was auto-annunciated (the Captain had set the DH to 309 feet) and almost immediately, heavy rain was encountered and the Captain selected the windshield wipers on at the 'fast' position. The TWR controller stated that at about the same time, he had "received a weather update from the meteorological station where the visibility was 3000 metres between south-east and south" but had not passed this information to the aircraft as it was very close to touch down and "he did not want to interrupt the flight crew’s operation". At a recorded 157 feet agl, the First Officer called for the Captain to take control which he immediately did, acknowledging verbally, “Okay I have control”. Almost immediately after this handover, the First Officer was recorded as saying “I can’t see anything” to which the Captain verbally acknowledged with “Check” after which there were no further exchanges prior to touchdown. According to the Captain, he