had seen a single row of white runway lights ahead which he had "believed were the runway centreline lights" and had therefore continued the approach and steered the aircraft towards them. FDR data confirmed this slight change of track to the right. Twenty one seconds after DA, both main landing gears "touched down on the runway pavement, close to the right edge of the runway" and in the TDZ followed, about three seconds later, by the sound of "ambient noises corresponding to the aircraft veering off the runway" on the CVR. The Captain attempted to regain the runway by applying left rudder but this had no effect and the aircraft continued on the grass in a straight line gradually increasing its deviation from the runway axis. It subsequently "travelled across taxiway E4 onto another grass patch before coming to a stop" after a ground run of 1,046 metres. The Captain ordered an emergency evacuation which was accomplished using the four doors but not also the over-wing exits. One minor injury was sustained by a passenger. The Investigation further established the following: the runway lighting had been functioning normally prior to damage caused by aircraft impact.. Operator Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) permitted the First Officer to land the aircraft as long as the reported surface wind was not more than 15 knots with no restriction on tail wind component.. Pilot simulator training at the Operator included mandatory practice of a go around from 30 feet agl with one engine inoperative and for new Captains this also included "low and high flare scenarios requiring go-arounds to be performed from 50 feet agl". This training did not include such practice in low visibility conditions for which mandatory go around practice required commencement "before minima".. That having lost visual reference, the First Officer reported at the subsequent interview that commencing a go around "did not cross his mind" and that instead, he had "believed that the Captain, being more experienced, would be able to land the aircraft".. It was noted that a handover of control after DA introduces two "likely safety risks": The pilot receiving control of the aircraft may have insufficient time to react appropriately and establish positive control.. Should the pilot receiving control of the aircraft decide to perform a go-around, valuable time and altitude lost during the handover would have increased the challenge to execute a safe go-around.. In this context, it was noted that since the handover of control had occurred 13 seconds prior to touchdown, the Captain "would have had enough time to maintain control of the aircraft" and had "acknowledged the handover without hesitation" but had been "unable to establish proper situational awareness to ensure that the row of lights he saw was the runway centreline lights". With this in mind, it was considered that the Captain's actions indicated that on taking control, he had been subject to the coning of his attention, a process defined as occurring when "instead of gathering a broad spectrum of data to