An Investigation was begun by the Nigerian AIB. The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recordings were successfully downloaded. The very limited range of FDR parameters required the application of some complex methodology to derive the sequence of angle of attack and horizontal and vertical wind components experienced. It was found that the aircraft had remained airborne for just 76 seconds after becoming airborne and to have crashed just under half a mile to the right the extended runway centreline about 400 metres beyond the upwind end of the runway. Site evidence indicated that the impact had occurred with the aircraft nose low and with extreme left bank. All the survivors were in the tail section of the aircraft which was detached at impact and remained substantially intact. It was established that although the Captain had considerable flying experience, he had less than 400 hours command experience on type. The First Officer had considerable experience but there was no information on how much of this had been gained on the 737. Both pilots were Nigerian nationals but it was found that the First Officer had acquired his Nigerian licence by renewing one issued in Equatorial Guinea, the issue of which the Investigation was unable to find anything useful about. It was also noted that both pilots had received all their aircraft type training, both in the simulator and on the aircraft, from a single and authorised instructor/examiner. It was considered that this was entirely inappropriate because the practice “did not permit checks and balances and (facilitate) standardisation”. It was considered that “one instructor should have done the simulator training while another performed the final check (and) the same for the aircraft training and check”. The Investigation found that the aircraft had been airworthy and correctly loaded. Based on CVR and FDR evidence, the flight sequence was reconstructed. During take off, the intensity of rain already falling had increased to heavy. When the First Officer made the “80 knots” call, the Captain responded with ‘ah’ instead of ‘checked’. Rotation was initiated five knots before the applicable Rotation Speed (Vr) of 138 knots and four seconds after the landing gear was selected up, the First Officer made the ‘V2’ call (which should have indicated that the speed was 143 knots) and two seconds later, the on board reactive wind shear warning was triggered as the aircraft encountered first positive and then negative horizontal wind shear. The recorded airspeed reached a maximum of 162 knots before rapidly reducing, in response to which the aircraft pitch attitude was reduced and then, as the negative shear took effect and height above ground rapidly reduced, a severe pitch up to between 30° and 35° was made. This gross exceedance of the stall angle of attack activated the stick shaker and both engines briefly experienced compressor stall because of the disrupted intake air flow. The aircraft became fully stalled and rolled to the left out of control with the Hard GPWS/TAWS Warning “Terrain, Terrain,