Pull Up, Pull Up” activated and ground impact followed. Maximum height reached after take off as the initial positive shear was encountered was around 400 feet aal. The Captain, as PF, had already remarked prior to beginning the take off roll that they should be ready for possible wind shear and ATC had passed some spot winds during the minutes prior to the beginning of the take of roll and noted at one point that the wind was ‘gusty’. The Investigation considered that “the prevailing gusty wind would have required the crew to delay their take off taking best practice and good airmanship into account.” An aftercast of the weather conditions obtained by the Investigation showed that from only scattered Cumulus of insignificant development earlier in the morning, “explosive convective development” had then commenced and an isolated convective cell had formed and remained over Abuja with estimated tops at above 45,000 feet in just over an hour. In the half hour prior to the take off of the accident aircraft, this cell had continued to intensify with the estimated tops increasing to above 50,000 feet and satellite detection of cloud top temperature showing -77°C. The Investigation found that although flight in adverse weather had been followed by loss of control, the crew response to the conditions was not in accordance with standard wind shear recovery procedure and noted that “the aircraft appeared to have (had) enough energy to fly through the adverse weather conditions” had these procedures been applied. However, it was considered that the simulator training the pilots had received had not adequately prepared them to handle the situation they found themselves (in). It was noted that the simulator used for the training did not have the same specification as their aircraft. The ADC Airlines Operations Manual, which had been approved by the Nigerian CAA, was also found to have had no policy on aircraft operation in adverse and potentially hazardous atmospheric condition with the relevant section left blank. It was noted that had such a section been included, it “could have guided the pilots on the decision to go or not to go in adverse and potentially hazardous atmospheric conditions”. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the accident was “the pilot’s decision to take-off in known adverse weather conditions and failure to execute the proper wind shear recovery procedure resulted in operating the aircraft outside the safe flight regime, causing the aircraft to stall very close to the ground from which recovery was not possible." The following Contributory Factors were also formally identified: Inability of the flight crew to apply windshear recovery procedures and the use of inappropriate equipment for windshear recovery procedure during simulator recurrency. Lack of Company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for flight operations in adverse weather conditions.. The coordination of responsibilities between the pilot-flying (PF) and pilot not flying (PNF) during their encounter with adverse weather situation was inconsistent with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the duties of the pilot-flying (PF) and pilot not