Signs are classified as either ‘Mandatory’ or ‘Information’ and are designed to provide simple surface movement guidance and control especially when Low Visibility Procedures(LVP) are in force. Both types are lit either internally or externally for night and low visibility operations where an airport operates under LVP, and may be lit for night operations at airports which do not operate under LVP. Mandatory Signs have white characters on a red background and require a specific ATC clearance to a point beyond them before they are passed. They are of three types: Runway Taxi-Holding Position (RTHP) signs are located adjacent to the corresponding surface marking and show the direction in which the holding instruction applies. Unless there is only one taxiway serving a runway and only one RTHP on a particular taxiway, a ‘Location’ sign (see below) should be attached or immediately adjacent to an RTHP sign so as to identify the position. If only Visual operations occur, there may only be a sign on one side, normally the left. If Visual and Category I operations take place, a sign displaying the designator of the runway ahead should be on both sides of the taxiway. Where a taxiway provides access to a runway other than near one end, both runway designators will be shown with corresponding arrows indicating the direction to the threshold. Where Category ll and lll Operations take place, RHTP signs will be present at each marked position.. Intermediate Taxi-Holding Position (ITHP) signs are located adjacent to the corresponding surface marking and display the Taxiway designator and a number identifying the particular holding position;. No Entry signs are used where access is restricted to traffic in one direction only or out of use altogether. They are located on both sides of the taxiway facing the direction from which entry is prohibited;. Information Signs have a combination of yellow and black markings and are provided at the discretion of the airport operator to provide additional guidance to taxiing aircraft. There are two types: Location signs are used to identify taxiways and, where necessary, runways at complex intersections. Runway Location Signs always use the first two numbers of the runway magnetic heading. A Location Sign consists of the characters identifying the runway or taxiway in yellow characters against a black background surrounded by a yellow border. Where there is a need to identify a specific position on a taxiway, a Location Sign showing the taxiway designator and a unique location number is provided. Where individual taxiways are divided into zones or ‘blocks’ and uniquely identified, this identification will be displayed on Information Signs at each change of zone/block;. Direction and Destination signs are marked with a route or destination and an arrow pointing in the appropriate direction which is displayed in black characters on a yellow background. Direction Signs are usually co-positioned with a Location sign and appear only on the left hand side..