All painted makings on the pavement surface are coloured yellow. There are five types: Centreline marking consists of a single continuous line marking the centre of the taxiway. Where a taxiway crosses a runway, the Taxiway Centreline Marking indicates the route to be followed but the marking is interrupted as necessary so as not to interfere with the runway markings. Taxiway centrelines should be located so that there is safe clearance between the largest aircraft that is permitted to use the taxiway and fixed objects or protected zones that the extremities of an aircraft on the taxiway centreline could impact, such as buildings and aircraft stands. At any runway-taxiway intersections where the taxiway centreline is curved onto the nearside of the runway centreline, pilots should take into account any loss of Runway Declared Distances incurred in following this ‘lead-on’ line when lining up for take-off.. Runway Taxi-Holding Position (RTHP) markings occur on each taxiway leading to a runway in order to prevent taxiing aircraft and vehicles penetrating the designated protection zone either side of a runway, which needs to be kept clear during runway use. This zone will also, where applicable, allow for the protection of the ILS Sensitive Area. There are two forms of RTHP marking: Two solid and two broken lines across the full width of the taxiway normally at right angles to its centerline with the broken lines closest to the runway. A “ladder” mark laid across the full width of the taxiway and normally at right angles to its centerline.. Two solid and two broken lines across the full width of the taxiway normally at right angles to its centerline with the broken lines closest to the runway.. A “ladder” mark laid across the full width of the taxiway and normally at right angles to its centerline.. If only one type is present, it will always be the former. Where there is more than one RTHP, all the additional ones will be of the second type. All RTHP should be located so that there is safe clearance between any aircraft holding there and any aircraft passing in front of the holding aircraft, subject to it being correctly positioned with no part of the aircraft on or beyond the line. There is no guarantee of any clearance behind a holding aircraft. Intermediate Taxi-Holding Position (ITHP) markings may be found at airports where the taxiway layout is complex or involves many intersecting taxiways. ITHPs may be established in order to protect a priority taxiway route ahead of the marking and are marked by a single broken line laid across the full width of the taxiway normally at right angles to its centerline. All RTHP should be located so that there is safe clearance between any aircraft holding there and any aircraft passing in front of the holding aircraft, subject to it being correctly positioned with no part of the aircraft on or beyond the line. There is no guarantee of any clearance behind a holding aircraft.. Edge markings