Therefore, during the NDB approach to runway 14 the aircraft descended to 345 ft (105 m) above Ground Level (AGL), which activated the unsafe terrain clearance warning. The same factors generated the second warning. This time they descended to 425 ft (130 m) AGL. As they continued with the approach, they lost so much airspeed and the angle of attack increased so much that the stall warning activated, the autopilot disengaged and the stick pusher activated. The anti-icing system was on; therefore, the stall warning and the stick pusher activation threshold took place at a higher airspeed and lower angle of attack compared to normal. This time they descended to 1250 ft (385 m) at minimum. Unsafe terrain clearances generated the EGPWS warnings. Too low airspeed and the rapidly increased angle of attack activated the stall warning and the stick pusher. The first officer’s fatigue and loss of concentration caused the excessive bank angle during the circling approach. The captain should have taken over at this stage. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data analysis revealed poor Crew Resource Management (Crew Resource Management), several missing checks, inadequate system knowledge and incomplete following through of approach procedures. In order to establish the underlying factors of the occurrence, the investigation looked into the airline’s quality system, training system, organization and management as well as their security culture. Shortcomings were discovered in all of the above. The company had not sufficiently prepared for the challenges of the then ongoing business expansion. Nevertheless, the airline took corrective action during the time of the investigation. The commission issued three recommendations. The incorrect altimeter setting, the flight crew’s limited experience on the aircraft type and insufficient situational awareness were considered the causal factors for the chain of events which triggered the incident. Shortcomings in the airline’s training system, organization, quality system and security culture were regarded as contributing factors."