An Investigation into this Accident was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was found that the aircraft ILS approach to Runway 27 at East Midlands had been a CAT IIIA approach because of the poor conditions. This CAT IIIA approach, with the aircraft commander as PF, was the first he had flown in actual Cat lll conditions since his promotion from co‑pilot some four months earlier and was uneventful until approaching 500 feet aal. At this point, ATC transmitted the ‘Company Message’ to the effect that the Operator wanted the aircraft to go to Liverpool rather than East Midlands and advised that, at the discretion of the crew, they could go-around. It was considered that “the commander’s attempt to respond to, and clarify the contents of, the call from ATC, late in the approach, was an inappropriate action for the Pilot Flying”. In his attempt to clarify the ATC message, the commander inadvertently disconnected the autopilots and his attempt to re-instate them whilst talking to ATC was considered to have been an inappropriate action not in accordance with the company CAT III SOPs. In fact, the attempt to reinstate both autopilots was only partially successful, with only one being restored and this only in pitch and roll. The aircraft commander did not initiate a go-around until the EGPWS sounded a hard warning of “SINK RATE PULL UP” at a radio altimeter height of between 87 feet and 59 feet and he saw the green colour of the grass ahead. This go-around was initiated too late to prevent the aircraft striking the ground and it made contact in the sterile grassed area to the left of Runway 27, abeam the threshold. During the ground contact, the right main landing gear detached from the wing, causing damage to the right flaps and the loss of one of the hydraulic systems. On striking the ground, there was a short period of confusion on the flight deck, after which the commander resumed control and the aircraft was climbed away. The flight crew had no knowledge of where the aircraft had struck the ground. The aircraft was flown to Birmingham Airport with the nose and left landing gear remaining down and with the trailing edge flaps stuck at 32° and 40° left and right respectively which produced a tendency to roll left. The Runway 15 ILS GS transmitter at Birmingham remained switched off following earlier maintenance and the aircraft commander decided to accept a longer route in order to be able to carry out a full ILS approach for Runway 33. The longer route to Runway 33 allowed an opportunity for the police helicopter to inspect the aircraft but in order for this to be done, the damaged aircraft flew over the city of Birmingham. The inspection by the police was helpful to the flight crew and a successful partial gear up emergency landing was then made at Birmingham. The emergency landing at Birmingham International Airport on 15 June 2006 - the video was