tanks should be brought back into balance but was deferred. This action was applicable to any indicated system malfunction occurring after dispatch but before takeoff. If completing these actions did not require a return for maintenance input, then the MEL item for that equipment failure was to be consulted and if the specified MEL relief required maintenance action, then the aircraft was to be returned for such action. There were also a number of other safety-related circumstances which, if identified, would also require a return for maintenance. The Captain “did not recall” the MEL procedure in relation to the management of defects that occurred between dispatch and take-off but whilst the First Officer did do so, both pilots “were influenced by the QRH being the primary document for response to the alert”. However, failure to follow this MEL procedure was considered to have removed a risk control which was expressly designed to prevent an aircraft departing with faulty systems. It was considered of note that “the flight crew did not identify the abnormal behaviour of the fuel system until after the aircraft had departed Auckland and was established in the climb”. Having identified that fuel transfer from the centre tank to the right wing tank was causing the imbalance and was continuing to increase it, the crew decision to allow this to continue until centre tank fuel was depleted was contrary to the limitations contained in the AFM with which unconditional compliance was understandably required in the operator’s Policy and Procedures Manual. In addition, their crew’s inadequate understanding of why (as opposed to how) the incorrect transfer was occurring meant that they could not determine whether the fuel system fault affected access to all fuel in the tanks which alone meant that their response to the problem once airborne had presented an increased risk to the safe operation of the aircraft. The delay in investigating the fault. On arrival in Sydney, the Captain’s failed to record the evident malfunction of the fuel system as a defect in the aircraft Technical Log but nevertheless felt it of sufficient significance to speak with the attending line engineer at Sydney and the line engineer at Auckland where the aircraft was due to return later the same day. He then signed the acceptance of the aircraft for this return flight knowing that despite not loading centre tank fuel, in the absence of any engineering assessment of the cause of the transfer fault, it was still perfectly possible that a similar fuel system malfunction could occur either on that flight or when the centre tank was next in use. It was considered that the delay in facilitating an engineering assessment of cause “directly affected the likelihood of maintenance being able to identify and correct the fault which had caused the imbalance to occur”.. Two Contributory Factors which were identified in respect of the fuel imbalance were as follows: A fault in the fuel system, likely caused by the malfunctioning of one of three fuel system