An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant DFDR data from the aircraft was successfully downloaded and facilitated a meaningful review of the event. The Captain had a total of approximately 19,100 hours flying experience which included 176 hours on type and the First Officer had a total of approximately 9,000 hours flying experience which included 450 hours on type. They reported being well rested and were beginning a two sector day involving a return flight to Sydney. In the 90 days prior to the investigated flight, they had respectively flown about 55 and about 105 hours on type. It was established that the EDTO flight with just the two man flight crew and cargo on board and with the First Officer as PF was approaching the holding point for departure runway at Auckland when the ‘FUEL CONFIG’ caution had begun to intermittently illuminate. Inspection of the fuel contents gauges showed that there was an imbalance between the left and right main tanks, with the left tank low which the First Officer reported initially having attributed to “the refuelling being out-of-balance and extended APU use during pre-flight". Then, just after the flight had been cleared to enter the departure runway, the ‘FUEL CONFIG’ light illuminated and a corresponding advisory message was presented. At this point, the centre tank contents had reduced from 8 tonnes to 6.2 tonnes, and the 13 tonnes in the wing tanks had increased to 14.4 tonnes, made up of 6.6 tonnes in the right tank and 7.7 tonnes in the left tank. After checking that the fuel panel was configured correctly and comparing the fuel used totaliser with the FMC fuel remaining figure, they were satisfied that there was no fuel leak. They decided to continue with their departure and deal with the wing tank imbalance en route. This decision was based on the Captain’s wish not to make fuel panel changes when so close to takeoff and the fact that the imbalance was assessed as “not critical to departure” which was imminent. The flight was cleared for takeoff and became airborne four minutes after continuous illumination of the ‘FUEL CONFIG’ light had commenced. Once airborne, the crew reported that they had reassessed the fuel imbalance and the Captain had stated that it “did not cause any controllability issues and that the aircraft trim remained at zero for the duration of the fuel imbalance”. He reported having continued to check for any indications of a fuel leak and found none whilst observing that the cause of the imbalance was fuel being fed into the right tank. The centre tank fuel quantity was seen to be decreasing but the left wing tank quantity remained unchanged. The Captain stated that since rebalancing would involve changes to the fuel panel which would have triggered the ‘FUEL CONFIG’, he had “decided to delay rebalancing until the centre tank was nearly empty” so the appropriate non-normal procedure required in response to the alert was not commenced