until about half an hour after departure. Having reached the planned cruise level of FL 360, fuel contents rebalancing was then commenced when the centre tank’s left and right fuel pump low lights were illuminated, indicating that the fuel remaining in the centre tank had reduced to about 400 kg. At this time, the imbalance between the left and right wing tanks had reached 2.6 tonnes. On completion of rebalancing, which took almost 40 minutes the wing tanks remained balanced for the remainder of the flight. On arrival at Sydney, the abnormal fuel system behaviour was reported to the maintenance engineer in Auckland who had dispatched the aircraft by telephone and was “also discussed with the maintenance engineer who met the aircraft in Sydney” but the defect was not entered in the aircraft Technical Log and no maintenance action to address it occurred. No additional fuel was loaded in the centre tank for the return flight to Auckland and the crew reported that the fuel system operated normally throughout and no related entry was made in the Technical Log after that flight either. Only three days later did a maintenance investigation into imbalance in the fuel system commence. The Investigation sought to establish the cause of the fault, examine the response of the flight crew to it and consider the significant delay which occurred before any maintenance whilst the aircraft continued in service. ▪ The fuel system fault. Transfer of fuel to the wing tanks when the centre tank is in use is automatic and occurs because the centre tank has a higher pump output pressure than the main tank pumps and all three tanks feed a common manifold through one-way valves. Under normal conditions, no fuel is pumped from the centre tank into either the left or right wing tanks but during the investigated flight, DFDR data showed that the imbalance was the result of fuel being fed into the right main tank while the engines were being fed fuel from the centre tank. This began at about the time the engines were started and continued until the centre tank pumps were switched off. The maximum difference between left and right wing tank contents of 2.6 tonnes occurred at about the same time as the centre tank pumps were turned off and rebalancing of the wing tanks was commenced. The effect of the fault was that fuel was pumped into the right main tank during centre tank operation. The fault did not affect the left wing tank, the contents of which remained stable. Maintenance investigation was unable to determine the source of the fault but Boeing stated that the likely cause was a fault in one of three fuel system valves. ▪ The flight crew response. The activation of the EICAS alert required that the associated non-normal checklist should be actioned. This first required that whether a fuel leak existed should be determined and the specified procedure for this was completed. The remainder of the checklist required that the