An explicit feature of the SMS is that all safety management activities are required to be documented and visible. Formal documentation is required to provide the authoritative basis of the SMS. Also, it is used to clarify the relationship between safety management and the other functions of the organisation, the way in which safety management activities integrate with those other functions and how these activities link to the organisation’s safety policy. SMS documentation should include or make reference to, as appropriate, all relevant and applicable national and international regulations. It shall include descriptions of: safety mangement processes, procedures and specific templates, such as reporting forms; lines of accountability, responsibility and authority regarding the management of safety, the structure of the safety management organisation and the SMS outputs. The SMS documentation shall contain explicit guidelines for records management, including access, handling, storage, retrieval and preservation. The most important piece of documentation of an SMS is the SMS manual. The safety management manual (SMM) is a major means for communicating the organisation’s approach to safety to all employees. It should not be a static document. It has to be regularly reviewed to reflect changes in the organisation, procedures, equipment, etc. According to ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety Management Manual the typical content of an SMM includes: The EUROCONTROL guidance material related to SMS implementation provides further advice how to document the above mentioned safety procedures in the SMM. “Safety procedures should describe in practical and actionable terms what has to be done to comply with the SMS. Each safety procedure should be understandable, actionable, auditable and mandatory. All the SMS safety procedures can be bound together and all staff given access to the complete set, forming a manual. An alternative approach is for departments to have available just those procedures, which are relevant to their own work and this may be the better approach in a larger organisations.”