A Field Investigation was carried by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch. Relevant recorded data was recovered from the FDR, CVR, QAR and from the TAWS computer NVM. Other useful data included airport CCTV, wind data from airfield sensors, ATC radar and voice recordings, runway lighting data and QAR data from previous flights. However, these data did not reveal any anomalies in findings from the aircraft flight recorder data. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain had a total of 15,218 hours flying experience including 9,000 hours on type and had been employed by the operator for over 6 years. The First Officer had a total of 19,350 hours flying experience including 5,637 hours on type and had been employed by the operator for over 5 years. The Captain’s performance in his most recent recurrent check was recorded as “surpassing company standard” in six of the nine competencies, “expected Company Standard" in two others and “baseline minimum standard” in “applied knowledge”. The First Officer’s performance in her most recent Licence Proficiency Check (LPC) included the activation of an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert during a single engine approach followed by a series of deviations during the subsequent go around which resulted in a repeat and the recording of performance in “flight path management” as “baseline minimum standard”. The two pilots involved were rostered to operate four overnight cargo sectors consisting of two return flights from Exeter to East Midlands. They were both familiar with these airports. For the first two sectors, the First Officer was PF and the first of these was uneventful as was the first part of the second one. During the flight south back to Exeter, the two pilots independently calculated the landing performance on their EFBs and came up with a VREF of 134 KIAS. Since landing runway 26 was forecast to be wet, it was decided to use flap 40, the same setting as had been used for the previous landing at East Midlands, and autobrake 3. Although the fact that the ILS at Exeter had a slightly steeper than normal glideslope (3.5°) was mentioned, the crew did not mention that the stabilised approach criteria differed from those for a 3° slope in allowing a maximum rate of descent of 1,150 fpm instead of the normal 1000 fpm. Radar vectors to the ILS were provided with the surface wind given as was 230°/11 knots. Prior to intercepting the ILS LOC, flap 25 and gear down were selected. Once fully established, flap 40 was selected just below 2,000 feet QNH. The First Officer had initially planned to use a VAPP of 140 KIAS but after the PM had noted a 30 knot headwind on the FMC with 10 nm to go, a VAPP of VREF + 10 (144 KIAS) was initially set. The runway became visual at about 1,000 feet and the PF responded by disconnecting the AP and A/T. At about 600 feet aal, the VAPP was reduced to 140. Passing 500 feet agl, the