skin aft of the wings;. a distortion downwards of the rear fuselage;. creased and rippled crown skin along most of the fuselage length;. residual hydraulic oil dripping from several areas;. both main landing gear shock absorbers bottomed;. the left main landing gear beam distorted upwards such that the aircraft was resting approximately 2° left-wing low;. damage to the flap drive mechanism with the left wing inboard driveshaft bent and the left inboard gearbox casing and its mountings broken.. The aft fuselage showing distortion and rippling of the skin. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Left wing low due to main landing gear beam damage. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A view looking inboard under the left wing - the broken flap gearbox is shown enlarged. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The rate of descent below 500 feet exceeded the maximum permitted by the Operators stabilised approach criteria on four occasions. At 320 feet agl it reached 1,700 fpm and this was followed by lesser exceedances on two further occasions and finally almost reached 1,700 fpm again at about 25 feet agl. It was noted that when these exceedances occurred, the Captain had not called ‘SINK RATE as required by the OM although at about 150 feet with the rate of descent 1,300 fpm, he had said “watch that sink rate”. It was considered that “the lack of a GA command may have given the First Officer the impression that he was content for the approach to be continued, despite three EGPWS “SINK RATE” Alerts being generated during the final 30 seconds of the approach”. It was noted that the OM did not explicitly require that both pilots must monitor that the stable approach criteria were maintained below the mandatory 500 feet ‘gate’ and initiate a go around if they are no longer satisfied. However it was found that the equivalent section in the Boeing FCTM additionally stated that below the relevant ‘gate’ the specified stabilised approach criteria should be maintained throughout the rest of the approach for it to be considered stabilised and if these criteria cannot be established and maintained until approaching the flare, a go-around should be initiated. West Air accepted that whilst the OM “did not have specific guidance as to what to do in the event of an approach becoming unstable on an ILS below 500 feet aal”, their expectation was that if an approach became unstable after 500 feet, “it would lead to a go around being initiated”. However, they also “believed there could be a perception amongst some of its pilots that the stable approach criteria applied to a single point in space rather than for the remainder of an approach”. The Captain subsequently commented that if thrust is suddenly removed near to the ground with Flap 40 set, the “aircraft stops flying” due to the large amount of drag from the flaps. He added that whilst the possibility of taking over control and going around just before touchdown was “always in his mind”, he