had ultimately not acted because when forward thrust was quickly removed altogether, the aircraft had indeed dropped onto the runway so quickly that he had judged it was too late for him to call for a go-around or take control. He accepted that, with hindsight, “one should have been initiated at that point”, although he felt that the aircraft would have probably briefly touched down before climbing away. The First Officer subsequently said that “she did not know what caused the hard landing”. It was observed that “had the PF been more positive with her understanding of the situation and elected to go around even if it was in the final few feet, the extent of the damage may have been reduced”. It was also considered that “if she felt she had become overwhelmed by the way the approach was progressing she could have handed control to the commander”. By way of context, it was noted that the Captain’s inaction may have been a consequence of having confidence in the First Officer’s ability having flown with her on many occasions and taken the view that she would recover from the situation she had created. The formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The aircraft suffered a hard landing as a result of the approach being continued after it became unstable after the aircraft had passed the point where the crew had declared the approach stable and continued. Despite high rates of descent being observed beyond the stable point, together with associated alerts the crew elected to continue to land. Had the approach been discontinued and a GA flown, even at a low height, while the aircraft may have touched down the damage sustained may have been lessened. While the OM did not specifically state that an approach was to remain stable beyond the gate on the approach, the FCTM was specific that, if it did not remain stable, a GA should be initiated. The commander may have given the co-pilot the benefit of doubt and believed she had the ability to correct an approach that became unstable in the final few hundred feet of the approach. However, had there been any doubt, a GA should have been executed. Safety Action In respect of the First Officer’s poor aircraft handling, West Air recognised that the absence of any monitoring of trends in pilots’ performance during successive recurrent checks meant that persistent/repetitive under performance in technical skill areas were not always identified and therefore “introduced a number of new procedures to rectify this”. They also amended the OM to require that any approach which becomes unstable after passing the applicable stabilised approach ‘gate’ must result in the immediate commencement of a go around and restricted landings at Exeter to Captains only until further notice. The Final Report was published on 19 May 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.