approach was stable in accordance with the standard operating procedures included in the OM with a rate of descent of around 860 fpm and only very slightly above the ILS GS. However, the rate of descent began to fluctuate, increasing to above 1,150 fpm and was then reduced to 300 fpm. At 320 feet agl, the aircraft went below the glideslope for about 8 seconds at a rate of 1,700 fpm and an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert was annunciated. The PF acknowledged and corrected this by returning the aircraft to just above the glideslope This overcorrection was called by the PM who subsequently stated that as the PF was correcting back to the glideslope, they had not felt it was necessary to take control, despite the fact that aircraft then descended to almost half scale below the glideslope. At about 150 feet agl, with the rate of descent now 1,300 fpm, there were two more annunciations of the EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert during which the PM was recorded saying “watch that sink rate”. As the aircraft crossed the runway threshold at ”about 100 feet”, “the PF retarded the thrust levers, pitched the aircraft from about 5° nose up to 4° nose down and then re-applied some thrust in the last few feet”. Just below 100 feet agl, another ‘SINK RATE’ call was annunciated, but although this one was the first part of what was recorded as a Warning on the EGPWS computer rather than an Alert, it was not heard as such. (Editors Note: The annunciation of EGPWS Alerts and Warnings is inhibited when an aircraft is within 50 feet of the ground) A very hard touchdown followed and during the rollout the Captain took control, selected the thrust reversers to idle and slowed the aircraft to taxi speed before vacating the runway. It soon became apparent that the aircraft was leaning to the left and when the First Officer attempted to retract the flaps during the ‘After Landing’ checks, they could not be moved. A ‘HYDRAULIC LP’ caution also appeared but as there was still brake accumulator pressure the Captain was content to taxi the aircraft slowly the short distance to the allocated parking position. On stand, the lean to the left became more obvious and the crew reported having realised that there was something “seriously wrong” with the aircraft. Once off the aircraft, a hydraulic leak was found and the airport RFFS, who were in attendance anyway to unload the aircraft, were informed. The runway was undamaged, but aircraft debris consisting of “small pieces of composite material, broken fasteners, and a louvre from the right air conditioning pack exhaust” were subsequently recovered from it. There was also some fluid contamination of the runway surface which was at its most pronounced where the aircraft had turned off the runway. This fluid was not analysed but suspected to have been hydraulic oil. The extent of aircraft damage revealed after a full examination was considerable and included: cracked and buckled fuselage