An Investigation was carried out by the Indian DGCA. It was established that the flight had originally been scheduled to depart approximately 9 hours earlier but the allocated aircraft had returned to the gate twice due to a `technical fault’. The aircraft involved in the fire event was then substituted, but on the push back, the tow bar had failed causing a further delay. During the taxi out, several persons saw the fuel leak but were unable to contact the aircraft directly and when ATC tried, they used the aircraft registration which the crew did not recognise and then the call sign to which there was also initially no response. By the time the crew had recognised that ATC were calling them and responded to the advice of both fuel leak and a fire by commencing fire and engine shut down drills and calling the senior cabin crew to the flight deck, the cabin crew and some passengers had already seen the fire and an evacuation was ordered and carried out from the right hand side cabin exits. The flight crew evacuated from the upper deck prior to completion of the cabin evacuation where the senior cabin crew was the last to exit. It was noted that Pratt & Whitney PW4056 engines were fitted to the aircraft. It was also noted that fire had been observed to start in No 1 (left outboard) engine about 45 seconds after it had been shut down. The RFFS had quickly arrived on the scene and the fire had already been out prior to completion of the passenger evacuation. It was found upon examination of the aircraft that the fuel leak from the No 1 engine strut had led to a fire affecting that engine and its pylon which had then spread towards the adjacent inboard engine causing damage to the base of the LH wing. The cause of the fuel leak was found to be a loose fuel coupling which, although safety wired, was found loose with the safety wire having pulled through the coupling safety wire hole. It was established that there had been no recent maintenance activity in the area of the failed assembly. It was not possible to determine what caused the loss of function of the safety wire by laboratory analysis of the failed parts. Boeing advised being aware of similar fuel coupling damage to other aircraft where it had been found that the coupling had not been tightened to the proper specification so that the coupling had rotated in both directions in service and the coupling material had eventually fractured. On the basis that this scenario was the most likely cause, Boeing highlighted the importance of correctly tightening all fuel couplings to the specified torque but advised that there had been no widespread world-fleet history of similar failures. The Investigation noted that the failed coupling is only routinely accessed and inspected at ‘D’ Check and that the previous such check was over four years prior to the investigated