event. However, the leaking coupling had been disturbed during work to replace a component in the same area at the more recent ‘C’ Check, a year prior to the investigated event. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the event was: “complete dislodging of No. 1 strut fuel feed line coupling due to dislodging of tie wire from the failed tie wire hole is the cause for heavy fuel leak and leaked fuel falling on hot #1 engine resulted into fire.” It was also concluded that Contributory Factors were as follows: Not tightening the coupling to the proper specification and procedure during maintenance resulting in ductile failure of (the) coupling material is the main contributory causative factor.. Installation, maintenance or environmental variables.. Failure of departure AME in adhering to the standard procedures and his perfunctory function.. Lapses/failure of the pilots during walk around inspection.. Non-conformance by the pilots- company operating procedures.. Failure of ATC-SMC personnel for prompt and effective handling emergency situation.. Lack of situational awareness and crew coordination.. Seven Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: Appropriate corrective action as deemed fit should be taken on the involved captain, first officer, all Cabin crew and the Departure AME for their deficient performance and lapses.. Appropriate corrective action as deemed fit should be taken on the SMC controller for his tardy and ineffective handling of the emergency situation.. Air India shall Review maintenance program, its schedules and maintenance practices for more stringent, effective and frequent inspection and identification of fuel leak from the aircraft.. The incident may be brought to the knowledge of all concerned.. AAI (the ANSP) shall introduce, monitor proper training procedure to all ATC personnel for handling emergency situation.. AAI (the ANSP) shall review the Existing System of documenting Departure/arrival register and flight progress strip for inclusion of information of aircraft registration.. Installation of SMR at Mumbai airport shall be done immediately by concerned airport agencies.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued on 16 July 2010.