An Investigation was carried out by the Indian DGCA in accordance with the Aircraft Accident Investigation of Accidents and Incidents Rules 2012. Data from the CVR and FDR were successfully downloaded and together enabled a detailed reconstruction of the sequence of events. It was noted that the 64 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the flight, had a total of 23,507 hours flying experience which included 13,187 hours on type. He had only returned to flying in command 5 days prior to the investigated event after being declared “temporarily medically unfit for flying” on a number of occasions between February 2014 and March 2017. Prior to this he had been authorised as a Check Pilot on type. His initial return to line flying had been a 20 day period as a First Officer after which flying in command had been conditional on being paired with a “qualified experienced pilot”. The 30 year-old First Officer had 936 hours total flying experience which included 730 hours on type. It was observed that “as per records available”, the First Officer met the (unstated) requirements for a “qualified experienced pilot”. It was noted that the same crew had earlier operated uneventful sectors from Bangalore to Mumbai and from Mumbai to Delhi in the same aircraft. Using the recorded data available, it was established that with the applicable V1/Vr/V2 calculated respectively as 146/146/147 KIAS, the takeoff roll had proceeded normally until approximately 115 KIAS at which point a bird was, unknown to the crew, ingested into the right engine as a result of which the vibration level for that engine immediately rose to 5.2 and engine-source vibration became obvious to both pilots. Passing 129 KCAS, the vibration level had reached 9.9 and an ECAM Advisory Message for high N1 vibration on the right engine was annunciated. Although this was not called by the First Officer, he immediately asked the Captain if he wanted to reject the takeoff to which the Captain responded “no”. Lift off subsequently occurred at 155KCAS and the aircraft was “fully airborne” at 163 KCAS. Once safely climbing, the First Officer called “engine vibration no 1 out of limits”, having mixed engine no 1 with N1 on the lower ECAM display (see the illustration below). The Captain did not confirm this by inspection and as the aircraft approached 2200 feet QNH (the Delhi ARP elevation in 777 feet) he almost immediately selected the thrust on serviceable engine number 1 to Idle and increased the thrust on unserviceable engine 2 to CLIMB and then to TO/GA. At 2700 feet QNH, engine 1 was shutdown and the crew declared an emergency to ATC requesting an immediate return. Airspeed at this point was recorded as 152 KCAS and the previously engaged AP disconnected due to turbulent conditions. ATC responded accepting the request and telling the crew to stop climb at 3000 feet - the aircraft was levelled at 3300 feet. Even after the Captain had shut down the wrong engine, the First Officer’s confusion