continued and it was two minutes before the Captain, concerned that the vibration had not reduced after engine 1 had been shut down, checked the ECAM display himself and realised the error. The crew set about restarting the number 1 engine without using the checklist and failed to open the cross bleed valve so that the attempt failed. With the number 2 engine now set to idle and with the AP now re-engaged, the attempt to maintain 3,300 feet with no engine thrust resulted in an un-noticed progressive reduction in airspeed. A second restart attempt with the cross bleed valve in the correct open position and the malfunctioning number 2 engine returned to ‘CLIMB’ was successful and four minutes after the number 1 engine had been shut down, it was producing useful thrust again. During the restart process, the AP again disengaged in turbulence with the airspeed now 127 KCAS and by the time the number 2 engine had been returned to Idle and the number 1 engine had been set to ‘CLIMB’, 300 feet of height had been lost and the aircraft was now 1,986 feet agl. The angle of attack reached the threshold for the A/T to apply ALPHA FLOOR protection and TO/GA thrust was set (on both engines) automatically. The ‘TO/GA Lock’ annunciation which indicated an exit from ALPHA FLOOR conditions appeared after 24 seconds and by the time this mode had been cancelled by disconnecting the AP and A/T, the airspeed was 223 KCAS but aircraft altitude was down to 2,600 feet (1,563 feet agl). After a total of six minutes with the number 2 engine vibration above the ECAM Advisory trigger of 6 and having reached a maximum value of 9.9, this indication reduced to 5.3 and eventually, with the engine set to idle, to 1.2 and remained low for the remainder of the flight. During the next four minutes, the aircraft was vectored onto the ILS LLZ for runway 10 but soon after landing clearance had been given, the crew initiated a go around because they were too high. This was conducted with the number 1 engine set to FLX/MCT and the number 2 engine remaining at Idle. The second approach led to an uneventful landing. However, whilst taxiing in to its allocated stand, the aircraft took a wrong turn and had to be towed there with its engines both shut down. Once on stand, it was visually apparent that the number 2 engine had sustained fan blade damage due to a combination of bird ingestion and continued operation at high vibration levels. The two affected blades were replaced and after no other damage was found, the engine was returned to service subject to a precautionary borescope inspection after the first of 10 flights or 25 hours. Although the Captain made a contrary entry in the Aircraft Technical Log after completion of the flight, the landing was marginally overweight at 64,770kg against an MLW of 64,500kg. His complete post flight Technical Log entry was