noted to have been “Return Back due to High Vibration Engine Number 2. Overweight LDG not applicable. ENG parameter normal”. The absence of any reference to continued operation of the number 2 engine at excessive vibration levels and to any birdstrike was noted - although it was recognised that the crew had no awareness of the bird strike whilst in flight. It was not possible to identify the bird species ingested on the basis of only its blood and the engine damage caused. It was noted that despite having just been involved in what was self-evidently a Serious Incident, the flight crew were then allocated another aircraft VT-WAF and operated the same flight, G8-338 to Mumbai. The Investigation catalogued a series of crew actions/inactions over the course of the flight which had not been in accordance with SOPs. These included: Neither the Takeoff nor After Takeoff Checks were completed.. The QRH procedure for high engine vibrations was not followed - the Captain shutdown the number 1 engine without reference to the QRH.. The engine in flight re-light procedure was not followed.. The Captain’s post-flight Technical entry was both incomplete and in part incorrect.. More generally, it was concluded that: Both pilots lacked adequate situational awareness and had demonstrated poor Cockpit Resource Management while handling the emergency.. While re-starting number 1 engine, neither pilot noticed the decreasing speed of the aircraft.. Aircraft handling during the emergency was neither effective nor appropriate.. Whilst no specific problems were identified with the effectiveness of Wildlife Hazard Management arrangements at the airport, it was noted that the number of recorded bird strikes had increased substantially between April 2017 and August 2017. It was also noted that the Airfield Environment Management Committee, which was responsible for “unresolved bird hazard/environmental problems” had not been meeting at the intervals prescribed by the “Aerodrome Administration and Safety Management System”. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as “incorrect identification of the engine affected by high vibration followed by non-adherence to recommended procedures, lack of situational awareness, poor Cockpit Resource Management and poor handling of aircraft during an emergency subsequent to a bird strike”. Three Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that DGCA Headquarters should determine suitable corrective action for both crew members in view of the findings of the Investigation.. that Delhi International Airport should be advised to adhere to the programmes & procedures outlined in their Aerodrome Manual considering the above findings.. that Delhi International Airport should ascertain the effectiveness of their existing Wildlife Hazard Management Plan and review its content if deemed necessary.. The Final Report was completed on 5 November 2018.