The qualification and licensing of air crews is a fundamental pre-requisite of flight safety. Licensing of air crews has been in existence almost since the beginning of aviation. The first pilot licences were issued in 1909 with the first international licensing standards following in 1919. The ICAO licensing system detailed in Chapter 2 of Annex 1 covers the qualification for and issue of licences and ratings for pilots of aeroplanes (A), helicopters (H), sailplanes (S) and balloons (B). It also has provisions in Chapter 3 for licences of flight engineers and flight navigators. The related training manuals provide guidance to States for the scope and depth of training curricula which ensure that the confidence in safe air navigation, as intended by the ICAO Convention and Annex 1, is maintained. The medical standards of Annex 1, in requiring periodic health examinations, serve as an early warning for possible incapacitating medical conditions and contribute to the general health of air crews. Having inherited an established European flight crew licensing (FCL) system from the former JAAs, which was implemented by each participating national aviation authority (NAA), the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) was given, under Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 (Basic Regulation), full legal responsibility for air crew (flight and cabin crew) licensing/attestation in Europe. Commission Regulation (EU) No 1178/2011 of 3 November 2011 (EASA Air Crew) and its subsequent amendments lay down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to civil aviation aircrew pursuant to the Basic Regulation. The requirements have been formulated so as to ensure compliance with Annex III of the Basic Regulation and take into account former JAR-FCL 1, 2 and 3 requirements, requirements of individual EASA Member States and ICAO Annex 1 Standards and Recommended Practices. Under EASA requirements air crew licencing/attestation is a function of NAAs, EASA relies upon the support of the NAAs of Member States in the implementation of EASA Air Crew regulations.