An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that the PF for the accident flight had been the aircraft commander, who had been acting as a Line Training Captain in respect of the required initial operating experience (OE) of the inexperienced First Officer. The Captain told the Investigation that he had initially tried to find another check airman to conduct the First Officer’s OE because the accident pilots were personal friends. However, no other check airman was available and he had attempted to perform the OE with the same strictness he would have done for any other candidate. The accident landing took place outside the hours of ATC TWR service as would have been the case even if it had arrived on schedule. This meant that the only current information on the actual conditions for landing available to the flight crew were broadcasts of automated surface observations (ASOS) and R/T conversations with the ground operations personnel at Traverse City, with ATC service for the ILS approach being limited to that provided area ATC. The Investigation noted that Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Regulations for provision of ATC TWR service are based solely on the amount of traffic at the airport, specifically the number of flight operations per hour. According to local procedures, the ATC TWR “will remain open longer than the designated hours if an inbound or outbound flight crew requests such staffing”. However, the FAA indicated to the Investigation that such requests were uncommon, and confirmed that no such request had been made on the night of the accident. The flight crew had been advised that snow clearance had been undertaken and about 16 minutes prior to landing, the airport operations supervisor advised the pilots that the measured braking action on the landing runway 28 was “40+ with “thin wet snow (over) patchy thin ice.” About 2 minutes from landing, in the vicinity of the approach FAF, the same source advised the crew that the braking action was estimated as “nil” and the probable snow depth was 1.25cm. The required visual reference for landing off the ILS approach was obtained just prior to MDA and the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data showed that the aircraft had crossed the landing runway threshold at Vref + 6 knots before touching down approximately 730 metres along the 1980 metre long runway. A speed of 47 knots was recorded as the aircraft overran the far end of the runway. Two minutes after the overrun, the ASOS Report gave the surface wind velocity as 020° / 8 knots, visibility of less than 500 metres in heavy snow, sky obscured with vertical visibility 200 feet and Temperature 0°C. This was a deterioration compared to the last broadcast ASOS Report which the flight crew had accessed about half an hour before landing which gave a wind velocity of 040° / 7 knots and a visibility of 2800 metres in light snow. The Investigation carried out a landing performance study