An Investigation was carried out by the Safety Investigation Authority, Finland (SIAF) as a result of notification by the Mariehamn ATC Unit. The aircraft Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recordings were available to the Investigation as were ATC voice communication recordings and (some days later) a short informal unsigned report from the aircraft commander. The First Officer was interviewed both in Riga and in Helsinki but “attempts (by the Investigation Team) to interview the Captain…did not succeed”. The 57 year old aircraft commander who had acted as PF for the investigated approach, was found to be an experienced pilot but to have had only 200 hours on the Saab 340. The inexperienced First Officer had a total flying time of only 390 hours of which just under half were on the Saab 340. It was established that the aircraft had been cleared to the IAF “PEXUT” for the ILS ‘z’ Runway 21 procedure and had acknowledged that clearance. It requires that the ILS FAT be acquired from the 10 nm DME MAR arc at 1800 feet QNH and prior to the IAF, which itself is positioned shortly before the ILS GS is intercepted at a range of 4.8nm - see the chart below. What actually happened was that, after briefly establishing on the procedure DME arc with the AP engaged, the aircraft had turned left to track approximately 240° towards the (unseen) runway threshold - a track which was approximately 40 degrees off of the ILS FAT (see second diagram below). When TWR, having seen this deviation, asked for confirmation that the aircraft was continuing as cleared, this was given. After that, the symbol representing the aircraft was reported to have faded from the screen. As the aircraft continued on its new track, it was found that it had begun to descend below the SSA of 1800 feet, then, as it passed 1600 feet QNH, it had turned right onto a track which was approximately perpendicular to the ILS FAT and continued to descend to 1000 feet QNH without the runway being in sight. As the ILS LOC was approached (and subsequently crossed) at a range of 3.1nm, the aircraft was cleared to land. The First Officer noted aloud that they did not have the runway in sight and, then, having noticed that the aircraft was now within the ILS LOC beam and ‘fly left’ was indicated, advised the PF to turn left. The PF had then “made a rapid deflection with the aileron and the rudder to the left” in addition to pitching down and “ended up in an unusual flight attitude in which the maximum bank angle was 50 degrees to the left and the maximum pitch angle was 19° nose down”. The aircraft went into a sideslip with a rapidly accelerating sink rate which reached approximately 5000 fpm at height of 300 feet. A GPWS Mode 2 (terrain closure rate) Warning was annunciated as well as Mode 5 (Glideslope) and Mode 6 (Bank