Angle) alerts - see the third diagram below. At this point, the TWR controller saw the aircraft making a steep turn towards the runway, following which it disappeared behind rising terrain and trees. The Mode 2 GPWS/TAWS Warning repeated ‘PULL UP’ eight times but “the crew did not react to this”. Recovery was eventually achieved with a minimum height of 150 feet agl “about two seconds before they would have collided with the ground.” This occurred at 2.7nm from the runway threshold but was not in accordance with the prescribed response and the altitude was increased only slightly. The result of this was that further GPWS Mode 2 ‘PULL UP’ warnings were annunciated which were again ignored. Only as the PF flew the aircraft towards the runway threshold more or less level and well below the ILS GS using guidance from the First Officer did he eventually see it for the first time with 4 reds showing on the PAPIs. Finally, about 1.5 minutes after crossing through the ILS LOC at 3.2 nm, the aircraft was landed normally on runway 21. A Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) for the destination timed five minutes after the aircraft landed gave cloud as FEW at 1200 feet and BKN at 2000 feet and a visibility in light snow of more than 10km. Given that the deviation from the lateral clearance and the nature of it were the precursor to arrival at the ILS FAT at an angle of 90° and the subsequent attempt to turn sharply onto final approach which led directly to the loss of control, the Investigation sought to find an explanation for it but was not able to do so. It was not possible either to find an explanation for the premature descent below the altitude of 1800 feet which also occurred, although it was considered possible that the availability of a DME range from the field may have served to encourage descent once the clearance was no longer being followed and a more direct track towards the runway was being followed. The Investigation considered that Crew Resource Management during the approach had been deficient and not in accordance with requirements contained in the Company Operations Manual. Poor airmanship “which materialised in degraded situational awareness and decision-making” was seen as partly a consequence of a steep authority gradient between the aircraft commander and the First Officer. It was concluded that the latter had actively attempted to comply with the Company’s standard operating procedures but it was noted that during interview, he had stated that although he had wanted to discontinue the approach after recovery from the loss of control, his previous experience led him to believe that any such suggestion would be ignored. He advised that he had also believed that “any attempts to actively interfere with the Captain’s flying, such as taking over the controls, would have spelled trouble later on”. The use by Mariehamn TWR of the ATS radar monitor during the prelude to the investigated event was