contrary to the respective QRH procedure, not to depressurise the aircraft because “he felt it was safer to allow the cabin to depressurise normally during the imminent descent”. The Captain took over as PF and the return to Manchester for an overweight landing just over 40 minutes later was uneventful. Damage to the tail skid and the aft drain mast was subsequently found but a more detailed examination subsequently found that the tail skid damage was confined to its crushable cartridge and the external shoe but the skid was still within limits for continued operations. An examination of the FDR data during rotation for the investigated flight found that the tail strike maximum pitch attitude was 13° and that the maximum pitch rate prior to this was 7.1°/second. These data also showed that as this rotation had started, a left roll input which was sufficient to cause the left spoilers to deploy had occurred. Comparable data for the two previous flights showed a steady pitch rate and control column force that was markedly different from the tailstrike rotation where both had increased abnormally. The First Officer’s training history was reviewed. He had joined TUI Airways in 2019 after obtaining a CPL (commercial pilot licence). He had then completed a “jet orientation course” followed by a Boeing 737 type rating course conducted by a third-party training provider. He had then completed an operator conversion course in March 2020, but thereafter his progress had been “interrupted by public health restrictions associated with COVID-19” and he had not completed simulator refresher training and base training in the aircraft until July 2021. Only after a further delay and some additional refresher training in the simulator did he complete his first two line training sectors on 27 January 2022 followed by his third and fourth such sectors two days prior to the tailstrike flight. The training notes from the two January sectors were found to include the remark that “his rotation rate had been slightly slow” and that guidance to achieve the required 2 to 2.5°/second rate had been given. Notes from the sectors two days earlier were found to mention “not allowing the rotation to stagnate at 10°” and the need to ensure a continuous rotation to the 15° target attitude. The aircraft operator noted that as well as the provision of a bespoke training package to reflect the difficulties caused to the normal ab initio pilot training sequence and additional simulator time, it had been decided that the first ten line training sectors would be flown with a Training Captain who was additionally qualified to conduct line training for Zero Flight Time (ZFT) trainees. This recognised the value of the enhanced training which such a Training Captain was required to have completed. It was also stated that the operator was aware that “training pilots in a long body aircraft like the B737-800 poses a tail strike risk and....provides additional intervention training to Training Captains”. On specifics, it was noted that the trainee’s performance