A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant recorded data was downloaded from both the CVR and the FDR and provided useful insight into what happened. It was noted that the 63 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 22,000 hours flying experience which included 6,000 hours on type. The First Officer was in his first job since obtaining a professional pilots licence and the investigated flight was his fifth line training sector after gaining his type rating. He had a total of 15 hours 40 minutes on type. Prior to the flight the Captain briefed aspects of the takeoff from runway 23R , for which the trainee First Officer was going to be PF, including the required rotation rate and crosswind technique - the ATIS surface wind was 170°/13 knots which was equivalent to an 11 knot crosswind component. Whilst still on stand, the Captain demonstrated, with the aircraft hydraulics powered, the correct control inputs which the trainee then practiced. The performance calculation used wet runway data in line with conditions which resulted in a slight lower V1 than a dry runway would have required. On receipt of clearance, the Captain lined-up the aircraft on the runway and handed control to the trainee. The takeoff roll was normal until V1 with the trainee “concentrating on applying rudder to maintain the centreline” since he had perceived the relatively light wind as “gusty” and that it was necessary to keep adjusting rudder pedal pressure. However, above V1, the aircraft began to drift right and the Captain reported having considered that the gap between V1 and VR may not have been appreciated since it was greater than the trainee had previously experienced and this “may have caused a degree of surprise and distraction”. The trainee initiated rotation at VR in a manner that the Captain reported considering was “a bit quick but within the normal and safe range”. However when the pitch attitude reached approximately 9° gradually, it then began to increase more quickly. The Captain had his hands on the controls and tried to reduce it but almost immediately both pilots “felt a bump”. The takeoff was continued with no other adverse indications or, initially, reports. The Captain stated that he had “intentionally left the landing gear extended to focus on the flight path, but then omitted to retract it until after the flaps were retracted”, The gear retraction occurred at a recorded 3,500 feet QNH and at a recorded 247 KCAS [Editors Note, the maximum airspeed for gear retraction on this type is 235 KIAS]. The Captain then contacted the cabin crew to ask if they had heard anything abnormal during the takeoff and was told that “a very big bang” had been heard. ATC were then advised of a tailstrike and a ‘PAN’ was declared with a request to stop the climb at FL100 and take up a hold pending a likely return to land. This was then confirmed and the Captain decided,