condition with rapid roll control reversals carried out in an “out of phase” manner.. Be aware that if the autopilot is engaged, intentional disconnection can complicate the scenario, and the autopilot will, in most cases, facilitate the recovery.. Try to avoid large rudder deflections that can create important lateral accelerations, which could then generate very large forces on the vertical stabiliser that may exceed the structural resistance. Although some recent aircraft types are protected by fly-by-wire systems, typically, the use of the rudder does not reduce the severity of the encounter, nor does it improve the ease of recovery.. Make use of specific guidance in the aircraft operating manual (AOM) for their specific type(s)/fleet, where available.. Establish the aircraft type ahead so as to know what minimum distance behind is necessary - [Note: in a busy terminal environment, it may not be appropriate to ask ATC for details of the aircraft ahead because of the risk of clogging the frequency with unnecessary calls. However, it is often possible to determine the weight of the aircraft ahead by listening to radio traffic and through knowledge of the other operator's fleet.]. If the Autopilot is engaged for an approach at or near to minimum recommended spacing from an aircraft ahead, ensure the pilot flying (PF) is prepared for manual recovery from a sudden roll, which might be at a high enough rate to cause simultaneous un-commanded autopilot disconnection.. Ensure that all cabin crew are secured in their seats before final approach commences.. If in a small aircraft and flying an approach where there is risk of a wake vortex encounter, providing operating procedures permit, consider: flying the same vertical profile but aiming for a touchdown point further down the runway (if the runway length allows this). In order to reduce the required wake turbulence separation, some airports operate multiple threshold ILS profiles. flying slightly displaced laterally upwind of the preceding aircraft’s track.. flying the same vertical profile but aiming for a touchdown point further down the runway (if the runway length allows this). In order to reduce the required wake turbulence separation, some airports operate multiple threshold ILS profiles.. flying slightly displaced laterally upwind of the preceding aircraft’s track.. Know the full specification of the Wake Turbulence Separation minima and any national variations which you are liable to encounter (check the State AIPs/AICs).. TCAS information may be used for situational awareness only and pilots should not adjust their ATC cleared heading, speed, or altitude based on TCAS information UNLESS a TCAS RA is generated. See ACAS Bulletin No. 6, "Incorrect use of the TCAS traffic display", published in March 2005..