An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish AIB using ATC recordings and an interview with the controller. It was established that traffic in the area, which was under the control of Stockholm ACC, was light and that the usual en route separation standard of 5nm horizontally or 1000 feet vertically was prescribed in the Class ‘C’ airspace where the conflict occurred. The experienced controller involved was found to have cleared the Jetstream to climb to FL150 after forgetting that the opposite direction ATR72 was at FL140 and would conflict. She had then become distracted when turning away from her radar screen in order to arrange the hand-off of the Jetstream and a second aircraft to another sector being controlled from an adjacent position in the same ACC. The ATR72 was then heard reporting a TCAS climb and this prompted the controller to look at her radar screen where it was apparent that the STCA had been activated by the proximity. As the ATR72 climbed from its cleared level FL140 to FL146, the controller attempted to continue active controlling by issuing a radar heading and provided traffic information. She then issued an instruction to the JS31 to stop climb and descend to FL130 to which the response was “TCAS descent” - this had commenced at FL137. Both flight crews “managed the TCAS alerts in an appropriate manner” with the result that the minimum vertical distance of 300 feet was recorded as occurring at a horizontal distance of 3.24 nm (see the recorded radar screen display below). Thirty three seconds elapsed between the ATR 72 reporting a TCAS climb and the same aircraft reporting “Clear of Conflict” indicating the cessation of the RA. The Investigation observed that the STCA alert would have appeared on screen ninety seconds before separation minima were breached, considerably earlier than the TCAS RA activation and noted that “the fact that STCA alarms are not always perceived in a timely manner has also emerged in previous investigations”. The Investigation assessed that “the design of the STCA alarm was a risk factor as it was not immediately capable of catching the attention of the operator and only made use of the sense of sight”. However, it was decided that no safety recommendation was necessary in this regard as the ANSP had “announced that they intended to deploy a new air traffic control system in 2012, including a modified visual presentation of STCA and a sound warning”. This intent was noted to have followed request to the ANSP in May 2011 from the supervisory authority, the Swedish Transport Agency, for “a statement on the measures taken as a result of several incidents in which STCA alarms had not been immediately noticed” and related findings against the ANSP following an audit by the same Agency in August 2011. The Investigation noted that audio warnings for STCA were then introduced at both Swedish ATCCs - Malmö in February 2013 and Stockholm in April 2013. It was noted that despite the requirement