to “search for conflicts using MTCD” the controller involved made no mention of utilising Medium Term Conflict Detection (MTCD) or the associated tools ‘Flight Leg’ (FLEG) and the ‘Conflict And Risk Display’ (CARD) which depending on what is selected can generate information in a red box on the radar screen showing any MTCD conflicts and risks. It was further noted that the response to the TCAS alerts by the controller was not in accordance with SOPs. It was considered that it may be possible to explain this “by the controller being in a situation involving high stress levels and by her not having had practical exercises in handling this type of conflict during training” and noted that at the time “the controller did not clearly perceive that it was a TCAS alert”. The Investigation was told by the ANSP “the reason no practical exercises (on TCAS RA response) take place during initial training or local training is that there are difficulties in logically and credibly creating situations that generate TCAS alerts”. However, it was considered that as “ICAO guidelines on training in this regard recommend that practical exercises be carried out (it can be assumed that they have) not identified such difficulties that it would not be considered useful to have practical exercises for this, for example, in a simulator”. In the opinion of the Investigation, “recurrent practical training of situations with TCAS alerts would probably increase the chances of correct actions under operational conditions” and therefore “the possibilities for introducing practical exercises of this nature should therefore be reconsidered”. The Investigation concluded that the Causal Factors leading to the conflict were: The air traffic controller's focus was on an early handover of flights to another sector.. Air traffic control's aids for noticing the conflict were not capable of breaking the mental picture that the controller had of the situation in the sector.. The following Risk Factor was also identified: Air traffic control attempted to modify the aircraft flight paths during the TCAS alert.. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that The Swedish Transport Agency should ensure the training at suppliers of Air Traffic Services with respect to procedures for TCAS RAs is improved. [RL 2013: 11 R1]. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 11 June 2013.