It is recommended that if you have a cold that you do not fly; this should be enforced by airlines in the case of aircrew, and aircrew are required to self-report any symptoms of cold, flu, or similar. Apart from the reduced levels of performance, in any workplace, that arise when someone is ill with a common cold, as mentioned above, aircrew are exposed to changes in air pressure that can have great impact. Aircraft are typically pressurised to equivalent altitudes of between 4,000 and 8,000 feet. If a decompression occurs in-flight, then aircrew and passengers may be exposed to air pressure altitudes up to 30,000 feet or more. In this latter case, an immediate and rapid descent will be necessary to below 10,000 feet. The middle ear and sinuses are cavities that contain air equalised in pressure to the surrounding (ambient) pressure. The middle ear achieves this via the Eustachian Tube which joins the middle ear cavity to the nose and throat. Therefore as aircraft climb and descend there needs to be regular equalisation in pressure between these cavities and the cabin air. If this equalisation is not possible, or is not regular enough, then the pressure difference between the ambient air and that inside our head will cause pain. In the middle ear the pain (otic barotrauma) is caused by distortion of the eardrum, and in the sinuses it (sinus barotrauma) can be felt above the eyes, behind the nose and in the cheeks[2] Most air travellers (and divers) will be familiar with the sensation of ears popping by themselves in ascent, and the need to force the issue in the descent by clasping the nose and blowing into a closed mouth (Valsalva Method). When suffering from a cold the soft tissues surrounding the sinuses and the Eustachian Tube can swell making the inward movement of air during the descent difficult, and sometimes the Valsalva method ineffective. Even moderate amounts of pain will distract an aircrew member from being able to conduct their tasks – they become, effectively, incapacitated. In severe cases of barotrauma an aircrew member can be grounded for a long period, and may suffer a burst eardrum. If one ear equalises, but the other doesn’t, then a form of pressure vertigo can be experienced as dizziness, which is not helpful for aircrew, especially pilots. The inner ear contains semi-circular canals which automatically detect accelerations in three dimensions and give us our “sense” of balance – where is up, down, left and right, and which way are we moving. Colds can also affect the inner ear mechanism and therefore lead to risk of dizziness and spatial disorientation – both very serious flight hazards[3].