require Boeing to (1) ensure that system safety assessments for the 737 MAX in which it assumed immediate and appropriate pilot corrective actions in response to uncommanded flight control inputs, from systems such as the Manoeuvring Characteristics Augmentation System, consider the effect of all possible flight deck alerts and indications on pilot recognition and response and (2) incorporate design enhancements (including flight deck alerts and indications), pilot procedures, and / or training requirements, where needed, to minimise the potential for and safety impact of pilot actions that are inconsistent with manufacturer assumptions. [A-19-10]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require that for all other US type-certificated transport-category airplanes, manufacturers (1) ensure that system safety assessments for which they assumed immediate and appropriate pilot corrective actions in response to uncommanded flight control inputs consider the effect of all possible flight deck alerts and indications on pilot recognition and response and (2) incorporate design enhancements (including flight deck alerts and indications), pilot procedures, and/or training requirements, where needed, to minimise the potential for and safety impact of pilot actions that are inconsistent with manufacturer assumptions. [A-19-11]. that the Federal Aviation Administration notify other international regulators that certify transport-category airplane type designs (for example, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, Transport Canada, the National Civil Aviation Agency-Brazil, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, and the Russian Federal Air Transport Agency) of Recommendation A-19-11 and encourage them to evaluate its relevance to their processes and address any changes, if applicable. [A-19-12]. that the Federal Aviation Administration develop robust tools and methods, with the input of industry and human factors experts, for use in validating assumptions about pilot recognition and response to safety-significant failure conditions as part of the design certification process. [A-19-13]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, once the tools and methods have been developed as recommended in Recommendation A-19-13, revise existing Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations and guidance to incorporate their use and documentation as part of the design certification process, including re-examining the validity of pilot recognition and response assumptions permitted in existing FAA guidance. [A-19-14]. that the Federal Aviation Administration develop design standards, with the input of industry and human factors experts, for aircraft system diagnostic tools that improve the prioritisation and clarity of failure indications (direct and indirect) presented to pilots to improve the timeliness and effectiveness of their response. [A-19-15]. That the Federal Aviation Administration, once the design standards have been developed as recommended in Recommendation A-19-15, require implementation of system diagnostic tools on transport-category aircraft to improve the timeliness and effectiveness of pilots’ response when multiple flight deck alerts and indications are present. [A-19-06].