Whilst there can be advantages associated with an intersection take off, there are also potential pitfalls and liabilities which should be considered before requesting or accepting an intersection take off. These include, but are not limited to, performance criteria, obstacle clearance profile and adherence to noise abatement requirements. Historically, failure to consider these factors has resulted in accidents or incidents involving runway excursion, collision with obstructions in the departure path and noise violations. For any aircraft, factors such as weight, configuration, pressure altitude, temperature and wind will determine the minimum ground roll required to achieve take off speed and become airborne. This ground roll will increase, sometimes substantially, when engine thrust is intentionally reduced by derate or assumed temperature (FLEX) protocols. Calculation of thrust requirements, and the corresponding Flight Management System entries, are generally made prior to engine start. In calculating the thrust requirements, the FMS (or paper chart) assumes a specific runway length, either published or extracted from the database. Initiating the take off from an intersection reduces the runway length available, thus invalidating the calculated performance. The invalid performance data can result in failure to become airborne prior to the end of the runway, a substantially reduced height crossing the runway end or inability to stop within the confines of the runway in the event of a Rejected Take Off. Initiating the take off roll from a position other than the runway threshold effectively increases the risk that close-in obstacles such as lights or antennae might present. In combination with performance data that has not been corrected for the reduced runway length, this can (and has) result in collision with obstacles in the departure path. In many locations, noise sensors have been installed along the published runway departure path(s) in the area immediately adjacent to the aerodrome. Noise levels exceeding a certain threshold will result in a violation against the aircraft which can lead to a fine, or to an operating restriction or prohibition. Initiating the takeoff from an intersection has the potential for an aircraft to overfly a noise sensor at a lower altitude (and, potentially, at a higher power setting) than would be the case had full runway length been utilised. Beyond those issues previously identified, an intersection take off can result in other potential pitfalls and consequences. For example: