Although Taiwan is not an ICAO Contracting State, an Investigation into the accident was carried out in all critical respects in accordance with Annex 13 principles by the designated investigation body in Taiwan, the Aviation Safety Council. Some differences in the presentation of the Findings in the concluding Report were acknowledged. The FDR, CVR and QAR were all recovered and their data were successfully downloaded. It was confirmed that with the Captain as PF, the aircraft had failed to follow its correctly acknowledged ATC clearance along taxiway N1 and onto runway 05L, a 60 metre wide instrument runway with Cat 2 signage, markings and lighting. Instead, after turning right onto taxiway N1, at which point it should have continued straight ahead to reach the parallel Runway 05L from which it had been cleared to take off, it had turned prematurely to the right onto Runway 05R, a temporarily closed 45 metre wide non-precision runway. Impact with concrete barriers and construction equipment had occurred as the aircraft, at high speed, had approached a position abeam the terminal buildings situated between the two main parallel runways, 05L/23R and one designated 06/24. The impact and immediate fire which followed completely destroyed the aircraft. The Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services' reported that the fire which broke out had initially been brought as under control after 10 to 15 minutes, but then "flashback and re-ignition occurred" and it had not been fully extinguished until 40 minutes after the collision. There was only minor exterior fire damage to the rear section of the aircraft which had detached and become separated from the rest of the aircraft during the collision. Although Runway 05R was subject to a Notice To Airmen available to the crew advising that it was closed part way along its length with the initial section available for taxi use only, it was found that there were no indications of its non-runway status readily available at the point on taxiway N1 where it was reached, which was almost immediately after turning right onto taxiway N1 from taxiway NP. It was also noted - and considered of significance - that there was no taxiway centreline marking across the 05R threshold, only one leading onto the 05R runway centreline. This latter centreline was also much more clearly lit than the continuation of the unmarked taxiway centreline straight ahead towards runway 05L, which had just one distant light operative preceded by one inoperative one. The diagram below shows the vicinity of the point where the wrong turn occurred and the disposition of taxiway centreline lighting. It was noted that permanent conversion of Runway 05R to the status of a taxiway to be designated NC, was pending at the time of the accident and no change had been made to the runway status lighting at the south-western end of the runway. All three pilots on the flight deck - an augmenting First Officer was occupying one of the supernumerary seats because of the intended long flight to Los