the ability to maintain situational awareness.” However, it was also concluded that the “reduced visibility in darkness and heavy rain" had "diminished, but did not preclude, the flight crew’s ability to see the taxiway and runway lighting, marking and signage. In particular, centreline lighting on runway 05R was green rather than white and the edge lights "were most likely not on". No evidence that the performance of any of the crew had been affected by fatigue or any other pre existing medical, behavioural or physiological factors or that there was any element of causation arising from lack of aircraft airworthiness. Findings of the Investigation related to underlying Risk which had provided the context for the accident were noted as including: The absence of any requirement in ICAO Annex 14 SARPs current at the time for any runway closure markings to be provided near the threshold of a partially closed runway.. ICAO ambiguity in respect of what a 'temporarily closed runway' was because of the absence of any definition of the phrase 'short term'.. The barriers around the work in progress part way down the runway were of concrete rather than the frangible type required in ICAO SARPs.. Although "there were a number of items of Airport infrastructure that did not meet the level of internationally accepted standards and recommended practices (and) appropriate attention given to these items could have enhanced the situational awareness of the flight crew while taxiing to Runway 05L....the absence of these enhancements was not deemed sufficient to have caused the loss of situational awareness of the flight crew".. There was "a lack of safety oversight mechanism with (the Taiwan) CAA that could have provided an independent audit/assessment of the Airport to ensure its facilities met internationally accepted safety standards and practices".. The absence of any ASDE equipment at the airport which, given the prevailing poor visibility, had precluded ATC awareness of the crew taxiing error.. The Operator's procedures and training documentation did not reflect the content of the 747-400 AFM Supplement detailing with the use of the PVD to confirm the correct position of an aircraft about to commence takeoff.. The Singapore CAA had approved the PVD AFM Supplement but had not ensured that it was adopted by the Operator.. The Operator's Operations Manual did not specify that a "confirm active runway check" should be made by a crew as part of the required before take off procedures.. Progressive taxi instructions were neither given by ATC nor requested by the aircraft crew.. Other Findings included that the Operators flight crew SOPs did not assign any specific duties to the augmenting First Officer present in the flight deck. Notwithstanding these and other observations, the overall Finding Related to Probable Cause was that “the flight crew lost situational awareness and commenced take off on the wrong runway”. A total of 59 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Singapore Airlines develop and implement a comprehensive surface-movement training program that reflects the current