to the CAA to avoid lengthy waiting periods for improvement and implementation of technical safety regulations. [ASC-ASR-02-04-34]. that Boeing provide airline operators with appropriate guidance information, including cautions to be observed, when required to operate emergency evacuation slides in wind gusts that exceed the certified limit. [ASC-ASR-02-04-35]. that Boeing review the effectiveness of cabin emergency lights to ensure that maximum conspicuity is achieved in dense smoke following survivable accidents. [ASC-ASR-02-04-36]. that Boeing consider incorporating cockpit surface guidance and navigation technologies, such as an electronic moving map display, into all proposed and newly certified aircraft. [ASC-ASR-02-04-37]. that Boeing develop and issue the necessary technical support to airline customers to aid in the installation of cockpit surface guidance and navigation technologies, such as (an) electronic moving map display, for use during airport surface movements. [ASC-ASR-02-04-38]. that Boeing develop a means to reduce failure of PA systems during survivable accidents and provide modified systems to operators. [ASC-ASR-02-04-39]. that ICAO develops Standards that would require ASDE or comparable equipment as standard equipment at civil airports with high traffic volume. [ASC-ASR-02-04-40]. that ICAO amends Annex 14 to include clear Standards for defining and protecting a partially closed runway that may be used for taxi purposes. [ASC-ASR-02-04-41]. that ICAO considers accepting the participation of Taiwan in various ICAO activities as an observer, for the purpose of safety improvement, even though Taiwan is not a contracting State. [ASC-ASR-02-04-42]. that ICAO supports the establishment of a government/industry program involving the Flight Safety Foundation, IFALPA, Airport Operations Association, and IATA to develop objective methods to assist pilots in assessing whether a runway is “wet” or “contaminated” due to the presence of water. [ASC-ASR-02-04-43]. that ICAO encourages and supports the establishment of research by governments and industry to improve passenger smoke protection and improve emergency evacuation slide performance in heavy winds and post-accident fire. [ASC-ASR-02-04-44]. that ICAO develops and issues the necessary SARPs to ICAO Member States’ regulatory authorities to encourage them to adopt the necessary regulations to support the installation and use of cockpit-based surface guidance and navigation technologies, such as (an) electronic moving map display. [ASC-ASR-02-04-45]. that ICAO encourages all ICAO Member States to consider the installation of cockpit surface guidance and navigation technologies, such as (an) electronic moving map display, in commercial airliners for use during airport surface movements. [ASC-ASR-02-04-46]. that ICAO encourages all their Member States’ regulatory authorities to ensure that appropriate surface movement technology enabling infrastructure, such as airport and terrain databases, is developed. [ASC-ASR-02-04-47]. that IATA provides support to an international joint government/industry program to develop possible improvements to emergency evacuation equipment and procedures for the prevention of future injuries and death following an aircraft accident. [ASC-ASR-02-04-48]. that IATA provides its member airlines with appropriate guidance information, including cautions to be observed, when required to operate emergency evacuation slides in wind gusts that exceed the certified limits. [ASC-ASR-02-04-49]. that IATA urges its member airlines to work with their (respective) regulatory agencies to ensure that airports into which they operate meet the Standards and Recommended