Practices of ICAO Annex 14 and urges its member airlines to work with their prospective regulatory agencies to develop procedures for evaluating the airport infrastructure as part of their out-station audits. [ASC-ASR-02-04-50]. that IATA encourages its member airlines to consider equipping their aircraft with cockpit surface guidance and navigation technologies, such as (an) electronic moving map display, for use during airport surface movements.[ASC-ASR-02-04-51]. that the FAA provides support to an international joint government/industry program to develop possible improvements to emergency evacuation equipment and procedures for the prevention of future injuries and death following an aircraft accident. [ASC-ASR-02-04-52]. that the FAA reviews emergency slide design to reduce the potential for uncommanded inflation resulting from lateral impact forces. [ASC-ASR-02-04-53]. that the FAA reviews the effectiveness of cabin emergency lights to ensure that maximum conspicuity is achieved in dense smoke following survivable accidents. [ASC-ASR-02-04-54]. that the FAA initiates rulemaking action to require the installation, on Boeing aircraft, of public address systems that continue to function following survivable accidents. [ASC-ASR-02-04-55]. that the JAA provides support to an international joint government/industry program to develop possible improvements to emergency evacuation equipment and procedures for the prevention of future injuries and death following an aircraft accident. [ASC-ASR-02-04-56]. that the JAA reviews emergency slide design to reduce the potential for uncommanded inflation resulting from lateral impact forces. [ASC-ASR-02-04-57]. that the JAA reviews the effectiveness of cabin emergency lights to ensure that maximum conspicuity is achieved in dense smoke following survivable accidents. [ASC-ASR-02-04-58]. that the JAA should initiate rulemaking actions to require the installation, on Boeing aircraft, of public address systems that continue to function following survivable accidents. [ASC-ASR-02-04-59]. The Final Report was approved by the Council on 23 April 2002 and subsequently released on 30 April 2002.