practice in this area, such as the recommendations contained in the FAA’s National Blueprint for Runway Safety and FAA Advisory Circular 120-74. [ASC-ASR-02-04-01]. that Singapore Airlines ensure that procedures for low visibility taxi operations include the need for requesting progressive taxi instructions to aid in correct airport surface movement. [ASC-ASR-02-04-02]. that Singapore Airlines review the adequacy of current SIA PVD training and procedures and ensure that SIA documentation and operational practices reflect the CAAS approved B747-400 AFM PVD supplement, which included the use of the PVD to indicate whether the aircraft is in a correct position for takeoff. [ASC-ASR-02-04-03]. that Singapore Airlines develop and implement a clear policy that ensures that flight crews consider the implications of the relevant instrument indications, such as the PFD and PVD, whenever the instruments are activated, particularly before commencing takeoff in reduced visibility conditions. [ASC-ASR-02-04-04]. that Singapore Airlines include in all company pre-takeoff checklists an item formally requiring positive visual identification and confirmation of the correct takeoff runway. [ASC-ASR-02-04-05]. that Singapore Airlines implement an Advanced Crew Resource Management program to reflect current practices in this area, and ensure that such programs are regularly revised to reflect new developments in CRM. [ASC-ASR-02-04-06]. that Singapore Airlines review the adequacy of current runway condition determination procedures and practices for determining a water-affected runway to “wet” or “contaminated” in heavy rain situations, by providing objective criteria for such determinations. [ASC-ASR-02-04-07]. that Singapore Airlines conduct a procedural audit to eliminate existing conflicts in the guidance and procedures between the company manuals, the managers’ expectations, and the actual practices, such as those contained in the Typhoon Procedures and dispatch briefing policy. [ASC-ASR-02-04-08]. that Singapore Airlines modify the emergency procedures to establish an alternate method for initiating the emergency evacuation command in the event of a PA system malfunction. [ASC-ASR-02-04-09]. that Singapore Airlines review its procedures and training for the flight and cabin crewmembers to effectively handle diversified emergency situations. [ASC-ASR-02-04-10]. that the CAA Singapore require SIA to develop and implement a comprehensive surface-movement training program, to include a procedure to request progressive taxi instructions during low visibility ground operations. [ASC-ASR-02-04-11]. that the CAA Singapore review the adequacy of current SIA PVD training and practices and require that SIA revise, if necessary, procedural and training documentation and operational practices to reflect the CAAS approved B747-400 AFM PVD supplement. [ASC-ASR-02-04-12]. that the CAA Singapore review the current system of managing AFM supplement document approval, control, distribution, and enactment policies and procedures for operators and make appropriate changes as necessary to ensure that revisions to airline AFMs are adequately managed. [ASC-ASR-02-04-13]. that the CAA Singapore ensure that all Singaporean commercial airline operators under its regulatory responsibility implement Advanced Crew Resource Management programs to reflect current practices and ensure that such programs are regularly monitored and revised to reflect new developments in CRM. [ASC-ASR-02-04-14]. that the CAA Singapore evaluate and support appropriate research to develop technologies and methods for enhancing flight crews’ abilities for objectively determining a water-affected runway condition in heavy rain situations.