during the initial stages of the descent, his manipulation of the mask settings had resulted in an ingestion of pressurised oxygen which had caused him to begin choking and gagging. The First Officer saw that the Captain had “slumped forward, gagging and gasping for air” and stated that on checking if he was alright had not received a response. He therefore made a MAYDAY call with the aircraft approximately 10 nm north of Narrandera advising that they had issues with the aircraft and had commenced an emergency descent with ATC acknowledging and adding that there was no other IFR traffic conflicting with a descent to 10,000 feet. FDR data showed that at no time did the recorded cabin altitude actually exceed 10,000 feet. During the descent, the Captain recovered and subsequently removed his oxygen mask. Both pilots reported noting that oxygen could be heard continuously flowing from the Captain’s mask. Due to their ongoing concern about the possibility of fumes, the First Officer decided to remain on oxygen. A diversion to Canberra was commenced and the Captain decided to continue the descent to 8000 feet. During the diversion, the mask oxygen supply was exhausted and the First Officer responded by connecting his mask to a portable oxygen unit which was mounted on the rear flight deck bulkhead. While transferring to the portable oxygen system, the First Officer also attempted to operate an iPad in preparation for the instrument approach at Canberra and the Captain stated that he had been unable to gain the First Officer’s attention during that time. The First Officer then said that “they were feeling unwell and had severe back pain” so the Captain instructed him to take up an observer-pilot role for the remainder of the flight. The Captain then made a second PAN call, this time informing ATC of the First Officer’s incapacitation and requested the attendance of the emergency services on arrival at Canberra. The diversion was completed without further event and once the aircraft had been shut down, RFFS personnel boarded the aircraft and conducted an air sample test in the flight deck which did not detect any fumes. Both pilots were taken to hospital for medical assessment. The Investigation considered both the apparent in flight airworthiness issues and the response to them in flight and its consequences. (a) Airworthiness Issues A minor bleed air leak from the right-wing leading-edge ducting was found and rectified by tightening of the duct clamp.. The isolation valve between the left and right systems was not completely closing, resulting in leakage and hence the right bleed air duct remaining partially pressurised when supposedly isolated.. During single-pack operation in normal flow, the aircraft was unable to maintain differential cabin pressure due to a combination of leakage from multiple cabin drain valves, minor door seal leaks and damage to the APU bleed air duct bellows and clamp which together were causing a loss of cabin air through the pressure bulkhead.. The centre wing-body overheat detector element was found to