be unserviceable and together with an associated electrical connector was replaced.. No evidence of fumes or other abnormality was found during air quality testing.. Both pilots’ oxygen masks with tested with faults found. However, the Captain’s mask was found set to emergency flow.. (b) Crew Response It was noted that use of non-normal procedures in the QRH required the Captain to “assess the situation to determine the safest course of action” noting that “if further troubleshooting is determined to be the safest course of action, taking steps beyond published non-normal checklist steps may cause further loss of system function or a system failure”. The operator’s guidance to their pilot’s was that “troubleshooting should only be considered when completion of the published non-normal checklist results in an unacceptable situation”. The Flight Administration Manual was found to further state that “crew troubleshooting of system problems should not normally be attempted in flight unless there is an overriding operational requirement to do so, or where it may assist subsequent rectification” and required that “before attempting any troubleshooting, flight crew were to attempt to contact Maintenance Control for further guidance”. (c) Crew Incapacitation The Captain’s brief incapacitation after donning his oxygen mask was attributed to his attempt to use it with the emergency purge setting selected which results in the inhalation of pressurised 100 per cent oxygen. The FCOM was noted to state that this position was intended only for the removal of contaminants such as fumes or particles from within the mask.. The First Officer’s incapacitation was attributed to an “accumulation of stressors associated with troubleshooting activities, the use of oxygen masks, temporary incapacitation of the Captain, concern for hazardous fumes and the emergency descent and subsequent diversion”. It was concluded that collectively these had probably resulted in “a heightened state of anxiety, hyperventilation and the development of further incapacitating symptoms”.. Six Contributing Factors were identified as follows: Faults with the right wing-body overheat detection system likely led to intermittent illumination of the master caution and wing-body overheat annunciator.. The crew were unable to isolate the right wing-body duct due to a faulty isolation valve.. In consultation with Sydney Line Maintenance Operations, the flight crew conducted troubleshooting activities that resulted in the right air conditioning pack being selected to AUTO. This resulted in a reduction of cabin airflow.. Due to the reduction in cabin airflow, along with a higher than normal cabin leak rate, the aircraft was unable to maintain required cabin altitude. This resulted in the flight crew electing to conduct an emergency descent.. During the descent, the Captain selected the emergency setting on the oxygen mask resulting in an inhalation of pressurised oxygen. This caused a gagging reflex leading to a temporary incapacitation.. Throughout the diversion and landing the First Officer experienced incapacitating symptoms consistent with hyperventilation from a heightened state of anxiety, leading the Captain to declare the First Officer incapacitated.. Safety Action taken by Express Freighters Australia as a result of this event and known to the Investigation was