An Investigation into the event was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant data was obtained from the FDR but the CVR was not isolated before being powered up by maintenance personnel at Canberra engaged in rectifying the reported fault and relevant data was overwritten. It was noted that the Captain had a total of approximately 4,500 hours flying experience which included 3,400 on type and had been a company employee for about 8 years, initially as a First Officer before gaining his command in 2018. He was also a simulator and a 737 ground training instructor with the company. The First Officer had a total of approximately 5,000 hours flying experience which included 700 hours on type and had been a company employee for almost 5 years. Whilst in the cruise at FL 260 almost an hour after departure from Brisbane, the right wing-body overheat caution illuminated which indicated a possible bleed air leak in the right wing. The corresponding QRH procedure which removed bleed air pressure from the right wing bleed air duct by closing the isolation valve, switching off the right air conditioning pack and turning off the bleed air source from the right engine was completed. However, the fault illumination was not extinguished and the right wing-body duct pressure gauge displayed a residual pressure of 14 psi which meant that the duct remained pressurised despite its system being isolated. Concerned with the potential for leakage of high temperature bleed air into the right wing, the crew contacted Maintenance Control by radio for advice. They were then guided by an engineer through a troubleshooting exercise to resolve the observed system inconsistency. Just after being told to switch the right air conditioning pack to ‘AUTO’ contrary to the QRH procedure previously completed, radio contact with the assisting engineer was lost as the aircraft continued out of VHF radio range. The First Officer noticed that the cabin pressure differential was only 5 psi and the cabin altitude was increasing at 600 fpm. The crew discussed the rising cabin altitude and reported having commented to each other that they both felt slightly unwell. The First Officer stated that “the physical symptoms were not consistent with hypoxia” and that he had become concerned about the possibility of incapacitation due to fumes. As the cabin altitude continued to climb and seemed likely to exceed 10,000 feet, both pilots decided to don their emergency oxygen masks. The Captain then requested a descent to FL 200 and when ATC subsequently cleared the aircraft for a descent to FL 250, he immediately responded with a ‘PAN PAN’ call and without waiting for a response advised that they were descending to FL 200. As the descent commenced, the First Officer switched the right air conditioning pack from AUTO back to OFF as per the original QRH procedure which led to the left air conditioning pack returning to high flow mode which restored increased airflow into the flight deck. The Captain subsequently stated that