The ear consists of the outer ear, middle ear and inner ear. It contains receptors for both hearing and equilibrium (balance). The receptors for equilibrium are the semi-circular canals. More information on equilibrium is in the Vestibular System and Illusions BN. The outer ear consists of the pinna and the ear canal. Sound waves are collected by the pinna and travel through the ear canal to the tympanic membrane (eardrum). Sound waves striking the eardrum cause it to vibrate. The eardrum separates the outer ear from the middle ear (Figure 2). The middle ear (Figure 3) contains the following: Eustachian tube extends from the middle ear to the nasopharynx, permitting air to enter or leave the middle ear cavity. Its function is to equalize air pressure on both sides of the eardrum. Normally the walls of the tube are collapsed. Swallowing and chewing actions open the tube to allow air in or out as needed for equalization. Equalizing air pressure ensures that the eardrum vibrates maximally when struck by sound waves. The air pressure in the middle ear must be the same as the external atmospheric pressure in order for the eardrum to vibrate properly. "Popping" the ear opens the eustachian tubes, equalizing air pressures.. Ossicles consist of three linked and movable bones that convert sound waves striking the eardrum into mechanical vibrations. These three bones are the smallest in the human body and are named for their shape. hammer joins the inside of the eardrum anvil is the middle bone that connects the other two stirrup footplate attaches to the cochlea.. hammer joins the inside of the eardrum. anvil is the middle bone that connects the other two. stirrup footplate attaches to the cochlea.. Tympanic cavity is air-filled and carved out of the temporal bone. It connects to the throat/nasopharynx via the eustachian tube.. Tympanic membrane (ear drum) separates the external ear from the middle ear. It is stretched across the end of the ear canal and vibrates when struck by sound waves. These sound waves are transmitted to the three auditory bones. These then transmit the vibrations to the fluid-filled inner ear at the oval window.. The inner ear (Figure 4) consists of two inter-connected pathways for the vestibular and auditory systems. Both involve the following structures: The inner ear contains the corti organ which is the hearing sensor. The process of hearing involves the transmission of vibrations and the generation of nerve impulses. When sound waves enter the ear canal, vibrations are transmitted by the following sequence of structures: eardrum, malleus, incus, stapes, oval window of the inner ear, perilymph and endolymph within the cochlea and hair cells of the organ of corti. When the hair cells bend, they generate impulses that are carried by the 8th cranial nerve to the brain. Sounds are heard and interpreted in the auditory areas of the temporal lobes.