One or more of the following four Causal Factors have been identified as causal in the majority of tail strike events during take off: Improperly Set Elevator Trim or Mis-Trimmed Stabiliser - A mis-trimmed stabiliser or mis-set elevator trim during takeoff is not a common occurrence. When it does occur, however, it is usually as a result of mistakes in the Load and Trim calculations leading to erroneous data, the wrong weights or an incorrect centre of gravity (CG). There have also been cases where the information presented to the flight crew was accurate, but it was entered incorrectly either into the Flight Management System (FMS) or to the stabiliser itself. In either case, the stabiliser is set in the wrong position. When entering data into the FMS it is always good to do a quick ‘Reality’ or ‘Gross Error’ check. As Davis wrote in ‘Handling the Big Jets’ it is always good practice to have clear idea of the approximate weight of the airplane in your head at all stages of flight. (The number of Pax x 100 less 10% can be a quick way to check that part of the load.) If the control surface is mis-trimmed nose down, it can present several problems during the takeoff but tail strike usually is not one of them. However, if the surface is mis-trimmed in a nose up direction, it can place the tail at risk. This is because the yoke now requires less pull force to initiate aircraft rotation during takeoff and the pilot flying (PF) may be surprised at how rapidly the nose comes up. Most manufacturers recommend a rotation rate between 2.0 and 3.0 degrees per second and liftoff in most large aircraft will occur 3 to 4 seconds after the nose begins to rise. However, if the stabiliser has been mis-trimmed, the nose can rise very rapidly reaching the angle at which tail strike will occur before there has been time for the aircraft to become airborne.. Rotation at Incorrect Speed - This situation can result in a tail strike and is usually caused by a VR that has been computed incorrectly and is too low for the weight and flap setting. In the Airbus A340-500 incident cited below, a weight of 100 tonnes less than the actual weight was loaded into the FMS leading to erroneous speeds and thrust setting which, in turn, resulted in a tail strike and runway overrun. This further reinforces the importance of pilots cross-checking and gross-error-checking all FMS inputs. Tail strike, due to early rotation, can also occur if the PF initiates the rotation at the "V1" call, or at any other time prior to the "rotate" call, instead of at the "rotate" call.. Excessive Rotation Rate - Pilots operating an aeroplane type that is new to them, especially when they are transitioning from unpowered flight controls to ones with hydraulic assistance, are most vulnerable to using an excessive rotation rate. The amount of control input required to achieve the