Manufacturers have developed their products and their recommended training practices with full consideration given to tail strike avoidance. Aircraft defences include Fly-By-Wire takeoff rotation rate and angle limitations on some types though pilots must understand all fly-by-wire implications; unless the proper procedure for taking control is followed, sidestick equipped aircraft may sum the inputs of the two pilots and on rotation the Sum of 2 inputs can quickly lead to a tail strike. Other defences include tail skids or even small tail wheels to help reduce the amount of damage incurred in the event of a tail strike event. Operational defences include use of higher takeoff flap settings, when appropriate, to increase tail strike protection as well as simulator training profiles inclusive of rotation rate practice, alternate flap takeoff and baulked landing exercises. Defences against the eight principal causal factors listed above include the following: Know your aircraft. A crew that has made a few takeoffs in a given weight range usually knows roughly where the centre of gravity should be and the corresponding trim setting. Test the load sheet numbers against past experience to ensure that the numbers are "reasonable" – i.e. do a ‘reality’ check! Particular care may be required for those conducting Cross Crew Qualification (CCQ) operations; e.g. rotating a heavy A340 Family requires a much firmer back pressure than a light A330 Family.. Ensure that the computed speeds are correct for the weight and flap setting. Confirm the accuracy of all FMS entries. Do not initiate rotation before VR.. Use the manufacturer's recommended rotation rate. Where available, use a full flight simulator to practice.. Do not aggressively rotate the aircraft into the flight director pitch bar. Aim to achieve a speed of V2+10 and the FD commanded pitch at approximately 35' above the runway.. The single most important defence is to KNOW the tail strike attitude of your aircraft and NEVER rotate beyond it until you are certain you have lifted off (often the air ground sensor relays clicks will give the game away). This guards against both excessively aggressive rotation rates and gross mass calculation error. This may result in a two stage rotation, but that is better than damaging the aircraft.. Do not continue an unstabilised approach.. Trim the aircraft in the final approach but not in the flare. Do not excessively hold the aircraft off the runway in an attempt to achieve a smooth touchdown.. In gusty crosswind situations, actively control the sink rate. Ensure sufficient thrust is available to compensate for slip induced drag and sink rate. If conditions deteriorate below an acceptable level, GO AROUND!. In the event of a late go-around, minimise the pitch change until the engines have spooled and the aircraft is accelerating. Similarly, if permitted by SOPs, do not retract the flaps to the go-around setting until engines have spooled and the aircraft is accelerating. Momentary touchdown during a go-around is not problematic and the aircraft should not be put at risk by trying to avoid that