The Small UAS Rule (Code of Federal Regulations Part 107, sometimes references as 14 CFR Part 107), in effect as of 29 August 2016, covers the operation and certification of small unmanned aircraft systems (weighing less than 55 pounds (25 kg). The purpose of this regulation is to: According to Part 107’s Section 107.200, “Waiver Policy and Requirements,” the FAA may issue a certificate of waiver authorizing a deviation from any regulation specified in Section 107.205 if the agency finds that a proposed sUAS operation can be conducted safely under the terms of that certificate of waiver. In April 2021, the FAA expanded options for civilian drone operators/remote pilots to routinely fly their aircraft over people in the National Airspace System (NAS) under certain circumstances. Previously, Part 107 stated that no person may operate a small unmanned aircraft over a human being unless that person was directly participating in the operation of the small unmanned aircraft; or that person was located under a covered structure or inside a stationary vehicle that could provide reasonable protection from a falling small unmanned aircraft. Amended Part 107 adds that if the sUAS operation meets the requirements of at least one of Part 107’s four permissible operational categories specified in “Subpart D – Operations Over Human Beings,” operational capabilities are safely enhanced. Section 107.145 in Subpart D specifies how risks to a human being located inside a moving vehicle below a drone must be mitigated by different operating conditions, prohibitions and limitations applicable to Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4. For example, in Category 2 and Category 3 operations, the FAA conducts a test, analysis or inspection of the applicant’s proposed description of procedures, conditions, environments and methods, as applicable. By establishing means of compliance (MOC), this process expects applicants to explain how their application fulfills Part 107 requirements. The FAA may accept or deny their application, and subsequently — on the basis of ongoing FAA review — may rescind the acceptance if compliance with the agreed terms fails. A related change — Amendment Number 108-8 of 15 January 2021 — is that the provisions of Part 21 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, “Certification Procedures for Products, Articles, and Parts,” do not apply to sUAS operated under Part 107 unless the aircraft will operate over human beings in accordance with Section 107.140, “Category 4 Operations.”