carried out interactively by both pilots re-calculation required off-block, e.g. due to runway or intersection change during taxi, are required to be performed during stand-still of the aircraft.. independent calculations be performed from first principles for both Mass and Balance and performance parameters instead of a single calculation cross checked by the second crew member;. critical FMS entries, inclusive of weights, takeoff configuration, FLEX temperature or reduced thrust selection, and V speeds be carried out interactively by both pilots. re-calculation required off-block, e.g. due to runway or intersection change during taxi, are required to be performed during stand-still of the aircraft.. simulator training should include: recognition and identification of inadequate take-off performance mitigation strategies and appropriate actions use of scenarios derived from crew reports and FDM data. recognition and identification of inadequate take-off performance. mitigation strategies and appropriate actions. use of scenarios derived from crew reports and FDM data. Aircraft Systems Software Upgrades use of electronic cross check or upload between: EFB Mass and Balance and Performance applications EFB applications and FMS Flap setting used for calculations and actual flap position aircraft self protections systems might include: FMS barriers to prevent upload of out-of-limits parameters tail strike prevention software electronic cross check between takeoff position/heading assumed by FMS and actual position/heading Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) enhancement to detect when the runway remaining is no longer sufficient for a rejected takeoff. use of electronic cross check or upload between: EFB Mass and Balance and Performance applications EFB applications and FMS Flap setting used for calculations and actual flap position. EFB Mass and Balance and Performance applications. EFB applications and FMS. Flap setting used for calculations and actual flap position. aircraft self protections systems might include: FMS barriers to prevent upload of out-of-limits parameters tail strike prevention software electronic cross check between takeoff position/heading assumed by FMS and actual position/heading Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) enhancement to detect when the runway remaining is no longer sufficient for a rejected takeoff. FMS barriers to prevent upload of out-of-limits parameters. tail strike prevention software. electronic cross check between takeoff position/heading assumed by FMS and actual position/heading. Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) enhancement to detect when the runway remaining is no longer sufficient for a rejected takeoff. FDM Enhancements implementation of specific event algorithms relevant to the monitoring of take-off performance inclusive of items such as: Slow Acceleration Late Rotation Slow Rotation Centre of Gravity out of limits. implementation of specific event algorithms relevant to the monitoring of take-off performance inclusive of items such as: Slow Acceleration Late Rotation Slow Rotation Centre of Gravity out of limits. Slow Acceleration. Late Rotation. Slow Rotation. Centre of Gravity out of limits.