Mitigation strategies to help prevent the occurrence of erroneous parameters being used during take-off could include the following: Risk Assessment under the Company Safety Management System (SMS), a dedicated safety risk assessment could be conducted to evaluate if the procedures currently in place are adequate. In particular, EASA has recommended that the following scenarios be analysed, inclusive of the effects of workload, distraction, time pressure and fatigue, with respect to the probability of: using wrong reference data for computerised performance calculation making errors in mass and balance or take-off performance calculation; incorrect entry of data into avionic systems (e.g. incorrect entry into the FMS); incorrect loading of the aircraft; using erroneous weather/runway data; and inefficient cross-checking between flight crew. under the Company Safety Management System (SMS), a dedicated safety risk assessment could be conducted to evaluate if the procedures currently in place are adequate. In particular, EASA has recommended that the following scenarios be analysed, inclusive of the effects of workload, distraction, time pressure and fatigue, with respect to the probability of: using wrong reference data for computerised performance calculation making errors in mass and balance or take-off performance calculation; incorrect entry of data into avionic systems (e.g. incorrect entry into the FMS); incorrect loading of the aircraft; using erroneous weather/runway data; and inefficient cross-checking between flight crew. using wrong reference data for computerised performance calculation. making errors in mass and balance or take-off performance calculation;. incorrect entry of data into avionic systems (e.g. incorrect entry into the FMS);. incorrect loading of the aircraft;. using erroneous weather/runway data; and. inefficient cross-checking between flight crew. Training and Procedures flight crews should be adequately and appropriately trained on: take-off parameter calculation; verification methodology; common errors; error trapping; intervention strategies to prevent time pressure and stress. calculation of take-off parameters and FMS entries could include that: independent calculations be performed from first principles for both Mass and Balance and performance parameters instead of a single calculation cross checked by the second crew member; critical FMS entries, inclusive of weights, takeoff configuration, FLEX temperature or reduced thrust selection, and V speeds be carried out interactively by both pilots re-calculation required off-block, e.g. due to runway or intersection change during taxi, are required to be performed during stand-still of the aircraft. simulator training should include: recognition and identification of inadequate take-off performance mitigation strategies and appropriate actions use of scenarios derived from crew reports and FDM data. flight crews should be adequately and appropriately trained on: take-off parameter calculation; verification methodology; common errors; error trapping; intervention strategies to prevent time pressure and stress.. take-off parameter calculation;. verification methodology;. common errors;. error trapping;. intervention strategies to prevent time pressure and stress.. calculation of take-off parameters and FMS entries could include that: independent calculations be performed from first principles for both Mass and Balance and performance parameters instead of a single calculation cross checked by the second crew member; critical FMS entries, inclusive of weights, takeoff configuration, FLEX temperature or reduced thrust selection, and V speeds be