Multiple NAAs and research facilities have studied the Erroneous Parameter issue using various tools such as Safety Occurrence Investigation reports, Flight Data Monitoring (FDM), Safety Surveys and specifically designed pilot/operator questionnaires. These tools have identified a number of issues inclusive of the following: Scope errors relating to takeoff data are frequent. However, they are generally detected by application of maufacturer/airline Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) or by personal methods such as mental calculation the global dispersion, and variety of events, indicates that the errors associated with determining and using takeoff parameters are independent of the operating airline, aircraft type, equipment and method used half of the crews who responded to a survey carried out at one airline, that was participating in the DGCA study, had experienced errors in parameters or configuration at takeoff, some of which involved the weight input into the FMS. errors relating to takeoff data are frequent. However, they are generally detected by application of maufacturer/airline Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) or by personal methods such as mental calculation. the global dispersion, and variety of events, indicates that the errors associated with determining and using takeoff parameters are independent of the operating airline, aircraft type, equipment and method used. half of the crews who responded to a survey carried out at one airline, that was participating in the DGCA study, had experienced errors in parameters or configuration at takeoff, some of which involved the weight input into the FMS. Weight Input input of the weight used in parameter calculation, in whatever medium it may be obtained or calculated (by ACARS, via EFB, manually), is one of the determining steps in the process of takeoff preparation. It is this parameter, by affecting both the thrust and the speeds, that has the greatest impact on takeoff safety the non-availability of final weight information until shortly before departure requires the crew to perform critical tasks and data input under strong time pressure, the weight values manipulated by crews before the flight can appear, depending on the documents or software, under various names or acronyms and in different units and formats for the same data in several cases, the Zero Fuel Weight (ZFW) was entered instead of the Take-off Weight (TOW) into the performance calculator. input of the weight used in parameter calculation, in whatever medium it may be obtained or calculated (by ACARS, via EFB, manually), is one of the determining steps in the process of takeoff preparation. It is this parameter, by affecting both the thrust and the speeds, that has the greatest impact on takeoff safety. the non-availability of final weight information until shortly before departure requires the crew to perform critical tasks and data input under strong time pressure,. the weight values manipulated by crews before the flight can appear, depending on the documents or software, under various names or acronyms and in different units and formats for the same data. in several cases, the Zero Fuel Weight (ZFW) was entered instead of the Take-off Weight (TOW) into the