An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) with specific assistance from the UK AAIB because of the unusual shared responsibility for the aircraft type certificate between the UK and France. A preliminary report was published on 31 August 2000 followed by Interim Reports on 15 December 2000 and 10 July 2001. In addition to the BEA "Technical Investigation" on July 26 2000, the French Government established a special “Commission of Inquiry” which “assisted the BEA in its work”. It was noted that eleven meetings had been held at which the Commission was informed of the progress of the BEA Investigation and, following discussion, it had then “approved the reports”. Also, in accordance with French law, a Judicial Inquiry in respect of the Accident took precedence over the BEA investigation and so all BEA activity at the accident site and examination of the various parts of the aircraft “were performed in coordination with those responsible for the judicial inquiry, strictly adhering to the procedures of that inquiry”. In this connection, “the accident site and the various parts of the aircraft (had remained) constantly under the control of the judicial authorities”. The BEA investigation established that about 1700 metres along the runway, shortly after the aircraft had passed V1, and whilst accelerating through 175 KCAS, the front right tyre of the left main landing gear had run over a strip of metal which had fallen from another aircraft five minutes earlier. The explosive failure of this tyre had thrown tyre debris against the wing structure causing a rupture of fuel tank 5. Fire, fuelled by the leak, broke out almost immediately under the left wing. As rotation was begun at a speed of 183 KCAS some 15 kt before VR, marks on the runway showed that the aircraft was deviating to the left of the runway centreline. The crew were advised by the ATC that there were "large flames behind them". Almost simultaneously, thrust was suddenly lost from engine 2 as a consequence of debris ingestion and/or disruption of the intake airflow. The aircraft became airborne 2900 metres along the runway some ten seconds after rotation had begun, but the crew then found that, in addition to asymmetric thrust, they were unable to retract the landing gear. The aircraft flew for around a minute at a speed of 200 kt and at a radio altitude of 200 feet but, with only intermittent thrust from Engine 1, was unable to gain height or speed. When Engine 1 suffered a final loss of thrust, the aircraft "adopted a very pronounced angle of attack and roll attitude". Loss of thrust on engines 3 and 4 then followed as "a combination of deliberate selection of idle and by a surge due to excessive airflow distortion". Control was not regained. The Investigation noted that: " The crew had no way of grasping the overall reality of the situation. They reacted instinctively when they perceived an extremely serious but unknown situation, which