they were evaluating by way of their sensory perceptions. Each time the situation allowed, they applied the established procedure in a professional way." " (A) simulation (during the investigation) showed that a rejected take off would have led to a high-speed runway excursion. Under these conditions, the landing gear would have collapsed and with the fire that was raging under the left wing, the aircraft would probably have burst into flames immediately." " Many pieces of the aircraft found along the track indicate that severe damage to the aircraft’s structure was caused in flight by the fire. Even with the engines operating normally, the significant damage caused to the aircraft’s structure would have led to the loss of the aircraft." On the subject of the cause and effects on aircraft structure of tyre failure - in this case just a single tyre failure being the direct cause of a level of structural damage which resulted in a major fuel leak near a ready source of ignition - the investigation noted that: "On Concorde, nineteen of the fifty-seven known cases of bursts/punctures were caused by foreign objects. All of this clearly shows that in addition to increased surveillance of runways and taxiways, it is becoming necessary to improve the resistance of tyres to damage. It is useful to note that certification imposes no dynamic destructive tests on tyres, which means that there is no indication of burst modes, the weight and size of debris. Nevertheless, with these factors, it would be possible to evaluate the energies released and to deduce the possible consequences on the aircraft’s structure." The Causes of the Accident determined by the Investigation were as follows: High-speed passage of a tyre over a part lost by an aircraft that had taken off five minutes earlier and the destruction of the tyre.. The ripping out of a large piece of tank in a complex process of transmission of the energy produced by the impact of a piece of tyre at another point on the tank, this transmission associating deformation of the tank skin and the movement of the fuel, with perhaps the contributory effect of other more minor shocks and /or a hydrodynamic pressure surge.. Ignition of the leaking fuel by an electric arc in the landing gear bay or through contact with the hot parts of the engine with forward propagation of the flame causing a very large fire under the aircraft’s wing and severe loss of thrust on engine 2 then engine 1.. In addition, it was noted that “the impossibility of retracting the landing gear probably contributed to the retention and stabilisation of the flame throughout the flight.”