Following an initial assessment of the circumstances of the accident, the BEA and the UK AAIB issued the following Safety Recommendation on 16 August 2000: that the Certificates of Airworthiness for Concorde be suspended until appropriate measures have been taken to guarantee a satisfactory level of safety with regard to the risks associated with the destruction of tyres.”. This Interim Recommendation was subsequently rendered no longer applicable as a result of further progress in the Investigation about which full details were provided to the two manufacturers, the two operators and the jointly responsible airworthiness authorities, the UK CAA and DGAC. The latter two agencies then defined a list of requirements for a return of the aircraft type to service as follows: Installation of flexible linings in fuel tanks 1,4,5,6,7 and 8.. Reinforcement of the electrical harnesses in the main landing gear bays.. Modification of Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) procedures so as to inhibit power supply to the brake ventilators during critical phases of flight and revision of the MEL to ensure that technical operational limitations cannot be applied for the tyre under-pressure detection system.. Installation of Michelin NZG tyres and modification of the anti-skid computer.. Modification of the shape of the water deflector and removal of the retaining cable.. A ban on the use of volatile fuels and an increase in the minimum quantity of fuel required for a go-around.. Four further Safety Recommendations “specific to Concorde” were subsequently published having been brought directly to the attention of the airworthiness authorities and these were taken into account in the context of the aircraft’s return to service. One of these was applicable to both operators of the type (British Airways and Air France) as follows: that the airworthiness authorities, the manufacturers and the operators of Concorde reinforce the means available for the analysis of the functioning of aircraft systems and in-service events and for the rapid definition of corrective actions.. The other three were specific to the operation of the type by Air France: that Air France ensure that the emergency procedures in the section on Concorde utilisation in its Operations Manual be coherent with the Flight Manual.. that Air France equip its Concorde aircraft with recorders capable of sampling at least once a second the parameters that allow engine speed to be determined on all of the engines.. that the DGAC undertake an audit of Concorde operational and maintenance conditions within Air France.. Ten other Safety Recommendations described as ‘general’ were also made as a result of the investigation as follows: that the DGAC, in liaison with the appropriate regulatory bodies, study the reinforcement of the regulatory requirements and demonstrations of conformity with regard to aviation tyres.. that the DGAC, in liaison with the appropriate regulatory bodies, modify the regulatory certification requirements so as to take into account the risks of tank damage and the risk of ignition of fuel leaks.. that the DGAC ensure the rapid implementation of programmes for the prevention of debris on aerodromes. These programmes should