This approach has the benefit of having one set of values for minimum vectoring altitudes[1] applicable for the entire year. Seasonal - The low temperatures are normally recorded within a defined period of the year. When the low temperatures experienced are significantly low during this season, the buffer necessary to accommodate an annual application of cold temperature correction may lead to a less efficient use of the airspace. In such cases the appropriate ATS authorities may consider a dual set of minimum flight altitudes: one applicable during “warm season” and one during the “cold season”. The activation of one or the other set of values can be indicated in the State’s AIP such as: “from 1 December to 31 March the cold temperature values for minimum flight altitudes are applied”.. The set of values for minimum vectoring altitudes a controller must use in cases documented in ICAO Doc 4444, PANS-ATM, § 8.6.5.2 [2] would be provided/activated accordingly. Daily - The cold temperature corrections can also be updated on a daily basis using the coldest temperature forecast for the day as the baseline. The supervisor will use the table/methodology as provided by the appropriate ATS authority to ascertain the set of minimum vectoring altitudes a controller will use that day. The State will publish in AIPs that correction for low temperature effect are applied, when necessary, by ATC.. The State will publish in AIPs that correction for low temperature effect are applied, when necessary, by ATC.. Tactical - When full integration of the methodology for cold temperature correction in the ATS system is performed, the controller will be provided with the appropriate information on the CWP. The State will publish in AIP that correction for low temperature effect are applied, when necessary, by ATC.. The State will publish in AIP that correction for low temperature effect are applied, when necessary, by ATC.. A common aspect for the first two solutions is that they will not cover temperatures lower than those in the selected range. Therefore, they should be supplemented with specific procedures for temperatures lower than those in the selected range.