time and time zone etc.. that Turkish Airlines should ensure that the crew strictly follows the safety related procedures and cockpit discipline.. that CAA Nepal should review its requirement published in the State AIP regarding crew qualification before they are authorised to operate to and from Kathmandu airport.. that CAA Nepal must ensure that there exists an effective and efficient coordination between aeronautical information services and aerodrome authorities.. that CAA Nepal must ensure that raw aeronautical information/data are provided by the aerodrome authorities take account of its accuracy and integrity requirements for aeronautical data as specified by ICAO Annex 15 and its Aeronautical Information Service Manual.. that CAA Nepal must ensure that there exists a proper planning for works to be accomplished before disseminating such information through Aeronautical Information Services with full understanding of its gravity.. that the Kathmandu Airport Met Office must ensure that it disseminates SPECI reports when visibility deteriorates as prescribed in ICAO Annex 3.. that the Kathmandu Airport Met Office should have a system capable of providing a weather observation immediately after an accident has occurred.. that CAA Nepal must ensure that Air Traffic Controllers on duty at Kathmandu Tower are vigilant and weather information representing deterioration in visibility minima are provided through them to the aircraft immediately.. that CAA Nepal should provide refresher training to all Air Traffic Controllers at regular intervals.. that CAA Nepal should include an ATIS status check in its Daily Facilities Status Check List Reporting Form at Kathmandu.. that CAA Nepal should restore the ATIS Communication facility at Kathmandu immediately.. that CAA Nepal should keep track of the AIRAC update cycle when cancelling an AIP supplement.. that Commercial Chart Provider LIDO should put in place a more robust system to check NOTAMs and act accordingly .. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 6 October 2015.