to the runway". Four seconds before the automatic annunciation of 'MINIMUM' the First Officer had said "it will appear if we descend below". In response the 'MINIMUM' call, the Captain said "continue until 300 feet" contrary to the SOP response from the PF (if visual) of "visual and continue". There was no call of "visual" from PM who was required under SOP to look out for visual reference whilst the PF stayed on the instruments.. Approximately 5 seconds before touchdown, the PF stated "appearing" - the first reference to the runway being in sight.. It was concluded that "the aircraft continued its approach below MDA without the proper visual reference contrary to the standard and procedure of the RNAV(RNP) approach" and noted that it had also done so contrary to the requirement that on such an approach, the AP must not be used below MDA. The Investigation formally determined that "the Probable Cause of this accident is the decision of the flight crew to continue approach and landing below the minima with inadequate visual reference and not to perform a missed approach in accordance to the published approach procedure". It was also determined that there were two Contributory Factors as follows: the probable fixation of the flight crew to land at Kathmandu. the deterioration of weather conditions that resulted in fog over the airport reducing the visibility below the required minima.. Safety Action taken as a result of the accident by Turkish Airlines and advised to the Commission included the following: A unit which will quality control charts prepared by their service provider has been established. The minimum visibility required to conduct the Kathmandu RNP AR approach has been increased from 900 metres to 1800 metres. The rostered crew for flights to Kathmandu has been increased to three pilots. The scheduled landing time for the winter period had been changed. A total of 21 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Turkish Airlines should review the pilot qualification requirements to operate to and from Kathmandu.. that Turkish Airlines must ensure that the crew strictly adheres to the Standard State Instrument Arrival procedures and to the Airline's Standard Operating Procedures.. that Turkish Airlines must ensure that the correct navigation data have been uploaded into the FMGS NAV database of their aircraft.. that Turkish Airlines should have a system in place to act efficiently and effectively with full understanding of its gravity upon receiving the information of operational significance such as NOTAM and feedback of the crew etc.. that Turkish Airlines should establish a system of verifying the quality of charts prepared by the service provider.. that Turkish Airlines should establish a system of checking the validity of FMS database.. that Turkish Airlines should review its Kathmandu RNP AR Company visibility minima keeping in mind its own requirements over and above those of State-published visibility minima.. that Turkish Airlines should review its crew composition requirements to and from Kathmandu airport keeping in view of the flying