fuselage and the engines. The crew requested fire and medical assistance in response to a query from the TWR as to whether they had landed. AFS vehicles located the aircraft and three of them carried precautionary applications of water and foam in the presence of a fuel leak and 'smoke' coming from both engines. After a delay, an emergency evacuation was completed. Circumstantial evidence indicated that the visibility had quickly and materially deteriorated from about the time landing clearance had been given. It was described by a domestic flight crew taxiing for departure at the time of the crash as "almost zero", a description supported by CCTV recordings and reports from military personnel located near to the threshold of runway 02. The Investigation concluded that the visibility at the time of the accident had been 200 metres in fog - much worse than at the time of the earlier go around. It was noted that the deteriorating trend had not been communicated to the crew by TWR and neither had a SPECI for this change been issued by the Meteorological Office. The explanation for the off runway centreline position of the aircraft at touchdown - apart from continuing through MDA and almost to the runway without visual reference - was found to be the incorporation of an AIP Supplement which incorrectly showed the runway 02 threshold co-ordinates offset about 26 feet to the left into the FMS of the accident aircraft; although the actual runway threshold had never changed. This information had been generated by CAA Nepal personnel as part of a notification of a displaced threshold which it was planned to introduce to facilitate runway extension work. A NOTAM issued on the effective date of the one-month-validity AIP Supplement to defer the introduction of the displaced threshold was not actioned by the chart provider LIDO and the displaced threshold (and erroneous offset) version of the approach chart used therefore remained in the FMS. It was noted that, although the Istanbul flight had been operating into Kathmandu with the displaced and erroneously offset threshold location loaded into the FMS for almost a month, the discrepancy had only been first reported by a crew who had operated into Kathmandu two days previously. And because action on this report was still pending on the day of the accident, the accident aircraft crew, whilst briefed pre-flight on the NOTAM cancelling the displaced threshold, would not have known that their LIDO Chart was (still) based on the displaced threshold and erroneously-offset threshold position. Nevertheless, it was noted that for any crew visual at or before the prescribed MDA, the minor realignment of the flight path necessary at that point would have been readily accomplished. It was found from the CVR recording that: After the missed approach a member of the cabin crew had stated to the Captain their concern at the prospect of diverting to Delhi. Immediately after this, the First Officer had told the Captain that the RNP approach would "bring them directly