An Investigation was carried out by the Nepal Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission. Data from the FDR and 2 hour CVR were successfully downloaded. The Investigation found that the 55 year-old Captain of the aircraft had 1456 hours flying experience on the accident aircraft type out of a total of 14942 hours, having joined the airline as a Co-Pilot eight years previously from another operator after acquiring his initial flying experience with the Turkish Air Force. The 47 year old Co-pilot had also gained his initial flying experience with the Turkish Air Force and had joined the airline 3½ years earlier after operating as an ATR 72 Co-Pilot. He had accumulated 7659 hours total flying experience which included 1269 hours on the A330. The Captain had never previously flown to Kathmandu but both pilots had received "Special Purpose Training" for Kathmandu in a simulator just over 2 months prior to the accident. The Co-Pilot had made two previous non precision approaches to Kathmandu but the accident approach was his first RNP approach. It was noted that authorisation for Turkish Airlines to fly RNP AR approaches into Kathmandu had only been granted a little over two months before the accident. It was established that on initial contact with Kathmandu, two minutes after the airport opened at 0600L, the flight had been advised that the visibility was 100 metres and the airport was closed. After holding at FL210 until 0650L, an updated visibility of 1000 metres was notified and clearance was given for a RNP 0.3 AR Approach to runway 02. Three minutes after receiving landing clearance, a missed approach was commenced due to lack of visual reference. Fifteen minutes later, on receipt of updated weather information giving the visibility as 3000 metres, 1000 metres towards the south east and the lowest cloud as FEW at 1000 feet, a second RNP AR approach to runway 02 was commenced. Two minutes after giving clearance to land and with the aircraft passing 880 feet aal at the time, TWR asked if the runway was in sight and were advised that it was not. Passing the prescribed MDA, the crew asked if the approach lights were on and were advised that they were at full intensity. The aircraft was found to have then continued the approach with the AP engaged (expressly not permitted for the final, visual, stage of an RNP AR approach) and it remained engaged until 14 feet agl, at which point it was disconnected and a flare attempted. The aircraft touched down with the left main gear assembly on the grass 10 metres to the left edge of the 3000 metre long 45 metre wide runway paved surface with a recorded 2.7 g vertical acceleration. It initially continued in a straight line before the soft ground beneath the left main gear caused the aircraft to leave the runway altogether to the left. It came to a stop wholly on the grass with a collapsed nose gear and with substantial damage to both the