Bacteria are a common cause of food poisoning. The most common foodborne bacterial pathogens, accounting for the majority of harmful infections, are: Campylobacter,. Salmonella, and. Escherichia coli.. Toxins from bacterial infections are delayed because the bacteria need time to multiply and symptoms are not usually seen until 12 - 72 hours or more after eating contaminated food. In addition to disease caused by direct bacterial infection, some foodborne illnesses are caused by exotoxins which are excreted as the bacterium grows. Exotoxins can produce illness even when the microbes that produced them have been killed. Symptoms typically appear after 24 hours depending on the amount of toxin ingested. Commonly encountered toxins include: Clostridium botulinum - the rare but potentially deadly disease botulism occurs when the anaerobic bacterium clostridium botulinum grows in improperly canned low-acid foods and produces botulin, a powerful paralytic toxin.. Staphylococcus aureus produces a toxin that causes intense vomiting.. The term ‘mycotoxin’ is usually reserved for the toxic chemical products produced by fungi (mould). Health effects include death, identifiable diseases or health problems, weakened immune systems without specificity to a toxin, and as allergens or irritants. Mycotoxins can appear in the food chain as a result of fungal infection of crops, either by being eaten directly by humans or by being used as livestock feed. Mycotoxins greatly resist decomposition or being broken down in digestion, so they remain in the food chain in meat and dairy products. Ingestion of misidentified mushrooms containing mycotoxins may result in hallucinations. Viral infections make up perhaps one third of cases of food poisoning in developed countries. In the US, more than 50% of cases are viral and noroviruses are the most common foodborne illness, causing 57% of outbreaks in 2004. Foodborne viral infection are usually of intermediate (1–3 days) incubation period, causing illnesses which are self-limited in otherwise healthy individuals, and are similar to the bacterial forms described above. Parasites may be present in food or in water. They range in size, from tiny single-celled organisms to worms (e.g. tapeworms) visible to the naked eye. The illnesses they can cause range from mild discomfort to debilitating illness and possibly death. Several foods can naturally contain toxins, many of which are not produced by bacteria. Examples include red kidney beans (the toxins are destroyed by cooking) and shellfish, particularly bivalve molluscs (filter feeders) such as mussels, oysters and clams. Symptoms can appear 10 - 30 minutes after ingestion and include nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, dry mouth, confused or slurred speech, and loss of coordination. In more severe cases, neurological symptoms can take several hours or up to three days to develop. People poisoned with high doses of toxin, or those in high risk groups such as older people and those with pre-existing medical conditions, can die.