The crisis management at ATC operations level (Tactical level) could be narrowed down to the following 3 phases: When an event of catastrophic nature, which renders certain airports and or airspace volume unusable, has been notified to ANSP, it is very important to evaluate the information, in particular to assess the origin of the information and gather as much detail as possible regarding the nature and the magnitude of the event. After the information has been assessed as being credible and safety critical, this initial information must be passed down to the individual ATC units, preferably with suggested courses of action for shift supervisors and controllers in the given circumstances. Air traffic controllers without delay should notify all stations which are affected by the event. Aircraft affected by the event might include but are not limited to: inbound for destination within the area of crisis. having an alternate aerodrome within the area of crisis. planned their flight over the area of crisis. inbound for destination or having an alternate aerodrome in proximity to the affected area. A broadcast to ALL STATIONS might be necessary to share safety critical information. ATC units should be able to provide additional and more detailed information regarding the nature and the consequences of the event and the affected aerodromes/volumes of airspace as soon as further facts are available. A crisis management team normally will be organised and engaged in a collaborative decision making process within the ANSP as per local instructions and national regulations. This team will monitor and manage the crisis, gather and distribute critical information and coordinate actions with the corresponding CAAs, military crisis command centers, the international intergovernmental organisations (such as EUROCONTROL NMOC, etc.) and adjacent flight information regions (FIRs). At early stages of the event, airforce and military aircraft are likely to be deployed to participate in rescue operations from airbases located in proximity to the event. In this phase, a course of actions and instructions should be elaborated that will enable ATC to mitigate the effects of the unplanned event. The course of actions will depend on the type of the event and the availability of resources, including but not limited to alternative aerodromes, suitable civilian and military airfields, and available airspace (as necessary military restricted areas will be assigned for civilian use in order to increase capacity). It is important that the ATC units quickly ascertain the scale of the event and the implication for the safe ATC service provision. The ATC units must be able, without any delay, to pass information to the flight crews in order to facilitate their situational awareness and timely decision making. For example, such information may include (non-exhaustive list): The nature, duration and consequences of the event. Availability of aerodromes and alternate destinations. Availability of airspace. Significant weather along the diversion route and over the alternate aerodromes. Impact on ATC service provided by ATC units affected by the event.. At this stage, flow control traffic restriction are likely to be put in place