service provided. Expect: High volume of traffic (particularly in the terminal areas adjacent to the aerodromes and airspace volumes affected by the event). Airspace capacity problems. Aerodrome capacity problems. Increased coordination with adjacent ATC Units. Flight crews not immediately familiar with aerodrome details and procedures. Increased pilot workload. Increased controller workload. Defenses: Advise crews on details regarding adjacent aerodromes, including the weather conditions in case of capacity problems at the destination. Provide any other pertinent information to help pilots improve/maintain situation awareness and make informed decision about the continuation of the flight. Provide any additional information related to specifics of approach procedures and the aerodrome details to crews which are less likely to be familiar with the changed destination. Provide additional staffing to ensure frequent rotation and adequate rest of the controllers. Provide information for usable military airfields to aircraft which are likely to experience fuel shortage and coordinate the deviations with the military controllers. Tower Control ATC Units The proximity of the aerodrome to the affected area will determine, to a certain extent, the workload at the tower control unit. Expect: Aerodrome capacity problems due to extra inbound traffic. Increased communication with crews requesting start up. Increased coordination with adjacent ATC Units. Crews not familiar with airport layout, slower taxi and poor situation awareness. Increased pilot workload. Increased controller workload. Defenses: Delay or cancel start up clearances as necessary to keep number of flights in the affected area within the acceptable limits. Coordinate with ground control and airport authorities the usage of the available parking stands and consider possibilities to park aircraft on taxiways, if the capacity problem is severe. Broadcast Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) messages informing crews of the event and the aerodrome procedures related to it in order to mitigate pilots' and the tower controllers' workload. Include in the ATIS messages information about closed airports within the affected area. Provide additional staffing to ensure frequent rotation and adequate rest of the controllers.