in order to limit both the traffic inbound to the affected area and also traffic in the adjacent areas which are very likely to be saturated, for a considerable time period, by diverging and/or holding flights . In this phase the ANSP deploys its crisis management plan in close coordination with the adjacent FIRs and international organisations, as need may be. The ANSP must be able to quickly assess the capacity of the ATC units to handle increased volume of traffic and process numerous re-routings and diversions to alternate aerodromes. In order to achieve this, the ANSP must be prepared to: Open additional sectors. Provide extra staffing of controllers as necessary for short-term rotation in order to mitigate the controller’s overload. Examine any additional possibilities for re-routing and different alternate aerodromes usage as some aerodromes and airspace volumes might run out of capacity to handle non-planned traffic. Design an optimum plan for alternate aerodrome allocation taking into account all the information obtained from ground sources and from flight crews.. The different types of ATC units will face different operational challenges and no crisis management plan can predict for every eventuality. The ATC Units must be able, to the best of their ability, to respond in a safe and orderly manner with the system-wide crisis. Nevertheless the ATC Units must be prepared for certain common factors. Some of these expected common factors might include: En-Route Control ATC Units The complexity and configuration of airspace could make the efficient and expedite provision of en-route control service problematic, particularly in congested areas of en-route airspace. Expect: High volume of traffic. High complexity of operations due to non-standard traffic (diverging aircraft and re-routing actions) and missing/incorrect flight plans (due to possible strains on the FDP system related to the high traffic volume and numerous changes to flight trajectories). Congested radio frequency due to clarifications requests and prolonged individual communications. Missed radio calls (due to increased discussion between the pilots and supernumerary crew and advisory messages on operator’s company frequencies). Increased pilot workload. Increased coordination with adjacent ATC Units. Increased controller workload. Defenses: Open additional sectors. Provide extra staffing to ensure frequent rotations on the positions and adequate rest periods. Provide additional advisory only frequency, as necessary, for the event clarification purposes. Advise crews on details regarding adjacent aerodromes including the weather conditions in case of capacity problems at the destination. Request information from crews about fuel reserve/flight endurance and runway parameters needed. Provide extra flight data and technical support personnel due to possible strain and overload of the existing CNS systems. Provide any other information pertinent to the situation awareness and to crews consideration related to decision making. Provide information for usable military airfields to aircraft which are likely to experience fuel shortage and coordinate deviations with the military controllers. Approach Control ATC Units The proximity of the approach control unit to the affected area will determine, to a certain extent, the increase in controller's workload and may cause temporary disruption of the ATC