Pilot visibility through the flight deck windows is greatly improved by the following external lights: Taxi Lights - Taxi lights are medium intensity lights which may be mounted on the nose landing gear strut, in the aircraft nose or at the wing roots. They are used to provide illumination of the taxiway during ground operations.. Runway Turnoff Lights - Turnoff lights are similar to taxi lights except they are mounted on an angle pointing to the left and right of the aircraft nose. These lights will illuminate taxiways or obstacles on either side of the aircraft.. Landing Lights - Landing lights are high intensity lights used to illuminate the runway surface for takeoff and landing and also to facilitate the aircraft being seen by other pilots. These lights may be wing, landing gear strut or fuselage mounted. In some installations, they are mounted in the leading edge of the wing behind a clear fairing while in others, they are extended and retracted from a cavity in the wing or fuselage. Depending upon the regional norm, landing lights are either switched on when entering the active runway or upon receipt of takeoff clearance. Where the AOM allows, landing lights are normally turned off as the aircraft climbs through 10,000' and are turned on again as it descends through 10,000' on approach.. Wing Inspection Lights - Wing inspection lights are mounted in the fuselage and are aimed to illuminate the leading edge of the wing and the engine pylons. They are often used during hours of darkness for aircraft preflight inspection and for illumination during engine start. They can be used in flight on an "as required" basis, often to see if there is any accretion of ice on the leading edge of the wing.. Ice Detection Probe Light - Some aircraft are fitted with a visual ice detection probe which is normally mounted between the windshields. In some installations, the probe is internally or externally lit to enable the pilots to see any ice accumulation occurring during hours of darkness..