then “wondered for a moment whether to drastically correct the flight path towards the westside runway and continue to land or make a go-around” but decided on the latter. As the aircraft was climbing though “approximately 100 feet agl”, the TWR controller, who had become convinced the aircraft was about to land on 03R and had not received any call that a go around had been self initiated, instructed that one be flown. Re-positioning and a landing on the correct runway were thereafter completed without further event. The visual circuit as flown to the wrong runway. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the normally separate civil/military runway use was a permanent arrangement which was associated with aprons adjacent to the outer side of each runway and clearly indicated on promulgated airport information available to the pilots. It was also noted that 03R was a concrete pavement and thus appeared light coloured - and more immediately obvious - than 03L which was asphalt surfaced and was therefore relatively less obvious (see the illustration below). In respect of the performance of the pilots, it was apparent from statements that the PF Captain had flown significant parts of the visual circuit head down and that the First Officer had comprehensively failed to monitor the Captain’s actions or communicate in any way apart from in respect of the 500 feet stabilised approach call. It was concluded that it was likely that after the Captain and the First Officer had initially confirmed to each other that the two runways were in sight, there had been no further communication between them as to whether the correct runway was in sight. It appeared that despite the fact that a visual circuit was being flown, the First Officer had devoted his attention exclusively to the indications of the flight instruments. The Investigation determined that the event had constituted a ‘Runway Incursion’ which meant that it was appropriate to classify it in accordance with the ICAO Runway Incursion Severity System as detailed in ICAO Doc 9870 and concluded that it had been a category ‘C’ event. The appearance of the two runways from the air (the air passenger terminal is on the left). [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Probable Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was determined as the Captain, having misidentified the runway on which the aircraft had been cleared to land, made an approach for a different runway which was occupied by an inspection vehicle. Two Contributory Factors which led to this potential runway incursion were identified as: The PF Captain did not thoroughly perform the visual recognition of runway. The First Officer did not adequately monitor the flight status of the aircraft in respect of the Captain’s runway misidentification.. The Final Report was adopted by the JTSB on 5 March 2021 and published in both English translation and the definitive Japanese version on 25 March 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.