After notification of the event the day after it had occurred, the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB) classified it as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out. It was noted that the 38 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector involved, had a total of 3,708 hours flying experience of which 1,616 hours were on type. The 32 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,942 hours flying experience of which all but 290 hours were on type. Prior to commencing descent to destination, the flight crew conducted an approach briefing which confirmed the expected landing runway at Hyakuri as 03L and put the extended centreline of runway 03L into the FMC to assist in flying the expected visual approach to that runway. They then displayed this on their NDs. On contacting Hyakuri APP, the flight was initially provided with radar vectors and advised that the anticipated visual approach to 03L, the runway used by civil aircraft, could be expected. When about 5nm north-northwest of the airport, both pilots visually confirmed sighting of the airport and its two runways and advised ATC accordingly. The APP controller responded by issuing clearance for a visual approach to the “westside runway” as 03L was commonly called. On subsequent transfer to Hyakuri Tower, the flight joined downwind and as it was about to commence the turn onto base leg, landing clearance for the westside runway was given. During the turn, the flaps were set to the landing position and, once set, the pre landing checklist was completed. The turn onto finals was completed at about 700 feet aal and as the Captain lined up the aircraft on the white (eastside) military use runway, he perceived it to be the westside one and so disconnected the AP and reported having then “concentrated on stabilising the aircraft attitude, airspeed and rate of descent in order to maintain the (required) stabilised approach”. Meanwhile, the First Officer stated that he had been “concentrating on confirming the indication of instruments in the flight deck”. As the aircraft completed its turn onto finals for 03R (which is for the use of military aircraft but was in any case temporarily closed) a vehicle was driving north along the centreline carrying out a routine runway inspection. The TWR controller stated that they had “recognised that the aircraft had overshot as it completed the final turn” and, concerned that the flight was approaching the eastside runway, had “reconfirmed” that it was the westside runway (03L) that the aircraft was cleared to land on and added a wind check which the First Officer acknowledged. In response to the “five hundred” call, the Captain responded with “stabilised” and then reported looking up for the first time and seeing that the 03L painted marking was visible on the runway to his left rather than the one ahead and noting a “black object" (the runway inspection vehicle) around the centre of the runway in front of him. He stated that he had