controllers but no reason was offered to explain why there was no log entry. The incident was first reported to facility management the following day by the OJT and the developmental controller who had witnessed it. The controller involved did not report the incident and stated that he was not aware of the facility investigation until he arrived for his next duty after two days off and not aware of his ‘operational error’ until the day after that. The manager to whom the incident controller was responsible advised the Investigation that he was “frustrated at the continual problems created by the incident controller and the inability to effectively correct his deficiencies”. He also stated that the incident controller “was no longer utilised as an OJTI due to poor teaching techniques” and that as a result of the incident, he was also now no longer allowed to work the TWR position. The Investigation found that whilst management were aware that the incident controller had already been withdrawn from OJTI duty and subsequently from TWR duty, he had not been advised of this action and was also still certified to work as a controller-in-charge which by definition allowed him to work any position and, after assigning controller-in-charge responsibility to another controller, perform OJTI duties after hours, on weekends, before management arrived at the facility each weekday morning, or at any other time when he was not under active supervision. It was noted that it had been entirely fortuitous that a situation whereby the incident controller could have assigned himself to the TWR position or provided OJTI had not arisen between the time of the investigated occurrence and the NTSB Investigation. The Investigation noted that the FAA Air Traffic Control Order reference to intersecting runway operation extant at the time of the event stated that traffic information must be issued to each aircraft operating on intersecting runways and that departing aircraft must be separated from an aircraft using an intersecting runway, or runways when the flight paths intersect, by ensuring that “the departure does not begin takeoff roll until the preceding aircraft has departed and passed the intersection, has crossed the departure runway, or is turning to avert any conflict”. The Probable Cause of the incident was determined by the NTSB as: “The Gulfport control tower local controller cleared two aircraft for takeoff from runways with intersecting departure flight paths without ensuring the first aircraft had passed the flight path intersection prior to clearing the second aircraft for takeoff.” The Final Reports of the Investigation OPS11IA673A and OPS11IA673B were approved by the NTSB on 18 January 2012. No Safety Recommendations were made and any ANSP (FAA) safety action taken as a result of the findings is not recorded.