“positive” touchdown occurred at, or slightly before, the TDZ at 154 KCAS with a 5 knot tailwind component. Eleven seconds after landing, at which point recorded flight data showed that braking effectiveness had reduced and then remained low for most of the remaining time on the runway, the Captain requested the First Officer to assist on the brakes. In the Captain’s opinion, aquaplaning has occurred and approximately 20 seconds after touchdown, the “aquaplaning response technique”, which involved reducing manual brake pressure and stowing the thrust reversers, was applied but to no effect and maximum reverse thrust was applied and deceleration then increased as the aircraft approached the end of the runway. Once off the runway, the aircraft came to a stop after 70 metres, still within the RESA. All occupants subsequently left the aircraft using the front stairs and were then taken to the terminal. A visual examination of the aircraft found some deep scratches on the tyres and minor damage to some landing gear components both resulting from the abrasive and loose surface of the RESA. It was noted that the most recent maintenance carried out on the Newman runway surface had been completed in June 2018 and had involved retexturing and excess rubber removal after an audit by the safety regulator, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA), had found that the bitumen which holds the asphalt aggregate together was seeping up to the surface in the TDZ at both ends of the runway. A routine runway friction test designed to assess the condition of both the microtexture and the macrotexture of the surface was carried out in March 2019. This found that the macrotexture (which affects how fast water can escape from the surface in the absence of grooving) was frequently below the maintenance planning level and in places below the allowable minimum friction levels although when averaged over 100 metre stretches the lowest friction measurements did just meet the maintenance planning level. However, it was noted that the applicable standards had no requirement for, nor did they specifically permit, averaging of friction measurements in this way. However, the same tests performed a year later (after the investigated event) did not show any deterioration. Prior to the landing, the ARO had, as required, inspected the runway and stated that they recalled having found “a significant amount of standing water on the grass strips on either side of the runway (but) the main runway surface clear of any noticeable standing water” and that this had continued to be the case as the rain continued after the overrun. The Investigation noted that although there was no comparable CASA publication, FAA Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) 19003 ‘Turbojet Performance on Wet Runways’ suggested that “whenever there is likelihood of moderate or greater active rain on a smooth (ungrooved) runway, or heavy rain on a grooved or porous friction course runway, landing distance calculations should be done assuming the surface is contaminated". In respect of Company operations on wet runways, whilst the