An Investigation into the accident was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant aircraft flight data was available in support of the Investigation. It was noted that the Captain, who was acting as PF for the sector, had a total of 5,594 hours flying experience of which 1,963 hours were on type. The First Officer had a total of 2,920 hours flying experience of which 182 hours were on type. The flight under investigation was the first of the day. The crew pre-flight briefing included a review of the forecast destination weather conditions which included heavy rain and a crosswind gusting up to 25 knots. The Captain decided to act as PF and loaded additional fuel to allow for a possible diversion to Port Headland, an approved alternate which took the aircraft up to MLW (maximum landing weight). The available information included the fact that the recorded cumulative rainfall at the destination airport was almost 9 cm. The Captain was familiar with operations into Newman but it was only the second time there for the First Officer. Destination weather obtained en route was in line with the forecast already noted. The Captain stated that because of the potential for windshear during final approach, it was decided to make a flap 25 approach with speed brakes extended in place of the usual flap 42 approach thereby accepting an increased VAPP of 153 KIAS. The Captain stated that as they operated regularly to Newman, the required landing distance had not been calculated as they knew that aircraft could land there at MLW on both a wet and a dry runway. Nearer to destination, the AWIS (Automatic Weather Information Service) report was obtained and similar except for the mean wind direction backing slightly and the 2,072 metre-long 30 metre-wide runway 05 was confirmed for landing. The forthcoming approach was discussed in respect of the possibility of windshear, turbulence and the likely significant crosswind component, but rainfall rate and the potential for water contamination or reduced braking effectiveness on the un-grooved runway were not discussed. A subsequent check of the AWIS gave visibility reduced in rain and the Captain commented that “the reduced visibility was likely related to a rain shower”. FDR data showed that the approach was within the required stabilised approach criteria and airspeed fluctuations typical of gusty conditions. On reaching the applicable DA (the type of approach flown was not recorded) just as the First Officer was beginning to state ‘no contact’ the Captain called runway in sight and continued the approach. The Investigation found that “at the time that the Captain announced that the runway was in sight, the aircraft was 3,400 metres from the runway threshold, which was the required visibility for the approach”. Both pilots stated that during the approach the rainfall was of a moderate intensity whilst the Aerodrome Reporting Officer (ARO) stated that there had been “a slight increase in rain intensity just prior to the landing” which made it “moderate rain”. A