weather briefing section of the Flight Administration Manual “indicated that the possibility of runways being contaminated at the departure and destination airports should be considered during the planning process” and the Company expressly prohibited operations on contaminated runways, no guidance was provided on how pilots could determine if a runway was contaminated and, in particular, “moderate or heavy rain were not identified as possible runway contaminants”. When advice was sought from the operator on how their flight crew were expected to assess whether a runway was contaminated, it was stated that they “should check NOTAM’s for any published runway unserviceability prior to departure” and “during flight, they should monitor the AWIS broadcast” despite the fact that this broadcast does not include any reference to standing water. The Captain’s decision to make a flap 25 approach rather than the normal flap 42 one because of the possibility of windshear was considered against relevant Aircraft Operating Manual (AOM) content which stated that “flap 42 should be used when landing on contaminated runways or runways with reduced braking action”. On the other hand, in respect of windshear on approach, the AOM encouraged the use of flap 25 in conjunction with an increased VAPP only “if a safe approach and landing was thought to be feasible” and recommended considering an increased landing distance when an increased VAPP was used. The Findings of the Investigation only identified one Contributing Factor which was “the combination of the approach speed required by the prevailing wind conditions and the poor braking effectiveness in the wet conditions (which) resulted in the aircraft overrunning the runway”. However, four Factors that increased risk were identified as follows: During the flight, the potential for the heavy or moderate rainfall to significantly impact the landing distance was not recognised by the flight crew and therefore not considered as a threat.. Despite technical examination of the runway identifying areas requiring maintenance to maintain the surface friction, no corrective action was taken.. The operator's documentation required crew to consider contamination of runways at the departure and destination airports. However, the provided definition and guidance did not include the means to identify water contamination from active rainfall. [Safety Issue]. CASA advisory publications did not include information regarding the potential for reduction in braking performance resulting from active moderate or heavy rainfall. [Safety Issue]. Safety Action known to have been taken whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included the following: On 31 January 2020, Network Aviation issued a Flight Standing Order which required flight crews to plan for an alternate on runways less than 2,200 metres in length when there is a possibility of wet runway and a crosswind component greater than 20 knots. This order was accompanied by memorandum containing detailed explanations for determining moderate and heavy rainfall and the effect on landing distance required for wind corrections in wet and dry conditions. A second Flight Standing Order was also issued the same day which banned an approach (unless a greater emergency