until the aircraft reached the runway, damaging five runway edge lights. At the time of ground impact, the airspeed had dropped 18 knots below the applicable Vref. The Investigation noted that with the A/T in RRTD mode, any attempt to increase pitch results in a decrease in speed since thrust is at flight idle and will not increase. It was confirmed that the accident aircraft pilots had both received training in respect of operating into Kandahar which was in accordance with the Company aerodrome classification of Kandahar. However, it was found that the accident aircraft had only European “BRNAV” equipment fitted and thus there could be no operational approval which permitted the RNAV (GPS) approach that was made and the flight crew had not been trained on and authorised to conduct such an approach. Although most of the approach was made in IMC, the prevailing weather conditions were not considered by the Investigation to have been a material factor influencing the way the approach was flown. Having noted that any GPWS/TAWS activations would not have been recorded on the FDR, the Investigation did not then seek to establish this from the record contained in the GPWS unit Non Volatile Memory. It was formally concluded that the likely Cause of the accident was “the failure to observe the company’s operating procedures and not executing a go-around when the approach was clearly not stabilised". It was noted that “moreover, the operator lacked the authorisation (and the crew the training) to carry out the RNAV (GPS) approach manoeuvre that was conducted at RWY 05 of the Kandahar Airport". It was concluded that a Contributory Factor to the accident outcome was “the inoperable status of the PAPI at runway 05 of the Kandahar Airport, which was thus unable to aid the crew to establish the aircraft on the correct descent slope”. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Swiftair, S.A., responsible for the operation, generate a procedure intended to ensure that its crews do not carry out unauthorised (and thus unsanctioned) manoeuvres. [REC 50/13]. that Swiftair, S.A., responsible for the operation, generate a procedure intended to ensure that its crews receive proper training on adherence to operating procedures. [REC 51/13]. that Spain’s Aviation Safety Agency (AESA) ensure that Swiftair, S.A. crews do not carry out unauthorised (and thus unsanctioned) manoeuvres. [REC 52/13]. that Spain’s Aviation Safety Agency (AESA) ensure that Swiftair, S.A. crews receive proper training on adherence to operating procedures. [REC 53/13]. The Final Report was approved on 25 September 2013 and subsequently made available in English translation.