An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish investigation agency CIAIAC as the State of the Operator. It was noted that following the accident, the flight crew had made “no effort to preserve the contents of either the cockpit voice or flight data recorders”. As a result the data from the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been overwritten but fortunately the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was still available and was successfully downloaded for use in the Investigation. In addition to significant damage to the right wing caused by the ground impact (see the picture above), five runway threshold lights were also destroyed. It was found that although both pilots had significant experience on the aircraft type they had only re-joined the operation six days prior to the accident flight. Both were familiar with Kandahar, the Captain more so than the First Officer. It was established that after an uneventful flight from Dubai, Kandahar Control had cleared the aircraft for an Area Navigation Systems (Global Positioning System (GPS)) approach to the 3204 metre long runway 05 (which had an MDA equivalent to just under 400 feet aal - see the IAC below) and provided an appropriate radar heading towards final approach. The crew were aware via Notice To Airmen that the Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems for runway 05 was out of service. With the First Officer acting as PF, the approach was flown with the AP engaged and commenced in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). The aircraft remained above the vertical profile and still was so when cloud was exited at approximately 1900 feet aal, The prescribed stabilised approach gate of 1000 feet agl was passed with a recorded rate of descent of 2650 fpm and a recorded airspeed of 192 knots. The operator stabilised approach requirement for maximum speed at and from this point was Reference Speed (Vref) +20 knots (155 knots for the accident approach) and the maximum permitted rate of descent at 1000 feet agl was 1000 fpm. The prescribed go around was not initiated at this gate or even considered subsequently. Shortly after exiting cloud, the runway was sighted and, with the aircraft about to join the vertical profile from above and also to the right of the FAT, the Captain took control. Approaching 500 feet aal, the AP was disconnected. The MDA was reached soon afterwards at a range of 1nm from touchdown but at this point (see the first diagram below) the aircraft was to the right of the extended centreline and still diverging. As lateral correction was attempted, the aircraft began to go below the published vertical profile (see the second diagram below). At about half a mile from the runway threshold, the aircraft had descended to only 13 feet agl. When a 20° roll to the right occurred, the right wing hit the ground in the undershoot area approximately 20 metres before the runway threshold with a vertical acceleration recorded as 1.36g. Thereafter, this wing was dragged along the ground