On 15 December 2015, a Boeing 737-300 (N649SW) being operated by Southwest Airlines on a scheduled domestic passenger flight from Houston Hobby to Nashville as SWA31 left the intended taxi route onto adjacent grass during its taxi in at destination in normal ground visibility at night. The nose landing gear collapsed with consequent structural damage and there was additional minor damage to other parts of the aircraft. Nine of the 138 occupants sustained minor injuries during the subsequent evacuation. Investigation An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant information was extracted from the solid state FDR and solid state 2 hour CVR. Recorded video surveillance footage of use to the Investigation was also available. The 58 year-old aircraft commander had 19,186 hours total flying experience which included 14,186 hours that were on type and 12,428 hours in command on all types. He had been employed by Southwest since 1999. The 61 year-old First Officer had 15,500 hours total flying experience of which 5,473 hours were on type. He had been employed by Southwest since 2006. Both pilots had flown to and from Nashville "numerous times previously". It was established that after landing normally on runway 20R and exiting it onto taxiway B2 with the Captain as PF, ATC had instructed the aircraft to taxi to its gate via taxiways B, T3, and T4 (see the illustration below). Most of the taxi in was completed uneventfully with the landing lights as well as the taxi lights being used to assist the taxi along taxiways B and T3 until the aircraft crossed runway 13/31 after which only the taxi lights remained on. The flight crew stated that as they looked for the left turn from taxiway T3 to taxiway T4, "they had difficulty locating taxiway T4 as it appeared dark and there was glare from the terminal lights ahead". The aircraft was briefly turned left onto a heading of about 065° (taxiway T4 was actually oriented at about 045°) and the crew searched for the turn to the ramp. The aircraft was then turned back to the right onto a heading of 090°, which was consistent with the heading towards their assigned gate C20 but premature and "three seconds later the airplane exited the taxiway into a grassy area with a large drainage ditch, east of the intersection of taxiways T4 and J". The nose landing gear collapsed and the aircraft stopped "angled to the right, on the left nacelle, right wing tip and nose". Soon after the aircraft stopped, the CVR recording indicated that an audible alert began sounding in the flight deck "which the flight crew indicated they could not silence" - this was subsequently identified as having been the gear unsafe alert. The Captain advised ATC that "we've cut the corner here and are off in the grass" and asked for ARFF equipment. The Cabin Crew had experienced "a large jolt and loud bang" as the aircraft stopped and reported that all the cabin lights had gone out