for "some time" before the emergency lights came on. They stated that passengers had "started getting out of their seats and were moving around the cabin" and that not knowing what was going on, two of the three cabin crew had "started using their emergency commands - heads down, stay down - to control passenger movement". After being unable to contact the flight crew on the interphone (which had lost electrical power), the front-of-aircraft cabin crew decided to initiate an emergency evacuation using door 1R only. The rear-stationed cabin crew member then "heard evacuation commands coming from the forward cabin and started yelling evacuation commands in the aft cabin". She had then switched on the emergency lights using the switch on the aft crew panel and opened first the L2 and then the R2 door. Once all passengers had evacuated, the cabin crew team checked the cabin and then evacuated themselves and ensured that the passengers were a safe distance from the aircraft. The flight crew reported that "about a minute after the aircraft had stopped", they "noticed that the slides were deploying and passengers were evacuating". The Captain had made a PA saying "okay don't evacuate flight attendants, do not evacuate" to which the First Officer responded "oh they are already going". It was noted that aerodrome lighting at Nashville included taxiway edge and centreline lights with all lighting controlled from two touchscreen panels located near the TWR and GND positions. The ATC Tower Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) "did not specify who had overall responsibility for the operation of the airfield lighting" which were owned by the Airport Authority although the lighting was operated in accordance with standard FAA requirements and a letter of agreement between the TWR and the Airport Authority. ATC records indicated that "about 30 minutes prior to the accident, the taxiway lights for taxiway J & Apron 2 had been switched off". This action had "resulted in shutting off the lights for taxiways L and J, taxiways T4 and T5 to the northeast of L, the lights along the edge of the ramp parallel to J and the connector and circular area between Concourses B and C". The lighting panel was found to have "preset intensity selections used according to current weather/day/night conditions". Any particular taxiway lighting circuit could be controlled independently of the preset system. It was noted that "the touch screen control circuit that activated or deactivated the taxiway centreline lights was located next to the touch screen control circuit that activated or deactivated the lighting for the ramp/apron and a portion of taxiway T4". The lighting panels were found to have a screensaver mode "that caused the screen to go black after approximately five minutes if the panel was not accessed by a controller". TWR personnel stated to the Investigation that "as a result of past complaints regarding the brightness of the green taxiway centreline lights on taxiways H, J, L, and T6" controllers routinely turned off the centreline lighting. It was