An incursion of this type may occur in any ground visibility, by day or by night. It may be a consequence of error by either an aircraft crew failing to follow their acknowledged taxi-in clearance, a failure by ATC to communicate a correct or timely taxi-in clearance or a misunderstanding in respect of the transmission or interpretation of a taxi-in clearance. In general, this type of incursion is almost always caused by a failure of either a controller or a flight crew to respectively issue or comply with a valid taxi-in clearance. Increasing attention has been given over the last 20 years to the development of alerting systems which can prevent an incursion which is about to happen or at least prevent it leading to a collision. Alerting systems which provide warnings directly to pilots have proved more effective than those which alert controllers who then have to respond rapidly with effective mitigation. Not only is there an inevitable delay, but there is a risk that an automatic (i.e. routine) instruction to an aircraft to stop may not necessarily be appropriate if that aircraft is already crossing ahead of an aircraft approaching at speed. Whilst a post landing incursion can happen at any aerodrome - some incursions involve an aircraft inadvertently re-entering a runway which they have just landed on – a runway layout that requires aircraft to cross another active runway en route to their parking position has an inherently higher risk than one without this requirement. Layouts with parallel runways and / or intersecting runways increase the probability of both ATC issuing conflicting clearances and, occurrence of incursions as a consequence of flight crew errors. However, this will depend on the runway configurations used and the taxi routes from the runways to the parking areas. It is important to review the probability of a occurrence of taxi-in incursions based on absolute number rather than using the movement-based rate. It is equally important to do this against a hypothetical baseline in which the only threat is an aircraft becoming lost after deviating from an accepted clearance given at an aerodrome which has a layout that inherently reduces both the probability of an incursion and its potential consequences. The latter is very much related to the point on a runway at which an incursion might occur relative to its length and the type of aircraft using that runway.