and using a second company call sign designator;. Do not use similar/reversed digits/letters in alphanumeric call-signs (e.g. RUSHAIR 87MB and RUSHAIR 78BM).. For short haul flights, avoid using number sequences for particular routes which begin the day with ..01 and then continue sequentially through the day.. Employ a call sign de-confliction programme (see under Defences above).. Some countries impose additional call sign requirements to reduce the risk of confusion. For instance, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) require that the following criteria are met if a call sign is to be authorized in the NAS (National Airspace System): The combination of call sign designator and flight number must not exceed 7 alphanumeric characters; To avoid similar or same call sign confusion, the call sign designator letters must immediately be followed in sequence only by the numerals of the flight number; No additional letters of the alphabet are permitted after the call sign designator (except for the bullet below); For operational purposes, Part 121 and Part 135 scheduled aircraft operators may use a letter as the final character of the aircraft identification as long as it is preceded by a numeral (i.e., AAL351A);. The combination of call sign designator and flight number must not exceed 7 alphanumeric characters;. To avoid similar or same call sign confusion, the call sign designator letters must immediately be followed in sequence only by the numerals of the flight number;. No additional letters of the alphabet are permitted after the call sign designator (except for the bullet below);. For operational purposes, Part 121 and Part 135 scheduled aircraft operators may use a letter as the final character of the aircraft identification as long as it is preceded by a numeral (i.e., AAL351A);. Examples of FAA acceptable call sign designators with flight number: MDSTRl, RDDL172, ABX91, AAL351A and SWA2604. Examples of FAA unacceptable call sign designators with flight number: RDDL1720 (more than seven characters), NEWS42G (additional alphabet letter used for non-scheduled operator), BKA16CH (two alphabet letters), and LBQ17523 (more than seven characters).