controller may well not have been able to see the 737 near the runway threshold. It was also found that there was a route which the three fire vehicles could have taken to the fire training area which would have made use of a service road without the need for the vehicles to access any part of the manoeuvring area used by aircraft. The Investigation concluded as follows in respect of Causes and Contributing Factors: “Believing Runway 33L to be under the control of the north ground position, the north ground controller cleared the aircraft rescue and fire fighting (ARFF) vehicles onto that runway, leading to a conflict with the departing WestJet 699” It was also found in respect of Risk that: (1) The absence of an effective method for indicating runway ownership and control increases the likelihood of incursions. (2) Where aircraft rescue and fire fighting (ARFF) vehicles do not need to use the runways, their unnecessary presence on a runway increases the risk of incursions, especially during a runway change. Safety Action As a result of the Investigation: NAV CANADA reviewed its procedures involving runway ownership. As a result, a new runway surface indicator (RSI) was designed and implemented in early September 2008. This system operates within EXCDS (extended computer display system), allowing visibility at all positions within Toronto tower, as well as a recording of all actions associated with the application. Both the EXCDS and phraseology manuals have been updated to reflect the current standard of operation.. The Greater Toronto Airports Authority (GTAA) initiated a communication process to assist in mitigating risk, which requires emergency services to notify NAV CANADA prior to conducting training exercises that involve crossing the airfield. reiterated that airport traffic directives and the associated airport vehicle operator's permit (AVOP) training program indicate and inform AVOP applicants that the service roads should be used whenever possible and that an operational need is required to be present in the manoeuvring area.. initiated a communication process to assist in mitigating risk, which requires emergency services to notify NAV CANADA prior to conducting training exercises that involve crossing the airfield.. reiterated that airport traffic directives and the associated airport vehicle operator's permit (AVOP) training program indicate and inform AVOP applicants that the service roads should be used whenever possible and that an operational need is required to be present in the manoeuvring area.. The Final Report was authorised for release on 15 May 2009. No Safety Recommendations were issued.