An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). Sufficient relevant recorded data and testimony was available to enable a detailed reconstruction of the events leading up to the loss of separation. It was noted that the visibility had been good and there had been no cloud below 10,000 feet so that the prevailing weather conditions had played no part in the investigated event. It was established that for operations with runways 24L and 24R in use, the Class ‘C’ airspace of the Montréal TMA had six sectors and for the time of day when the conflict under investigation occurred, staffing guidelines specified 7 controllers and 1 supervisor should have been on duty but this was down to 4 controllers and a shift supervisor, together with one trainee controller. Three of the four controllers on duty were controlling and the fourth was on a break. One of the controllers became unwell and their position was temporarily combined with another until re-opened by the supervisor, who had then taken on the role off instructor and the trainee instructor had taken over the position. The 6 sectors are shown on the illustration below. The initial sector combinations were the North Departures (DN) controller also responsible for the South Departure (DS) and Satellite (SA) sectors and the North Arrivals (AN) controller also responsible for the South Arrivals (AS) sector. The Low Arrivals (LO) sector was not combined and it was this one where the controller became ill and had to leave the operations room. At that point, the sector was added to the North Arrivals (AN) position in addition to the South Arrivals (AS) sector until, after 17 minutes, the Shift Supervisor reopened the LO sector control position and after the trainee controller had observed the traffic and been briefed, he took over the position with the shift supervisor as his OJI (on-the-job training instructor). Six minutes after the LO sector controller had become ill, the controller responsible for the ACC Rawdon sector to the northeast of the DN sector (see the illustration above) and who was working the Cessna 421, contacted the DN controller to coordinate transfer of that aircraft and was told that transfer should be direct to the LO sector which was immediately corrected to the AN sector with which the LO sector was now combined. The DN controller then advised the AN controller of this arrangement and although the aircraft would not enter the AN sector for some time, this was agreed and transfer of responsibility for the aircraft from the Rawdon sector was accepted shortly afterwards. The Cessna 421 made contact when 45 nm northeast of the airport and level at 4,000 feet. The AN controller confirmed that the approach would be an ILS to runway 24L and cleared the aircraft to fly direct to a waypoint located 11.9 nm from touchdown on the ILS final approach track (FAT). About a minute later, the A310, which was approximately 36 nm west of the airport and