and received the response that this aircraft was in sight. It was established that minimum lateral separation had been 1.7 nm when at 500 feet vertically as the A310 was in a right turn and below the C421 which was in a left turn - see the recorded radar display at that point below. The minimum prescribed separation was established 36 seconds later after the C421 had been transferred to the LO sector and the A310 to APP and both flights were completed without further event. It was noted that no TCAS alert was activated on the A310 in respect of the C421 and that the latter was not fitted with a transponder. The A310 transponder in use at the time was subsequently confirmed as serviceable and it was found that the C421 did not have, nor was it required to have, a TCAS installed. It was also noted that the prevailing weather had not been a factor in the occurrence and that no evidence indicating that controller fatigue had been a factor had been found. However, concerns in respect of procedures were identified with the transfer of both control responsibility and position responsibility prior to the conflict and also with the shift controller’s failure to exercise his responsibilities as an Instructor with sufficient diligence, the latter being considered partly a consequence of distraction attributable to his supervisory responsibilities. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: Combining the sectors in the Montréal terminal specialty because of short staffing, compounded by the sudden illness of the low arrivals controller and the closing and reopening of the low arrivals sector, increased the controllers’ areas of responsibility as well as the workload and the level of complexity of the workload.. The transfer of control responsibility of the Cessna from the Rawdon sector controller directly to the north arrivals controller was a deviation from the procedures in the Montreal Terminal Operations Manual.. A structured and consistent operational environment was not maintained, and the north arrivals controller became responsible for an aircraft outside of his area of responsibility.. Control responsibility for the Cessna was not transferred from the north arrivals controller to the low arrivals controller-in-training before the Cessna entered the low arrivals sector airspace. Consequently, neither the north arrivals controller nor the low arrivals controller on-the-job instructor observed the Cessna entering the low arrivals sector airspace on the radar display until it was pointed out by the low arrivals controller-in-training.. Once the north arrivals controller provided information about the Cessna to the low arrivals controller during the transfer of position responsibility briefing, the north arrivals controller believed the low arrivals controller was now responsible for the aircraft, although control responsibility had not been transferred to the low arrivals controller.. Following the transfer of position responsibility of the low arrivals sector, the north arrivals controller concentrated on his usual area of responsibility, which did not include the airspace to the northeast of the airport where the Cessna was flying, and