south on TWY M and the air traffic controller thought that the crew was continuing to taxi southwards here. The air traffic controller therefore called the crew: “Confirm you are entering runway now, seems like you are turning onto Mike”. Continue right turn, right turn and then left again to enter the runway”. The first officer responded “turning right”. When the right turn had been completed, and the nose of the aircraft pointed towards the north on TWY M, the commander pressed the TO/GA button and the aircraft accelerated to reach take-off speed. The air traffic controller immediately understood what was about to happen when she heard the strong increase in engine rpm. She called the crew immediately: “hold position, you are on taxiway Mike”. The commander says in her report: ” I immediately disconnected the autothrottles, closed the thrust levers and braked just slowly to reduce the speed, almost 80 kts it was”. Because the commander had focused on take-off and the conditions in front of the aircraft when the right turn was completed, she did not notice the illuminated sign “A3, 01L - 19R” which was positioned to the left of the aircraft at the stop line between TWY M and the RWY. With this acceleration and braking, the aircraft quickly reached intersection A4, 400 m north of A3. The air traffic controller wanted to turn the aircraft to the right here and back on TWY N so that the crew could make a new attempt at take-off via A3. The air traffic controller gave the turn instruction, but the turn was not performed. The first officer said “Alpha 4”. Instead of a right turn the crew turned left towards RWY. […] The Report uncovers that a playback of the recording of the radio communication from the ATC tapes indicates that the air traffic controller spoke very fast, from120 to 220 words per minute. The Report also makes note that: Norwegian Aviation Regulations BSL G 5-1 Aeronautical telephony procedures, § 10, part 2 b) prescribes a rate of speech not to exceed 100 words per minute. Exact pronunciation and correct phraseology contributes to reducing the possibility of misunderstandings. […]The air traffic controllers in the TWR adjust the intensity of all runway lights as necessary. The centre line lighting on TWY, runway warning lights (wig-wags) and red stop light arrays at the intersections are connected and are adjusted simultaneously in steps 100%, 30% and 10%. Under good visibility conditions during darkness, the intensity of the centre line lights and wig-wags are set at minimum (10%) and the stop line lights are turned off. The yellow intermediate holding point lights would be turned off. RWY lighting is also set at low intensity when visibility is good. These lights are very directional in the direction parallel to the RWY. At low intensity, the RWY edge lights are barely visible when you look at the RWY perpendicular to its length. The causal and contributory factors to the incident are stated in Comments