This is an extract from the Report (SL 20/2006) to serious incident published by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN): A Notice to airmen had been issued for RWY 01L: “A1 and A2 clsd, RWY 01L TORA 3200M via A3 and backtrack. RWY 01L not available for landing”. The crew was aware of this and the commander was strongly focused on using the available runway from intersection A3. The crew taxied, in accordance with their clearance, in a southerly direction on taxiway (TWY) N (see map [Figure 1]). The commander was pilot flying (PF) and the first officer was responsible for radio communication with Air Traffic Services. There was also a third pilot in the cockpit who had newly joined the airline and was being trained. He had no other tasks than to observe. While taxiing in a southerly direction on TWY N the crew was given clearance for take-off on RWY 01L via intersection A3. The first officer acknowledged this with the flight’s radio call sign, and the air traffic controller followed up with clearance to taxi in a southerly direction on RWY 01L, if necessary. The crew had calculated that the runway available from A3 was sufficient for take-off. The stated TORA in AIP for RWY 01L from A3 is 2,696 metres. The red line on the map shows the aircraft's movement. The data source is the airport ground radar. In her report, the commander says that when they were given clearance for take-off and turned to the right towards A3 she increased the engine rpm slightly and lit the landing lights. She then saw the yellow dashed line across TWY M, south of A3 which marks the intermediate holding point. The commander had a strong focus on the crew making an intersection take-off and that the available RWY was shorter than normal. She knew that the part of the runway to the south of the aircraft was closed, and interpreted the yellow dashed line as a marking of the closed part of the RWY. There and then, this seemed logical to the commander because it “coincided” with the NOTAM. The commander has flown to many different airports in many countries, and claims to be used to ground conditions not always being in accordance with ICAO standards. An airport operator marking a closed part of the RWY in this way was considered absolutely possible by the commander. In hindsight, the commander has no problems in understanding the actual function of this line. From this point in time, the commander was mentally on the "runway" and, as clearance for take-off had already been given, the take-off procedure was initiated. Because the available runway was shorter than normal, the commander took the aircraft all the way down to the yellow dashed line on TWY M (which she now believed to be the RWY) before turning north to ensure that there was no available runway behind the aircraft. In the control tower, this turn was understood as being the crew turning