from the Accident Investigation Board section of the Report: the most important cause for the incident is found in human factors of the crew. The commander was experienced, with almost 7,000 flying hours, but came into a situation where she misinterpreted the standard ICAO markings so that they "coincided" with her impression that she was on the RWY. […]It is the opinion of the AIBN that this crew's CRM has not been sufficiently good. One possible reason why the First Officer did not point out what the commander was in the process of doing may be that he did not discover it, but very different levels of experience could have affected the authority gradient and thereby influenced the course of events.. OSL (Oslo Airport Gardermoen) has chosen to use the opportunity offered in ICAO Annex 14 not to mark taxiway edges with blue lights. It is possible that blue edge lights would have contributed to reducing the probability of misunderstanding, although this is not certain. The commander commenced take-off on a paved path having clear green centre line lights, which a runway never has. No runway lit in accordance with Annex 14 exists without edge lights, but edges of the path on which the commander accelerated were unlit. The type of lighting and the colour of the lights were evidently not sufficient to make the commander doubt her own decision.. The crew were given clearance for take-off while taxiing south on TWY N. It is the opinion of the AIBN that the probability of the incident occurring would have been reduced if take-off clearance had been given at a later stage (also commented on in SL Report 39/2004). Without take-off clearance, the commander would not have pressed the TO/GA button after line up on TWY M. In such case, the commander's misunderstanding would have been detected while the aircraft was stationary. […] If the flight had been cleared for “line up and wait” or “taxi to holding point A3” first, and then given clearance for take-off, the incident would probably not have occurred. Splitting a clearance in this way could be made even more explicit by using the lights in the stop bar to indicate cleared/not cleared to enter the runway. It is the opinion of the AIBN that more powerful lights in the wig-wags and a lit stop bar at A3 would have reduced the probability of misunderstanding by the commander, because the lights would have attracted attention and made it clear that the aircraft had not yet reached the runway. The AIBN makes two recommendations regarding these conditions.. As far as RAAS (Runway Awareness and Advisory System) is concerned, it is the opinion of the AIBN that, in this case, it would not have prevented the commander believing that she was on the runway. The system could have made her aware of what was about to happen, so that the attempted take-off could have been aborted even if the air traffic controller had not discovered that acceleration of