Automation in ATM can be used for various purposes: Collection and distribution of flight plan data. Flight plans (as well as any changes or cancellations) are sent to a centralised unit and then distributed to anyone concerned. This is probably the most widespread use.. Collection and distribution of other aeronautical data (e.g. NOTAMs, METARs, SNOWTAMs, etc.). Provision of meteorological data (e.g. ATIS). Integration of various data on the situational display (e.g. special use areas, weather information) or on Integrated Tower Working Position (ITWP) displays. Imposition of restrictions (e.g. CTOTs). Sector configuration tools (software that helps the supervisor choose the most appropriate sector configuration). Exchange of current flight plan data (e.g. via Online Data Interchange (OLDI)). Automatic Correlation between tracks and flight plan data and warning in case a correlated track is no longer seen by surveillance systems.. Communication and coordination (e.g. CPDLC, electronic inter-sector and inter-unit coordination, etc.). Safety nets (e.g. Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA), Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW), APW) that activate autonomously and warn the controllers of imminent safety hazards.. Clearance verification tools (e.g. Tactical Controller Tool (TCT)). Conflict detection tools (e.g. Medium Term Conflict Detection (MTCD)). Various reminder and verification tools, e.g.: automated checks whether the planned exit level meets the restrictions, stated in a letter of agreement or a local procedure; highlighting "special" flights (squawking 7X00, non-RVSM flights in RVSM airspace, formations, VIP flights, etc.); pointing out double SSR codes.. automated checks whether the planned exit level meets the restrictions, stated in a letter of agreement or a local procedure;. highlighting "special" flights (squawking 7X00, non-RVSM flights in RVSM airspace, formations, VIP flights, etc.);. pointing out double SSR codes.. Monitoring tools (e.g. for detecting a deviation from the clearance, level bust, setting a wrong SSR code, aircraft being lost due to transponder failure, etc.). ATC-independent safety tools (e.g. RWSL). Surveillance (e.g. ADS-B). 4D trajectories - an ATM method that takes into account the overall trajectories when issuing clearances..