Thrust levels above ground idle should be applied symmetrically.. Task Checklists must be constructed so that there is never a cause to temporarily defer items and continue.. Once a task has been initially briefed by the person authorised to supervise it, modifications to the briefed task should only be permitted within a clearly defined limit without a complete task re-briefing.. Where two persons, both holding the necessary authorisation to be able to supervise a task, are teamed together to conduct it, one of them must be designated by the Aircraft Operator or MRO as the supervisor for a particular task and should lead the pre-task briefing. No change of designated supervisor should occur during a briefed task.. Any plan for engine ground running which is authorised for power above Ground Idle must be carried out with the aircraft in a position in which unexpected and unintended forward movement will not result in damage or injury should the appropriate response from the designated supervisor be delayed.. Knowledge of the brake and hydraulic systems on any aircraft type for which a person is permitted to occupy a flight deck seat, for the purposes of engine ground running, must be comprehensive and formally certified as such.. All equipment and personnel must be completely clear of an aircraft before engine running above ground idle occurs.. Where local regulations require that contact with ATC GND is maintained in connection with ground running, this should specifically include ensuring that ATC are advised prior to commencing or after completing any periods of ground running at power above ground idle, even if such activity does not require explicit ATC permission at the site being used.. Where engines are being run for the purposes of facilitating system tests, a specific test sequence should be pre-specified in text form and should incorporate any appropriate checklists or give specific AMM references to these. If the latter method is used, current copies of such checklists should be appended to the test sequence.. Wheel chocks should be in place at the main landing gear for all ground running. In the case of ground running of engines above ground idle, care should be given to checking that the chocks being used are of a type which corresponds to the mass of the aircraft involved and that the chocking of wheels other than those at the main landing gear assemblies is considered.. AMM’s require that a fire extinguisher be within the vicinity of the engine, particularly if the engine cowlings are open and you are going to do leak check. This is because, in the case of a fire due to an oil/fuel leak in the fan section, the engine fire extinguishers may not be not be effective and you have to fight the fire with an external fire extinguisher.. QA audits carried out by the Aircraft Operator and any MRO involved should include a compliance audit of all procedures associated with engine ground running. This must extend to the recorded application of relevant procedures