During the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Drone Enable 2017 conference, experts from government and industry explained current applications of geofencing and forecasts of desirable near-term applications. These included the following examples: Ben Tally, co-founder and chief information officer of GeoNetwork, said that geofencing should be considered an essential element of UTM. “‘No fly’ zones are not enough — we need smarter geofences,” Tally said. This includes geofence rules aboard each UA that force avoidance of restricted airspace if the pilot/operator has no entry authorisation but enable entry when the operator also has loaded authorisation in the onboard geofencing system to enter restricted airspace.. Moreover, he said, geofencing — with associated airspace boundaries and rules of flight onboard the UA — enables temporary creation of micro-airspace with national aviation authorities and air navigation service providers (ANSPs; e.g., over a ski resort, school campus, town square, festival, marathon, parade, private property or road repair/construction hazards). Drone-to-drone collision avoidance also could be enhanced if UA beacons transmit their identification, three-dimensional location and a geofence “bumper” (buffer area) that would increase in dimensions at higher UA speeds or situations of UA position uncertainty, he said. Presenters from the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s NASA Langley Research Center described their basic concept — a prototype geofencing system to support UTM for small and mid-size drones. The system requires: loading geo-limitations to the UA, navigating within these limitations, identifying impending airspace violations, acting to avoid violations and operating with a certificated remote pilot. The elements of the design primarily aim to mitigate foreseeable causes of loss of safety margin.. They said, “An unreliable system can cause a drone to end up in places where no pilot or controller would ever command them to go. Good geofencing is necessary when failure consequence is high. Data integrity [especially in geo-limitation] is essential. Reliable avionics [for accurate UA position and navigation, and boundary detection in complex operational areas] are also essential.” Another paper presented in 2019 to an ICAO Technical Commission described the state of UTM as follows, “The concept of UTM is evolving at a fast pace. It is the enabler for all UAS operations from very low to very high altitude. … As the concepts of UTM mature, systems providing initial levels of capability start emerging, and the demand for airspace access continues to grow at all flight levels.. “ANSPs [air navigation service providers] anticipate that UAS operations will include those that are fully contained in either controlled or uncontrolled airspace, and those that transit across these boundaries. Through UTM, it is envisaged that civil aviation authorities (CAAs) and ANSPs, to the extent that they are involved, will be able to make real-time information regarding airspace constraints and flight intents available to UAS operators directly or through a UTM service provider.”