encounter a series of difficulties in managing the flight path through FCU inputs and, as the aircraft continued north without properly establishing downwind, 2.5 minutes after breaking right, the first Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) 'TERRAIN AHEAD' Caution was activated. The First Officer sought to get a left turn made but no action was taken and two more of the same Caution were activated in quick succession 15 seconds later. On query from ATC as to whether they were visual with the airfield or (just) the ground, the crew responded "with the ground" but did not seek radar assistance. Further mismanagement of the HDG selector by the Captain resulted in a turn to the right instead of the left whilst getting further and further to the north-north-east of the runway 12 threshold - and he appeared not to understand what he was doing wrong. After a further 15 seconds and with 40 seconds to go till impact, the first of a continuing series of EGPWS 'TERRAIN AHEAD PULL UP’ Warnings was activated as the aircraft began to turn away from the airfield towards the Margalla Hills - but no clear response followed. Altitude varied a little but the EGPWS predictive Warnings continued until 7 seconds before impact. There were then two successive reactive PULL UP Warnings and shortly afterwards, the aircraft struck terrain at 2858 feet amsl some 9.6 nm north-north-west of the VOR. The final minutes of the flight are illustrated below. It was found that the impact point was close to one of the waypoints on the non standard flight plan inserted into the FMS earlier by the crew. The track actually flown by the aircraft was found to have taken it 7.3 nm from the Runway 12 threshold, 3 nm beyond the designated protected area for a circling approach. Over a period of 70 seconds prior to impact, there were 5 Terrain Ahead Cautions, 13 Terrain Ahead PULL UP Warnings, one reactive Terrain Caution and the final two reactive PULL UP Warnings. Noting that the First Officer had appeared to be fully aware of the importance of acting on the EGPWS Alerts, the Investigation concluded that he had "simply remained a passive bystander in the cockpit and did not participate as an effective team member, failing to supplement / compliment or correct the errors of his Captain assertively in line with the teachings of CRM due to the Captain’s behaviour (earlier) in the flight". The Formal statement of Cause was recorded as: A case of Controlled Flight into Terrain (CFIT), in which aircrew failed to display superior judgment and professional skills in a self created unsafe environment. In their pursuit to land in inclement weather, they committed serious violations of procedures and breaches of flying discipline, which put the aircraft in an unsafe condition over dangerous terrain at low altitude. A total of fifteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: All pilots should be re-briefed on CFIT avoidance and Circling