Approach procedures and a strict implementation of this procedure be ensured through an intensive monitoring system.. The critical subject of pilot scheduling and pairing should preferably be handled / supervised by Flight Operations.. The implementation of an effective CRM program should be ensured and the syllabus of CRM training should be reviewed in line with international standards.. Existing pilot training methodology should be adapted to standardise and harmonise procedures.. A human factor / personality profiling program for aircrew should be introduced to predict their behaviour under pressure.. If possible, an Instrument landing procedure for Runway 12 at Islamabad should be established.. Safety Management Systems should be implemented in ATS as per the spirit of ICAO Document 4444.. The New Islamabad International Airport should be completed and be made operational as a priority.. An Approach Radar Scope (a visual augmentation system) should be installed in the Control Tower to monitor the positions and progress of aircraft flying in the circuit.. A review of the existing Regulations for the compensation and expeditious award to the legal heirs of the victims should take place.. The adequacy of the qualified human resources and equipment available to the Safety Investigation Board should be reviewed.. Information to the public on the progress of an Investigation should be issued by trained / qualified investigators of the SIB at regular intervals through the media.. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) should be tasked to acquire in-country airlift capability for removal of wreckage from difficult terrain like Margalla. As an interim arrangement, arrangements should be made to have some capable foreign resources available on as-and-when-required basis.. The Civil Police Department should be tasked to work out and ensure effective cordoning and onsite security arrangements of crashed aircraft wreckage at all the places specially remote / difficult hilly locations.. The Environment Control Department be directed to deal with the effects of deterioration / damage caused to the Margalla hills due to the crash.. The Final Report was published by the Pakistan CAA in November 2011.