An Investigation was carried out by the Safety Investigation Board (SIB) of the Pakistan CAA. The SSFDR and 2 hour SSCVR were recovered and their data, which in both cases covered the whole of the accident flight were successfully downloaded to assist the Investigation. It was established that the 61 year old Captain had accumulated a total of 25,497 hours flying experience of which just over 1000 hours were on A320 series aircraft. The 34 year old First Officer had accumulated 1837 hours flying experience of which just 286 hours were on A320 series aircraft. It was found that soon after departure from Karachi, the Captain, who was PF, had begun testing the knowledge of First Officer using "harsh words and a snobbish tone" and that this, along with lecturing and the giving of advice had continued intermittently for about an hour in a way which was considered to have been "humiliating". As a result, the First Officer "generally remained quiet, became under confident, submissive and subsequently did not challenge the Captain for any of his errors, breaches and violations". Whilst the aircraft was en route, the reported weather at Islamabad remained largely unchanged but there were some minor changes. The surface wind remained from 050ยบ at a mean speed of 16 knots, the prevailing visibility improved from 1500 metres to 3500 metres, the lowest cloud consisting of 3 oktas of Stratus lowered from 1500 feet aal to 1000 feet aal whilst other cloud cover was unchanged - 4 oktas of Stratocumulus and 1 okta of Towering Cumulus at 3000 feet and 7 oktas of Altocumulus/Altostratus at 10,000 feet aal. A weather warning for Thunderstorm with rain also remained current. The crew were advised that Runway 12 was in use and understood that this meant an ILS approach to Runway 30 followed by a break right to fly a visual circling approach in what could well be marginal conditions at not less than 2510 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings (842 feet aal). They were aware that one of the two aircraft ahead had completed the approach to a landing but the other had diverted. Whilst still en route, the Captain instructed the First Officer to set up a non standard flight plan in the FMS using waypoints which, if followed, would have led to the aircraft flying a wide circuit before turning inbound to establish on finals at 5nm. As the aircraft turned right over the threshold of runway 30 just past the VOR after delayed visual acquisition of the runway from the ILS, the Captain ignored the TWR controllers recommendation, because of the poor weather, for a 'Low Visibility Circling Approach' which would have put the aircraft on left downwind at no more than 1.3 nm from the runway. He appeared to have decided to use the flight plan track set up earlier (and not known to ATC) flying through the AP in 'managed mode'. Then, after violating the MDA by descending to 2300 feet QNH, the Captain appeared to