There are three types of tools used to warn controllers of conflicts: Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA); Look ahead time: usually 1-2 minutes. Input: surveillance data (actual flight level derived from SSR mode C and assumption that the aircraft will maintain its present track). There are some implementations that also include pilot input received via SSR mode S or controller input of CFL. Used as: safety net (to warn the controller that a separation breach is imminent).. Look ahead time: usually 1-2 minutes.. Input: surveillance data (actual flight level derived from SSR mode C and assumption that the aircraft will maintain its present track). There are some implementations that also include pilot input received via SSR mode S or controller input of CFL.. Used as: safety net (to warn the controller that a separation breach is imminent).. Tactical controller tool (TCT); Look ahead time: up to 5-8 minutes depending on local implementation. Input: surveillance and/or FPL data, depending on local implementation. Used as: conflict resolution and clearance verification tool (to inform the controller if the current clearance results in a separation breach so that it can be corrected if necessary).. Look ahead time: up to 5-8 minutes depending on local implementation.. Input: surveillance and/or FPL data, depending on local implementation.. Used as: conflict resolution and clearance verification tool (to inform the controller if the current clearance results in a separation breach so that it can be corrected if necessary).. Medium Term Conflict Detection (MTCD); Look ahead time: up to 20-30 minutes depending on local implementation. Input: flight plan data and controller input (clearances). Used as: planning tool (to inform the controller of potential conflicts so that a proper plan is made in advance).. Look ahead time: up to 20-30 minutes depending on local implementation.. Input: flight plan data and controller input (clearances).. Used as: planning tool (to inform the controller of potential conflicts so that a proper plan is made in advance)..