AP initially maintaining directional control. When the left engine power loss occurred, the crew response of increasing power on the right engine was delayed and a 15 second commanded reduction of the power on the right engine power then subsequently occurred whilst the left propeller rpm was in the range of 120% to 125%, both of which contributed to a loss of airspeed. This loss of airspeed continued, aided by another commanded reduction in the no 2 engine power setting and as the AP disengaged, the effect of all this was the aircraft was soon flying close to a stall with the airspeed down to around 120 knots. The aircraft began to roll left and descend and the stick shaker and stick pusher were activated. The estimated drag on the left side of the aircraft was calculated to have peaked earlier when the recorded left engine propeller speed had been briefly in the 120% to 125% range and during the subsequent transition of this propeller speed to NCD which abruptly reduced the additional component of the drag (possibly caused due to abnormal behaviour of left propeller) suddenly reduced. The advancing of power on the No 2 Engine coupled with right rudder input intended to counter the change in the asymmetric condition coincided with the last abrupt drop in recorded propeller speed and it was deduced that the aircraft stalled, became inverted and lost over 5000 feet of altitude “as a combined effect of resultant aerodynamic forces”, to end up at just over 8000 feet amsl. The crew successfully recovered from this loss of control and it was deduced by means of a “complex series of simulations and assumptions” that the blade pitch of left engine propeller “may have settled at an angle around low pitch in flight while rotating at an estimated speed of 5%”. The available evidence indicated that as a result of this, additional high drag forces were present on the left side of the aircraft from two minutes after the left engine shutdown for the remaining 4 minutes of flight and it was clear that the behaviour of the aircraft had been markedly different from that typical of single engine operation following the in-flight shut down of an engine. It was considered that this situation would have made it impossible to maintain a level flight whilst not precluding lateral control if a controlled descent were to be initiated. At this stage it was also clear that the aircraft performance had been outside the certification performance envelope and it would therefore have been very likely to have been exceptionally difficult for the pilots to understand and hence maintain control of the aircraft. An annotated illustration of the ground track during the final 15 minutes of the flight is provided below. The crash site was in a small valley surrounded by terrain with a general elevation of between 3,500 feet and 4000 feet amsl. Because of the speed of impact, most of the wreckage was in pieces and much