SOPs and training programmes.. that Pakistan International Airlines ensures effective utilisation of its OFDM system output and observations noted during simulator check flights and training sessions to identify and maintain records of operational trends. This mechanism may also include continuous monitoring and must enable requisite/proportionate improvements in relevant SOPs and training programmes.. that Pakistan International Airlines revamps its CRM training system (in the light of purposes and objectives of relevant ICAO publications and applicable SARPs) and evolves a purposeful internal assessment mechanism to gauge the effectiveness of CRM training.. that the CAA Pakistan (Directorate of Airworthiness, State Safety Programme Management and/or any other relevant departments) identifies relevant performance indicators and establishes a mechanism for monitoring of such indicators (in the light of purposes and objectives of relevant ICAO publications and applicable SARPs). Pratt &Whitney Canada data comparing the reliability of the Pakistan International Airlines ATR fleet engines and details of IFSD instances (as per records held by the airline / Pakistan CAA) can be considered as a reference. The established mechanism must also include relevant management tools to identify trends and recognise weak areas and execute proactive intervention(s), proportionate with the nature and extent of identified concerns.. that the CAA Pakistan (Directorate of Airworthiness) undertakes necessary improvements (in the light of purposes and objectives of relevant ICAO publications and applicable SARPs) to ensure that appropriate management tools are evolved / adopted and effective procedures are established to identify weak areas related to the compliance with the OEM-specified requirements / procedures etc. Pratt & Whitney Canada PW127 engine shop visits at the Pakistan International Airlines’ MRO for maintenance can be considered as a reference.. that the CAA Pakistan (Directorate of Flight Standards), keeping in view actions by the accident flight crew regarding the aircraft energy and Automation state and Crew Resource Management during the failure experienced, should consider the following measures: revamping the CRM training system (in the light of purposes and objectives of relevant ICAO publications and applicable SARPs) and instituting and implementing regular / periodic CRM facilitator interactive training workshops to emphasise the objectives of CRM, sharing of experiences and knowledge from industry accident / incident investigations and evaluating the positive outcomes of CRM. evolving a purposeful internal assessment mechanism for aircraft operators which will increase the effectiveness of CRM training by identifying tangible performance indicators and may consider developing a software module which will enable the accumulation of CRM observations in a database which will facilitate analysis. instituting and implementing feedback and analysis tools for use by aircraft operators along with the necessary training / guidelines. This may include the use of existing systems of OFDM analysis, hazard reporting, voluntary reporting of events and flight crew self-assessment etc. instituting and implementing an elaborate mechanism for aircraft operators for separately recording the weak areas identified during CAA Flight Inspector-supervised flights/simulator tests and continuous monitoring during regular training sessions and Flight Data Monitoring analysis. Effective utilisation should be ensured by establishing detailed records of operational trends and utilising these to