records meant that it was not possible to establish when or where this maintenance activity had taken place. The contamination by debris which was found to be present in the left engine propeller valve module was considered most likely to have been introduced when the propeller system LRUs were not installed on the gearbox during maintenance activity. It was not possible to establish when or where this had occurred because of a lack of records. Overall, these airworthiness findings led to the conclusion that they were indicative of “gaps in the monitoring and evaluation in the domain of airworthiness and safety oversight” by the Pakistan CAA which was considered to have been “unable to demonstrate proportionate conclusions, identify trends, and undertake proactive interventions” based on its maintenance oversight activity. It was also considered that the same airworthiness findings were also indicative of the absence in Pakistan International Airlines of an effective mechanism for safety and quality management in maintenance capable of ensuring compliance with required procedures and the meeting of expected safety standards. It was also concluded that the Pakistan International Airlines SMS “did not identify or implement appropriate corrective measures”. The Probable Cause of the accident was, in summary, as follows: Probable Primary Factors The dislodging and fracture of one of the first stage power turbine blades of the no 1 engine which triggered a chain of events. This combination of a fractured and dislodged first stage power turbine blade with two latent factors, the broken pin inside the overspeed governor and probable contamination inside the propeller valve module, was unusual. Had any of these factors existed alone, or had they not been coupled with an in-flight shutdown (IFSD) of the engine on the same side (in the manner it was experienced during this event), a different and/or less serious outcome may have resulted.. The dislodging and fracture of one of the first stage power turbine blades of no 1 engine occurred after the non-compliance with SB 21878 by the aircraft operator’s Engineering Department during unscheduled maintenance performed on the engine in November 2016, in which the first stage power turbine blades had fulfilled the criteria for replacement, but were not replaced.. The fracture and dislodging of one of these first stage power turbine blades in the no 1 engine, after it had accumulated slightly more than the soft life of 10,000 hours due to a known quality issue.. Probable Contributory Factors A fractured pin and contamination inside the overspeed governor contributed to a complex combination of technical malfunctions. The pin fractured because of improper re-assembly during some unauthorised / un-documented maintenance activity. It was not possible to ascertain exact time and place when and where this improper re-assembly may have occurred.. Contamination / debris found in the overspeed line of propeller valve module of the no 1 engine probably occurred when the propeller system line replaceable units were not installed on the gearbox after maintenance work and which contributed to the un-feathering of the propeller. It was not