feathering method using PEC command to the PVM's electro hydraulic valve might have provided an additional margin. However, an acceptable means of incorporating a specific operating procedure change, into the overall fault accommodation philosophy utilised on ATR aircraft systems, has not been identified by ATR.. The overspeed governor CMM has recently been revised by the OEM and the AAIB understands that these changes essentially encompass all conditions necessary to rule out the possibility of incorrect assembly of the lower body of the overspeed governor and consequent damage to the pin. Furthermore it is now expected that once an overspeed governor has been through any inspection at an MRO facility, it will have no hidden / latent defect.. Two Immediate Safety Recommendations were issued during the course of the Investigation on 9 January 2019 as follows: that Pakistan International Airlines ensures the immediate implementation of the Service Bulletin No 21878 which recommends the introduced a new design of the first stage power turbine blade in ATR 42 aircraft PW127 engines in accordance with corresponding amendments made to the Engine Maintenance Manual in May 2016, approximately six months prior to the accident, which specified replacement criteria for both new and old design blades.. that the Pakistan CAA evaluates its oversight mechanism for adequacy to discover maintenance lapses, proactively intervene, ascertain shortfall(s) and undertake necessary improvements.. A further Immediate Safety Recommendation was issued during the course of the Investigation on 20 August 2019 at the request of Collins Aerospace and the NTSB as follows: that Pakistan International Airlines recycle all 48 overspeed governors currently held on their inventory through an authorised facility where they can be disassembled, inspected and parts replaced (packing and hardware) followed by re-assembly and functional testing.. Thirteen new Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Pakistan International Airlines ensures ensure replacement of all first stage power turbine blades as per the schedule given in the Engine Maintenance Manual Chapter 5 in letter and spirit on the entire fleet of ATR aircraft (in the light of the 9 January 2019 Immediate Safety Recommendation).. that Pakistan International Airlines ensures the recycling of all 48 overspeed governors currently held through an OEM-certified MRO facility to verify and confirm that no other overspeed governor has any internal pre-existing anomaly (in the light of the 20 August 2019 Immediate Safety Recommendation).. that Pakistan International Airlines ensures strict compliance with SIL-568F-796 issued by Collins Aerospace which covers the maintenance of proper cleanliness and FOD prevention during engine and propeller storage and maintenance.. that Pakistan International Airlines undertakes improvements in (and ensures continued compliance with) all the areas identified in the Pratt & Whitney Canada site survey report of their MRO facility established for the maintenance of PW127 series engines.. that Pakistan International Airlines management identify critical performance indicators in the domains of both airworthiness and flight operations. The data is to be utilised for establishing trends and weak areas, further leading towards proactive corrective measures and corresponding improvements in