possible to ascertain exact time and place when and where this contamination was introduced.. In addition, eight Findings made during the Investigation which did not have any direct contribution to the causes of the accident were considered as being of significant importance and were formally documented as Important Observations as follows: In February 2017, the aircraft operator’s engineering department reviewed the life of the old design first stage power turbine blades and decided to define 10,000 hours as a hard life instead of a soft life irrespective of the conditions given in the AMM. The enabling reasons for this review and details of the participation of CAA Pakistan in this review were not recorded / provided.. After issue of the first ‘Immediate Safety Recommendation’ made during the course of the Investigation in January 2019, both the aircraft operator’s engineering department and the CAA Pakistan Directorate of Airworthiness maintained their position that SB-21878 was not mandatory contrary to the related revision to the Engine Maintenance Manual which introduced a recommendation to replace the old blades on completion of 10,000 flight hours when the power turbine assembly or the turbine disk is accessed.. CRM training of flight crew is governed by CAA Pakistan ANO-014-FSXX-2.0 which prescribes that refresher sessions are undertaken every two years. This training was not effective and did not yield the expected improvement in the behaviours / responses of flight crew. Neither aircraft operators nor the CAA Pakistan Directorate of Flight Standards had an effective mechanism to assess the efficacy of CRM training.. Operational Flight Data Monitoring (OFDM) as established at Pakistan International Airlines is not being effectively utilised and detailed records of operational trends have not been used as input to SOP definition and the flight crew training programme.. Flight Standards Inspectors from the CAA Pakistan periodically supervise the flight crew simulator sessions of all airlines and the pilots’ response to exposure to different situations is formally evaluated and weak areas are identified. Pakistan International Airlines needs to establish a system of continuous monitoring of regular flight operations to check on the identified weak areas by using suitable tools such as OFDM.. It was established that metal debris (small particles), probably originating from the No 6 bearing seal of No 1 Engine travelled inside the overspeed governor through contaminated engine oil. The same oil is used by propeller control system components including the overspeed governor, the propeller valve module and the feathering and secondary low speed stop solenoids. The overspeed governor incorporates orifices and polyester screens which protect downstream components from contaminants too large to exit through the Propeller Valve Module (PVM) solenoid hydraulic drain, whereas the protection valve inside the PVM has wire mesh screens.. As a redundant design, when the Propeller Electronic Control (PEC) is set to ‘on’, it provides a secondary control for feathering by means of its commands to the PVM's Electro Hydraulic Valve. Prior to the in-flight shutdown involved in the investigated accident, the PEC was unpowered and therefore off whereas the normal