An Investigation was carried out by the Pakistan Accident Investigation Board in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles. The DFDR and the CVR were recovered from the wreckage and the data from both were successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 43 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF, had a total of 11,265 hours flying experience which included 1,216 hours on type, his only multi crew command experience. His other multi-crew experience had all been gained as a First Officer on Fokker F27, Airbus A300/310, Boeing 737 and Boeing 777 aircraft. The 26 year-old First Officer had a total of 570 hours flying experience, all but 201 hours of which were on type. Another 40 year-old First Officer was occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seat for the sector and he had a total of 1,742 hours flying experience which included 1,416 hours on type. He had previously been a First Officer on DHC6 ‘Twin Otter’ and Fokker F27 aircraft. The accident flight was the last in a sequence of six for the aircraft and its crew operating out of the former Islamabad International Airport which has since been replaced by a new-build civil airport. After no abnormalities during the first five sectors, as soon as the aircraft became airborne from Chitral, examination of the DFDR data showed degraded accuracy in the speed governing of the left engine propeller but CVR data indicated that this was not apparent to the flight crew. The flight reached its planned cruise altitude of FL135 but was observed from the recorded data to have stabilised at 186 KCAS rather than the expected 230 KCAS which the Investigation attributed to the degraded performance of the left engine. Approximately 27 minutes after takeoff, a series of malfunctions began to affect the left hand engine and its propeller control system. Initially, fault indications for the Propeller Electronic Control (PEC) were annunciated which the pilots initially responded to it by resetting the system which was unsuccessful and then by de-powering it. The recorded propeller speed decreased slowly from the 82% cruise setting to a recorded 62% and 36 minutes after takeoff, the left engine lost power and was shut down. The recorded propeller speed, which had been reducing, then increased to a recorded 102% before reducing to “Non-Computed Data” (NCD). At this point, simulation results indicated that the blade pitch angle would have increased to a position which may have been close to the feather position before propeller speed began to record again as it increased to between 120% and 125% for 40 to 45 seconds - probably due to malfunction of its control mechanism due to oil contamination - before abruptly dropping below the NCD threshold again. At the same time, simulation results suggested that the blade pitch angle may have stabilised at a value different to that which would occur with a normally feathered propeller. During this unusual variation of propeller speed, “drastic variations in the aircraft aerodynamic behaviour and sounds” were recorded with the