inform airline SOPs and training programmes etc.. revamping the CRM training system (in the light of purposes and objectives of relevant ICAO publications and applicable SARPs) and instituting and implementing regular / periodic CRM facilitator interactive training workshops to emphasise the objectives of CRM, sharing of experiences and knowledge from industry accident / incident investigations and evaluating the positive outcomes of CRM.. evolving a purposeful internal assessment mechanism for aircraft operators which will increase the effectiveness of CRM training by identifying tangible performance indicators and may consider developing a software module which will enable the accumulation of CRM observations in a database which will facilitate analysis.. instituting and implementing feedback and analysis tools for use by aircraft operators along with the necessary training / guidelines. This may include the use of existing systems of OFDM analysis, hazard reporting, voluntary reporting of events and flight crew self-assessment etc.. instituting and implementing an elaborate mechanism for aircraft operators for separately recording the weak areas identified during CAA Flight Inspector-supervised flights/simulator tests and continuous monitoring during regular training sessions and Flight Data Monitoring analysis. Effective utilisation should be ensured by establishing detailed records of operational trends and utilising these to inform airline SOPs and training programmes etc.. that ATR considers including, as part of their training philosophy, a procedure in the relevant aircraft publications to handle the aircraft in case of severe structural damage (to correlate an aerodynamic degradation similar to the investigated event), so that flight crew are enabled to respond to such situations in a more appropriate manner.. that the FAA re-evaluates the revised overspeed governor CMM in the light of the Woodward Service Review carried out for the NTSB during this Investigation to ensure that the CMM encompasses all conditions necessary to rule out the possibility of incorrect assembly of the lower body of the overspeed governor and consequent damage to the pin.. that the FAA / Collins Aerospace consider, in the light of Collins’ SIL-568F-796) reminding maintenance organisations to maintain proper cleanliness and FOD prevention during engine and propeller storage and work, a system review and possible improvements to the oil system filtration inside the propeller control system to enhance existing protections against any debris entering the propeller valve module overspeed governor line (including the feather and secondary low pitch stop solenoids) that could affect safety functions.. The 194 page Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 16 November 2020.