of it buried in the ground. Signs of a severe post-impact fire were visible on most of the wreckage except a few parts which had been detached on impact. The entire fuselage including the flight deck had completely disintegrated and the parts all burnt beyond recognition. An annotated ground track of the final 15 minutes of the accident flight. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Although the Investigation considered that the crew response to the engine malfunction and its aftermath had not been objectively optimal, it was accepted that dealing with the situation which had presented itself would have been challenging for any flight crew. It was particularly noted that the “immense psychological impact” on the flight crew of the inverted roll during the first loss of control would have in itself impaired their capacity to perform normally. Although on recovery from this upset, there had been no further technical degradation and the left propeller blade pitch angle and rotation speed had both stabilised, it was likely that the resulting aerodynamic drag on the left side of the aircraft was likely to have been around seven times greater than that which would arise during flight within the normal single engine flight envelope i.e. with the affected side propeller in the feather position. In the light of the above, the principal focus of the Investigation was therefore on establishing how the loss of airworthiness which had presented the flight crew with circumstances which could not be addressed solely by following documented non-normal procedures had arisen. A problem with in-service failure of first stage high pressure turbine blades installed in Pratt & Whitney Canada PW127 series engines had been apparent since 2007. Various attempts to resolve this problem were not effective and so on October 2015, the OEM introduced a completely new blade design through SB 21878 and subsequently, six months prior to the investigated accident, amended the Engine Maintenance Manual by specifying replacement criteria for both new and old design blades. The aircraft operator’s maintenance records were found to show that the left engine had been removed from another of their ATR 42 aircraft for unscheduled maintenance just under a month before the accident because of rubber FOD stuck inside the engine low pressure impeller. The notified pre-conditions to replace the old design first stage high pressure turbine blades specified in the updated Engine Maintenance Manual were therefore met but were not replaced and the engine was then installed in the left hand position of the accident aircraft three weeks prior to the occurrence of the investigated accident. By the time the accident occurred, the left engine first stage high pressure turbine blades were 97 hours above the new recommended hard life and the failure of one of these blades then “triggered a sequence of technical malfunctions in the event flight”. It was shown that a fractured pitot valve pin in the left propeller overspeed governor had been present since it was last accessed during a maintenance activity but absence of proper