ATC traffic separation standards in controlled airspace will not necessarily prevent significant encounters with wake turbulence and a greater risk of injury exists because passengers and/or Cabin Crew will often not be secured in their seats. However, it is unlikely that any loss of control will be more than very brief and easy to recover from if at least minimum ATC separation standards are maintained. The only available direct defence against occupant injuries is for the flight crew to maintain situational awareness by monitoring other traffic in the vicinity, listening out on RTF and by use of the TCAS display; if similar track climbing or, when level, one-level-above traffic is observed up to 20 nm ahead and known to be a significantly heavier aircraft type, then the seat belt sign can be switched on and an appropriate Cabin announcement made. At the discretion of the aircraft commander, cabin crew may also be advised to temporarily cease any cabin service and secure themselves and their equipment. Flying a parallel offset (e.g. a few miles left or right of the flight planned route) can be used to avoid prolonged periods of exposure to wake turbulence. This allows for better comfort and continued in-flight service but in order to be effective an early enough warning is necessary. This can be done either by performing the ACAS procedure described above or by being informed by the air traffic controller of a possible encounter. ATC awareness of the persistence of wake turbulence at en route altitudes, beyond required traffic separation minima, is sometimes poor. Reliable ground system support functions to inform and warn Air Traffic Controllers of potentially hazardous wake encounters are not yet in operational use. When an En-route Air Traffic Controller identifies a traffic proximity situation with risk of a potentially hazardous wake encounter, he/she may provide traffic information to the trailing aircraft, including a caution for potential wake turbulence and when possible, may propose a change of lateral or vertical flight path, as appropriate.