Zurich but no solution was available and it was therefore decided to return to Zurich. At the lower altitude, there was no immediate urgency to achieve a landing and so fuel was reduced to MLW by a combination of dumping and early extension of the landing gear and flaps and the aircraft eventually landed back at Zurich after a two hour flight. On an initial examination, it was found that the equipment cooling overboard exhaust valve was fully open and that its electrical connector was un-plugged. The air duct connected to this valve had sustained severe damage (see the illustration below). No material from the damaged duct was found and the equipment cooling panel overhead panel rotary switch was in the STBY position as selected earlier by the crew. It was then established that prior to the departure of the flight, the crew had called for assistance from the airline’s contracted engineering support organisation at Zurich, SR Technics, because of an EICAS status message ‘FWD GND EXH VAL’. Two suitably qualified technicians attended and concluded that one of the air conditioning exhaust valves - the ‘AVS/IFE inboard/outboard exhaust valve’ - was defective. It was noted that this valve functioned as part of the Alternative Ventilation System (AVS) when airborne and as part of the Inflight Entertainment System (IFE) cooling system when on the ground. After consulting United Airlines Maintenance Control Centre, it was decided that the aircraft could be dispatched in accordance with the MEL provided that the faulty valve was deactivated. It was established that one of the two technicians who had originally attended the aircraft had checked what the agreed deactivation required and noted that in addition to pulling the appropriate CB, the electrical supply to the disabled valve had to be disconnected and secured and the valve then opened manually. A corresponding information sticker was then required to be placed on the flight deck equipment cooling panel. The technician who had reviewed the task then returned to the aircraft without taking any documentation with him and, working from memory, proceeded to de-activate the equipment overboard exhaust valve instead of the valve which had been identified as defective. He then passed the flight deck information sticker to the flight crew to attach themselves. It was found that the text description of the faulty AVS/IFE valve differed slightly between the AMM and the United Airlines MEL - in some places it was referred to as an inboard / outboard exhaust valve and in others as an inboard/overboard exhaust valve. It was noted that the equipment cooling overboard exhaust valve automatically should close when the rotary switch on the flight deck equipment cooling panel is selected to AUTO but because the electrical supply to this valve had been mistakenly disconnected, the valve would have remained fully open when the aircraft was in the air and remained so when the switch was selected to SBY by the crew in accordance with the specified checklist actions. The air duct to which the