valve is connected was not designed to withstand the increased differential which builds up in flight and to which it was exposed because the valve was open and had burst. It was considered that the reason why the cabin altitude had begun to slightly decrease after the crew had initially responded to the pressurisation problem by switching the equipment cooling panel rotary selector switch from AUTO to STBY could probably be attributed to the fact that one effect of this change was that cabin air was no longer being actively moved by a circulation fan. Subsequently, when the climb was resumed, the pressurisation system was again no longer able to compensate for the loss of pressure occurring due to the open overboard exhaust valve and so the unwanted increase in cabin altitude recurred. The air duct to which the equipment cooling overboard exhaust valve was attached was unable to withstand the increased strain resulting from the developing differential pressure to which it was subjected as the aircraft climbed and it eventually burst.. The flight crew’s decision to continue the climb along the intended flight path to a flying altitude of over 10,000 feet amsl even though pressurisation of the cabin was not ensured according to the actioned checklist, was not in accordance with the applicable operating procedures and was risky.. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was “the mix-up by the technician, who deactivated the wrong valve and left it in the open position”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as the technician’s approach of working from memory, without taking a written form of the operating procedures described in the MEL with him. A Risk Factor was identified as the inconsistent use of valve designations in the AMM and MEL. Safety Action taken by SR Technics included the introduction of a two-man principle when carrying out maintenance work in accordance with the MEL. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 11 April 2018 and subsequently published on 25 May 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.