An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). The experience of the members of the flight crew was not recorded but it was noted that the Captain had been designated as PM and the augmenting First Officer was occupying the supernumerary seat behind the operating crew throughout the two hour flight. No reference was made to the investigation of an event which occurred in French airspace being undertaken by the STSB but return of the aircraft to Zurich meant that the Investigation could proceed more easily. The departure of the flight from Zurich was normal but climbing through approximately FL 080, the Captain reported having experienced ‘ear popping’ to a degree which he had considered unusual and upon checking the cabin altitude saw that it was increasing at an abnormally high rate. As the aircraft approached FL 100 climbing as cleared to FL 120, a request to stop climb at FL 100 was made and approved. By this time, an EICAS indication had appeared in respect of the forward equipment valve along with a warning light on the equipment cooling panel which indicated that one of the valves associated with this system was not in the normal position. The augmenting First Officer ran the corresponding checklist which included turning the respective selector switch from AUTO to STBY. After this, the cabin pressure began to “decrease and stabilise” but the panel warning light which had come on remained. The checklist stated that in this circumstance, “pressurisation could not be ensured”. The Captain stated that as the pressurisation system had now been working normally, “he had wanted to climb further as he had been feeling unsafe at FL 100 due to possible VFR traffic at this altitude and because of the mountainous terrain around Zurich” and that he wanted to deal with any further pressurisation problem at a higher altitude. In respect of the Captain’s expressed concern about terrain proximity on track, the Investigation noted that the MSA in the area was 4,500 feet. ATC were advised that the intention was to continue en-route rather than remain near Zurich and the flight was cleared to climb to FL 230. However, on passing FL 195, the Captain reported having experienced “severe ear popping” and observing that the cabin altitude was again increasing at an abnormally high rate. It was decided to request an immediate descent and a MAYDAY was declared. All three pilots donned their oxygen masks and ATC quickly approved the descent and provided radar vectors. The descent was made with the AP disconnected and with idle thrust and speed brakes extended. As the cabin altitude exceeded 10,000 feet, the corresponding audio and visual warnings were annunciated but the increasing cabin altitude did not reach the 13,500 feet trigger for an automatic deployment of the cabin oxygen masks. Once at FL 100 a holding pattern was commenced approximately 27 nm east-north-east of Dijon to allow the Captain to discuss the problem with the airline’s maintenance contractor in