Sometimes controllers and pilots use phraseology that is neither standard, nor approved by a national civil aviation authority. The reasons for this may be various, e.g. poor knowledge or training, phrase that is rarely used, personal experience or preference, etc. The main difference between approved and non-approved phraseology is that the latter has not undergone any safety impact assessment. There are several major risks associated with such phraseology: The other party may not hear the message correctly. When standard phraseology was developed, special attention was given to choosing words and phrases that sound distinctly different and therefore cannot be confused under any readability circumstances. When replacing standard phraseology with their own people do not perform thorough research as to whether their custom phrase may sound similarly to another one.. The other party may not understand the message. This may be due to e.g. using phrasal verbs or other words that are not commonly known. The different levels of knowledge of the English language contributes to this as well.. The message may be ambiguous, i.e. the transmitting person may mean one thing and the other one may understand something else, as was the case with the vehicle incursion at Perth in 2012 or in an incident at Toronto in 2016.. Examples of unofficial "phraseology" (the list is not exclusive): Ten/eleven thousand (instead of one zero thousand or one one thousand). This was considered by the investigation to be the cause of an incident in 2011. Read you five by five (or any other X by Y combination) instead of Read you (number). ARL10 pronounced as Airline ten (instead of Airline one zero). Light chops, smooth ride, what's the ride, instead of phrases containing the word turbulence. Affirmative instead of affirm (note that affirmative may, under certain low-readability circumstances, be confused with negative due to having the same ending). Double and triple (instead of pronouncing each digit separately). Keep heading, speed, etc. (instead of continue or maintain). Up and down instead of climb and descend. Pronouncing 9 as nine instead of niner which may lead to confusion with 5. Amending clearance staring with While we wait (which can be understood as line up and wait), which was considered as a contributor in a runway incursion event. Using take-off instead of departure in situations where no take-off clearance is issued or cancelled. This has caused a number of occurrences, e.g. an accident in 1977 and an incident in 2008. A description of an ACAS manoeuvre instead of the standard TCAS RA. Such a description may be lengthy, unstructured, incorrect or incomplete, and therefore the controller may request a repetition or clarification. Note that in all the above cases there is a standard alternative to the words and phrases used.