Regulation 2016/1185 introduces some deviations from the standard ICAO phraseology at EU level: Flight levels which are whole hundreds (e.g. FL 100, FL 200, FL 300, etc.) are to be pronounced as "Flight level (number) hundred".. Altimeter setting of 1000 hPa is to be pronounced as "One thousand".. Transponder codes containing whole thousands are to be pronounced as "(number) thousand".. For transfers of communication within one ATS unit, the call sign of the ATS unit may be omitted, when so authorised by the competent authority.. The UK CAA has adopted certain non-standard phraseology designed to reduce the chance of mishearing or misunderstanding RTF communications. This phraseology is not in accordance with ICAO but is based on careful study of the breakdown of pilot/controller communications. Some other European countries have also adopted similar non-standard phraseology. The following paragraphs taken from the UK Manual of Radiotelephony summarise the main differences. The word ‘to’ is to be omitted from messages relating to FLIGHT LEVELS.. All messages relating to an aircraft’s climb or descent to a HEIGHT or ALTITUDE employ the word ‘to’ followed immediately by the word HEIGHT or ALTITUDE. Furthermore, the initial message in any such RTF exchange will also include the appropriate QFE or QNH.. When transmitting messages containing flight levels each digit shall be transmitted separately. However, in an endeavour to reduce ‘level busts’ caused by the confusion between some levels (100/110, 200/220 etc.), levels which are whole hundreds e.g. FL 100, 200, 300 shall be spoken as “Flight level (number) HUNDRED”. The word hundred must not be used for headings.. Examples of the above are: “RUSHAIR G-BC climb flight level wun too zero.” “RUSHAIR G-BC descend to altitude tree tousand feet QNH 1014.” “RUSHAIR G-BC climb flight level wun hundred.” “RUSHAIR G-BC turn right heading wun wun zero.”. “RUSHAIR G-BC climb flight level wun too zero.”. “RUSHAIR G-BC descend to altitude tree tousand feet QNH 1014.”. “RUSHAIR G-BC climb flight level wun hundred.”. “RUSHAIR G-BC turn right heading wun wun zero.”.