which the aircraft was travelling on Meteorological services not being accessible during all of the company's operating hours at all of the (scheduled) stopover points.. A lack of VHF coverage on the route which the aircraft was travelling on. Meteorological services not being accessible during all of the company's operating hours at all of the (scheduled) stopover points.. A total of 18 specific and directed Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the National Civil Aviation Administration - National Directorate of Operational Safety should exercise effective control over updates in the Operator's Operations Manual (OOM), which all air operators are required to follow, in accordance with section 121.133 of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC).. that the National Civil Aviation Administration - National Directorate of Operational Safety should implement a system which tracks compliance with regulations in accordance with the growth and development of the air operators and the service providers.. that the National Civil Aviation Administration - Directorate of Personnel Licensing - Department, Educational Control should make it a requirement that theoretical courses for operating personnel (pilots, dispatchers, etc.) which are taught at air operators' training centres, with regard to specific subjects such as meteorology, have to be taught (or supervised) by professionals with experience in the field of expertise so that they are properly prepared for assessing and managing the risks inherent in flight.. that the National Civil Aviation Administration - Directorate of Personnel Licensing - Department, Educational Control should incorporate the requirements set forth in the previous recommendation into the applicable Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC).. that the National Civil Aviation Administration - Directorate of Personnel Licensing - Department, Educational Control should make UPSET RECOVERY a mandatory part of the flight simulator training curricula, which is to be practised both during the initial and the recurring courses and evaluated during the suitability inspection.. that the National Civil Aviation Administration - Directorate of Personnel Licensing - Department, Educational Control should, with the aim of increasing the quality of the flight crew training, establish a workshop programme for instructors who teach initial and recurrent training for commercial airline operators, during which technical and didactic subjects are taught, that directly focus and relate to operational security.. that the National Meteorological Service should consider the possibility of extending the service hours of the aerodrome's meteorological offices, to cover all the hours that these aerodromes operate, and to provide updated information that effectively contributes to Operational Safety.. that the National Meteorological Service should consider modifying the aeronautical information system so that an aviation area forecast (ARFOR) which remains the same is not merely updated as NOSIG, but repeats the information of the previous ARFOR.. that the Argentine Air Force - General Directorate of Air Traffic Control should, in order to establish an efficient network of aeronautical communications, implement a system which ensures that aeronautical communication traffic works both ways, in areas where this is deficient. In addition, the benefit of establishing, implementing and maintaining an effective