to begin a descent to FL140. This was accomplished with the AP still engaged in V/S mode set to - 750fpm. Airspeed in this descent increased to "an average of 173 knots" with power set to 58%. The slightly positive vertical pitch during this 5 minute descent "led to ice forming on the bottom part of the airframe" which increased the weight and adversely affected the aerodynamic qualities of the aircraft. FDR data suggested that towards the end of the descent, "icing conditions rapidly worsened" and as a result, the aircraft "rapidly lost speed on levelling at FL140 despite power being increased". When buffeting began at an indicated speed of 145 knot indicating proximity to an aerodynamic stall, the crew attributed it to propeller ice accumulation and responded by increasing the propeller RPM to maximum. The aircraft remained in buffet for 13 seconds as the indicated speed slowly decreased and the stick shaker was activated at an airspeed of 137 knots. Then, uncommanded disconnection of the AP occurred and "the aircraft commenced a series of uncommanded rolls with a nose down attitude". The crew were unable to level the wings or alter the pitch attitude even though they performed actions prescribed for recovery and it was concluded by the Investigation that the reason for this was "because the control surfaces (ailerons and elevators) were not sufficiently aerodynamic as a result of severe icing". It was then apparent from FDR data that the crew had then induced - and entered into - a secondary stall - which caused further stick shaker activations. A sustained and uncontrolled descent began with the aircraft remaining fully stalled. It was considered, "based on the aircraft's impact", that a sequence of uncontrolled rolls accompanied by a nose down attitude continued until impact. The Investigation also found relevant deficiencies in VHF communications coverage along the route being flown and specifically in the area where the accident occurred. It also noted that according to the meteorological information provided prior to take off, only light icing was forecast. The lack of a current forecast in this particular case was considered to have been attributable to systemic weakness in the provision of aviation en route forecasts exacerbated by a lack of awareness of their potential significance by both dispatchers and pilots. An infrared weather satellite picture of the area where the accident occurred at the time it occurred is reproduced below. The formal documentation of the Cause of the accident was as follows: During a commercial, domestic passenger flight, while cruising, the crew lost control of the aircraft, which uncontrollably impacted the ground due to severe ice formation caused by the following factors: Entering an area with icing conditions without adequately monitoring the warning signals from the external environment (temperature, cloudiness, precipitation and ice accumulation) or the internal (speed, angle of attack), which allowed for prolonged operations in icing conditions to take place.. Receiving a forecast for slight icing which - given that the aircraft encountered severe icing conditions -