An Investigation was carried out by the Argentinean Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Board (JIAAC). The FDR and CVR were both recovered and successfully downloaded and provided data essential to establishing the circumstances which led to the accident. It was found that the 45 year-old Captain had accumulated over 2000 hours flying time on type and had previous experience on other twin turboprop aircraft and a total of 6902 flying hours. The 37 year-old Co-Pilot had accumulated 1340 hours in total including 285 hours on type, having recently become a pilot with the Operator after previous employment with them as a maintenance technician. He "had had only been approved to fly without an instructor one month prior to the accident". The effect of the obviously large difference in flying experience between the two pilots was noted as likely to have been operationally significant. The Investigation found no evidence that any airworthiness deficiencies had any bearing on the accident, although it did find that the aircraft involved had not been in compliance with extant Airworthiness Directives unrelated to the accident. It was noted that the accident aircraft did not have the optional modification to install an 'Ice Speed System' - developed in Canada in recognition of the greater risk of exposure to significant airframe icing conditions - incorporated. It was found that after departure from Neuquén, the aircraft had never reached the intended and cleared cruising level, FL190, and noted that, with the AP engaged throughout and having reached a maximum of FL178 using the Operator's standard power management procedure - the 'Constant ITT' method, the crew had not then (and had not earlier) increased power to the maximum permitted level in order reach FL190. FDR data showed that there had been no significant changes in climb power prior to the aircraft reaching FL140. It was noted that "the crew were aware of the formation of ice on the aircraft from the beginning" and that "anti-ice protection systems were activated upon detection of icing conditions" and functioned normally. However, the selection of engine anti-ice to 'on' was not followed by a change in AP mode from CLIMB LOW' to 'IAS', the latter being the only mode which permitted AP use to continue, but the effect of this was that the IAS achieved as climb performance steadily reduced dropped below those specified in the AOM. Some 24 minutes after take off it became clear that it was not practicable to continue climbing any further and, having levelled off at FL178, the crew "used V/S mode in order to increase speed" but this did not have the desired effect and the aircraft began to approach an aerodynamic stall, with activation of the stick shaker following. With the weather radar indicating that that the aircraft was about to exit cloud and a conversation with the pilot of another Company aircraft routing in the opposite direction at FL140 who reported having no icing problems, the crew response after remaining at FL178 for approximately 9 minutes, was