VHF communication network, with permanent national coverage, should be evaluated.. that the Argentine Air Force - General Directorate of Air Traffic Control should, in order to establish clear guidelines regarding the requirements of on-board communication equipment, conduct a proper study on aircraft traffic communications to determine the need for aircraft to be equipped with HF voice communication equipment.. that the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK) should review the possibility of recommending that the aircraft manufacturer has Special Safety Bulletins, with the findings of this Investigation and those of three similar incidents that have previously occurred.. that the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK) should evaluate the possibility of recommending that designers of flight simulator software and hardware, include simulations of various situations in icing conditions (general, disrupting aerodynamic functions, blocking control surfaces, affecting the flight attitude due to a shift in CG, etc.), in order to provide better training with regard to recognising these flight situations, as well as the techniques that need to be employed in these situations.. that the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK) should, with the aim of increasing the aircraft's technological defences, evaluate the possibility of incorporating a warning system which inhibits the use of the climb mode in autopilot upon the activation of the de-icing system.. that the Operator should, in order to increase the level of operational safety, include severe icing as a specific danger in the company's Safety Management System (SMS) programme so that the defences (technological, standards, procedures and training) can mitigate the risks.. that the Operator should use the aircraft's original Flight Manual and avoid the use of adapted versions that do not contain all of the required information. In addition, compliance with the section 121.133 (a) of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) with regard to updating the Operator Operation Manuals (OOM).. that the Operator should improve safety by establishing means, resources and procedures which will emphasise the theoretical and practical instruction/training of upset and stall recovery in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions so that new training practices are created, that involve the flight crew effectively identifying the signs and the aerodynamic phenomena that occur during flight prior to stalling (aeroelastic flutter, among others).. that the Operator, with the aim of establishing better internal communication channels, should establish measures in order for management to implement an effective method of wide dissemination and strict compliance between the crews as established in AFM Supplement No. 1 "Operations in cold and icing conditions". An effective method should also be established to evaluate the results of training/instruction, in order to ensure that the pilots have adequate knowledge and practice, in accordance with the procedures established in the AOM and AFM, SOP (AFM Supplement No. 1 "Operations in cold and icing conditions", using the autopilot, etc.). that the Operator should consider the possibility of implementing modification No. 2650, "Ice Speed System", on all of its Saab 340 aircraft, as it is a tool that increases safety by alerting the crew of abnormal speed conditions during flight