led to a lack of understanding regarding the specific meteorological danger.. Inadequately evaluating the risks, which led to mitigating measures such as adequate briefing (distribution of tasks in the cockpit, review of the de-icing systems, limitations, use of power, use of autopilot, diversion strategy etc.) not being adopted.. Levels of stress increasing, due to operations not having the expected effects, which led the crew to lose focus on other issues.. Icing conditions that surpassed the aircraft's ice protection systems, which were certified for the aircraft (FAR 25 Appendix C).. Inadequate use of speed, by maintaining the speed close to stall speed during flight in icing conditions.. Inadequate use of the autopilot, by not selecting the IAS mode when flying in icing conditions.. Partially carrying out the procedures established in the Flight Manual and the Operations Manual, when entering into areas with severe icing conditions.. Realizing late that the aircraft had started to stall, because the buffeting that foretells a stall was confused with the vibrations that signify ice contamination on the propellers.. Activation of the Stick Shaker and Stall Warning at a lower speed than expected in icing conditions.. Using a stall recovery technique which prioritized the reduction of the angle of attack at the expense of altitude loss, and which was inappropriate for the flight conditions.. The aileron flight controls reacting in an unusual manner when the aircraft lost control, probably due to the accumulation of ice on the surfaces of these, which made it impossible for the aircraft to recover.. The increasingly stressful situation of the crew, which affected its operational decision-making.. A number of "Potentially Dangerous Conditions" that were not causal were also identified as follows: Pre-existing condition - The Operator's organisational and operational context Outdated operating specifications Only partial fulfilment of the Regulations established in section 121.133 (a) of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) with regard to the updating of Operator Operation Manuals (OOM) Crew scheduling being performed by an external management organisation Failure to keep aircraft manuals up to date Training Manuals which did not include the aircraft manufacturer's advice regarding stall recovery Only partial fulfilment of the Regulations established in section 121.407, Appendix G of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) with regard to the provision of Line-Oriented Simulator training for pilots Failure to act on Airworthiness Directives related to propeller maintenance.. Outdated operating specifications. Only partial fulfilment of the Regulations established in section 121.133 (a) of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) with regard to the updating of Operator Operation Manuals (OOM). Crew scheduling being performed by an external management organisation. Failure to keep aircraft manuals up to date. Training Manuals which did not include the aircraft manufacturer's advice regarding stall recovery. Only partial fulfilment of the Regulations established in section 121.407, Appendix G of the Argentine Civil Aviation Regulations (RAAC) with regard to the provision of Line-Oriented Simulator training for pilots. Failure to act on Airworthiness Directives related to propeller maintenance.. Systematic Context A lack of VHF coverage on the route