The Incident occurred in international waters and the Investigation was conducted by the Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS) of General CAA of the State of the Operator, the UAE. The failure of the aircraft operator to notify the event to the GCAA resulted in the relevant Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recording having being overwritten by the time the unit was removed but DFDR and QAR data was successfully obtained. In respect of the 2 hour CVR, it was also found that in apparent breach of regulatory requirements, it was only capable of recording the area channel for that period and the four separate channels for only 30 minutes. It was noted that the aircraft commander had completed his upgrade to a first command less than three months previously and that the Operating First Officer was making only his fourth flight following release from type conversion training for unrestricted operation on the aircraft type. It was found that the Captain had left the flight deck to take a comfort break leaving the operating First Officer as PF and the second First Officer, who was not qualified as a cruise relief pilot “assisting”, initially from one of the supernumerary crew seats before moving temporarily to the left hand seat. It was noted that the cruise relief pilot was not qualified as a cruise Captain. At the onset of the initial light turbulence the Captain was in a lavatory and had subsequently walked around the cabin. When the severe turbulence began, he had been in the business class cabin and had managed to secure himself in one of the vacant seats there until the turbulence subsided. It appeared that the aircraft had been clear of cloud prior to the event but an isolated Cumulonimbus (Cb)(Cb) build up had been observed approximately 20 nm ahead - approximately 2 minutes flight time - on track. After some confusion in R/T communications and “a contributory CPDLC uplink delay” which had distracted both pilots, the aircraft course was altered to the right so that the cell was being passed at a range of about 7nm. When abeam of the cell, severe turbulence had occurred for approximately 45 seconds during which the aircraft climbed approximately 600 feet and the stick shaker activated. Recovery was eventually achieved with the cleared level regained and the AP re-engaged but not before a second stick shaker activation had occurred. DFDR data showed vertical accelerations ranging between +1.98g and -0.68g during the excursion and the two stick shaker activations occurring as angle of attack exceeded 6° during high positive ‘g’ loading. The Captain had not returned to the flight deck until after the event occurred, having taken refuge in a vacant seat in the business class cabin. During the turbulence, the majority of the passengers were in their seats with their seat belts fastened but one was in a toilet compartment and another was exiting one. The former sustained serious injuries. Based on the witness statements, it appears that the seatbelt sign had