that the pre flight weather briefing material had indicated the likelihood of encountering embedded Cumulonimbus (Cb) on the planned track over the Bay of Bengal and that such a situation was typical of the southward movement of the Inter Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) in the northern winter. The Investigation documented Findings on Crew Competence as follows: The Flight Crew were unfamiliar with the use of the Weather Radar. The two First Officers were unfamiliar with CPDLC and Datalink procedures. The Flight Crew employed non standard procedures in respect of cabin safety communications prior to turbulence. The Flight Crew were not familiar with the requirements for flying offset tracks or with weather deviation procedures in Reduced Vertical Separation Minima (RVSM) airspace if a revised ATC clearance cannot be obtained.. the Cabin Crew failed to adhere to prescribed SOPs for Turbulence Safety and in particular failed to ensure that cabin crew and passengers were secured in their seats during turbulence.. Having accepted that the cause of the occupant injuries and cabin trim damage was the encounter with severe turbulence, the Investigation concluded that a combination of Flight Crew factors contributed to the late track deviation: Inadequate crew coordination. Inadequate Crew Resource Management. HF Communications difficulties. The absence of the Captain from the flight deck during the FIR transition and subsequent radio communication problems.. The late recognition of the adverse weather on the weather radar. The Captain’s delayed return to the flight deck immediately after the severe turbulence encounter (affected) the normalisation of the CRM environment.. It was also concluded that the Cabin Crew had contributed to the severity of the consequences of the turbulence encounter by: Not effectively monitoring the passenger use of the lavatories when the seat belt sign has been switched on.. Performing routine cabin crew organisational duties when the seat belt sign is on in the galley and associated areas.. The failure to identify the incident as ‘Category B’ event in accordance with the Etihad Emergency Response Procedures Manual, which was found to give an example of such an event as violent and extreme air turbulence resulting in serious injury to one or more persons, was noted. It was observed that “the appropriate categorisation would have activated the Emergency Response Centre with all the necessary resources involved in the assistance to the passengers, coordination with the investigative authorities and recovery of the operations”. Ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: The Aircraft Operator should review their internal procedures for the immediate notification of Accidents/Serious Incidents to the GCAA Duty Investigator.. The GCAA should revise CAR Part IV, CAR-OPS 1.700 (b) for large passenger aircraft operators to specifically mandate the requirement for 4 channel uncombined/non mixing CVR LRU’s.. All Aircraft Operators using pooled CVR procedures involving the L3 FA2100 CVR should ensure that all CVRs should be MOD-DOT #7 modification compliant pending a revision of GCAA CAR Part IV, CAR-OPS 1.700 (b).. The Aircraft Operator should develop procedures which prevent maintenance engineering or the