maintenance provider from tampering with flight data recorders either inadvertently or otherwise. This procedure shall be robust and form part of the notification to the GCAA DI as in the first Recommendation.. The Aircraft Operator should review the policy for activation of the Emergency Response Plan (ERP) where there are passenger and crew injuries requiring medical intervention.. The Aircraft Operator should determine an emergency procedure to manage several injured cabin crew following a major severe turbulence event and develop an acceptable contingency policy to mitigate the risks.. The Aircraft Operator should ensure that its Training & Standards Department reviews the training and re-currency requirements for the following: the training syllabus for the use of weather radar. the training syllabus for the operational use of CPDLC and other Data link communications. the provision of user guide material to pilots on weather radar and CPDLC operational usage. the provision of pilot guidance material on weather deviation procedures in RVSM airspace. the Human Factors Training policy and the Crew Resource Management dynamic management and decision making procedures when the Captain is not on the flight deck. current cabin security procedures during turbulence for service level 1, 2 and 3. the management of Interruptions and Distractions [Coping with unexpected distraction, disturbance and contingency in the cockpit requires the use of techniques to lessen the effects of any disruption in the flow of on-going cockpit activities]. Threat and Error Management (TEM) (TEM) Techniques specific to adverse weather.. the training syllabus for the use of weather radar.. the training syllabus for the operational use of CPDLC and other Data link communications.. the provision of user guide material to pilots on weather radar and CPDLC operational usage.. the provision of pilot guidance material on weather deviation procedures in RVSM airspace.. the Human Factors Training policy and the Crew Resource Management dynamic management and decision making procedures when the Captain is not on the flight deck.. current cabin security procedures during turbulence for service level 1, 2 and 3.. the management of Interruptions and Distractions [Coping with unexpected distraction, disturbance and contingency in the cockpit requires the use of techniques to lessen the effects of any disruption in the flow of on-going cockpit activities].. Threat and Error Management (TEM) (TEM) Techniques specific to adverse weather.. The Aircraft Operator should introduce a procedure for managing reduced mobility/injured cabin crew as result of an in-flight safety events which affect the cabin crew fitness to operate if the (number of) cabin crew (on board) is less than the minimum required for the aircraft type.. The Aircraft Operator should ensure that cabin crew adhere to the turbulence procedures which require them to secure themselves and the passengers as CCM SEP 7.3.5 Manual/OM-A 8.3.12.. The Aircraft Operator should re-emphasise the turbulence procedures for passenger safety in respect of the use of lavatories and the use of seatbelts during turbulence events.. The Final Report of the Investigation was made available in late 2012.