been switched on approximately 10 minutes prior to the incident during some minor turbulence. An announcement was made in Arabic and English advising passengers to fasten their seatbelts. However, some belts, including those used by passengers who were subsequently injured, were only ‘loosely fastened’. A total of seven passenger injuries were detailed by the Investigation. It was found that most of the injured passengers had been seated with their seat restraints fastened. It was noted that after the cabin crew had ‘secured the cabin’, two passengers had nevertheless visited mid cabin toilet compartments. One was in such a compartment when the severe turbulence started and was thrown up the ceiling and then fell down onto the floor. This person had been seriously injured and was subsequently secured on the floor of the adjacent galley by cabin crew. The other of these passengers was returning to their seat when the severe turbulence started and sustained injuries after being thrown against cabin fixtures before managing to reach their seat. Four other passengers impacted the PSU’s above their seats despite reportedly having their seatbelts “loosely fastened”. Several oxygen masks were deployed and the PSUs were damaged as a result of these impacts. One other passenger was reported to have sustained injuries after being “ejected from their seat” and hitting an exit door handle. During the turbulence, no cabin services were being conducted and subsequently all the carts and containers were stowed in their original stowage which remained intact due to the presence of latches in the locked position. However, it was found that despite the requirement for all passengers to secure themselves prior to the turbulence encounter, none of the twelve cabin crew had been similarly secured and many had been “involved in galley activities”. Of the seven who had been in the various galley areas, six sustained minor injuries and one sustained serious injuries. Two cabin crew who had been in toilet compartments were stated to have sustained minor injuries but both eventually managed to exit these compartments and secure themselves in the nearest available crew seats. Two in the upper crew rest compartment were thrown upwards from their bunks and hit the ceiling but as the compartment ceiling is low, they fell back down onto the mattresses on which they had been lying thus minimising the impact. The Cabin Manager had been seated unsecured in the forward left cabin crew seat and was thrown from the jump seat and fell to the floor before managing to regain the seat and secure herself. All injured cabin crew were reported to have required post flight medical attention. Given the cumulative effect of multiple cabin crew sustaining various degrees of injury, the Investigation considered that Operator guidance on how to respond to such a scenario was not adequately covered in existing documentation and “a further definition of Cabin Crew Incapacitation relating to the ability to carry out the defined cabin crew safety functions with several cabin crew injured should be reassessed.” It was noted