landing clearance, with the aircraft on about a 5 mile final, the controller advised the flight crew that the right engine appeared to be “still smoking”. The aircraft subsequently touched down 26 minutes after takeoff and during the landing rollout, the crew asked the controller “if a fire could still be seen on the right engine” and received the response “affirmative”. The autobrake remained engaged until the aircraft had decelerated to about 40 knots and was stopped about 2,380 metres past the landing threshold of the 3,775 metre-long runway. The crew advised that they had an indication of hot brakes in addition to the engine fire. The attending RFFS crews “observed smoke and flames emanating from the right engine” and sprayed it with fire-retardant foam which extinguished the fire. The crew then shut down the left engine and the aircraft was subsequently towed to the gate for a normal passenger disembarkation. Why It Happened The extensive soot and dark discoloration along one side of the engine core were consistent with a fuel-rich fire. The right side of the engine had sustained the most thermal damage and “multiple fuel and hydraulic components, hoses, and lines” on that side of the engine were “thermally damaged or consumed”. A substantial quantity of charred material and residue was found in the drip pan located beneath the pylon panel which directs any fluid leaks downward and then overboard. This evidence and other evidence pointed to “an intense sustained fire that was likely fed by fuel and/or hydraulic fluid originating from the pylon panel interface” (see below). It was found that in the days leading up to the accident flight, the aircraft had twice undergone maintenance to resolve reported fuel leaks from the right engine with the defect cleared after replacement of a fuel hose (FM-13) which was part of the engine/pylon interface (see the illustration below). During the on-scene Investigation, the pylon fuel connections were examined and a borosope inspection of the interior of the pylon was performed with no fluid leaks observed. However, the lower flange of the rigid fuel pipe appeared deformed and it was considered that this might have compromised the seal at the interface of this pipe and the flange on the previously replaced FM-13 hose. This would have allowed fuel to leak from the FM-13 hose to the rigid fuel pipe interface which would have enabled leaked fuel to drain to and pool at the bottom of the nacelle with the diffuser, turbine, and exhaust case temperatures all hot enough to ignite the fuel. It was found that the FM-13 hose fire sleeve removed the day before the accident flight had been observed to be “wet and shiny” which indicated that the fire sleeve had been saturated with fuel. If the replacement FM-13 hose fire sleeve had been saturated with fuel, it would have represented a concentrated fuel source and whilst the hose itself was rated as “fireproof”, this meant only that it could withstand 15 minutes of exposure to