An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) with FDR data available but an understanding of discussions between the pilots present about the indications of an engine fire and the response which followed was hindered by the fact that relevant CVR data was overwritten. The crew members were not interviewed but statements were submitted. The flight was rostered as a Line Check for the 60 year-old Captain in command who had a total of 18,730 hours flying experience including 260 hours on type and 7,418 hours in command on all types. The Check was routine after his first six months on type. The 50 year-old First Officer had a total of 9,056 hours flying experience which included 748 hours on type, all of the latter obtained on the accident aircraft. The 62 year-old Training Captain conducting a Line Check on the Captain in command had a total of 15,906 hours flying experience and the Relief First Officer occupying the second flight deck supernumerary seat had a total of 4,740 hours flying experience. Shortly after takeoff from runway 26L with the Captain as PF, the aircraft was around 700 feet agl when an ECAM annunciation of a right engine fire occurred accompanied by a ‘LAND ASAP’ message. The Captain transferred control to the First Officer, carried out the ECAM fire warning actions including discharging both fire shots, but noted that after the engine shut down and extinguisher action, the fire indication had remained. The Relief First Officer declared an emergency to ATC and advised of the intention to return after which he assisted the Captain in completing the ECAM action items. Once the flight was being radar vectored towards an approach, the First Officer transferred control back to the Captain and resumed PM duties. According to the Training Captain’s statement, at this point, he “changed his role to a regular flight crew member to assist the crew” and took over responsibility for communication with the cabin crew and made a PA to the passengers advising them that the aircraft had engine trouble and would be returning to Atlanta and stopping on the runway so that the emergency services could inspect the airplane. The fire warning remained illuminated after engine shut down for more than 10 minutes until, with the aircraft on an extended downwind leg, it was replaced with the ‘ENG 2 FIRE DET FAULT caution and the red ‘LAND ASAP’ indication changed to amber. About four minutes after this, an ECAM caution for low fluid level in the Yellow Hydraulic system was annunciated and actioned. Having assessed that the replacement of the extended duration engine fire warning and red ‘LAND ASAP’ message by the detector fault and amber land back caution had fully resolved the engine fire situation, a few minutes later the flight made a left turn to position onto a right base leg for runway 27R and TWR subsequently cleared the aircraft to land on that runway. Soon after receiving the readback of this