crew had intentionally extended the flight time as they responded to the event having concluded on the basis of a fire detection caution eventually replacing the engine fire warning that a landing as soon as possible was no longer necessary.. If a fire loop failure was annunciated in any condition, the operator's OM required flight crews to “monitor engine parameters more closely than normal for signs of fire and/or over-temperature”. This instruction might have been perceived as of more significance when it replaced the continuing engine fire warning rather than if it had appeared during an otherwise previously normal flight but appeared not to have been.. A review of training syllabi at Delta and four other operators found that there were no simulator training scenarios in use where a simulated fire continued to burn and the fire indications were deactivated. Most operators used scenarios in which a simulated engine fire warning would prompt the corresponding response after which either the fire would be extinguished or if not then the fire warning message and associated master warning would continue.. In respect of situations where a Line Check was being conducted from a supernumerary crew seat when an emergency occurs, the Investigation was informed that “if conditions deteriorate to the point that the safety of the flight is in jeopardy and with the Captain’s direction/concurrence, the observing Check Pilot can lend any assistance as directed” with the outcome of the Check subsequently determined in coordination with the Chief Line Check Pilot”.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was “the flight crew’s delayed landing after an in-flight engine fire, which reignited after both fire bottles were discharged and resulted in substantial damage to an engine pylon”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: In respect of the delayed landing - the flight crew’s perception that the fire had been extinguished due to the disappearance of the primary engine fire warning indications after the fire detection loops were damaged and that a landing as soon as possible was not perceived to be necessary.. In respect of the duration of the fire - the contamination of an engine fire isolation system component which resulted in hydraulic fluid leaking into the designated engine fire zone after the engine was shutdown and the fire button was pressed.. Safety Action taken as a result of this event and findings from the Investigation of it was noted as including the following: Delta Air Lines: advised that it would be updating its Flight Crew Training Manuals and creating a mandatory training module for the A330 initial and recurrent training that will include a briefing of this event and a simulator session. The briefing will highlight the operation of the fire warning system and lack of warning if a fire remains un-extinguished and will focus on ECAM priority and the need for an immediate landing.. Advised that it is also modifying Line Check Pilot guidance to emphasise when such a Check should be stopped during an