fire. The presence of fuel both underneath and on the fire sleeve would be likely to have reduced the hose liner protection and accelerated the failure. Then, after engine shutdown and the closure of the LP valve in the pylon and the HP valve at the engine fuel pump, it was considered that “this residual fuel in the FM-13 hose and other fuel/hydraulic hoses would have leaked into the engine compartment when the hoses were thermally breached”. Hydraulic fluid is more difficult to ignite than fuel due to a higher ignition temperature and fire-inhibiting properties and the evidence suggested a relatively low level of ignited hydraulic fluid. However, after landing, the indicated contents for both the yellow and green hydraulic reservoirs were low on both the hydraulic service panel and the flight deck. It was estimated that a dripping leak of hydraulic fluid (see the illustration below) which had pooled below it had begun at least 10 minutes after the engine had been shutdown and therefore well after the engine shutoff valves had been closed as part of the engine fire drill. The fact that hydraulic fluid supply to the affected engine fire zone allow had not been prevented meant that the fire was able to continue after both fire bottles had been discharged. However, it was found that hydraulic system shut off and check valves had functioned normally and concluded that the most likely way for hydraulic fluid to have been able to fuel the fire was via an open yellow hydraulic system in-line case drain check valve, probably attributable to its obstruction by foreign debris of which some was found in the line concerned. The accident engine pylon hydraulic interface panel with a blue arrow indicating the FM-13 hose and the red circle indicating where hydraulic fluid was first observed dripping from. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In respect of the eventual occurrence of an ECAM alert for a low level of fluid in the yellow hydraulic reservoir it was noted that the requirement to switch off the system electric pump had rendered two of the spoilers inoperable for the final 9½ minutes of the flight. It was also noted that because the fire had not been due to an internal engine failure but initially and mainly fuel fed, “the key engine parameters would have remained nominal”. The reason for the fire detector caution was noted as the fact that fire loops are fire-resistant rather than fireproof and were only required to remain functional for 5 minutes in actual fire conditions after which, as in this case, they could be rendered inoperative. The flight crew response and procedures in relation to both emergency response and the fact that a Line Check was in progress at the time were reviewed. A post accident simulator exercise found that it would have been possible for a crew to have landed back about 12 minutes after takeoff by following an optimum flight path - less than half the time actually taken. The