Although typical airline UPRT programmes now adhere to the ICAO standard and recommended practices, general aviation (GA) operators have few to no official UPRT requirements. The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and its global counterparts are pressing civil aviation authorities to create appropriate UPRT standards and guidance for GA. This could more effectively solve this industry segment’s risks of fatal loss of control–in flight (LOC-I) accidents. NTSB Member Michael Graham said in his keynote address: “Although commercial airline accidents have become relatively rare in the United States, accidents involving LOC–I in general aviation — while trending downward — still occur at an unacceptable rate.” U.S. GA pilot proficiency requirements are much less rigorous than those of airline pilots, in the NTSB’s experience. Graham added: “GA pilots are more likely to have longer intervals between training sessions and between flights. They typically only need to complete a flight review consisting of, at a minimum, one hour of ground training and one hour of flight training every 24 months. GA pilots almost exclusively maintain and improve their skills — and update their knowledge of new technologies — on their own. The conduct of safe flight depends more on the individual’s abilities and judgment than on robust training in emergency situations — potentially leaving them unprepared for situations that can lead to LOC-I.” NTSB’s 2011–2020 aviation accident data analysis for the United States showed: LOC–I was the probable cause of more than 1,000 fatal accidents by grouping the following regulatory categories:. 45 percent of fatal GA accidents resulted from pilots losing control of their aircraft in flight (i.e., LOC–I);. 31 percent of fatal Part 135 accidents were attributed to LOC–I; and,. One fatal fixed-wing Part 121 LOC–I accident occurred.. Although these accidents occur in all phases of flight, Graham cited approach to landing, maneuvering and initial climb as “statistically the deadliest phases of flight for LOC–I accidents.” Contributing factors include pilot distraction, surprise and startle; spatial disorientation; loss of situational awareness or weather awareness, including their inadvertent encounters with instrument meteorological conditions (IMC). “The most common type of LOC–I is a stall, including post-stall spin, which can occur when the pilot allows the aircraft to enter a flight regime outside its normal flight envelope,” he said. “Stalls happen because a pilot lacks understanding about how a stall actually relates to exceeding a wing’s critical angle-of-attack [AOA], as opposed to the more common [incorrect] idea that ‘It’s just related to airspeed.’” Among other tactics to prevent LOC-I accidents, the NTSB urges pilots to: Understand stall characteristics and warning signs of aeroplane upset, and be able to apply appropriate recovery techniques before stall onset;. Realise that stall characteristics can vary with aircraft loading, and are usually worse at aft CG positions;. Be aware that stall can occur at a lower angle of attack (AOA) in icing conditions;. Manage distractions so that they do not interfere with situational awareness;. Obtain training in emergency [aeroplane upset] response skills so it is more natural to apply those