Captain John Cox, CEO at SOS, said that conducting safety audits of an airline, general aviation operator or other entity that has a UPRT programme involves specialised knowledge and considerations. “First and foremost, the auditor has got to start with the academics — a good understanding of aerodynamics, the environment and the importance of both avoidance and recovery. … If you look even as recently as 2020, the industry lost a Boeing 737-500 to LOC–I. These accidents are preventable.” Safety auditors constantly look for steps can they take to not only improve the client’s flight operation, but to make the organisation safer, to learn from the tragedies of the past, and to implement lessons into the flight operation, Cox said. “Prevention of LOC–I is absolutely essential. But if auditors’ listen carefully, there are people who say the entire focus of UPRT should be on prevention,” he added. “Prevention is essential but recovery techniques are required because pilots are going to be in conditions where prevention is not enough.” He said that clients telling the auditor about their LOC–I avoidance should be able to explain how they have prepared to select alternatives to any foreseeable course of action that could lead to a high-probability upset. Once an upset occurs, UPRT assumes that a standardised recovery is ready, and auditors need to be in a position to assess that readiness. Cox said, “This is something that we, as auditors, would pick up on and that we look for. One of the big distinctions that we have to make is the organisation’s [grasp] of aerobatic training versus UPRT. “When we look at the flight operations as an auditor, and their people say, ‘Oh, we’re doing upset recovery training. We go out and fly aerobatics.’ Those are two entirely different concepts,” he said. Auditors look at UPRT aspects of a flight operation the same way as any operational audit. “As an IS-BAO auditor, what I look for in the operation is how it integrates with international standards and recommended practices. Do they implement them? That includes the documentation and the implementation. They have to have both,” Cox said. The checklist for auditing the UPRT aspect of an organisation also may cover: “In conclusion, UPRT is an essential skill set for a professional pilot. It’s not needed very often. But when it is needed, it is a critical skill that needs to be executed with precision and with excellence,” Cox said.