damage. Pilot-reported incidents in line operations also are subjective/anecdotal evidence of positive UPRT influence. Burks said, “The most critical example of this is we actually had a real bad one up at Cordova Municipal Airport (CDV), Alaska, on an RNAV approach in the weather, in IMC, in turbulence close to the ground and terrain. It was a very confusing scenario because the pilots had simultaneous overspeed and stick shaker, and they were able to identify and run the appropriate memory items — which we call recall items — and effectively manage the event. Capt. Clarke McNeace, vice president standards at APS, and Paul Ransbury, CEO at APS, presented their definition of critical features in corporate flight department UPRT, noting that most of their presentation also applies to airlines and to other types of general aviation. McNeace said, “The line-up of UPRT providers across the industry is growing at a greater rate than ever before. While it’s exciting to see aviation embrace this important training, end users such as corporate flight departments must be cautious. Unlike airlines, progressive flight departments are correctly integrating live on-aircraft UPRT solutions. … While on-aircraft UPRT is essential, departments must careful not … to leave advanced simulation behind. … Generally speaking, UPRT limited to simulator-only or on-aircraft-onIy solutions, as two examples, leaves serious risk-mitigation gaps that are completely unnecessary in modern times.” Ransbury said the APS Quantitative LOC-I Mitigation Criteria helps flight departments to analyze partial versus full LOC–I mitigation elements. The document ranks three UPRT elements as highest priority: human factors; all-attitude environment immersion and strategy application (i.e., resilience in crisis). G awareness and repetition to proficiency are second priority. The third priority comprises very low altitude upsets and all-weather upsets; crew resource management (CRM) and/or single-pilot resource management (SRM); and representative aircraft/simulator control feel and responses. UPRT questions suggested for use by corporate aircraft operators require judging the relevance of several resources/platforms (academics, virtual reality, non-aerobatic piston aeroplane, non-aerobatic complex jet, rotational G device, class-specific simulator [fixed-base or full-motion], type-specific simulator (Level C, Level D, or extended envelope), aerobatic jet and aerobatic piston aeroplane. “These should be studied in reference to how the company operates, i.e., with multi-engine jet crews flying at high altitude; with single pilots flying a jet or turboprop at high altitude; or with single pilots flying piston airplanes only at low altitude,” Ransbury said. McNeace explained eight critical elements of UPRT based on APS experience: the representative control feel and response of the platform; CRM/SRM (crew/single-pilot resource management); G awareness training; repetition of proficiency to ingrain skills; human factors (e.g., psychological and physiological issues that affect a pilot during an aeroplane upset event); all-attitude immersion to experience the airplane upset envelope; very low altitude scenarios and all-weather scenarios; and UPRT strategy application (immediately recalling a skill set during a life-threatening situation).