Capt. Bryan Burks, Alaska Airlines, has found that when airlines understand the limitations of their full flight simulators (Level D) and fixed-base simulators (Level 6), and operate within their validated envelopes, they build a solid foundation for effective UPRT programmes. Burks offered the following advice for UPRT training: Eliminate negative training, which can occur if the airline uses the simulator inappropriately — particularly in UPRT-specific scenarios, such as a high altitude upset induced by a wake-vortex encounter;. Begin the UPRT programme with current un-enhanced simulators. This is done by emphasising the tremendous capabilities of modern primary flight displays (PFDs) and all their dynamic cues that allow pilots to monitor the aeroplane’s energy state, flight path, high-speed and low-speed limits, trends, and an indirect angle-of-attack indicator.. Emphasise the PFD and the flight control force feedback;. Use the primary PFD in practical demonstrations on energy/flight path cues and encourage routine manual flying exercises at low and high altitudes;. Establish clear training objectives regarding aerodynamic principles; and,. Alaska Airlines considers the simulator to be the best training device to teach UPRT with practical demonstrations of critical aerodynamic principles. They have the fidelity of the PFDs and the force feedback from the aero model; pilots can see dynamically the effects of their flight control inputs. Burke added that he also is “a huge proponent of on-aircraft training.”. In the years after analyzing negative-training outcomes from its own design of the above wake-vortex upset scenario in 2011, Burks said, “We’ve been very worried and cautious about how we identify the appropriate training maneuvers … when it comes to UPRT.” In 2012, the airline found that implementing high-altitude manual handling, aerodynamics and approach to stall had yielded the key lessons above. Another product of the experience is the UPRT core team concept — i.e., “enhanced UPRT” developers within the airline who are responsible for standardisation throughout this instructor group, including the inter-rater reliability of UPRT instructors. One benefit attributed to UPRT is significant improvement in the rate of stall events during 2012–2019. Alaska Airlines has observed a steady decline in the low-speed precursor rate since 2012, he said. A flight data metric called airspeed low relative stall speed (1.1) Vs was reduced from about 14 stall events on approach per 10,000 flights to about less than two stall events on approach per 10,000 flights. The low-speed precursor rate is a flight data parameter defined as 1.1 times the minimum safe speed. “1.1 is valid regardless of the aircraft type, the configuration of the aircraft, the altitude or the weight,” Burks said. After six unreliable-airspeed events occurred during 2017, Alaska Airlines added the following training to the UPRT programme’s multi-year cycles of continuing-qualification (CQ) maneuvers-based training (take-off followed by manually flying a complete traffic pattern with unreliable airspeed); demonstrations/videos in all phases of flight; and reinforcing scenario-based training, such as a programmed spot LOFT engine failure on takeoff at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) airport with unreliable airspeed caused by a bird strike and pitot-static system