The categories of UAS operations are defined in Regulation 2019/947 - "open", "certified" and "specific". Requirements for UAS intended to be operated in the "open" category and remote identification add-ons The Regulation details the obligations of manufacturers, their authorized representatives, importers and distributors. Products must only be made available on the market if they satisfy the requirements for the "open" category and do not endanger the health or safety of persons, animals or property. Before placing a product on the Union market, a conformity assessment must be done and appropriate technical documentation should be drawn up. The relevant procedures are detailed in the Annex to this Regulation. By drawing up the EU declaration of conformity, the manufacturer assumes responsibility for the compliance of the product with the Regulation requirements. If there is reason to believe that a product on the market is not in conformity with these requiremets, an evaluation of the product concerned is carried out and, if necessary, corrective measures must immediately be taken to bring the product into conformity, to withdraw it or recall it. If the non-compliance persists, the Member State concerned must take all appropriate measures to restrict or prohibit the product being made available on the market or ensure that it is withdrawn or recalled from the market. In order to ensure product conformity, conformity assessment bodies are established. They must be independent of the organizations being assessed and must not be the designer, manufacturer, supplier, installer, purchaser, owner, user (except for assessment purposes) or maintainer of the product which they assess. Their work is to be governed by the principles confidentiality, objectivity and impartiality and the remuneration of their personnel must not depend on the number of assessments carried out or on the results of those. A transparent and accessible appeal procedure against the decisions of the conformity assessment bodies must be available. Requirements for UAS operated in the ‘certified’ and ‘specific’ categories The design, production and maintenance of UAS must be certified if the UAS meets any of the following conditions: A UAS subject to certification must comply with the applicable requirements set out in Commission Regulations (EU) No 748/2012, (EU) 2015/640 and (EU) No 1321/2014. Unless it needs to be certified, a UAS used in the "specific" category must feature the technical capabilities set out: Third-country UAS operators UAS operators that have their principal place of business, are established, or reside in a third country, must comply with Regulation 2019/947 for the purpose of UAS operations within the SES airspace. The competent authority for the third-country UAS operator is the competent authority of the first Member State where the UAS operator intends to operate. A certificate of the remote pilot competency or UAS operator may be recognised by the competent authority for the purpose of operation within, to, and out of the Union provided that: Annex to the Regulation The Regulation is complemented by an Annex, containing details on various aspects of its provisions. It comprises the following parts: