An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was available for the Investigation. It was noted that the aircraft commander, qualified as a ‘Check Airman’ had been acting as PF and that both pilots were experienced on the aircraft type. Both engines were damaged as a result of the excursion - the right engine as a result of the ingestion of a taxiway light and the left engine which suffered bending of two fan blades. It was noted that the flight had been routine until nearing the Chicago terminal area, when it became apparent that there were significant delays at the intended destination as a result of which ATC then advised that aircraft able to make an RNAV RNP ‘Y’ approach to Runway 13C at Chicago Midway would be so cleared. This option was accepted but the crew then mistakenly loaded and briefed a different procedure, the RNAV GPS approach. The onboard Electronic Flight Bag was used to check the landing performance which was confirmed as sufficient. During the approach, a discussion between the pilots led to the realisation that they had loaded and briefed the wrong approach procedure and the error was corrected. This action at this point in the approach was considered to have caused significant extra workload. A preceding company Boeing 737 was heard to report to ATC that runway 13C was “wet with fair braking action”. Although ATC did not repeat this report to them, the flight crew had noted it anyway and correctly recalculated the LDR (which again indicated sufficient distance was available, this time a margin of 210 feet) and set the autobrake appropriately for the reported conditions. A momentary flap overspeed occurred as the First Officer attempted to set flaps to 25 and it was noted that the following delay whilst waiting for the airspeed to decay occurred about the same time that the crew would normally have carried out the ‘Before Landing’ Checklist, which includes a check of speed brakes armed. No mention of ‘speed brakes’ or the ‘Before Landing Checklist’ was heard on the CVR playback and FDR data indicates that the speed brakes were not armed during the approach. Touchdown occurred with 40º of flap set within 500 feet of the runway threshold - with subsequent calculations indicating that the actual tailwind component had been 7 knots. Once on the grooved concrete runway, the PF perceived a lack of braking effectiveness and quickly applied full manual brakes. Since they had not been armed, the speed brakes did not deploy at touchdown and the thrust reversers were not selected either. After ‘about 16 seconds’, the thrust reversers were manually deployed and this action led to the automatic deployment of the unarmed speed brakes. At this point, about 460 metres of the 1860 metre landing distance remained. As the aircraft neared the end of the paved surface, the PF attempted to turn onto the connecting taxiway but