was unable to do so and the aircraft struck a taxiway light before leaving the paved surface at about 30 knots ground speed and rolling onto grass. It was noted that the calculated braking coefficient of the incident aircraft was consistent with the reported “fair” braking action. However, the delay in deployment of the speed brakes had resulted in severely degraded braking effectiveness and poor deceleration was further aided by the delay in thrust reverser deployment on what was a relatively short runway. The Investigation noted that “simulation studies concluded that the airplane would have stopped with about 900 feet (275 metres) of runway remaining if the speed brakes had been deployed at touchdown without reverse thrust or with about 1,950 feet (595 metres) remaining if both speed brakes and reverse thrust had been deployed at touchdown”. In respect of the Operator’s SOPs, it was noted that these included the requirement for the ’Landing Check List’ to be completed not later than 1000 feet above the TDZ elevation. In respect of the Operator’s use of RNP approaches it was noted that after receiving regulatory approval to fly them in April 2010, they had been introduced from 11 January 2011. In respect of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) guidance to Operators in AC 120-71A ‘Standard Operating Procedures for Flight Deck Crew Members’, it was noted that the SOP Template included as Appendix 1 to this Circular includes the recommendation to ensure that “Auto spoiler and auto brake systems armed and confirmed armed by both pilots, in accordance with manufacturer's recommended procedures (or equivalent approved company procedures)” as well as a recommendation that the PM should make a “no spoilers” if spoiler deployment does not occur. The Investigation also noted that this Circular also explicitly recommends a procedure for the PM to monitor thrust reverser deployment and advise the PF of thrust reverser status. The Board noted that their Investigations of runway overrun incidents and accidents have continued to find that in respect of thrust reverser callouts “not all air carriers have implemented procedures that are consistent with this guidance”. No comment was made in the Report of the Investigation on the aircraft commander’s failure to take advantage of the 58 metre long EMAS bed installed at the end of the runway as an alternative to a longer excursion on grass to one side of it. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined by the NTSB as: “ the flight crew's delayed deployment of the speed brakes and thrust reversers, resulting in insufficient runway remaining to bring the airplane to a stop”. The Board also noted that: contributing to the delay in deployment of these stopping devices was the flight crew's inadequate monitoring of the airplane's configuration after touchdown, likely as a result of being distracted by a perceived lack of wheel braking effectiveness.. contributing to the incident was the flight crew's omission of the ‘Before Landing’ Checklist which includes an item to verify speed brake arming before touchdown as a result