investigated but with the aircraft stopping on taxiway 'M' before reaching the building had occurred to another British Airways 747 in 2005 but had not been reported to either the South African CAA or its AAID. Whilst this failure to report had been in contravention of State regulations, it was accepted that corrective action to improve ground movement navigation aids and installation of A-SMGCS had followed. The crew report that not all the taxiway lighting on taxiway 'B', and specifically some of the centreline lights, had been illuminated was investigated and it was found that a total of seven of the installed green centreline lights were not lit, five in the section from the apron after the curve leading to taxiway Bravo and two on the curve leading to the runway 03 Cat 2 holding point. It was also noted that over a distance of approximately 300 metres up to the holding point, no centreline lights were installed. It was also determined that the direction information sign on the left side of taxiway 'B' ahead of the intersection of 'B' and 'M' which consisted of a black inscription on a yellow background was not lit but was supposed to be. In respect of the installed but unlit centreline lights, it was found that, on the night in question, the absence of some illuminated lights had been due to maintenance activity. However, the Investigation could find no evidence that the required Notice To Airmen had been issued. Issues relating to the designation, lighting installation, lighting activation and marking of adjacent obstructions in respect of taxiway 'M' were also identified. However, it was found that the Airside Safety Committee had not discussed these issues and their relevance to the hazards of the 'B' and 'M' intersection and that the airport operator, the Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA), had not included "the issue of aircraft (ground) movements and visual aids" as one of their top 20 hazards despite the 2005 incident. Relevant British Airways SOPs were reviewed and it was noted that the failure of the crew to familiarise themselves with the actual taxi route once it became known was contrary to their requirements. In addition, although the relevant taxi chart was displayed by at least one pilot as required so as "to ensure correct interpretation of ATC requirements, to monitor taxi progress and to achieve general situational awareness", it was concluded that it had not been referred to at any time whilst taxiing. It was also noted that although the British Airways Route Information Manual (Part C of the Operations Manual) contained an aerodrome brief for Johannesburg, the airfield and parking paragraph made no reference to any taxiway hazards. The fact that the engines were still running when ARFF personnel arrived at the scene was reviewed and the Captain’s explanation that the engines had been left running so as to power the electrical system and keep the cabin lights on and prevent the passengers from panicking was noted. It was, however,