by this time, the collision had already occurred and ATC had not yet been advised of it. No call by the aircraft to ATC reporting the collision was initially made and even subsequently, no “emergency” was declared. Only after ATC had instructed them to hold position did the Captain reply six seconds later that "we actually hit something here, standby please". No additional information was reported to ATC to explain what had happened. On the basis of this transmission from the aircraft and in the absence of further information, ATC instructed an Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Service (ARFF) vehicle in the vicinity to go and "assist" the aircraft. Once the crew of this vehicle had appraised ATC of the situation, the crash alarm was activated to dispatch ARFF Tenders to the scene. Three Tenders arrived and "reported observing a very large substantial quantity of fuel leaking from the damaged wing" but that the aircraft was "otherwise intact". At this point, all engines were still running. The Captain of the aircraft had already determined that it would be safer to disembark passengers normally rather than risking injuries with an (emergency) evacuation. The substantial damage to the affected building, where four occupants had sustained minor injuries, required that the electrical supply be switched off. Only after this had been done, and the aircraft Captain had agreed to an ARFF request to shut down the engines and achieved this once the APU had been started, were the ARFF able to begin containing the fire risk posed by the fuel spillage by foam application. Some 37 minutes after the collision had occurred, the fuel spillage had been contained. An airstairs vehicle and buses had by now arrived and the occupants disembarked via door 5L for transportation back to the Terminal Building. Whilst the ARFF was dealing with the fuel spillage, the Investigation noted that the CVR recorded crew conversation about the sequence of events leading to the collision. This included the First Officer saying “I saw it. It just didn’t look right. I wish I’d stopped. It just didn’t look right. It looked too close. I didn’t pick up the fact…I was looking for it to go straight. I didn’t see any turn off toward the end”. It was concluded that "through lack of situational awareness he could not make sense of or understand the events unfolding and was therefore unable to make the right decision to stop" and noted that as the junction between the 'B' and 'M' taxiways approached, the crew has just completed before take-off checks so that "his mind was focused on the objective of getting to the runway". The Investigation found that the pre-departure crew briefing had used only the aerodrome overview chart and not also the text page which contained information on taxi details and cautions which included a caution note specifically on the potential for confusion at the junction of taxiways 'B' and 'M'. It was noted that an almost identical incident to the one being