An Investigation was carried out by the South African CAA Accident and Investigation Division (AAID). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was successfully downloaded to assist but it was noted that the parameters recorded by the FDR did not include some, such as applied brake pressure, which would have been useful. It was established that the flight crew consisted of the Captain, a First Officer who was designated PF for the departure and a Senior First Officer (SFO) who was an augmenting crew member carried to facilitate cruise relief for the operating crew. The SFO was occupying a supernumerary crew seat in the flight deck in accordance with Company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). All three crew members were familiar with the airport through multiple previous visits and all had significant experience on the 747-400 aircraft type. A pre flight brief lasting around 7 minutes was conducted prior to push back which included the expectation that the taxi routing they would get for departure runway 03 would be via taxiway 'A'. When the clearance came it was not the one briefed but the alternative of proceeding to runway 03L via taxiway 'B'. No revision to the earlier crew brief took place. Initially, the clearance as correctly read back was followed but, when taxiway 'B' turned to the left as it approached the runway Cat 2 holding point which was the clearance limit, the aircraft wrongly continued straight ahead on a narrower taxiway 'M' which unlike 'B' had no centreline lighting. It was found that as soon as the aircraft entered 'M', the First Officer expressed his doubts about the apparent narrowness of the taxiway (it was actually only 18 metres wide compared to the 30 metre width of 'B') but there was no response from either of his colleagues and he continued ahead. His remark about the width were suspected by the Investigation to have been triggered by the transition from the green taxiway centreline lighting on 'B' to only the blue edges along 'M'. Then, with the aircraft taxi speed at about 14 knots, a further remark by the First Officer when the aircraft was about 10 metres from the building to the right of the taxiway with which it was about to collide that "that wing is not very far from that (building)", was followed almost immediately by impact of the right wing with the eastern side of the building, cutting through the second floor and completely demolishing the upper eastern side. The severity of the impact caused substantial structural damage to the wing and the cabin crew observed fuel beginning to flow from the wing and reported this to the flight crew. Just prior to the collision, when he was unable to see the aircraft on taxiway 'B', TWR controller checked the Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System display and discovered that the aircraft was on 'M' and heading towards the 'M' Apron. He immediately transmitted to the aircraft to "hold position" but