ensure that the aeronautical data they use, irrespective of the source, complies with the information published in the South African AIP.. that the South African CAA should finalise the commitments made to ICAO concerning the SACAA aeronautical information service (AIS) safety oversight responsibility over service providers, so that situations similar to the one of Navtech will not recur in South Africa.. that the South African CAA should consult with the Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA) about the inadequacies of the ground movement infrastructure issue (e.g. taxiway centreline green lights and signage) identified on Bravo, which may include other taxiways and/or runways at Johannesburg. It is important to point out that the infrastructure inadequacies identified there caused confusion which could have been prevented with proper maintenance and/or infrastructure development.. that the South African CAA should intensify the safety oversight inspections over ACSA operations relevant to the integrity of the airport infrastructure (e.g. lights and signs) with the aim to completely prevent the recurrence of non-compliance by ACSA with quality processes.. that the Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA) should consider complete removal of the building into which the British Airways aircraft collided, as in future it will continue to pose a safety risk to crews taxiing on taxiway Bravo en route to the Cat 2 holding point. This recommendation is made based on the evidence of the (British Airways Air Safety Report) ASR Ref:24674 incident during April 2005 when the aircraft stopped short of colliding with the building, followed by this accident Ref:CA18/2/3/9257 on the day in question.. that the South African CAA should consult with (the UK) AAIB about the British Airways flight crew’s non-compliance with the clear and unambiguous taxi instructions, which were to push back facing south using Bravo to Category 2 holding point for take-off from Runway 03L and not what they actually did, which was to taxi full length to end of the taxiway.. that 'the South African CAA should consult with the (UK) AAIB about the British Airways flight crew’s action in that they did not comply with the SOP requirement that they should immediately have stopped when in doubt about the conditions on taxiway Bravo during the taxi phase.. that the South African CAA should consult with (ANSP) Air Traffic and Navigation Services (ATNS) about their plans to fully commission the A-SMGCS system. This will ensure that the identified radar system is integrated completely with ATNS’s quality control process to effectively and efficiently carry out surveillance over ground movement areas. The aim is to contribute to the safety and efficiency of aerodrome surface movement control during low visibility operations (LVOs), e.g. at night, especially to provide active alerts to controllers as a means of early warning of potential incursions and/or taxiing into unsafe locations.. The Final Report was published in June 2015.