considered that "it would have been better if they had used the APU and shut down the engines" because "the fuel spillage was a fire risk due to its volatility (and) keeping the engines running, particularly with the (high) exhaust temperatures in close proximity to the fuel, was considered to be a hazard". The Investigation formally identified the Probable Cause of the accident as "the loss of situational awareness caused the crew to taxi straight ahead on the wrong path, crossing the intersection/junction of Bravo and Mike instead of following Bravo where it turns off to the right and leads to the Category 2 holding point. Following aircraft stand taxilane Mike; they collided with a building on the right-hand side of Mike". Six Contributory Factors were identified as follows: Failure of the crew to carry out a briefing after they had received instruction from ATC that the taxi route would be taxiway Bravo.. The lack of appropriate knowledge about the taxiway Bravo layout and relevant information (caution notes) on threats or risks to look out for while taxiing on taxiway Bravo en route to the Cat 2 holding point.. The aerodrome infrastructure problems (i.e. ground movement navigation aids anomalies), which created a sense of confusion during the taxi.. Loss of situation awareness inside the cockpit causing the crew not to detect critical cues of events as they were gradually unfolding in front of them.. Failure of the other crew members to respond adequately when the Co-pilot was commenting on the cues (i.e. narrowness and proximity to the building).. The intersection/junction of Bravo and Mike not being identified as a hotspot area on the charts.. A total of ten Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the (UK) AAIB enter into consultations with the operator (British Airways) about the crew’s non-adherence to applicable briefing and taxi policies, procedures and requirements. The AAIB to communicate to AIID what the appropriate corrective action shall be to prevent recurrence.. that the South African CAA should intensify the ramp inspections on all foreign operators to South Africa to ensure that they comply with international air operation standards, recommended practices and regulatory requirements in terms of the matters raised (i.e. availability and validity of aircraft documentation) wherever their destination in South Africa. The SACAA should also ensure that they put in place a proper, effective and efficiently system of traceability in this regard.. that the (UK) AAIB look into or address the matter of the revision status of the aeronautical data issued by the third party service provider referencing the issues raised of (British Airways contracted service provider) Navtech. It should be noted that the South African AIP is a legal document prepared in accordance with the Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) of ICAO Annex 15 of which the charts contained in it are produced in accordance with ICAO Annex 4. Its purpose is to provide appropriate safety information (i.e. aeronautical data) to the aviation industry; therefore operators are to