The EUROCONTROL APW Specification describes the minimum requirements for the development, configuration and use of APW in Europe. The Specification exists only as the final draft version while the Guidance Material has a ‘released’ status. Currently, there is no plan to undertake any further development of the Specification. EUROCONTROL Specification for Area Proximity Warning Draft Comprehensive guidance material to assist in implementing the EUROCONTROL Specification for Area Proximity Warning covers the full APW lifecycle: Definition of objectives. Implementation or change. Tuning and validation. Operation and monitoring. The APW Guidance is provide with several appendices to support ANSPs in the implementation of APW. EUROCONTROL Guidance Material for Area Proximity Warning Released Appendix A: Reference APW System: Detailed technical explanation of typical implementation details of APW with emphasis on parameterisation and performance optimisation. Optimisation concepts are also covered in detail. Appendix B: Safety Assurance: A set of three documents that can be used as starting point for APW safety assurance work in a particular local context. Appendix B-1: Safety Argument for APW System: This document describes a possible initial Safety Argument.. Appendix B-2: Generic Safety Plan for APW Implementation: Describes what safety assurance activities should be considered at each lifecycle phase, who should do them, and what the criteria for success are.. Appendix B-3: Outline Safety Case for APW System: Addresses in detail the assurance and evidence from the System Definition stage and outlines the likely assurance and evidence for the later stages.. Appendix C: Cost Framework: Appendix C: Cost Framework for the Standardisation of APW: A set of guidelines for users of the Cost Framework (an Excel model) to assess the economic impact of the standardisation of Area Proximity Warning for individual ANSPs.. Appendix C: Supporting Spreadsheet: Supporting Excel spreadsheet for the Cost Framework model.. Appendix D-1: Case Study: Enhancement of APW for ATCC Semmerzake: Identifies potential solutions for a number of issues.