have in place an Safety Management System which included both “processes to identify actual and potential safety hazards and assess the associated risks and processes to develop and implement remedial action necessary to maintain agreed safety performance” which it did not in respect of the risks arising from runway excursions. Further concerns relating to both obstacle clearance and the APAPIs provided to assist approaching aircraft were identified and another recent runway excursion at Montserrat by a different BN2 aircraft also operated by Montserrat AW was noted, although this had been attributed to maintenance error. The runway surface was found to consist of cambered but un-grooved asphalt. The Investigation found that there was a history of uncertainty in respect of the friction characteristics of the runway for a variety of unrelated reasons. The airfield was described in the AIP as “VFR Only” with Visual Flight Rules (VFR) weather limits of 5km visibility and a 1500 feet aal cloudbase. At the time of the investigated incident, the aerodrome operator required pilots to undergo a flight check which consisted of six takeoffs and landings at the airport under the supervision of a suitably qualified pilot before being permitted to operate at the airport. There was no written requirement for the use of both runways to be checked and although the airport manager commented that he believed this requirement existed, the incident pilot had only been checked on runway 10. The Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: “No faults were found with the aircraft braking system and there was no evidence that the aircraft had (aquaplaned). An accurate runway friction assessment could not be obtained, but there were no pilot reports of poor friction prior to or after the incident. A tailwind and/or high touchdown airspeed would have increased the landing distance required by the aircraft. Issues identified by the Investigation were pilot training, wind measurements, the aerodrome’s weather limits, the APAPI approach angle, obstructions on the approach and the runway environment.” During the course of the Investigation, a Special Bulletin (S2-2011) had been published on 21 July 2011 in which three Safety Recommendations were made: that the operator of John A Osborne Airport Montserrat should install a windsock and anemometer adjacent to the Runway 28 threshold. [2011-077]. that the operator of John A Osborne Airport Montserrat in consultation with (their contracted adviser) Air Safety Support International, should revise its operations manual to permit pilots to operate only to and from the runway on which they have been flight checked. [2011-078]. that the operator of John A Osborne Airport Montserrat should ensure that a runway friction assessment is carried out at the earliest opportunity by a qualified person using suitable equipment [2011-079]. Three further Safety Recommendations were upon the completion of the Investigation: that the operator of John A Osborne Airport Montserrat carry out a risk assessment of the hazards associated with runway excursions and implement any necessary mitigating action. [2012-010]. that the operator of John A Osborne Airport Montserrat remove the obstacles