An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was noted that the pilot was experienced on the aircraft type but that the incident landing was his first on the 596 metre runway 28 at Montserrat which, like the reciprocal direction, had a landing threshold displaced by 28 metres included in the quoted total length. The aircraft was instructed by ATC to join the downwind left hand visual circuit for 05 but after being advised of low cloud approaching the airfield from the west and noting the prevailing light winds, decided to use runway 28 and was so cleared. After touchdown following a light rain shower which had just finished, the aircraft skidded on first contact with the runway and so a go around was flown. The second approach to runway 28 after a low level circuit constrained by the cloud base was again followed by a skid on touchdown although, having been observed by witnesses to land nearer the beginning of the runway than the first time, the landing roll was continued. However, when the pilot became concerned at the poor rate of deceleration, he decided, with about 150 metres of runway remaining, to intentionally exit the paved surface with a turn to the right and subsequently stopped. Witnesses described the runway surface as ‘damp’ rather than ‘wet’. The Investigation found no faults with the aircraft brakes or braking system and no evidence that it had aquaplaned. A check of the likely aircraft operating weight at the time of the occurrence found that the aircraft had probably been flown at a weight slightly above that calculated by the pilot which was also above the aircraft MLW and both the Antigua and Montserrat WAT limits. This discrepancy was considered to be attributable to an unrealistic assumption about the weight of hold baggage which had been carried on the flight which was assessed likely to have been nearly 4 times greater than that assumed even though only 7 of the 9 available passenger seats had been occupied. Although figures which enable the calculation of the LDR are not published for weights in excess of the MLW, it was estimated that the LDR at the likely actual landing weight on a dry runway would have been 445 metres with the wind calm and 533 metres with a 5 knot tailwind component compared to the LDA declared in the AIP of 540 metres. It was noted that there are no overrun areas at either end if the runway and both ends are close to steep drops of over 200 feet. It was noted that under the prevailing State Regulations and ICAO Annex14, there was no requirement for the provision of a Runway End Safety Area or a greater obstruction-free area to the side of the runway than existed because of the applicable Airport Category although significant hazards were evident just beyond all of these ‘boundaries’. However, it was also noted that there was a State regulatory requirement for the aerodrome operator to