Loss of separation with adjacent sectors usually means that standard procedures have not been followed or something has gone wrong with the coordination of a non-standard solution. The most common scenarios are: Correct coordination but incorrect action – a common solution of the conflict was agreed by the two controllers but the transferring controller could not ensure that the aircraft would comply with it. Examples: Clearance issued too late – e.g. an aircraft was supposed to descend but the clearance was issued at a moment when it was no longer possible for the aircraft to reach the coordinated level at the boundary, creating a conflict with another aircraft in the next sector; Inadequate or unexpected by ATC aircraft performance – e.g. an aircraft could not reach its assigned level before the boundary due to performance limitations and the transferring controller did not coordinate this with the next sector. As a result, the aircraft was still climbing at a low rate and was in a conflict with another aircraft shortly after the boundary.. Clearance issued too late – e.g. an aircraft was supposed to descend but the clearance was issued at a moment when it was no longer possible for the aircraft to reach the coordinated level at the boundary, creating a conflict with another aircraft in the next sector;. Inadequate or unexpected by ATC aircraft performance – e.g. an aircraft could not reach its assigned level before the boundary due to performance limitations and the transferring controller did not coordinate this with the next sector. As a result, the aircraft was still climbing at a low rate and was in a conflict with another aircraft shortly after the boundary.. Incomplete or misunderstood coordination – a misunderstanding between the controllers occurred resulting in each controller having a different plan for the situation. Examples: Ambiguity – e.g. referring to “the traffic at FL 380” while there are two or more aircraft that fit the description. Expectation bias – e.g. the transferring controller expects that the conflict should be resolved by manipulating aircraft A while the accepting controller requests that this should be aircraft B.. Ambiguity – e.g. referring to “the traffic at FL 380” while there are two or more aircraft that fit the description.. Expectation bias – e.g. the transferring controller expects that the conflict should be resolved by manipulating aircraft A while the accepting controller requests that this should be aircraft B.. Incorrect plan – all coordination procedures were followed and the phraseology used was clear and unambiguous but the plan itself had a flaw. Examples: As a result of the coordination, the aircraft crossed a third party airspace and none of the controllers bothered to advise the third party. The coordination solved the conflict but created another one that was even worse.. As a result of the coordination, the aircraft crossed a third party airspace and none of the controllers bothered to advise the third party.. The coordination solved the conflict but created another one that was even worse..