An Investigation was carried out by the SHK, the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority. Data from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) was downloaded and used to support the Investigation. The 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), for which the crew had tripped the circuit breaker about 8 minutes after the engine failure, was also successfully downloaded and although found to be of intermittent quality, the recording was time-synchronised with that from the FDR. It was found that aircraft had rolled approximately 250 metres along the runway and reached a speed of approximately 54 knots when the engine failure occurred with a subsequent maximum speed of 59 knots. A private video recording submitted to the Investigation showed that the engine failure had been followed by a puff of smoke and the appearance of three flames of varying size within less than a second. It was noted that the operating crew were both experienced on the aircraft type and established that their departure from Stockholm was the second and final sector in a 14hour 45 minute duty day for which an augmented crew of two were on board and present in the flight deck for take off. It was noted that this length of duty was well within international regulations in respect of crew duty time for the applicable maximum was 24 hours and that the maximum FDP was similarly well within the corresponding maximum FDP limits. It was established that the First Officer had been designated as PF. The take-off had proceeded normally until Take-off / Go-around (TO/GA) Mode thrust was reached and confirmed, immediately after which a muffled bang had been heard. Almost immediately the aircraft had begun to veer left and, in the absence of any call or intervention from the Captain, the First Officer had commenced a rejected take off by retarding both thrust levers before the Captain then took over the controls. Directional control was not re-established and the aircraft left the runway approximately 150 metres further on and seven seconds after the failure had occurred. The nose wheel dug into soft ground and the aircraft came to a stop after a further 200 metres in a position approximately 40 metres from the edge of the runway. A short video comparing relevant FDR parameters to the aircraft ground track and a video of the excursion made available to the Investigators was prepared and may be seen below: Although the accident take off occurred in mid morning, it was noted that it was the first of the day on that runway. The runway surface was reported at the time to have been damp but cleared of snow and water. The runway temperature is estimated to have been below the freezing temperature of water but anti icing fluid had been applied and measurements of runway friction both before and after the event indicated that normal braking action was likely to have prevailed. However, analysis during the Investigation showed that runway surface friction “may have been lower than that stated and