an aircraft can be controlled with rudder alone in the event of sudden loss of engine power on the most critical engine, a natural consequence is that the crew must resort to other methods in order to maintain control – with reasonable, established deviations – within the speed range from application of take off thrust up to Vmgc as in this case where Vmgc was around 113 knots. The Investigation encountered some difficulty in establishing the cause of the engine malfunction. It was noted that the engine trend monitoring process using the engine manufacturer’s proprietary software had not indicated that any of the analysed Engine 1 parameters might be outside of the permissible interval. Initially, the failed engine was sent for examination to Lufthansa Technik (LHT) in Hamburg. Based on a completed damage analysis, LHT expressed the view that the probable cause of the engine failure was that the diffuser aft air seal had come loose because of micro cracks in the nine attachment lugs that hold the seal against the diffuser. However, neither GE nor the Investigation were in agreement with the LHT assessment and it was decided to have a further assessment of the evidence made by the metallurgical laboratories of the Volvo Aero Corporation. This analysis indicated that the engine failure had “probably been caused by fatigue damage in a different part of the diffuser aft air seal” with the engine failure following the separation of the aft air seal from the diffuser assembly. This conclusion was based on fragments of the failed air seal increasing the amount of debris until the seal material “fractured a six bolt section of the Stage 1 HP Turbine blade retainer, liberating pieces of bolt threads, nuts and retainer material”. This debris would have quickly entered the engine gas path leading to downstream damage and causing the engine stall clearly visible in the films taken by onlookers. The passage of liberated debris along the gas path would then have led to LP Turbine blades being broken and / or separated and as the amount of this damage increased, “NI (fan speed) had begun to decrease since the LP Turbine didn’t have enough blades to drive the fan”. It was considered that the fatigue which had been at the root of this failure sequence had started in a repaired seam at the diffuser aft air seal teeth and noted that all documented cases of CF6-80C2 diffuser aft air seal failures have occurred in seals that had been previously repaired, as this one had. The Investigation identified the following Causal Factors: Operational Deficiencies in the certification process for large aircraft with wing-mounted engines with regard to requirements for yaw stability in the event of sudden loss of engine power in the speed range below Vmsg.. Deficiencies in the pilot training with regard to training for sudden losses of engine thrust in the speed range below Vmsg.. Technical Deficiencies in the approval and follow-up of the Dabbler TIG Weld repair on the engine’s diffuser