ensure that crew members explain to passengers that they must comply with crew members’ instructions. However, it did explicitly state that briefings to passengers seated at over wing exits should include “recognition of emergency commands given by the crew”. The Investigation noted that the EASA assessment of safety risks associated with emergency evacuations (or rapid disembarkations) did not appear to take account of passenger experiences during actual evacuations and also the EASA “opinion that emergency evacuation is an extremely complex topic and that being overly prescriptive in guidance material will not always be helpful to the operator, or result in the best safety outcome”. The Investigation contrasted the potential scope for confusion in the action which may be required of passengers in abnormal aircraft evacuations with the corresponding communications required by the SOLAS (Safety of Life At Sea) Regulations for passenger ships where all passengers must be briefed on a specific signal and told what they must do if they hear it. Two previous investigations where confusion between rapid disembarkations and emergency evacuations had been identified were noted by the Investigation as having been a July 2013 Boeing 777-300 event at Paris CDG and an August 2013 Boeing 757-200 event at London Gatwick. The latter investigation was noted as having highlighted “the importance of flight crew communicating their intentions to cabin crew prior to initiating a rapid disembarkation” and having stressed in this context that “the language used in passenger commands should be unambiguous”. The judgement of the Captain that a turn back and, on arrival, a rapid disembarkation was necessary after the detection of fumes was informed by their lack of knowledge of the origin of the fumes and the potential for these fumes to be a precursor to a more hazardous situation. The origin of the fumes in the flight deck was found after flight to have been wear on the rear bearing in the avionics bay fan. It was noted by the Investigation that both the aircraft manufacturer and the fan OEM were already aware of similar previous fumes events attributable to the same avionics fan bearing problem. As an initial response to the problem had been the issue of a SIL recommending removal and overhaul of these fans every 10,000 flight hours which the operator of the aircraft involved in this event had opted to implement. However, the start of this new policy had occurred with many of the fans already well in excess of the new 10,000 hours in service and the fan which had generated fumes due to wear in this case had not yet been replaced but had accumulated 15,745 flight hours. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation included the following: The briefing given to passengers seated in the over wing emergency exits did not include the commands that would be used by flight or cabin crew in the event of an emergency, nor was it required to.. The fumes did not readily dissipate and the Flight Crew commenced the second stage