staff, the Captain made a PA announcement saying “Attention, Attention, this is the Captain, disembark the aircraft immediately” as per the option specified in Aer Lingus SOPs separately from an Emergency Evacuation. Following this announcement, most passengers exited the aircraft using the left side doors at the front and rear of the cabin but passengers in the emergency exit seat rows opened the over wing emergency exits and “approximately 32 passengers disembarked onto the aircraft wings” of which half then used the corresponding escape slides. The others returned to the passenger cabin and subsequently left the aircraft using the front and rear doors. CCTV evidence showed that almost six minutes elapsed from the time the first passenger left the aircraft until the last one did so with assistance. CCTV recordings also confirmed that once on stand, the passengers would have been able to see the fire service vehicles and the personnel who had taken up positions around the aircraft and manned fire hoses. No injuries occurred during the evacuation / disembarkation of the aircraft. The confusion amongst the passengers led to a combination of the intended rapid disembarkation and an emergency evacuation. It was noted that Airbus Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) does not include reference to ‘Rapid Disembarkation’ and the procedure which the Captain followed had been formulated by the airline. It envisaged passengers leaving their cabin baggage behind but exiting through the normal left side exit door(s) whereas the FCOM Emergency Evacuation involves all available exits and their escape slides being used. The absence of any regulatory requirement for the airline to have a ‘Rapid Disembarkation’ procedure was also noted with the airline’s procedure being developed with the presumed awareness (the aircraft operator is an active IATA member) of the Third Edition (2017) of the IATA Cabin Operations Safety Best Practices Guide. This was noted to include (in section 16) a suggested procedure which stressed that the announcement used to initiate a rapid disembarkation “should be different from the (emergency) evacuation command”. It was found that the Aer Lingus rapid disembarkation procedure had originally been only for cabin crew use but had “recently been expanded to be used by flight crew following an occurrence in the USA where ground equipment caught fire close to an aircraft when passengers were disembarking” and had been “promulgated to flight and cabin crew using internal memos known as Crew Instructions and in recurrent training”. The expanded procedure stated that a Captain wanting to order a rapid disembarkation could do so (as the Captain in this case had done) by using the announcement “attention attention this is the Captain, disembark the aircraft immediately” with the only difference between this and the wording of an order to evacuate being the substitution of “disembark” for “evacuate”. It was noted that relevant EASA Guidance Material did not explicitly require an operator to include emergency evacuation commands (or those related to any other “expedited disembarkation procedure” in their passenger pre-flight safety briefing and was merely intended to