A Field Investigation was carried out by the AAIU Ireland. Some recorded data relevant to the event was successfully downloaded from the CVR (although only from the area microphone channel) and useful CCTV recordings of the evacuation were also available. However, data from the FDR was missing for the period during which the aircraft was in an emergency electrical configuration in accordance with the required response to the circumstances encountered since no recorder independent power supply (RIPS) was installed. It was noted that the 44 year-old Captain had a total of 13,571 flying hours of which 9,281 hours were on type. The 37 year-old First Officer, who had been the designated PF for the event flight, had a total of 2,862 flying hours of which 926 hours were on type. It was established that the sector which resulted in the diversion was the third sector of two successive return flights from Cork to London Heathrow. During the first sector a burning smell had been detected in the flight deck but after the Captain, suspecting that the flight deck floor heaters may be the source had switched them off, the fumes had appeared to dissipate and the flight had proceeded to destination without any recurrence and a corresponding defect entry was made in the Aircraft Technical Log. Maintenance followed the appropriate trouble shooting procedures and checked the APU ducting, the avionics bay and the air conditioning system without finding a fault so the defect was cleared and the fumes did not recur during the second sector. However, on the third sector similar fumes which this time were described as “strong and persistent” were again detected in the flight deck as the aircraft climbed through FL 260 and it was levelled at FL 270. In response, both pilots donned their oxygen masks, declared a MAYDAY and initiated a return to Cork. The ‘SMOKE/FUMES/AVNCS SMOKE’ Checklist was followed. After the initial part of this Checklist had not enabled the identification of the source of the fumes, the second part of it was run. This involved putting the aircraft into an emergency electrical configuration in which the normal electrical generation system was replaced by the RAT and required the aircraft to be flown manually and at this point, the Captain took over as PF. This electrical system reselection was not followed by any dissipation of the fumes and in accordance with the Checklist, the aircraft generators were switched on again shortly before landing “to recover normal braking”. A normal landing on runway 35 at Cork followed after approximately 50 minutes airborne and, after satisfying himself that it was safe to continue, the Captain elected to taxi to the allocated parking stand and was accompanied by the attending RFFS vehicles. Once on stand, the aircraft engines were shut down and the crew made a further assessment of the situation noting that fumes were still present in the flight deck. After a brief exchange with both the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) and the attending ground