of the ‘SMOKE/FUMES/AVNCS SMOKE’ Checklist, which required them to put the aircraft temporarily into an emergency electrical configuration.. The emergency electrical configuration resulted in the FDR being de-energised so that it did not record any data during that period.. The wording (to be) used by the Commander in the event of a rapid disembarkation is very similar to the wording for an emergency evacuation.. The Cabin Crew then made an announcement on the aircraft PA system asking passengers to “use the nearest available exit”.. The relevant EASA Guidance Material does not explicitly recommend that passengers should be briefed in advance on the emergency commands that might be used by flight or cabin crew. However it does suggest that passengers seated in emergency exit rows should be briefed on emergency commands.. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined as “unintended use of the emergency over wing exits, following a return to the departure airport, due to fumes entering the cockpit”. Five Contributory Factors were also identified Rear bearing failure of the avionics bay blower fan.. Heightened alertness among passengers due to diversion.. Visual cues to passengers who saw emergency responders outside the aircraft.. Similarity between rapid disembarkation instruction and emergency evacuation instruction.. Direction to the passengers following the rapid disembarkation direction to “use the nearest available exit”.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event included the following: the Aircraft Operator undertook a review of their Rapid Disembarkation Procedure and “intends to revise the guidance material which addresses an escalation from a rapid disembarkation to a full evacuation”.. the Avionics Fan OEM made a ball-bearing health monitoring system available for retrofit as an interim measure in May 2018 and is “anticipating that a redesigned fan will replace the current design during 2019”.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 7 May 2019. No Safety Recommendations were made.