possibility of standing water on the runway during periods of heavy rain. It was also noted that FDR evidence strongly suggested that below 400 feet agl, an obvious but not severe temporary corruption of the both the GS and LOC signals had occurred which had no material effect. It was noted that whilst the transient distortion of the GS signal was well known and was included in the operator’s cautions for Calicut, transient distortion of the LOC signal was not. The Captain stated that by the time the ILS GS signal distortions occurred, he was using the PAPI to control the vertical profile of the aircraft and visually maintaining the runway extended centreline. After performing the go-around, the Captain had been prepared to wait for the heavy rain to stop but in fact, it did so quite quickly and the visibility increased too so there was little delay before the second approach using the same procedure from the overhead was commenced. The APP mode was again selected prior to the aircraft establishing on the LOC and prior to checking for the correct sensing indication for the GS but had no relevant consequence. A wind check with 4nm to go was given as from 220° at 5 knots. Passing 1,000 feet agl, the aircraft was fully configured for landing as on the first approach. This time, the AP was disconnected passing approximately 730 feet agl and with the runway in sight, the Captain again used the PAPI to maintain the vertical profile. Thereafter, the same ILS signal distortion occurred below 400 feet agl as on the first approach. At DA, the Captain called “Continue” and as the aircraft crossed the runway threshold at approximately 50 feet agl, the aircraft “was aligned on the runway centreline with a negligible drift angle and an approximate 1° roll angle”. With the APs now disconnected, the Captain reported that immediately after the aircraft had crossed the threshold, he had felt that the light rain had intensified somewhat. FDR data showed that the aircraft then began to drift to the right of the runway centreline. Touchdown followed at a rate of descent of between 120 and 180 fpm. FDR data showed that the Captain had made lateral sidestick inputs varying between roughly 2/5 of full right deflection to roughly 1/4 of full left deflection just before touchdown but a succession of what was considered likely to have been unintentional right-only roll inputs had then followed. This produced a continuous right roll for approximately 8 seconds after the aircraft had crossed the threshold and resulted in it deviating to the right of the runway centreline. The Captain commented that he had focused more on the pitch attitude during the flare, since he believed that the aircraft was still on the runway centreline. The windshield wipers were used and functioned normally, but due to the increasing rain intensity, the Captain reported that his view of the runway edge lights had “become blurred”. A very slight (3 knot) crosswind