component from the left was considered in a small way to assist the drift away from the centreline. The landing flare was relatively long and when still at 15 feet agl, the Captain reported having noticed that the aircraft was now “on the right side of the runway” because he could see the left hand side runway edge lights had become “more blurred than those on the right hand side”. He reported having applied a significant left rudder pedal input to try and regain the centreline but in the absence of a complimentary left roll input, the desired correction was not achieved. Touchdown occurred at a recorded 180 fpm rate of descent with the right main gear leading just beyond the 900 metre TDZ. Calculations showed that at touchdown, the right main gear was approximately two metres from the runway edge just inside the 45 metre wide runway. There was standing water on the runway consistent with the moderate/heavy rain that had occurred earlier and again during the landing and “given the relative lateral movement and significant drift angle of the aircraft at touchdown, a lateral runway excursion occurred” onto the 7.5 metre paved runway shoulder. As the right main landing gear struck a series of runway edge lights located at 2.5 metre intervals, “multiple load factor peaks were recorded” and after the first light was struck almost immediately after touchdown, four more lights were struck within just over two seconds. Since the recorded brake pressure of the right main landing gear inboard wheel remained at 200 whilst the recorded pressure for the other three wheels increased progressively up to 2,300 psi, it was likely that the right inboard wheel tyre was damaged by contact with the edge lights. The right outboard wheel tyre was subsequently found to have abnormal wear and partial ply separation, presumed to be a consequence of the excess load carried as a result of damage to the inner wheel tyre. It was subsequently calculated that the maximum lateral runway excursion of the right main landing gear outer wheel tyre was around half the width of the shoulder. Five seconds after touchdown, left rudder pedal was applied to approximately one third of full deflection and the aircraft began to track towards the centreline recovering to align parallel and just to the left of it approximately 1,500 metres beyond the runway threshold by which time the groundspeed was approximately 83 knots, a comparison with the recorded airspeed showing an 11 knot tailwind component. Deceleration continued and the aircraft was returned to the runway centreline before exiting the runway on taxiway Bravo. It was then taxied to its designated parking gate in accordance with the applicable speed and turning angle restrictions for taxi with deflated or damaged tyres. Once stopped at the gate, maintenance personnel were called to inspect the landing gear. Their inspection confirmed damage to the right main landing gear tyres consistent with the ECAM post flight maintenance report and the TWR controller was informed accordingly.