Following delegation to the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS), the State of Registry and of the Operator, by the Indian Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), an Investigation was commenced. Relevant DFDR data were downloaded and of assistance but relevant data from the CVR was found to have been overwritten after the First Officer carried out the normal pre flight checks, which include switching on the CVR, for what he initially understood would be a return flight to Abu Dhabi after the right main gear wheels had been changed. However, after the damaged runway edge lights were discovered, the flight was cancelled by which time data from the approach and landing had been overwritten. A transcript of recorded ATC data was also examined. It was found that the 53 year-old Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight, had a total of 15,179 flying hours of which 12,943 hours had been on type including 8,876 hours in command. The 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,670 flying hours of which all but 160 hours were on type and held an MPL. Following cruise at FL350, a descent was commenced and clearance for a procedural Cat I ILS ‘Z’ approach to the 2,680 metre-long runway 28 at Calicut was given. This approach required the flight to route to the on-airport VOR/DME then to descend outbound for 500 feet before turning inbound at 12nm from the beacon to establish on the ILS LOC. The Captain subsequently stated that having observed as the overhead was approached that there were no CB clouds over the runway, he considered that it was reasonable to commence the procedure. The TWR controller did mention around this time that there was moderate rain at the airport and that the runway was wet. Prior to the turn inbound, the controller advised that visibility was 3,000 metres in rain and, on request, that the surface wind was from 270° at 10 knots and that the rain had become heavy. It was noted from FDR data that APP mode was engaged after the LOC was captured but before correct sensing of the GS indications which was contrary to a recommendation given for approaches to this Cat ‘B’ airport in the specifically-applicable operational documentation for approaches there. Given the possibility that the reported heavy rain might lead to enough surface water to induce aquaplaning, the Captain stated that he had considered the possibility of a go-around but had decided to make the decision either way on reaching the DA. By 1000 feet agl, the aircraft was fully configured with medium autobrake set. The Captain stated that from when he first saw the runway with just under 2nm to go, his observation of rain over the runway convinced him that there was indeed a risk of aquaplaning and he decided that “it was unsafe to land” and commenced a go around at DA. It was noted that the operator’s brief for Calicut specifically included a need to consider the