The Investigation considered that the Captain’s assumption that the aircraft was continuing to track the runway centreline after being on it when crossing the runway threshold was attributable to expectation bias which had been reinforced by the reduction in visibility over the threshold as the rainfall intensity increased. Also, the absence of centreline lighting meant that what would have been an important alignment cue had been missing. It was noted that in the absence of relevant CVR data, it had not been possible to determine whether all required briefings, checklists, task sharing, and verbal announcements (including system callouts), had taken place. However, the First Officer did state that although he had been aware, despite the increasing rain intensity, that the aircraft had begun drifting to the right of the centreline after passing the threshold, he had not alerted the Captain to the situation, inaction which was noted to be directly contrary to the declared responsibilities of a PM. More generally, it was noted that the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) requirement for flight below DA and until touchdown is that it must be primarily made using visual references and if these are not sufficient, a go-around should be initiated, a requirement discussed in more detail in the Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM). It was noted that the excursion had occurred at night at a time which, from a crew local time perspective was within the recognised window of circadian low which is widely recognised as a time of day when human performance efficiency is degraded and the risk of inaccuracy when attempting a challenging or demanding task is increased. The Cause of the Accident was formally determined as follows: After crossing the threshold, the aircraft drifted towards the right side of the runway due to a slight but continuous roll input to the right. The aircraft touched down almost at the runway edge line, and this was followed by an increase in lateral deviation towards the runway edge due to an ineffective flight control recovery technique. The aircraft then struck and damaged five runway edge lights as the right main landing gear entered the runway shoulder. A total of 7 Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The presence of a moderate intensity rain shower over the runway during the landing affected visibility after the aircraft crossed the threshold.. The lack of runway centreline lighting.. The situational awareness of the Captain, as the pilot flying, was adversely affected by his expectation that the aircraft would remain aligned with the centreline until touchdown, since the aircraft was aligned when he overflew the centreline at the threshold. The alignment deviation occurred because of the reduction in visibility over the threshold and the lack of runway centreline lighting that resulted in a loss of visual references.. The several unintentional roll inputs to the right applied due to a subconscious action, since the pilot flying focused more on the aircraft pitch attitude during the flare and the reduction in pilot flying situational awareness.. Control