inputs to re-align the aircraft prior to touchdown were not affirmative in that only incremental left rudder inputs were made without an associated left roll input. A continuous increase in the aircraft lateral deviation movement was a result of the ineffective flight control technique, and this was due to the existing high workload and the surprise effect of the unexpected aircraft lateral deviation position such that the pilot flying overlooked the approved flight control technique before touchdown.. The recovery action to take the aircraft back to the centreline by applying left rudder input after touchdown, was relatively late due to the high workload.. Despite his awareness of the deviation to the right of the runway centreline, the First Officer, as the pilot monitoring, did not intervene to attract the attention of the Captain. This was not in compliance with standard operating procedures.. Safety Action taken by Etihad Airways as a result of this event based on their internal evaluation was noted to have included amendment of and additions to the Route Information Manual in respect of operations to Calicut: The existing ‘Caution’ in the ‘Airport Briefs’ section in respect of known ILS GS fluctuations was amended and highlighted in red and now requires that crews shall only arm and capture LOC mode when established on a final intercept heading to the inbound course and only when established on the LOC and after ensuring the correct sensing of the GS indications should the APP mode be armed.. Four text additions were made to the ‘Airport Briefs’ section: Autopilot use for ILS approaches below 400 feet above aerodrome level is not recommended. Flight Director guidance below 400 feet above aerodrome level is to be used with extreme caution. Tower-reported surface winds are inaccurate and unreliable. In all cases, pilots must aim to touchdown within the touchdown zone, or a go around must be initiated.. Autopilot use for ILS approaches below 400 feet above aerodrome level is not recommended.. Flight Director guidance below 400 feet above aerodrome level is to be used with extreme caution.. Tower-reported surface winds are inaccurate and unreliable.. In all cases, pilots must aim to touchdown within the touchdown zone, or a go around must be initiated.. An addition to the ‘Destination Airport Categories’ section was made to require that only Captains shall perform landings at Calicut unless they are Training Captains when they may allow the First Officer to perform the landing.. A total of 6 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Etihad Airways enhance crew resource management training by placing particular emphasis on the need for assertiveness of callout(s) to be made by the pilot monitoring, particularly when there is any deviation from flight parameters. [SR69/2020]. that Etihad Airways should emphasise during training the importance of the ‘Approach Using LOC G/S Guidance on Final Approach’ SOP as per the Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) and the ‘Considerations About Go-around’ SOP as per the Flight Crew Techniques Manual (FCTM). [SR70/2020]. that