towards Mmo by reducing the target speed from M0.86 to M0.76 and manually selecting the speed brakes to half maximum deployment. Examination of the recorded flight data showed that the turbulence episode had involved a change from a tailwind component to a headwind component and vertical speed of 4,900 fpm with positive load factors varying in the range 1.75g to 0.17g. As a subsequent medical assessment of the serious passenger injury concluded that it was not life-threatening and the aircraft systems were unaffected, the flight was continued to the intended destination and was without further event. The turbulence encounter was not subsequently reported to ATC. Aircraft Systems - The automatic systems which helped control both airspeed and altitude worked as intended.. Route Weather Forecast - The turbulence detection function of the weather radar indicated that there were several wet turbulence areas as the aircraft continued over Mozambique and Malawi confirming the accuracy of the convective weather forecast on the OFP significant weather chart.. Relevant Procedures and Guidance - An examination of the operator’s SOPs and guidance for flight crew in respect of the need to avoid passenger and cabin crew injuries during significant en route turbulence encounters concluded that they were comprehensive and appropriate.. Flight crew performance - Despite the fact that the OFP had accurately indicated that a large area of significant weather activity with “isolated embedded Cb up to FL 520” was likely to be encountered over Mozambique, it was concluded that the crew were not paying enough attention to their NDs as the flight approached a known area of turbulence risk and were unlikely to have observed the reported magenta cells when they initially appeared. This deprived them of the opportunity to prevent injury from a transient severe turbulence episode by giving (as required by SOPs) the cabin crew and passengers time to secure themselves safely and/or deviating around particularly active cells which may well be building. It was also noted that they did not use the full capabilities of the weather radar by adjusting the range and they did not effectively make use of its manual modes to enhance the weather returns displayed.. The Investigation made a number of informal recommendations to the aircraft operator as a result of its analysis of the context in which the investigated event occurred as follows: In order to assist flight crew decision making regarding weather conditions, the ability of pilots to access updated weather information through the EFB is enhanced.. The weather radar training information available to pilots including use of the full capability of the weather radar to better analyse adverse weather situations to facilitate decision making is enhanced.. The communication procedure between the flight crew and the cabin crew when the seat belt sign is turned on with information on the anticipated level of turbulence and the cabin services allowed is improved.. The aircraft type option to enable an automated passenger announcement when the seat belt sign is switched on is reinstated.. The audibility of the cabin