A comprehensive Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. Relevant data were obtained from both the FDR and the QAR but as the flight had continued for more than two hours following the turbulence encounter, relevant data from the CVR had been overwritten. Because the FDR was not designed to capture weather radar colour information, it was not possible to make an unequivocal determination of the aircraft flight path relative to the area of greatest weather threat as displayed on the NDs during the turbulence. Assistance in the analysis of the FDR and CVR data was provided to the Investigation by Airbus. A two pilot crew was flying the aircraft with no relief crew on board or required and the Captain was acting as PF. No information was given on the flying experience of the pilots. The OFP (Operational Flight Plan) for the flight indicated that no significant weather was expected until just prior to entering the Beira FIR, Mozambique where a large area of significant weather activity typical of the ITCZ with isolated embedded Cb up to FL 520 affecting an area over the central and eastern border area of Africa was forecast. As a matter of routine, the aircraft weather radar and turbulence functions were selected to active mode and the ND was set to display weather information. For just under six hours of flight cruising at FL 400 there was, as forecast, no encounter with significant weather. After entering the Beira FIR at FL 400 at M0.86, light turbulence was encountered whilst passing through an area of scattered clouds. The Captain stated that weather radar returns showing “three or four magenta spots” subsequently appeared on the weather radar within 40 nm of the aircraft position but the indicated cell tops were not above FL350. He was unable to recall when these magenta areas had appeared on the display but stated that after they appeared “there was insufficient time to deviate or to make any changes to the weather radar settings”. In response, the seat belt signs had been turned on but there was no corresponding communication with the cabin crew. The Operational Flight Plan significant weather chart provided to the flight crew. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A satellite image of ITZ activity affecting the flight path at the time of the turbulence. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Eight seconds later, as the aircraft entered cloud, a turbulence episode described by the flight crew as “moderate to severe” was encountered and lasted about 30 seconds and the First Officer responded by making a PA for cabin crew to take their seats. The AP and A/THR remained engaged and altitude variation was within the range FL 430 and FL 382. The automatic aircraft systems responded to the concurrent speed increase towards the Mmo of M0.89 by deployment of the spoilers and the maximum speed remained just below it at M0.884 after which it reduced. Subsequently, the flight crew responded to a second increase