In 2008 Annex 6, to the Chicago Convention was amended in order to introduce a number of requirments and recommendations related to the implementation of safety management and safety management systems by operators of commercial air transport aircraft and helicopters. The following paragraphs pertain to the implementation of OFDM: Annex 6, Part I - International Commercial Air Transport - Aeroplanes 3.3.5 An operator of an aeroplane of a maximum certificated take-off mass in excess of 27 000 kg shall establish and maintain a flight data analysis programme as part of its safety management system. Note.- An operator may contract the operation of a flight data analysis programme to another party while retaining overall responsibility for the maintenance of such a programme. 3.3.6 A flight data analysis programme shall be non-punitive and contain adequate safeguards to protect the source(s) of the data. Note 1.- Guidance on flight data analysis programmes is contained in the Safety Management Manual (SMM) (Doc 9859). Note 2.- Legal guidance for the protection of information from safety data collection and processing systems is contained in Annex 13 , Attachment E. Annex 6, Part III - International Operations - Helicopters 1.3.5 'Recommendation' - An operator of a helicopter of a certified take-off mass in excess of 7 000 kg or having a passenger seating configuration of more than 9 and fitted with a flight data recorder should establish and maintain a flight data analysis programme as part of its safety management system. Note.- An operator may contract the operation of a flight data analysis programme to another party while retaining overall responsibility for the maintenance of such a programme. 1.3.6 A flight data analysis programme shall be non-punitive and contain adequate safeguards to protect the source(s) of the data. Note 1.- Guidance on flight data analysis programmes is contained in the Safety Management Manual (SMM) (Doc 9858). Note 2.- Legal guidance for the protection of information from safety data collection and processing systems is contained in Annex 13 , Attachment E.