Regulation 139/2014 has been subject to several corrections and amendments. Errors were found in the French version of this Regulation which were corrected by Regulation 2017/161. Versions in other languages were not affected. An error was found in the Polish version which was corrected by Regulation 2022/697. Versions in other languages were not affected. The first amendment of this Regulation was made by Regulation 2018/401. The definition of "instrument runway" was updated and definitions for "type A instrument approach operation" and "type A instrument approach operation" were added. The second amendment of this Regulation was made by Regulation 2020/469. Annex III was amended by: Extending the information to be provided by the applicant for an aerodrome operator certificate to include the types of operation in the airspace associated to the aerodrome.. Explicitly stating that the flight procedures of the aerodrome must be in accordance with Regulation 2017/373.. The third amendment to this Regulation was made by Regulation 2020/1234. The changes mostly address the provisions related to competent authorities, oversight and apron operations and include: Updating some of the provisions in Annex II and Annex III. Adding provisions for Apron management operations in Annex IV. The fourth amendment to this Regulation was made by Regulation 2020/2148. The changes include: Adding/updating 25 definitions in Annex I. Updating provisions about Management of aeronautical data and aeronautical information and Training and proficiency check programmes in Annex III. Adding/updating provisions of Annex IV: Aerodrome data, in particular adding provisions about the origination of NOTAM and surface condition reports NOTAM and SNOWTAM forms Operational services, equipment and installations, including operation of vehicles and requirements for vehicle drivers Aerodrome maintenance, including vehicles, aerodrome surfaces, visual aids and electrical systems. Aerodrome data, in particular adding provisions about the origination of NOTAM and surface condition reports. NOTAM and SNOWTAM forms. Operational services, equipment and installations, including operation of vehicles and requirements for vehicle drivers. Aerodrome maintenance, including vehicles, aerodrome surfaces, visual aids and electrical systems. The fifth amendment to this Regulation was made by Regulation 2022/208. The changes mostly address low visibility operations and include: Adding/updating/removing 9 definitions in Annex I.. Adding a general requirement in Annex III regarding the provision and maintenance of aerodrome equipment. Adding/updating requirements in Annex IV about: Information on the aerodrome lighting system Charts relevant to the aerodrome Information on radio navigation and landing aids Information on visual segment surface (VSS) penetration Low-visibility procedures. Information on the aerodrome lighting system. Charts relevant to the aerodrome. Information on radio navigation and landing aids. Information on visual segment surface (VSS) penetration. Low-visibility procedures. The sixth amendment to this Regulation was made by Regulation 2022/2074. The only change was the update of the NOTAM definition. The seventh amendment to this Regulation was made by Regulation 2023/203. The changes add provisions for information security risk assessment, information security management and reaction to information security vulnerabilities and incidents and are applicable as of 22.02.2026. A consolidated version of this Regulation can be found here. It incorporates Regulations 2017/161, 2018/401,