from the failed No 2 engine and fuel could be seen leaking from the damaged left wing fuel tanks. Since the calculated landing performance at high weight was close to limits - indications were that the aircraft would stop with 100 m of runway remaining with reverse thrust only available from one instead of the usual two engines - the cabin crew were given a precautionary brief to prepare the cabin for a possible runway overrun and evacuation. Prior to beginning the approach, the controllability of the aircraft was verified by a number of manual handling checks at holding speed. The approach was initially made with the AP engaged but, after some un-commanded disconnects, the last 1000 feet was flown manually to a successful landing back at Singapore about 1 hour 45 minutes after the engine failure. The aircraft came to a stop about 150 metres from the end of the 4000 metre runway used for landing with fuel continuing to leak from the left wing. The attending Rescue and Fire Fighting Services applied large quantities of water and foam below the left wing whilst shut down of the remaining three engines was attempted but No. 1 engine continued to run. Passenger disembarkation was eventually commenced about 50 minutes after landing using steps brought to the right hand side of the aircraft and had then taken about 50 minutes to complete. Even after passenger disembarkation, numerous attempts to shut down the No. 1 engine by the flight crew, maintenance engineers and the airport emergency services were all unsuccessful and final shutdown was only achieved about 3 hours after the aircraft landed by means of the pumping of fire fighting foam directly into the engine inlet. The Investigation found that “the flight crew and cabin crew managed the event as a competent team in accordance with standard operating procedures and practices”. Debris from the failed engine was found to have affected both the structure of the aircraft and a number of its systems. The Investigation found that whilst some debris from the failed No. 2 engine had been lost overboard and subsequently recovered by residents of Batam Island, a large fragment of the engine turbine disc had penetrated the left wing leading edge, passed through the front spar and entered the left inner fuel tank before exiting through the top skin of the wing. Although the passage of this fragment through the fuel tank had initiated a short-duration low-intensity flash fire within the tank, the Investigation “determined that the conditions within the tank were not suitable to sustain the fire”. Another short-lived fire which also self-extinguished was found to have occurred within the lower cowl of the No. 2 engine as a result of oil leaking into it from a damaged oil supply pipe. The ejected large turbine disc fragment had also severed wiring looms inside the wing leading edge that were connected to a number of aircraft systems. A separate disc fragment was found to have severed a wiring loom