After formal delegation from the State of Occurrence, the Indonesian NTSC, an investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). The Investigation was able to access recorded data from the FDR and from a wireless digital aircraft condition monitoring system recorder also fitted. However, after landing, despite attempts by both flight and ground crew to isolate the CVR and protect its 2 hour recording, this proved impossible and event recording data was overwritten. The Investigation noted that “at the time of the occurrence, the operator did not have, and was not required by Australian aviation regulation to have a procedure that would enable the CVR to be isolated in conditions of this nature. In contrast, Singapore legislation stated that reasonable measures may be taken to preserve any object or evidence deemed necessary for the purposes of the investigation.” The aircraft flight path, reproduced from the Official Report, is shown below - a departure from runway 20C at Singapore, then a left turn over Batam Island to take up a racetrack hold to the east of Singapore prior to a final approach to land back on the same runway. It was established that about four minutes after take off, in the climb through about 7000 feet with the aircraft commander as PF, there had been two ‘bangs’ and a number of warnings and cautions had been displayed on the Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM). The first of these was an alert of No 2 engine turbine overheat but this was then followed by multiple other messages relating to a number of aircraft system problems, creating a complex situation which could be resolved simply by sequentially following all the ECAM annunciations. Following a transient engine fire warning for the No 2 engine, it was shut down and discharge of the first fire bottle selected. When no indication that the selected fire bottle had actually discharged was seen, the second fire bottle was selected with a similar outcome. Then, after review, the remainder of the engine failure procedure, including selection of an automated process for fuel transfer between tanks, was actioned before turning to the other ECAM system alerts displayed. Fortuitously, in addition to the operating crew of a Captain as pilot in command, a First Officer acting as co-pilot and a routinely-rostered Second Officer, there was also a trainee Check Captain performing a routine Line Check on the aircraft commander whilst being overseen by a Supervising Check Captain. This exceptional crew resource was able to be deployed to handle the exceptional prevailing circumstances. A ‘PAN’ call was made to ATC and an intention to return to Singapore advised and upon crew request, the aircraft was then cleared to enter a holding pattern to the east of Singapore in order to work through the procedures relevant to the messages displayed by the ECAM and establish the state of the aircraft and its systems before making an approach. It became clear that there had been some impact damage caused by debris