located between the lower centre fuselage and body fairing which included wires that provided redundancy for some of the systems already affected by the severing of wires in the wing leading edge so that some of those systems were rendered inoperative. The aircraft’s hydraulic and electrical distribution systems were also damaged and this then indirectly affected other aircraft systems. The No. 2 engine failure sequence was found to have been initiated by an oil leak from a crack in an oil feed pipe which had lost its integrity as a result of fatigue over some time. During the occurrence flight, it was determined that the crack in the feed pipe involved had grown to a sufficient size for oil within it to be released in the form if an atomised spray into the buffer space between the bearing chamber and the hot air surrounding the Intermediate Pressure (IP) turbine disc and the air temperature was sufficiently hot for the oil to auto-ignite. It was established that “the resulting fire propagated through the bearing chamber buffer space and eventually impinged upon the IP turbine disc drive arm, resulting in the separation of the disc from the drive shaft”. Following this, the engine had behaved in a manner different to that anticipated by the manufacturer during engine design and testing with the disc accelerating to a speed in excess of its structural capacity and bursting into three main segments which exited the core at high speed and with sufficient force to puncture the engine outer casing. The faulty pipe was in a section of the High Pressure/Intermediate Pressure (HP/IP) bearing chamber oil feed pipe known as the oil feed stub pipe and contained an area of reduced wall thickness which it was concluded had been the consequence of misalignment of a counter bore machined into the end of the stub pipe during manufacture. A detailed engineering analysis found that the stresses generated in this oil feed stub pipe were sensitive to the wall thickness and that this had had a significant effect on the fatigue life of the pipe. The Investigation found that the mis-aligned counter bore had not conformed with the corresponding design specification and noted that following the event, Rolls-Royce had found that a significant number of HP/IP bearing support assemblies in service on a number of other Trent 900 engines had been produced with oil feed stub pipes that did not conform to the design specification. As a result of these findings, a Safety Recommendation was issued on 1 December 2010 as follows: that Rolls-Royce plc address (the identified critical safety issue - the risk to the integrity of the failed oil feed stub pipes) and take actions necessary to ensure the safety of flight operations in transport aircraft equipped with Rolls-Royce plc Trent 900 series engines. [AO-2010-089-AR-012]. The Investigation noted that Rolls-Royce had taken action to fully address this Recommendation, which was included in a factual Preliminary Report released by the Investigation on 3 December 2010. An Interim