Factual Report was issued on 18 May 2011. This noted that a simulation of the flight following the engine failure based on the available recorded evidence and flight crew accounts had confirmed that the aircraft had remained in Normal Law thus ensuring that flight envelope protections had remained in place throughout. The remainder of the Investigation had continued to concentrate on the effectiveness of the applicable manufacturing Quality Assurance processes and the effect they may have had on the circumstances which had led to the manufacturing fault involved. It was found that “the misalignment of the counter bores was the result of movement within the HP/IP bearing support assembly during manufacture and that a number of opportunities existed during the design and manufacture processes where the misaligned oil feed stub pipe counter bores could have been identified and managed. Those opportunities were missed for a number of reasons, but generally because of ambiguities within the manufacturer’s procedures and the non-adherence by a number of the manufacturing staff to those procedures”. It was noted that because the design datum for the oil feed stub pipe counter bore was no longer accessible once the pipe was fitted to the HP/IP bearing support assembly and so a corresponding manufacturing datum had been introduced to specify the location for the bore. However, “the manner in which the manufacturing datum was represented on the manufacturing drawings resulted in its position not being constrained to the location of the oil feed stub pipe”. This had resulted in it being difficult to detect the misaligned counter bores and the effect that they had had on the thickness of the oil feed stub pipe wall. It was further found that “during an inspection of the first HP/IP bearing support assembly manufactured in 2005, the manufacturing drawings were referenced rather than the design definition drawings”. It was considered that “the manufacturer’s procedures for the inspection contained ambiguity that may have influenced the inspector’s decision to use the manufacturing drawings” and that as a result, “the lack of constraint on the manufacturing datum was not identified and the HP/IP bearing support assembly entered into production without having properly shown compliance with the design specification”. The Investigation found that, in the absence of some of the relevant inspection records relating to the HP/IP bearing support assembly fitted to the failed engine, it was unable to determine exactly why the manufacturing non-conformance was not reported. It was also noted that “records for HP/IP bearing support assemblies from other Trent 900 engines produced around that time had (also) not been retained by the manufacturer” with similar consequences for the Investigation. It was concluded that “a culture existed within the manufacturer’s facility that produced the HP/IP bearing support assemblies where it was considered acceptable to not report what were considered to be ‘minor’ non-conformances”. It was noted that in 2007, Rolls-Royce had “identified that a number of components had left the facility with unreported non-conformances and carried out a major quality investigation. After that