investigation, a number of newly manufactured non-conforming oil feed stub pipe counter bores were identified and reported by manufacturing personnel. However, due to a difference between the reference datum used by the manufacturer’s automated measuring machines and the datum specified on the drawings, the engineers assessing the effect of the non-conformance misunderstood how the non-conformance would affect the wall thickness of the oil feed stub pipe”. Then, in March 2009, Rolls-Royce had found that oil feed stub pipe counter bores had been misaligned in previously manufactured and released HP/IP bearing support assemblies and, for the first time, the effect which such a misalignment of the counter bore would have had on the thickness of the pipe wall. The engineer who had made the discovery had applied for an engineering assessment to establish the suitability of the non-conforming oil feed stub pipes for continued use through the manufacturer’s non-conformance management system. The Investigation found that there was a degree of uncertainty in the statistical analysis method used in the subsequent assessment and that this “was not effectively communicated to, or understood by, the engineers that assessed the application” and retrospective approval was subsequently given to allow the non-conforming HP/IP bearing support assemblies to remain in service. The procedure for such ‘retrospective concessions’ at Rolls Royce required that applications be approved by both the Chief Engineer and the Business Quality Director. For a reason that could not be positively identified by the Investigation, “neither the Chief Engineer’s nor the Business Quality Director’s approval for the oil feed stub pipe counter bore retrospective concession were sought”. The Investigation found that there had been “no other opportunities where the potential for cracking in the oil feed stub pipes could have been identified and the non-conformances managed” prior to the investigated failure the following year. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Contributing Safety Factors in respect of the disc failure during the occurrence flight, the manufacture and release into service of the failed engine and the opportunity to manage the non-conforming oil feed stub pipes in the Trent 900 fleet. [Three “Safety Issues” identified].. Other Safety Factors in respect of the release of Trent 900 engines with non-conforming oil feed stub pipe counter bores, the minimisation of hazards resulting from an uncontained engine rotor failure and the application of the landing distance performance calculation. [Nine “Safety Issues” identified]. Other Key Findings on six points [No “Safety Issues” identified]. Safety Actions in response to the identified Safety Issues by Qantas Airways, Rolls-Royce, Airbus, EASA and CASA and Proactive Action taken and planned by Airbus in respect of software enhancements to both the fuel trim and electrical systems are been fully documented in the Investigation Report. The only remaining observation from the Investigation was the opportunity to use information gathered to review current guidance on how to minimise hazards from uncontained engine failures since the damage caused had exceeded the parameters of the existing model in the relevant advisory material. As a result,