An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. A post-flight inspection found no aircraft system malfunction. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been PF and was making his tenth landing as PF since qualifying as an aircraft commander on type after four years on the Airbus 320 as his first command and considerable service as a First Officer on the Boeing 747 prior to that. It was established that the aircraft had touched down within the touchdown zone and ground spoiler extension and thrust reverser deployment had occurred normally. Deceleration was constant and on runway heading with small rudder inputs in very light winds. Idle reverse thrust was selected at 80 knots and then at approximately 65 knots, the PF placed his hand on the nose wheel tiller and initiated a right turn that was stopped and corrected with momentary left rudder input. The aircraft continued on the runway centreline with a slight tiller deflection forward causing the nose wheels to be turned towards the right. At approximately 45 knots, as the thrust reversers were being stowed and the autobrake disengaged, the aircraft veered to the right. The PF responded with a combination of forward nose wheel tiller and full left rudder and the rate of turn increased rapidly. Maximum brake pressure was then applied and the aircraft came to a complete stop with the nose wheels 26 feet off the right side of the runway surface. The investigation examined the nose wheel skid marks along the runway centreline and concluded that the steering tiller had initially been pushed forward and maintained in a forward position which corresponded to a nose wheel deflection of approximately 25° to the right. Initially, rudder steering was still effective and the PF was able to counter any tendency for the aircraft to turn right by using left rudder. And since autobrake was providing directional stability by applying even braking on all main landing gears, continued left rudder input was no longer required for the aircraft to remain on the runway centreline. Nose wheel skid marks straight down the runway centreline over the next 600 feet confirmed that the PF had unknowingly maintained forward tiller input throughout the deceleration. In the light of PFs recent return to the aircraft type and his type operating history, the investigation considered the differences between the Airbus and Boeing systems for directional control on the ground and noted both the contrast between the two aircraft types and between the operation of the Boeing tiller in the left hand seat and in the right hand seat. The Investigation noted that although the initial nose wheel tiller input could not be explained, the angular position of the PF’s arm was the same as it had been when it was on the control column one second earlier. It was therefore considered possible that the PF had inadvertently pushed the tiller forward thinking it was the control column. The eventual excursion was found to have occurred as the aircraft slowed