It is the responsibility of the ULD designer to create clear instructions regarding the use of the ULD, and to include them in the operations manual. Additionally, airlines should make operations manual instructions on the correct use of the ULD available to all parties involved in loading and unloading the aircraft. While different manufacturers create different instructions, there are considerable similarities: Every ULD should be inspected before use to determine if any damage has occurred which would render the ULD unserviceable.. Baggage and cargo should be loaded evenly, paying attention to maintaining the centre of gravity of the load with the 10% of the centre of the base.. After completing the load the door of the container must be securely closed.. No certified ULD may be used for flight unless its manufacturers plate/marking (also known as TSO plate) is attached and legible. This plate/marking is required by the rules of the certifying authorities (eg FAA, EASA etc) and is a legal requirement.. Container doors shall always be securely closed or secured in an open position.. A ULD not loaded in compliance with these instructions may very well not be able to carry out its defined purpose of providing restraint to the contents in flight, and should not be allowed on board the aircraft. Loading of pallets is similar to loading containers; particular attention should be given to the cargo net being used to secure the load to the pallet. Cargo nets are subject to severe wear and tear and are often found to be unserviceable, however there is an all too common tendency to use cargo nets in an unserviceable condition or to attempt some kind of “unauthorized repair”; neither of these actions is acceptable. Indeed, any attempt to carry out an “ad hoc” repair of a damaged ULD using any kind of material or process not specifically defined by the owner airline’s manuals is not acceptable, including but not limited to: Using “speedtape” “duct tape” or similar tapes to close over punctures on container panels or doors or to hold a container door closed if the proper mechanism is inoperative.. Using rope to repair damaged parts of a cargo net or to replace the OEM’s lashing line (corner rope). Attaching random 2-stud fittings into the edge of a cargo net (to secure it to a pallet) when the correct fitting is damaged.. Certain types of ULD may have OEM approved “temporary repair” solutions; if so, these may be used but only as defined by the owning airlines documentation.