Carry out a pre loading check to determine that the pallet and net are serviceable before loading begins. Particular attention should be given to the cargo net being used to secure the load to the pallet. Cargo nets are subject to severe wear and tear and are often found to be unserviceable. It is important to determine that the net is serviceable before starting to load the pallet.. If plastic sheeting is to be used this must be underneath the pallet net.. Load cargo in an interlocking manner as far as possible. Ensure the load is within the specified contour. Overhanging loads ( as used in lower deck loads) must be built in such a manner that the overhanging sections will not collapse in flight.. After loading all cargo the net shall be used as follows: Place the net over the load, attach the net fittings to the seat track using even spacing along the sides Use the “reefing hooks” along each side to take up any excess net body (as found on less than full contour loads) Use the corner ropes ( lashing lines) or other corner closing devices as fitted to close and lightly tension the net . NOTE: While the general impression in the industry is that nets need to be as tight as humanly possible this is incorrect. Neither the manufacturers, nor the aviation safety authorities nor IATA make any such requirement, and the correct procedure is that the net be tight but not overtight. The purpose of the net is to provide restraint against in flight forces, and it performs that function perfectly well without being pulled tight on installation. Over-tensioning a net will not only damage cargo but also may pull up the pallet edge rails making it hard or impossible to lock the pallet into the aircraft. Often loads may travel considerable distances by road to the nearest airport and it has become common practice to use the cargo net as a “ securing device” to hold the cargo in place during road transport. The design of the cargo net (a diamond mesh) is not suited to this purpose. Where there are doubts as to the stability of the load the loaders may use rope and other materials to stabilize and secure the load BEFORE placing the cargo net over the load. The purpose of the net is to ensure inflight safety NOT to prevent the cargo falling off the truck on its way to the airport. Never use a knife to cut a net. This damages an expensive airline asset and makes the net unserviceable.. Place the net over the load, attach the net fittings to the seat track using even spacing along the sides. Use the “reefing hooks” along each side to take up any excess net body (as found on less than full contour loads). Use the corner ropes ( lashing lines) or other corner closing devices as fitted to close and lightly tension the net . NOTE: While the