A comprehensive Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. Relevant data were obtained from both the FDR and the QAR but as the flight had continued for more than two hours following the turbulence encounter, relevant data from the CVR had been overwritten. Assistance in the analysis of the FDR data was provided by Airbus. The 52 year-old Captain had a total of 10,922 hours flying experience which included 1,091 hours on type and the 35 year-old First Officer a total of 9,742 hours flying experience which included 5,345 hours on type. The 50 year-old augmenting Captain had a total of 7,890 hours flying experience which included 4,250 hours on type and the 43 year-old augmenting First Officer a total of 5,259 hours flying experience which included 4,522 hours on type. The augmenting crew were in control of the flight at the time the turbulence occurred. Pre flight planning by the four pilots involved included significant weather charts which were issued 12 hours in advance of their validity period which included the time when the turbulence episode occurred. The flight crew subsequently stated that they had not considered that there was anything significant about the forecast en-route weather and were aware of the potential consequences of their routing across the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season. Once in flight, they had not sought updated information on the adverse weather forecast in the area of the Bay of Bengal from ATC nor been provided with any by the aircraft operator. They noted that during the pre flight briefing, the Cabin Manager had been told that turbulence en-route was likely. Approximately one hour prior to the turbulence encounter, the operating crew had handed over control to the augmenting crew in order to begin their planned rest in the flight crew rest compartment. During the handover briefing, the off-going crew had noted that there was weather activity ahead close to waypoint ‘IDASO’ and that other flights had been requesting deviations to avoid it. The augmenting First Officer took over as PF and it was confirmed that the weather radar ‘WXR’ and ‘TURB’ functions were set to ‘AUTO’ and the weather radar display on the Navigation Displays (ND) was enabled. With the aircraft approximately 40 nm (five minutes) away from where the turbulence episode would subsequently occur, recorded data showed that magenta areas on the weather radar 40 nm ahead of the aircraft and 20 nm either side of the intended aircraft track between FL350 and FL450 had become permanent. At this time, the weather radar manual mode was not selected but the Captain decided to switch on the seat belt signs as a precaution. However, when doing so, he did not alert the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) by interphone and since none of the cabin crew noticed the signs coming on or heard the chime which accompanies this, the usual cabin PA for passengers to return to their seats and fasten their seat belts was not