made. It was noted that at this time, AP2 and the A/THR (autothrottle/autothrust) were both engaged, the latter in ‘MACH’ mode, both FDs were displayed and the thrust levers were in the Maximum Climb (CL) detent. The thrust levers remained in this position throughout the subsequent turbulence encounter and the AP remained engaged. Approximately 13 hours into the 17 hour flight, close to the previously mentioned waypoint ‘IDASO’, an unexpected sudden onset turbulence episode began with severe turbulence for the first 20 seconds with FDR data indicating that the aircraft had entered an area with significant wind velocity variations. The pilots stated that after the seatbelt signs had been switch on, the ND weather radar range for the Captain had been set to 160 nm and that for the First Officer to 80 nm and that the gain control had been set 85% for the Captain and 50% for the First Officer. The Captain also stated that a decision to deviate is normally taken before the aircraft is 40 nm from any significant weather returns and that on the basis that their track would take them “through a clear area with few clouds” and the weather radar returns were off track, he had decided to continue as planned. Both pilots had noted that having dimmed the flight deck lighting, they had been able to observe lightning activity in the area with discharges about every 90 seconds. This had allowed them to see the cloud tops and weather and the weather below the aircraft and that the aircraft would remain clear of cloud. They added that they had seen a thunderstorm squall line in the area which they said was “about 80 miles long and directly across the aircraft flight path” but said that as there was no precipitation showing on their NDs, they considered that no avoidance was required as the weather was below the aircraft level and off-track. They believed that the turbulence encountered was “downwind of the cumulonimbus clouds seen and had been clear air turbulence”. The flight crew reported that when the turbulence began, the airspeed had suddenly started to increase towards the MMO (M0.89) and the PF had responded by deploying the speedbrakes and reducing the Mach target from M0.84 to M0.72. Although they stated that they did not observe any MMO exceedance, examination of the flight data showed that there had been three transient ones, during one of which the speed had increased from M0.836 to M0.903 in just five seconds triggering a brief overspeed warning. This particular speed increase occurred concurrently with a rapid decrease in the detected tailwind component from 54 knots to 17 knots. When the turbulence ceased after just over four minutes, the flight crew stated that they had initially assessed it to have been ‘moderate’ but after they began receiving calls from the cabin crew about injuries and cabin damage (see two illustrative examples below) they had revised this to ‘severe’. The Investigation noted that the evidence assembled during the