and FL 550. However, no related SIGMETS had been issued. Part of the significant weather chart provided to the flight crew for pre flight briefing. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Cause of the accident was formally documented as “the severe turbulence acceleration forces in clear air imposed on the aircraft as it flew in an area affected by convective activity resulting in several unsecured passengers and cabin crew members forcefully impacting cabin furnishings". A total of five Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The flight was planned north of an area with forecasted convective activity containing embedded cumulonimbus clouds.. The flight crew did not request updated weather information from air traffic control or pilot reports as the aircraft approached the area affected by the convective activity over the Bay of Bengal.. The wet turbulence area/s displayed in magenta on the navigation display did not prompt the flight crew to use the WXR best capabilities by using WXR manual mode, enabling a more accurate assessment of the distance margin with the area of greatest threat.. After turning the seat belt sign ON, the flight crew did not communicate with the Cabin Manager to secure the passenger cabins before the onset of the turbulence.. The Cabin Manager and other on duty cabin crew members were not aware that the fasten seat belt sign had been switched ON in spite of the fasten seat belt sign flashing for five seconds and fasten seat belt chime sounding.. Safety Action taken by Emirates whilst the GCAA Investigation was in progress was noted to have included, but not been limited to, the following: A flight crew eLearning module has been developed which includes the Weather Radar Differences Course for both the Airbus A380 and the operators other in-service type, the Boeing 777. Since its introduction, this module has also been updated to reflect changes in the A380 weather radar contained in a subsequent Airbus update to the A380 FCOM and a video has been added to the module.. An eLearning module has been developed for both flight and cabin crew which includes a discussion on enhancing their communications in respect of the use of the seatbelt signs.. Fourteen additional languages have been added to the seatbelt sign announcement and the IFE system now gets a simultaneous seatbelt awareness message when the seat belt signs are switched on because of turbulence.. The volume of the seatbelt chime has been increased.. A total of six Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Emirates review and enhance flight planning taking into consideration known historical geographical locations that are affected by seasonal en-route significant weather and meteorological conditions. [SR75/2020]. that Emirates standardise and improve the accessibility of the lavatory handholds, the accessibility and identification of handholds in the wet and dry galleys and the accessibility of the handholds in the showers. [SR76/2020]. that Emirates implement measures to mitigate the risk of crew members suffering head injuries during turbulence while resting in the