Investigation confirmed the definition of severe turbulence provided in ICAO Doc 4444 ‘Procedures for Air Navigation Services’ but no report of severe turbulence was subsequently made to ATC. Damage to the main deck aft cabin ceiling panels caused by occupant impact. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain called the augmenting Captain from his crew rest compartment for a briefing and both members of the operating crew then returned to the flight deck. Recorded flight data showed that during the episode, vertical acceleration had ranged between -0.35g and +1.65g, the angle of attack had varied between -1.0° and + 5.5°and that the AP had remained engaged throughout with in excess of ten activations of the Load Alleviation Function (LAF) which, as designed, had helped to reduce the fatigue and static loading on the wing structure. At the time the turbulence began, 15 of the 25 cabin crew, including the Cabin Manager, were ‘on duty’ and 13 of them were standing whilst performing their normal duties and the rest were taking their scheduled rest in the cabin crew rest compartment in the aft cabin with their waist seat belts fastened. Despite having the belts provided fastened, seven of these crew had hit their heads on the compartment ceiling. The Cabin Manager stated that as he and the two other cabin crew with him in the first class cabin had tried to reach their jumpseats, it felt like the aircraft had “dropped”. He began receiving reports from his crew which included the news that four of them in the upper deck aft galley had been injured when they “flew up” and hit the ceiling. Overall, it became apparent that the worst consequences of the turbulence had been in the aft cabins of both decks. The flight crew established contact with the Operator’s ground medical team to assess the condition of those injured and the Captain decided that the flight to destination should be completed and this was achieved without further event. It was found after the flight that the Compliance Monitoring System (CMS) post flight included a fault code which indicated that an overspeed loads analysis was required. Although it was not possible to obtain satellite imagery of the weather system which had led to the turbulence, a comparison of the forecast provided to the crew prior to departure and a later one showed that although the pre-departure forecast (see the illustration below) had envisaged that the flight track across the Bay of Bengal would pass between two areas of occasional or isolated embedded cumulonimbus, by the time the flight got there, the area of convergence left of track on the pre departure forecast had been moving east at approximately 15 knots and had moved sufficiently for the track to pass through it where the severe turbulence had occurred. It also appeared likely that at about the position where the turbulence occurred, the flight would have been in the vicinity of a 120 knot easterly Jetstream expected to occur between FL 420