and passing about 920 feet agl with its landing lights on. The A319 continued onto the runway where it began to turn left to line up on the runway centreline and reported that it was ready for departure. Having recognised what had happened, TWR told the A319 to hold position and instructed the A320 to go around. The climb in response was commenced from about 770 feet agl when about 2.1 nm out. The A320 PF reported having had the runway in sight from about 8nm out but had been unable to distinguish detail such as buildings and had not seen the other aircraft on the runway and only learned of it from the First Officer after the go around. Statements from the A319 flight crew indicated that the supernumerary pilot responsible for communications had received from TWR "Line up and wait, report when ready" and had passed this to the two operating pilots as "line up and wait". The Captain of the A319 stated that he had looked up the approach as the aircraft had entered the runway but had not seen any aircraft on final. He subsequently heard a 'go around' instruction issued followed by sight of an aircraft flying overhead and into a right hand circuit. He did not recollect hearing any further information from ATC prior to take-off clearance and had "believed that it was a normal departure" until advised to the contrary after the flight. The pilot responsible for communications advised that it had been his first visit to Naha. It was stated that China Eastern policy in respect of radio communications when there are three pilots in the flight deck is that although all three pilots are expected to monitor ATC radio communications, the aircraft commander "decides which of the PM or the pilot seated in the observer seat will be responsible for the radio communication [and] if the pilot in the observer seat is responsible [...] that pilot will read back the communication as he understands it, and then if there are no corrections from ATC, he will verbally convey those instructions or clearances once again to the pilots in the front seats". If either of the pilots in the front seats believes that the readback has been incorrect despite the absence of any controller awareness of this, "that pilot will immediately notify the pilot in the rear seat". The TWR controller stated that she had been "concerned about the headset cord interfering with her ability to move and look behind her (and) therefore, she was not wearing the headset over her ear and was instead carrying out communications while holding it in her hand […] making transmissions with the tip of the headset voice tube pointed toward her mouth". It was noted that the headsets used at Naha were of the ear-hook type (see the illustration below) and also that the loudspeakers for both the GND and TWR frequencies were routinely on all the time in the control room. The recording which