A pilot survey indicated that almost one-third of all pilots who responded had experienced incapacitation requiring another crewmember to take over their duties, with safety being threatened in 3 percent of cases. To process the data in such a context means establishing whether there can be a rationale for a “fit to fly” requirement. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aeromedical Institute in Oklahoma City studied in-flight medical incapacitations and impairments in U.S. airline pilots from 1993 through 1998. It defined in-flight medical incapacitation as a condition in which a flight crewmember was unable to perform any flight duties and impairment as a condition in which a crewmember could perform limited flight duties such as reading checklists and making radio calls even though performance may have been degraded. It found 39 incapacitations and 11 impairments aboard 47 aircraft over this six-year period with serious impacts on flight safety in seven flights, of which two resulted in non-fatal accidents The average age was 47 years for incapacitations and 43.3 for impairments with respective in-flight event rates of 0.045 per 100,000 flying hours and 0.013 per 100,000 flying hours. The probability that these events would end up in an accident was calculated at 0.04. Incapacitations significantly increased with age with more serious categories in the older age groups. In this study most frequent categories were loss of consciousness (9), gastrointestinal (6), neurological (6), cardiac (5) and urological (3). In general, the various categories of incapacitation are loss of consciousness, cardiovascular, neurological, urological and gastrointestinal disorders. However, other less-frequent problems include respiratory, reaction to medications, diabetes, hemiparetic and epileptic seizures, earache due to blocked ears, traumatic or infected injury, faintness or general weakness and alcohol withdrawal syndromes. Typical conditions for impairment pertain to food or carbon dioxide poisoning, nausea, baro sinusitis, vomiting and indigestion, viral gastroenteritis, vasovagal responses due to viral infection, the use of monovision contact lenses, fatigue and kidney stones. The U.K. Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) said 49 cases of incapacitations occurred from 1992 to 1997 on public transport aircraft, with 38 of those in two-crew cockpits and 27 related to nausea and gastric troubles.