The initial signs of crew incapacitation can be very subtle and may not be immediately obvious to other crewmembers. Any crewmember feeling unwell prior to a flight or in flight should immediately report it so as not to compromise flight safety. It is clear that there are thresholds before a human being contemplates doing this. However, we should bear in mind that flight safety can be compromised if we don’t speak up. In the event of crewmember illness in flight, it is up to the Captain or to the most senior cockpit crewmember to take responsibility and decide if an immediate landing is to be made. In the event of a crewmember or a number of crewmembers indicating symptoms of food poisoning, the Captain should take into account the possibility of a common cause that may produce further crew incapacitation. If, due to incapacitation, the crew complement is reduced below the minimum for the aircraft, a PAN call must be made. Even though two-crew aircraft were certificated for temporary single-pilot operations, the remaining pilot is left in an abnormal and unusual situation where workload is increased with little or no back-up of safety on critical items and increased vulnerability to errors or rapidly developing situations. Here are some lines of defense: The remaining pilot must assume or maintain control. Establish a safe flight profile and engage the autopilot; use all possible automation. Obtain cabin crew assistance. Inform ATC. If on an extended-range twin-engine operations (ETOPS) flight, the remaining pilot or PIC must assess whether to continue the flight, return to the departure airport or divert. The decision is based on: Weather conditions at the destination or alternate Reduction of flight time if diverting Workload involved in single-pilot operation Familiarity with the alternate Condition of the incapacitated pilot Availability of medical assistance Overall safety of the flight. Weather conditions at the destination or alternate. Reduction of flight time if diverting. Workload involved in single-pilot operation. Familiarity with the alternate. Condition of the incapacitated pilot. Availability of medical assistance. Overall safety of the flight. Arrange medical assistance upon arrival. Brief a cabin crew member to assist if required. Complete the approach and landing using the autopilot as much as possible. A partially incapacitated pilot should not be allowed to participate in the subsequent operation of the aircraft, as judgment may be impaired. After landing, seek immediate medical assistance.