and, one second later, thrust lever movement towards reverse idle began. Three seconds after main gear touchdown, the right main gear collapsed and detached and the right engine settled on the runway surface. The centreline of the 50 metre-wide runway was essentially maintained as the aircraft slid supported by the right engine and the remaining landing gear legs and it eventually stopped 44 seconds later at an estimated 3185 metres beyond the landing threshold of the 3511 metre long runway. The Captain declared an emergency to the ATC and a PA was made to evacuate the aircraft using the left side exits which was accomplished with no injuries reported. A right engine fire warning was annunciated and the crew responded by completing the corresponding QRH procedure including discharge of both fire extinguisher shots. The airport RFFS arrived and, having observed smoke coming from right side, immediately began spraying foam onto and around the damaged right engine. Inspection of the runway after the accident found “oscillating tyre markings typical of wheel shimmy prior to the point where the right main gear collapsed” and inspection of the detached gear leg found that its torsion link and shimmy damper were both broken. The Investigation determined that the approach had been unstable assessed against the applicable 737 FCTM criteria on the basis that the tailwind approach required Vref +5 rather than Vref + 10 and because the actual approach speed was 15-18 knots higher than Vref + 10 anyway. It was noted that the EGPWS Alert received was not indicative of an unstable approach since it could be expected on an approach to a high altitude (5877 feet amsl) airport with the prevailing steeper than normal (3.5°) glideslope due to the higher TAS and consequently higher groundspeed. However, the excessive airspeed and the resultant groundspeed of 180 knots would have required an average of 1064 fpm. The content of the FCTM on flare technique was also reviewed. It was found to include a number of best practices which were directly relevant to the circumstances of this event in particular - “do not prolong the flare in an attempt to achieve a perfectly smooth touchdown - a smooth touchdown is not the criterion for a safe landing”. In the landing under investigation, although the aircraft crossed the threshold close to the target height, it then remained airborne just above the runway until well past the TDZ. Both pilots subsequently stated that their intention was “to bleed the energy of the aircraft before touchdown to avoid a hard landing” and stated that this technique is always used at high altitude airports such as Kabul (ARP 5877 feet amsl) to avoid high energy touchdown subject to the available landing distance. Of most significance, however, was that the characteristics of the accident landing were found to be consistent with previous landing gear shimmy events. The aircraft touched down at a high ground speed and with a very low rate of descent and it took between 1 and 1½