records for the aircraft, all airworthiness requirements had been correctly dealt with at the time of the accident. In respect of the aircraft operator, it was noted that their wet lease operations such as the one which was being fulfilled by the accident aircraft can involve operations at “strange airfields” but that Jordan Aviation pilot training “does not account for Route and Airfield competency”. The formally-stated Probable Cause of the accident was that “the (main landing gear) struts were extended for a (relatively) long period of time (and) as a result, the torsion link of the shimmy damper remained in an extended vertical position, in which position the damper had less mechanical advantage for a longer period of time (than usual) despite the presence of shimmy damper hardware which is designed to reduce the torsional vibration energy generated during landing”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The high altitude airport of 5877 feet. An overly-soft landing, which allowed the landing gear to remain in the air mode longer, which makes them more vulnerable to shimmy. Touchdown with a closure rate of only 60 fpm which is considered overly soft and may increase the risk of shimmy torsional forces. The high ground speed at touchdown of 178 knots , which resulted from the high touchdown airspeed of 158 knots which was equivalent to Vref+ 16knots. One Safety Recommendation was made: that Jordanian Airlines which operate the Boeing 737-300/400/500 aircraft should note the Boeing recommendation that pilots should strive for a landing with normal sink rates with particular emphasis on ensuring that the auto speedbrakes are armed and deploy promptly at touchdown. This recommendation notes that an overly soft landing or a landing in which the speedbrakes do not deploy allows the landing gear to remain in the air mode for longer which makes them vulnerable to shimmy and that this is especially true when landing at airports located at higher elevations where touchdown speed is increased. This guidance and the context for it should be discussed with pilots and others to whom it is relevant, including engineers.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed in April 2017 and subsequently published.