seconds for the transition from ‘air’ to ‘ground’ to be recorded. This meant that the struts were extended for longer than usual and as a result, the torsion links of the shimmy damper remained in an extended, vertical position. In this condition, the damper has less mechanical advantage for longer periods of time. Despite the presence of shimmy damper hardware, which is designed to reduce the torsional vibration energy generated during landing, aircraft may still be vulnerable to main landing gear shimmy if very soft touchdowns are made. The Investigation noted a Boeing review of this risk published in 2013 which discusses wheel shimmy events including the occasional severe events that cause landing gear collapse. This source states the best way to prevent shimmy damper failures is “proper maintenance of the landing gear components” whilst also noting that “the risk of landing gear shimmy events is greater at high altitude airports”. A 2015 Boeing 737 Flight Operations Technical Bulletin (FOTB) was also noted to have stated that vertical speeds of less than 60 fpm at touchdown may induce main gear shimmy”. However, the Investigation considered that, given the prevalence of similar shimmy-induced gear failures on Boeing 737-400s, “there is clearly a design fault with the gear in combination as installed on this 737 variant”. It was also noted that the Boeing FCOM did not state that pilots need to beware of shimmy conditions at high speed and with soft landings and that this can cause a failure of the gear. The Boeing explanation of this omission was that they “do not provide limitations to pilots on this because maintenance, tyre wear, runway conditions, landing speed and firmness of landing can all, to varying degrees, contribute [to an enhanced shimmy risk]”. Additionally, it was stated by Boeing that they “do not, as a normal course of action, provide consequences” in the FCOM. In respect of the possible operational or airworthiness reasons why shimmy dampers on 737 Classic variants might be ineffective, Boeing advised that detailed studies had identified a number of possibilities which, in an approximate order of likelihood, were as follows: Excessive wear or freeplay in the joint where the shimmy damper connects to the lower torsion link (the “apex joint”).. Wear or freeplay in the torsion link bushings such as those where the torsion links connect to the outer and inner cylinder.. Touching down with extremely low sink rates.. Air remaining in a newly installed shimmy damper because of a failure to fully bleed residual air from it.. Damper piston fracture due to a pre-existing fault such as a fatigue crack.. Over servicing of the shock strut with nitrogen since this results in the torsion links having a reduced ability to react to the torsional motion of the inner cylinder.. Installation of the wrong damper.. A shimmy damper hydraulic tube inadvertently left unconnected so that there was no hydraulic fluid available to the damper.. In respect of these risk points, the Investigation noted that according to the available maintenance