The most common reason for an autorotation is an engine failure (or failure of both engines in the case of a twin-engined helicopter) but autorotations can also be performed in the event of a complete tail rotor failure, since there is virtually no torque produced in autorotation. (Although in this case the engine[s] must be shut down in the final stages of the approach to prevent an engine torque response as the landing is made.) If the engine fails, the freewheeling unit automatically disengages the engine from the main rotor allowing the main rotor to rotate freely. Essentially, the freewheeling unit disengages anytime the engine RPM (ERPM) is less than the rotor RPM (RRPM). The manufacturer specifies a minimum and maximum RRPM for each helicopter type. The normal RRPM range is marked on the RPM gauge as a green arc, with permitted cautionary ranges marked in yellow or amber and enclosed by a red mark indicating the minimum and maximum permitted. At the instant of engine failure, the main rotor blades are producing lift and thrust by a combination of their angle of attack and velocity. When engine power fails, the drag component will rapidly reduce the rotor speed. The flight manual will stipulate a minimum RRPM, below which, if the rotor speed reduces, it may be impossible to recover RRPM to a flight value: the rotor will stall entirely and cease to rotate. The pilot must, therefore, if engine power fails, immediately reduce collective pitch (and thus decrease both lift-induced and blade profile drag), as a result of which the helicopter begins an immediate descent, thus producing an upward flow of air through the rotor system. This upward flow of air through the rotor changes the lift and drag vectors along the span of the blades to produce an inboard section where the drag acts in the plane of rotation of the blades: and thus keeps them turning. This provides sufficient thrust to maintain rotor RPM throughout the descent, whilst also producing some lift. Nevertheless, rates of descent in autorotation are typically 1500-2000 fpm in many helicopters, and may be higher in some. Since the tail rotor is driven by the main rotor transmission during autorotation, balance is maintained as in normal flight. Several factors affect the rate of descent in autorotation: density altitude, gross weight, airspeed and RRPM: At high density altitudes, rate of descent will be higher because the air is less dense.. High gross weights will increase both rate of descent and RRPM.. At IAS below the recommended minimum rate of descent IAS, RRPM will be towards the lower end of the permitted range, and at higher IAS the RRPM may be towards the top end of the permitted range.. The primary control of the rate of descent is airspeed. Higher or lower airspeeds are obtained with cyclic stick control of pitch attitude, just as in normal flight. In theory, the pilot has a choice of airspeeds to vary the angle of descent, from a vertical