This summary article describes how the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) recently expanded options for civilian drone operators/remote pilots to routinely fly their aircraft over people in the National Airspace System (NAS) under certain circumstances. This article is an overview and does not include full details. To allow such flights previously, the FAA primarily relied on its authority to grant or deny operators individual (case-by-case) operational waivers to the regulations in Part 107, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (sUAS), in U.S. Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Effective 21 April 2021, amendments to Part 107 allow drone pilots to perform these flights simply by adhering to the published requirements and limitations. FAA describes amendments published in the final rule titled “Operation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems Over People,” as the next incremental step towards further integration of sUAs in the NAS. These amendments also establish how to conduct routine operations at night and routine operations over moving vehicles under certain circumstances (those details have been omitted from this article). In June 2021, FAA Administrator Steve Dickson told remote attendees at the virtual FAA UAS Symposium: “Even in the midst of a global pandemic … we nevertheless finalised the Operations Over People Rule incorporating Operations at Night and Operations Over Moving Vehicles and the Remote ID Rule. We are using these advances and capabilities to move full speed ahead into the beyond-visual-line-of sight realm and into the promise, ultimately, of Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management [UTM] and Advanced Air Mobility [AAM]. … We’ve allowed these types of operations before, but always on a one-off basis, with case-by-case approvals through waivers. Now there’s no need for a waiver — provided that the pilot and the drone meet all the requirements that are in the rule. … We expect operations over people to begin in earnest in the next six to 18 months as the new rule becomes inculcated in the system.” Nevertheless, drone operators/remote pilots who cannot comply, or otherwise want to deviate from Part 107, must submit their unique safety case, and apply for approval for and receive a unique waiver. This has long been common for operators of unmanned aircraft (UA) larger than sUAs or when proposed flight missions involve complex risk-mitigation situations beyond the scope of Part 107. The waiver process addresses risk mitigation — through evaluation of the known or the foreseeable risks in a safety case — of factors such as their UAs’ design/performance/maintenance factors; their pilot certification and training system; compliance with regulations and additional FAA requirements; and limited-time formal agreements. Another of the new amendments requires that the remote pilot, owner or person manipulating the controls of an sUA must have in their physical possession — and readily available — their remote pilot certificate while operating over people, over moving vehicles or at night.