At the June 2021 FAA UAS Symposium, three panelists (listed in References–Other) discussed why the FAA’s sUAS Operation Over People amendment to Part 107 likely will shift the first paradigm of high volumes of repetitive, individualized waivers being manually processed to a system in which most certificated drone operators/remote pilots instead can comply with Part 107 without time-consuming waivers or unpredictable decisions by the FAA. Moderator Theah Dickerman said, “We need to keep in mind that with [implementing] Operations Over People, the process is incremental. Risk assessment push-and-pull [for two years in this instance] is something that we always experience when developing regulations.”. Panelist Mike Wilson said, “We have been able to integrate unmanned aircraft more proficiently … providing more and more operations through Part 107 and now through Part 89, the Remote ID Rule, and certainly through the amendments to Part 107 through Subpart D for Part 107. Originally, 70 percent of waiver requests were to operate at night. Now the new rules give us the opportunity under certain conditions to fly over people, fly over moving vehicles and fly at night without a waiver.. “Safety, in the Operations Over People Rule, is primarily centered around [risk of] injuries to people within the operation as well as for people outside the operation. When FAA first started [approving] operations over people — during early development of Part 107 — we only provided the opportunity for people [in the motion picture industry, for example] to operate drones in a closed-set environment. People underneath the drone had to sign off on knowing that the drone was operating over their head. For companies in motion picture [production] — people were surrounding their closed-set — to be sure that nobody else got in — as their risk mitigation, their safety net. Now we require kinetic energy [awareness], the idea of the impact of an sUA into a person based on possibility of injury. [Remote pilots may make] a determination to use prop guards, for example, for that risk.” Fear-inducing public perceptions of high risk in drones-over-people scenarios also must be mitigated by the drone industry itself, panelist Dave Krause said, “Public perception includes how they view an individual [remote pilot] or an operator flying over a crowd. We make ourselves visible when we’re out in the field. Wearing a high-visibility vest or a hard hat communicates to nearby people what you are doing — and makes them aware that, in your operation, you are mitigating that risk.”. He added that the safety culture of all stakeholders involved in sUA operations over people can never tolerate complacency. Krause said: “It’s really great for us to be putting a drone up in the air. It’s kind of exciting to be over people and certain subjects — to get that nice elevated view — but it’s important that we survey our surroundings before we even put that drone in the air. Let’s face it — it comes down to safety and training. Hitting a telephone line causes