RAeS and Air Pilots The Royal Aeronautical Society and the Honourable Company of Air Pilots jointly revised and re-issued valuable reference documents on this topic, which should be used as first references for flight crew on this topic: Smoke, fire and fumes in transport aircraft, past history, current risks and recommended mitigations - Part 1:References, Fifth Ed., 2018, Royal Aeronautical Society.. Smoke, fire and fumes in transport aircraft, past history, current risks and recommended mitigations - Part 2:Training, Second Ed., 2018, Royal Aeronautical Society. SAFITA: Organisation Training review spreadsheet. SAFITA: Organisation Training review spreadsheet. IATA Lithium Batteries webpage. Guidance on the Expanded Use of Passenger Portable Electronic Devices (PEDs) - July 2014. ICAO ICAO Doc 9284 ‘Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air’ issued biennially (current edition 2021-2022) and subject to regular amendment.. ICAO Doc 9481 Emergency Response Guidance for Aircraft Incidents Involving Dangerous Goods (202021-2022 edition) subject to regular amendment.. Guidance Material, ICAO website. FAA "Risks in Transporting Lithium Batteries in Cargo by Aircraft," Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO), 8 Oct. 2010.. FAA Summary of the USA rules - "Batteries carried by airline passengers"; Frequently asked Questions", 9 Jan. 2014). US PHSMA/FAA Lithium Batteries Safety Advisory Advisory Guidance; Transportation of Batteries and Battery-Powered Devices. PackSafe for Passengers, FAA website. Lithium Battery Incidents, FAA website. Lithium Battery Safety Resources, FAA website. UK CAA UK CAA FODCOM 45/08: "Transport of Battery-Powered Wheelchairs", 2008.. Lithium Batteries – Guidance for Crew Members, UK CAA and U.S. FAA.. FAA Research Reports Flammability Assessment of Primary Lithium Batteries. Fire Hazards of Lithium Ion Batteries. Laptop Computer Fire Extinguishment. Airbus Airbus FOBN Cabin Operations - Dangerous Goods Awareness. Lithium batteries: safe to fly?, C. Bezard et al., Airbus Safety First No. 21, pp. 22-41, January 2016.. General Properties of Lithium .. Battery information. A further explanation of why batteries catch fire and how to avoid avoid this happening to your equipment. "An Update to Lithium Battery Transport by Air": Presentation to IASS2016 by Captain Scott Schwarz..