An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish AIB following their notification of the event 17 days after the occurrence. The Investigation noted that two members of the cabin crew and one passenger had been afflicted by a slight breathing difficulty and felt irritation in their eyes during the same period that the flight crew intermittently used their oxygen masks. In order to alleviate the breathing difficulty, the cabin crew reported that oxygen from the portable therapeutic oxygen bottles carried on the aircraft was used. During the aircraft turn round at Vasteras prior to departure, there was heavy snowfall and it was de-iced with hot water then treated with de/anti icing fluid. The treatment was found to have begun before the ground staff had received actual clearance from the flight crew to commence but when they believed that it had. The misunderstanding which occurred involved the use of language which was easily mis-heard. Once the de/anti icing operation commenced, it proceeded without awareness of no-spray areas specific to the aircraft type. As a result of both the aircraft systems status and the mis-application of fluid, some fluid entered the APU and the air conditioning system then distributed the contamination. When the flight crew detected the air conditioning contamination, they called for de-icing to stop and the aircraft doors were opened to enable ventilation and the air conditioning system was run at a high temperature for about 20 minutes. The aircraft de/anti icing operation was then repeated. It was concluded that during the subsequent flight, residual de/anti icing fluid in the air conditioning system again evaporated and mixed with air supplied to the aircraft cabin. The Investigation disclosed that there were deficiencies in the education and training of the personnel who performed the ground de/anti-icing and deficiencies in the aircraft operator’s training and checks on the supplier of this service at the airport. The health risks arising from the inhalation of glycol-water evaporation fumes were considered by the Investigation. It noted that Monopropylene Glycol had been used for anti icing and that, “according to the Swedish Arbetsmiljöverket (Working Environment Agency) this glycol is only mildly toxic and hygienic limit values for the working environment have not been established. Nor are there indications that inhaling the fumes has any harmful effect on humans. If the liquid enters the eyes, however, they can sting.” The Investigation therefore concluded that no health risks arose due to the incident.