An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board. All relevant data was recovered from the FDR and two hour CVR. The 54 year-old Training Captain had a total of approximately 17,000 hours flying experience of which approximately 10,885 hours was on type including 3,058 hours in command on type since being promoted to command almost four years previously. He had been employed by the airline as a pilot for almost 13 years and had gained all his 737 experience during this time. The 42 year-old First Officer undergoing line training, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, had a total of 4,146 hours flying experience of which just 44 hours were on type. He had been employed by the airline as a pilot for seven months after gaining 4000 hours flight time in the Turkish Air Force as a pilot. The accident flight was his seventeenth line training sector. Under the applicable Turkish Airlines’ procedures, the first 20 sectors of line training were to be completed with a Safety Pilot present so this presence was not a consequence of slow progress. The 28 year-old Safety Pilot occupying the flight deck Observer seat had a total of 2,126 hours flying experience of which 720 hours were on type. FDR data showed that as the aircraft had climbed through approximately 400 feet after takeoff from Istanbul, the readings recorded from the left hand radio altimeter system had become “erroneous”. It was not determined whether any of the pilots were aware of this. The flight, with the First Officer under supervision acting as PF, was uneventful until the flight was receiving radar vectors to intercept the ILS LOC for an approach to runway 18R at destination. FDR data showed that as the aircraft, which had earlier been cleared to descend to FL 070, was approaching FL080 and receiving a clearance to FL 040, an audio warning relating to the configuration of the landing gear had been recorded on the CVR. This warning continued for approximately 90 seconds apart from one brief interruption and prompted the Captain to call “radio altimeter”. FDR data indicated that during this warning, an obviously false radio altitude height of -8 feet agl would have been visible on the PFD. Shortly afterwards, still above 2,500 feet agl, the same landing gear configuration warning occurred again for another two seconds, this time without an accompanying false radio altitude on the left side PFD. Further clearance to 2000 feet on QNH and onto a radar heading of 265° followed and soon after levelling at 2000 feet with the A/T in speed mode, the landing gear configuration warning occurred yet again, this time with the simultaneous appearance of a radio altimeter height of - 8 feet agl on the left side PFD. The First Officer called for flaps 1, which followed. The illustration below shows an annotated ground track from here onwards. Half a minute later, the flight was cleared for the runway 18R ILS