resulted in the speed reducing below 144 knots. From here on, none of the three pilots present on the flight deck recognised that descent on the ILS GS with the autopilot engaged was being attempted with flight idle thrust set or that the descent in this energy state was resulting a steadily decreasing airspeed and a steadily increasing nose-up pitch attitude. As the airspeed reached 126 knots, the PFD airspeed indications turned amber and began to flash but there was no response. With the final item of the landing checklist - confirming on the PA that the cabin crew must secure themselves for landing - still outstanding, the Captain made the 500 feet call and the First Officer gave the standard response by calling for the landing lights. With about a minute to go to the intended landing, the Captain then asked the Safety Pilot to make the cabin crew call. The speed was now down to 110 knots. Almost immediately, at 460 feet agl over flat terrain of similar elevation to the runway ahead, a speed of 107 knots and a pitch attitude of +11/12°, the stick shaker was activated. The Safety Pilot called low speed and repeated this two further times. The Investigation suspected from incomplete evidence that it was most likely to have been the First Officer who initiated the thrust increase and that when the Captain called that he was taking control, the thrust levers had only reached just over halfway and once released, the A/T, still continuing to show it was in ‘RETARD’ mode on the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) retuned them to idle within one second. Three seconds after the stick shaker had activated, with the thrust levers still aback in the idle position and the aircraft at 420 feet agl, one of the pilots deactivated the A/T. The AP was then disconnected and the control column was pushed forward (pitch from +11/12° to - 8°) but the thrust was not increased. The stick shaker activation briefly stopped but restarted after two seconds. It was nine seconds after the initial activation of the stick shaker before maximum thrust was finally selected and one second later, whilst the thrust was still increasing, an EGPWS ‘SINK RATE PULL UP’ Warning was annunciated. It was no longer possible to recover before violent contact with the flat terrain below occurred six seconds later with maximum thrust still set. Impact evidence showed that the rear fuselage was the first to hit the ground after which the aircraft came to a stop relatively quickly because of its low forward speed assisted by the soft nature of the soil. The aircraft was destroyed as a result of the impact with the fuselage breaking into three parts. Most, but not all of the fatalities and serious injuries occurred in the front section of the aircraft which was also where the most extensive damage to the interior occurred. Most of the passengers who sustained only minor injuries were seated in the main passenger