and given a closing heading for the LOC intercept of 210°. Normally, crews expect to capture the localiser below the ILS GS and in level flight at the altitude at which they have been cleared to join it. However, in this case, the closing heading given meant that the localiser was subsequently captured when slightly above the GS. It was noted that local ATC procedures allowed controllers some flexibility as to vectoring onto the ILS and it was found that this flexibility was used fairly regularly. The late acquisition of the ILS LOC, an undesirable but not uncommon situation at some busy airports, led to an increased workload for the crew. It was also followed, without recorded comment, by the disappearance of the roll bars from the Captain’s PFD. The approach ground track with key annotations. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The VS mode was selected to reach the ILS GS, first with 1200 fpm selected, then 700 feet and finally 1400 fpm. Although not required given the prevailing weather conditions, an attempt to also engage the left hand AP was then made in order to make ‘dual channel’ approach but as this caused the right hand AP to disconnect and did not result in the left hand AP engaging, the right hand AP was re-engaged and no further attempt was made to add the left hand autopilot. Flap 5 and a speed of 170 knots were selected and a few seconds later, the same landing gear configuration warning as had occurred earlier was again activated for 5 seconds with the left side radio altimeter again indicating the same false height of -8 feet agl. Immediately after this, the landing gear was selected down, Flap 15 selected and the speed set to 160 knots. As this false radio altimeter height was lower than the height (27 feet agl) at which the A/T automatically enters the RETARD mode, the A/T immediately began to reduce thrust to flight idle because all the other conditions required for this to happen (flaps >12.5 degrees, A/T speed mode is selected, a climb or descent to a selected altitude is not in progress and the aircraft is not maintaining a selected altitude) were already met. The GS was reached at approximately 1300 feet some 40 seconds after the LOC had been captured with none of the pilots having noticed the ‘RETARD annunciations which continued. FDR data showed that pitch indications had disappeared from the Captain’s PFD once the GS was captured but no response to this was recorded on the CVR. Landing clearance was given but once on the GS, thrust continued to reduce accompanied by a progressive increase in pitch attitude as the AP tracked the ILS GS but this also went undetected. The Captain made the 1000 feet call to which there was no response. Flap 40 was selected at 900 feet and the selected speed set the correct 144 knots for this at 800 feet but from 750 feet, the absence of thrust