cabin. As will be evident from the account above, the flight crew collectively failed to detect once finally fully established on the ILS that the steadily increasing pitch attitude was sufficiently abnormal to require that a reason for it needed to be urgently established. Thirty-seven seconds elapsed between the flap 40 landing flap selection and the onset of the stick shaker during which time the PFD indications and the engine thrust settings were in full view of all three pilots. Even without this recognition, the Investigation concluded that had the response to the stick shaker activation - which is triggered by the approach to a stall rather than the onset of a stall - been immediate and in accordance with the relevant QRH procedure, with full thrust set held without delay, terrain impact could have been avoided. When this did not happen, the impact was inevitable with the EGPWS activation far too late to be of any recovery value to a fully stalled aircraft which it was estimated by Boeing would have required between 500 and 800 feet. A number of other contributory factors were identified and discussed. Selectively summarised and in no significant order these included: The vectoring of the aircraft onto the ILS in a way which directly contributed to a rushed approach in which the ILS GS was reached not in level flight at 2000 feet but in descent from above at 1300 feet meant that the Captain would have been likely to focus on ensuring this was corrected to the potential detriment of other very basic flight management priorities. The fact that the configuration for landing was so late that the Landing Checklist was not completed until below 500 feet agl may be seen as evidence of workload exceeding the overall command capabilities of the Captain. The presence of a Safety Pilot with an excellent overview of the main aspects of flight management did not seem to have made much difference to monitoring in the lead up to the accident and may have been attributable to a relatively low level of experience as a pilot and the reliability of modern aircraft which results in increasingly infrequent exposure to in-flight equipment malfunctions such as the underlying one in this case.. The underlying trigger for the accident was clearly the fault in the left hand radio altimeter and in particular the fact that it generated a false height below the automatic A/T ‘RETARD’ activation. The Captain’s apparent lack of concern at this malfunction may have been a consequence of the regularity of radio altimeter faults on the aircraft type at the operator concerned. The Investigation was unable to establish why the malfunction and in particular the false altitude reading had occurred. However, it was noted that the relatively poor overall reliability of this equipment on the aircraft type was true of both approved OEMs - Smiths, as installed on the accident aircraft and Rockwell Collins. In terms of the A/T radio altimeter inputs, it was found that a