stabilised approach criteria are applicable in order to be able to effectively monitor compliance with these criteria in their OFDM programme.. introduced additional simulator training on stall recovery procedures for all pilots.. began using OFDM data to detect automation-related faults to ensure that they are more reliably identified and that quicker rectification facilitated where appropriate.. A total of 11 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Boeing should improve the reliability of the radio altimeter system.. that the FAA and the EASA should ensure that the undesirable response of the A/T and FMC caused by incorrect radio altimeter values is evaluated and that the A/T and FMC are improved in accordance with the design specifications.. that Boeing, the FAA and the EASA should assess the use of an auditory low-speed warning signal as a means of warning the crew and - if such a warning signal proves effective - mandate its use.. that Boeing should review its ‘Approach to Stall’ procedures with regard to the use of the AP and A/T and the need for trimming.. that the Turkish DGCA, the ICAO, the FAA and the EASA should change their regulations in such a way that airlines and flying training organisations see to it that their recurrent training programmes include practicing recovery from stall situations on approach.. that the FAA, the EASA and the Turkish DGCA should make (renewed) efforts to encourage airline awareness of the importance of reporting and ensure that reporting procedures are adhered to.. that Boeing should make (renewed) efforts to ensure that all airlines operating Boeing aircraft are aware of the importance of reporting.. that Turkish Airlines should ensure that its pilots and maintenance technicians are aware of the importance of reporting.. that Turkish Airlines should adjust its safety programme.. that the Dutch ANSP LVNL should harmonise its procedures for the (radar-vectored) transition of aircraft onto final approach as set out in the Air Traffic Control Rules and Instructions (VDV) with (the corresponding) ICAO procedures and ensure that air traffic controllers adhere to them.. that the Dutch Transport and Water Management Inspectorate (IVW) should monitor LVNL’s compliance with national and international air traffic control procedures.. The Final Report was published on 6 May 2011.