Boeing 737-800 FCOM was noted to state only that “calling out FMA changes is a good practice in accordance with CRM”. However, the Investigation concluded that “there was no clarity within the pilot corps at Turkish Airlines on calling out FMA changes” despite the importance of FMA status awareness.. Flight Mode Annunciations as displayed during the approach. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The fact that the Captain did not respond as procedurally required when the Safety Pilot pointed out that the left radio altimeter had malfunctioned and that, when the aircraft passed the 1000 feet stabilised approach gate with the aircraft clearly not stabilised the Captain made no call for a go around were regarded as having been contributory to the outcome as was absence of an operator’s procedure for the role of Safety Pilot.. The delayed crew response to the stick shaker activation which was the last opportunity to prevent a crash was considered to be a result of inadequate pilot training. This was of considerable concern given that the commander had been a type-experienced Training Captain. The Investigation concluded that the Cause of the Accident was as follows: While executing the approach by means of the instrument landing system with the right autopilot engaged, the left radio altimeter system showed an incorrect height of - 8 feet on the left primary flight display. This incorrect value of - 8 feet resulted in activation of the ‘retard flare’ mode of the autothrottle, whereby the thrust of both engines was reduced to a minimal value (approach idle) in preparation for the last phase of the landing. Due to the approach heading and altitude provided to the crew by air traffic control, the localiser signal was intercepted at 5.5 nm from the runway threshold with the result that the glide slope had to be intercepted from above. This obscured the fact that the autothrottle had entered the retard flare mode. In addition, it increased the crew’s workload. When the aircraft passed 1000 feet height, the approach was not stabilised so the crew should have initiated a go around. The right autopilot (using data from the right radio altimeter) followed the glide slope signal. As the airspeed continued to drop, the aircraft’s pitch attitude kept increasing. The crew failed to recognise the airspeed decay and the pitch increase until the moment the stick shaker was activated. Subsequently the approach to stall recovery procedure was not executed properly, causing the aircraft to stall and crash. Safety Action taken as a result of the Accident whilst the Investigation into it was in progress was noted as having included, but not been limited to the following: Boeing published a Flight Operations Technical Bulletin 737-09-2 shortly after the accident which included the reminder that “whether in automated or manual flight, flight crews must carefully monitor primary flight instruments (air speed, attitude etc.) for aircraft performance and the flight mode annunciation for autoflight”. Turkish Airlines: abandoned the distinction between VMC and IMC for the height at which