modification to prevent the A/T RETARD mode from operating altogether if the two radio altimeter inputs are more than 20 feet different was available but only compatible with Rockwell Collins radio altimeters. Only around a quarter of the operator’s 52 737-800 aircraft were found to have been delivered with the modified Rockwell Collins altimeter installed.. It was established that Turkish Airlines flight crew had not been made aware that the 737NG A/T is configured to automatically use the left hand radio altimeter system and the only way a reversion to the right hand system occurs is if the left hand system is detected as not working. This reversion process failed to detect that whilst the left hand radio altimeter was still functioning, it was not doing so correctly. It was noted that this absence of an effective reversion of radio altimeter inputs to other systems was no longer present in other in-production aircraft and was a direct consequence of the FAA, as the issuer of the 737 type certificate, allowing, under grandfather rights, the continued use of old designs and components in a much updated version of an airframe instead of requiring a (more demanding) new Type Certificate even when the difference between old and current practices in system and component design clearly favoured the current. The Investigation also found it of particular note that there was no mention of the operationally significant fact about the source of radio altitude data for the A/T in any Boeing 737 Manuals or Technical Training Material. This situation was considered to have resulted in 737 pilots having “an incomplete or even incorrect mental model” of an important aspect of the AFCS, the sort of defective mental model which was seen as part of a wider problem of complex inter-related automation elements.. Had the changes in FMA annunciations been monitored (see the illustration below), it was considered that this would have created a significant opportunity to detect the premature appearance and continued activation of the A/T RETARD mode. It was noted that most airlines base their OM SOPs on the guidance provided by the airframe manufacturer’s FCTM and FCOM guidance. In this respect, it was noted that the Boeing approach was described as the PM making callouts based on instrument indications or observations which the PF should then verify and acknowledge and if the PM does not make the required callout, the PF should do so. The Turkish Airlines OM was found to state that FMA mode changes must be called out but there was no evidence of this happening on the accident aircraft CVR. The Investigation conducted interviews with the operator’s 737-800 pilots which showed that there were two different approaches to FMA change monitoring. One group verified the mode changes without calling them out and the other verified and called out such changes. Most of the pilots who did call after verification were found to have had previous Airbus type experience where the FCOM prescribes FMA changes must be called out. The