Descending through 8,000 ft in preparation for landing, the captain as PF did not respond to an ATC heading change. When challenged by the first officer, he did not respond because he had had a seizure. The first officer subsequently did an excellent job in response to the captain's condition, delegating to appropriate people and handling flight duties to ensure a safe and uneventful landing. Incapacitation of a crewmember is defined as “any condition which affects the health of a crewmember during the performance of duties which renders him or her incapable of performing the assigned duties.” Incapacitation is a real air safety hazard that occurs more frequently than many other emergencies in routine aviation training. It can manifest itself in a variety of ways ranging from obvious sudden death to subtle, partial loss of function, not preceded by any warning. A partial incapacitation may be much more subtle to detect than a total one.. This type of incident can always occur on a flight, not only in cruise and not just by loss of consciousness. Removing a crewmember from his seat can be a difficult task.. It can be rather traumatic for the crew involved, and it can also be unsettling for the airline itself. A mature organization will neither disguise nor hide the event.. Discretionary choice of restaurant and different meals among crew may help prevent the consequences of food poisoning.. Early recognition of incapacitation is essential: Routine monitoring and cross-checking of flight instruments, especially during critical phases of flight.. Flight crewmembers should be alert to subtle incapacitation: If a crewmember does not respond appropriately to two verbal communications, or If a crewmember does not respond to a verbal communication associated with a significant deviation from a standard flight profile. If a crewmember does not respond appropriately to two verbal communications, or. If a crewmember does not respond to a verbal communication associated with a significant deviation from a standard flight profile. If you don’t feel well, say so and let the other pilot fly. Other symptoms of the beginning of incapacitation are: Incoherent speech Strange behavior Irregular breathing Pale fixed facial expression Jerky motions that are either delayed or too rapid. Incoherent speech. Strange behavior. Irregular breathing. Pale fixed facial expression. Jerky motions that are either delayed or too rapid. The following summarizes the actions to recover from detected incapacitation: The fit pilot must assume control and return the aircraft to a safe flight path, announce “I have control” and engage the autopilot. The fit pilot must take whatever steps are possible to ensure that the incapacitated pilot cannot interfere with the handling of the aircraft. This may involve cabin crew to restrain the incapacitated pilot.. If the cockpit door is locked, the assisting cabin crewmember should to unlock it.. The fit pilot must land as soon as practicable considering all pertinent factors. Arrange medical assistance after landing, giving as many relevant details about the condition of the crewmember as possible..