The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB’s) investigation of an April 2018 engine failure on a Boeing 737, conducted between April 2018 and November 2019, identified significant opportunities for the commercial air transport industry to improve structural integrity for future containment of turbine engine failures. The CFM56-7B engine and the Boeing 737-700 aeroplane involved were certificated in December 1996 and December 1997, respectively. NTSB said, “Given the results of CFM’s engine fan-blade-out [FBO event, i.e., the fracture of a fan blade at its root] containment certification tests and Boeing’s subsequent structural analyses of the effects of an FBO event on the airframe, the post-FBO events that occurred during this accident could not have been predicted. … New technologies and analytical methods have been developed that will better predict the interaction of the engine and airframe during an FBO event and the response of the inlet, fan cowl, and associated airplane structures.” NTSB explained that the separated fan blade, which impacted the engine fan case and fractured into multiple fragments, caused a rare cascade of damage that exceeded what would be expected from the engine-design risk mitigations. “The fan blade fragments that traveled forward of the fan case, along with the displacement wave created by the fan blade’s impact with the fan case, caused damage that compromised the structural integrity of the inlet and caused portions of the inlet to depart from the airplane,” NTSB said. “Portions of the fan cowl departed the airplane because (1) the impact of the separated fan blade with the fan case imparted significant loads into the fan cowl through the radial restraint fitting and (2) the associated stresses in the fan cowl structure exceeded the residual strength of the fan cowl, causing its failure. …" “The structural analysis modeling tools that currently exist to analyze [an FBO] event and predict the subsequent engine and airframe damage will allow airplane manufacturers to better understand the interaction of the engine and airframe during an FBO event and the response of the inlet, fan cowl, and associated structures in the airplane’s normal operating envelope." “Some of the fan blade fragments traveled forward of the engine and into the inlet. In addition, the fan blade’s impact with the fan case caused the fan case to deform locally over a short period of time. This deformation traveled both around and forward/aft of the fan case. After reaching the airplane structure … the deformation generated large loads that resulted in local damage to the inlet. The forward-traveling fan blade fragments and the deformation compromised the structural integrity of the inlet, causing portions of the inlet to depart the airplane." “The impact of the separated fan blade with the fan case also imparted significant loads into the fan cowl (also part of the nacelle) through the radial restraint fitting, which was located at the bottom of the inboard fan cowl. These loads caused cracks to form in the fan cowl skin and frames near the radial restraint fitting. This damage then propagated