A Serious Incident Investigation was immediately commenced by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. In view of the evident seriousness of the occurrence, the BEA proceeded rapidly to assemble as much factual information as possible. Although this stage of the investigation is not yet complete, sufficient information has been gathered for important findings to have already been made. A Preliminary Report which includes six Safety Recommendations on which this summary is based has therefore been issued. It was noted that operator of the aircraft, Airhub Airlines, is the Malta-based AOC-holding subsidiary of the Lithuanian-based ACMI (Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance, & Insurance) company GetJet Airlines. The aircraft was being operated with the Captain acting as PF. Aware that the destination ILS was out of service, the crew briefed for an RNP approach using VNAV/LNAV minima (charted as 752 feet QNH) since their aircraft was not equipped to fly to RNP LPV minima. RNP approach procedures at Paris CDG did not constrain flights cleared to use them to declare the minima being used unless a Lateral Navigation (LNAV) approach was intended. The crew copied the ATIS which included BKN (broken) cloud at 1500 feet, visibility 10km and QNH 1001. They stated that throughout their first approach they had remained “in cloud, without visual references [and had] experienced moderate turbulence and flown through heavy rain, using the wipers at high speed”. Once working the CDG Intermediate Approach controller, the flight was cleared to descend to 6000 feet on 1011 instead of the correct 1001 and this QNH was read back as given. Two minutes later, the same controller re-cleared the flight to 5000 feet and for the “full RNP approach” to runway 27R whilst repeating the same incorrect QNH. A minute later, the same controller was recorded when giving the same descent and approach clearance in English to an inbound Easyjet flight to have again used the wrong QNH of 1011 but received a readback which included the correct QNH 1001 which the controller did not notice. Almost immediately, the controller then issued a further clearance to descend to 5000 feet to an Air France flight but this time used the correct QNH of 1001 which was correctly read back by the crew. Shortly afterwards, the investigated flight reached the approach Final Descent Point with the altimeters indicating approximately 4900 feet - the actual altitude was approximately 4,600 feet - and was instructed to change to the TWR North frequency. On checking in there, a landing clearance and wind check was given with 3 nm to go and the clearance correctly read back. Half a minute later, as the descent on track continued, the radio altimeter height indication became live as the aircraft passed 2,500 feet agl. Apart from the consequences of descending on a vertical profile approximately 280 feet below the one required by the RNP procedure for which the flight had been cleared, the approach was essentially ‘stabilised’ throughout with a rate of descent of between 710 and 740