fpm. Half a minute after this, with 3.1 nm to go, the indicated altitude based on the incorrect QNH was 1400 feet (which with the aerodrome elevation at 400 feet was apparently the required 1000 feet aal stabilisation height) and the aircraft was fully configured and at the applicable VAPP of 139 KIAS. The radio altimeter reading was 837 feet agl. An MSAW activation occurred at an indicated 891feet QNH (the actual altitude based on the correct QNH at this time was 617 feet) whilst at a height 200 feet agl when still 1.53 nm from the runway (point 1 on the two following illustrations). Three seconds later, on reaching 802 feet indicated QNH (the applicable MDA since the operator required 50 feet to be added to the charted VNAV/LVAV minima of 752 feet QNH), the crew reported having had no visual reference and had therefore prepared to go around. As they were doing this, the TWR controller transmitted “(callsign) I just had a ground proximity alert, are you okay? Do you see the runway?” (point 2 on the two following illustrations) but the crew stated that they had not heard this call during which a second MSAW activation occurred. Also during the controller’s message, at 52 feet agl, the AP was disconnected and the Captain applied pitch up inputs (point 3 on the two following illustrations) although it was a further three seconds before TOGA thrust was selected (point 4 on the two following illustrations) at exactly the time when the minimum terrain clearance of 6 feet agl was recorded. The go around was announced to ATC (point 5 on the two following illustrations) and clearance to climb to 5000 feet on (the correct) QNH of 1001 was given by the controller but read back accompanied by the incorrect QNH of 1011 previously given which was not detected by the controller (point 6 on the two following illustrations). At the same time, TWR south assisting controller advised the TWR north assisting controller that they had not switched on their runway approach lighting despite the very poor weather on the approach. It was noted that during these exchanges relating to the go around, the TWR controllers had been unable to see the aircraft although “after a few seconds, they had seen it coming out of the clouds, at low height, with a pitch up attitude”. As the climb continued, the AP was re-engaged at a recorded 593 feet agl with the aircraft still 0.3 nm from the runway threshold. Shortly afterwards, the TWR north controller switched on the approach lights and was then replaced by the assisting controller supported by a new assistant. When the flight was downwind, it was transferred back to the Intermediate Approach frequency to be positioned for another approach. The controller there advised the crew to expect an RNP approach to runway 27R. This was subsequently commenced without any further confirmation of the QNH and the same incorrect QNH of 1011 originally given by ATC remained