frequency, the controller issued a landing clearance without also giving the QNH value.. The approach resulted in a near Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT) without visual references at a minimum height above terrain of 6 feet as the crew, not having acquired visual reference, performed a go-around.. Before again making the same RNP approach using LNAV/VNAV minima, the flight was given the correct QNH during the go-around phase but the readback was of the incorrect QNH previously given and the error was not noticed by the controller. The second approach was therefore also flown approximately 280 feet below the procedure flight path. However, when the crew acquired visual reference before reaching the procedure minima, they were able to correct the flight path and then complete an uneventful landing.. Whilst the applicable ATC procedures required the controller to give the QNH to a flight with its first descent clearance based on it, there was no further requirement to repeat an unchanged QNH prior to landing.. Initial interviews conducted with controllers suggested that “the importance of the QNH for approaches using the baro-VNAV function, with respect to the risk of CFIT, may be underestimated and not clearly understood by controllers”.. The aircraft operator’s operational documentation on RNP approaches using LNAV/VNAV minima reliant on baro-VNAV was found to mention the risks of flight deck altimeters having different settings, but made no mention of the risk of having the same incorrect QNH setting on both altimeters.. In the case of a RNP approach with LNAV/VNAV minima reliant on baro-VNAV, QNH setting errors cannot be detected by altitude-distance cross-checks against values provided on the approach chart. In addition, there is procedural requirement for a cross-check of the QNH received with another source of information such as the ATIS, METAR or specific confirmation of the QNH with ATC.. Where available, an MSAW system could be considered as one of the last CFIT prevention barriers. At Paris CDG, the standard procedure for a controller in case of an MSAW when a flight is not being radar vectored is to immediately advise it that a terrain alert has been generated, instruct its crew to immediately check their flight level or altitude and give them the QNH. This standard MSAW phraseology was not used by the controllers after activation during either approach. In particular, there was no instruction to check their altitude nor was the QNH given.. Initial interviews conducted with controllers suggested that “the emergency phraseology associated with a MSAW is not perfectly known nor understood by controllers”.. Six Safety Recommendations have been made as follows: that Paris-Charles de Gaulle Air Traffic Services ensure without delay that controllers are aware of the importance of the QNH for approaches using the baro-VNAV function with respect to the risk of CFIT. [FRAN-2022-005]. that Paris-Charles de Gaulle Air Traffic Services ensure without delay that controllers are aware of the importance of checking that the information read back by flight crews is correct. [FRAN-2022-006]. that Paris-Charles de Gaulle Air Traffic Services ensure