set. On being transferred to TWR north and cleared to land, the crew asked if the approach lights were on and this was confirmed. At 3.1 nm from the runway when at 842 feet agl, an MSAW activation occurred and the controller responded with “I just got a terrain alert, are you okay?” The crew replied with “we are established on path and we have visual now” (and subsequently stated that they had not understood the reason for this message). After continuing to descend until reaching 572 feet agl whilst still 2.57 nm from the runway - still 150 feet above the MDA based on the over-reading altimeter - the AP was disconnected, the FDs were switched off and a climb to regain the correct vertical profile based on PAPI indications was made. The remainder of the approach and the subsequent landing were then completed normally. The vertical profile of the first approach computed from flight recorder data (the dark blue line is the descent as flown, the lower line is the on track terrain height. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The similarly annotated horizontal flight path for the first approach. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that a suitably equipped aircraft could have made use of the RNP approach clearance given to fly to LPV minima and therefore not flown a vertical profile dependent on use of the correct QNH, but that the aircraft involved was not so equipped. The aircraft FDs included a Vertical Deviation Indicator (V/DEV) which allowed the crew to see the extent of any deviation from the FMGC-generated approach vertical profile on the altitude scale within the range +/- 150 feet but of course the FMGC (Flight Management Guidance Computer) path was based on the incorrect QNH. The adverse weather reported to have been present during the first approach was confirmed by a post flight analysis conducted by the French Meteorological Service to have been caused by heavy rain falling from Cb cloud characterised by “strong vertical development” which had significantly reduced visibility for a period of about ten minutes. This continued during the second approach but the worst affected area no longer included the final part of the approach which by then had similar conditions to those prevailing over the northern part of the airport. A Summary of the Factual Findings relating to CFIT risk so far: During the first RNP approach using LNAV/VNAV minima, an incorrect QNH was twice provided by a controller and read back by the flight crew concerned as given. On a third occasion, a flight given the same incorrect QNH responded with a readback of the correct QNH but this went unnoticed by the controller.. The incorrect QNH given by ATC to the flight under investigation differed by 10 hPa from the QNH valid at the time and included in the ATIS information and when used resulted in an approach carried out approximately 280 feet below the descent profile.. When the flight was transferred to the TWR