An Investigation was carried out by a USAF Accident Investigation Board (AIB) established for the purpose. The DFDR and CVR were recovered and their data was used to inform the Investigation. It was noted that the accident aircraft had been operated within the USAF Air Mobility Command (AMC) by the 39th Airlift Squadron which, whilst operating in Afghanistan was assigned to the 455th Air Expeditionary Wing (AEW) and operated from Bagram as part of the 774th Expeditionary Air Squadron (EAS). The Pilot acting as aircraft commander had a total of 943 hours on type and was considered by his Squadron leadership to be a "top aircraft commander" and projected to become an Instructor Pilot. The Co-Pilot had a total of 338 hours on type and was "on track for upgrade to aircraft commander". Also on board as crew members were 2 Loadmasters. In addition, two security personnel and five contractors were on board as passengers. After arrival from Bagram after the previous flight, it was found that cargo loading had taken place under the provisions applicable to 'Engine Running Onload/Offload Operations' (ERO). During the offloading of cargo via the rear ramp, it was found that one of the Loadmasters had asked the Pilot to "raise the elevator to provide more clearance for offloading the high-profile (tall) cargo". This "was not considered an unusual request by the Pilot" and he complied. It was found that after six minutes during which there were changes in the elevator deflection showing that the Pilot was holding the control column back to maintain the elevator position between + 6º and +13º, the elevator position momentarily increased to +20º before settling to a steady position of between +6º and +8º deflection. This change was followed immediately by the Pilot telling the Co-Pilot that his Night Vision Goggles (NVG) case was holding the elevator. Thereafter, for the remaining 50 minutes of ground operations, both pilots continued to perform normal duties in preparation for their next flight. It was noted that the natural resting position of the elevator during ground loading operations was at approximately -15º deflection. The difference between the elevator positions is shown below. Onload of five shipping containers on pallets subsequently occurred and both pallet build and securing within the aircraft was independently checked. The CVR record showed that the location of the NVG case was not discussed at any time after the initial placement remark and both IR Video of the aircraft during ERO (see below) and DFDR evidence showed that "the elevator remained in its raised position until the takeoff roll". The Investigation found that "the blocking of flight controls during loading operations was a nonstandard procedure and there was no regulatory guidance to accompany the proper placement and removal of an object blocking the controls". In particular, "the ERO checklist did not include a step requiring the pilots to check the flight controls prior to departure" so it was therefore "incumbent on both pilots to remember to remove the hard-shell NVG case".