the control column to hold it rearward during ERO was not adequately evaluated.. Distraction - the other operational activities being carried out by both pilots during the 50 minutes of ERO following the placement of the NVG case led to it not being mentioned again.. Wrong choice of action during an operation - the rapid identification of an elevator trim malfunction as the cause of the abnormal pitch experienced was incorrect.. Environmental Conditions Affecting Vision - taken together, night operations, the use of NVGs and reliance on the HUD in conjunction with the ACAWS (Advisory, Caution and Warning System) would have resulted in the NVG case behind the left side control column being inconspicuous to both pilots.. Inaccurate Expectation - had the Co-Pilot performed (the feasible) normal take off in accordance with prescribed procedures, the speed on becoming airborne would have been 122 knots and if the aircraft had then lifted off at 107.5 knots as it did, this "may have provided a more pronounced alert of the problem" and allowed the pilots to reject the take off. The "inaccurate expectation of the Pilot” that an AMAX take off was required had "led indirectly to an unnecessary AMAX take off.". Fixation - during the 5 seconds between the Co-Pilot realising "something was wrong" and the first stall warning, both pilots "focused their attention on a trim failure problem (and) neither verbalized a different flight control problem nor attempted to reduce power to control the increasing aircraft pitch".. These Human Factors were used as the basis for the formally-stated Conclusion of the Investigation as follows. In respect of Causes the accident was attributed to: the MP’s placement of the hard-shell NVG case in front of the (control column) blocking forward movement of the flight controls. the distractions experienced by the Pilot and Co-Pilot during the course of the (turnround) ERO. the mis-identification of the malfunction once airborne.. In respect of Substantial Contributory Factors, the following were identified: environmental conditions. inaccurate expectations. fixation. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 10 February 2016, approved on 14 February 2016 and subsequently made publically available.