The Investigation "could not determine whether a flight control check would have alerted the pilots to the hard-shell NVG case (position)". The aircraft taxied for departure from runway 31 and both pilots, with the Co-Pilot as PF, wore their NVGs for take off. A maximum effort (AMAX) take off procedure, which it had additionally appeared to possibly be necessary, had been confirmed by the Pilot even though he had acknowledged once the final load was known that additional runway distance - calculated by the Investigation as sufficient to carry out a normal take off - would be available. The Investigation noted that "current guidance only allows a Co-Pilot to perform a maximum effort take off from the right seat under the supervision of a qualified instructor pilot (IP) in the left seat" and that the Pilot of the accident aircraft was not so qualified. It was noted that there had been no elevator movement prior to the take off. As speed built up, rotation occurred "prematurely" and the aircraft became airborne at 3.5 knots below the expected/calculated figure of 111 knots as the "Rotate" call was made. The Pilot then said "you're a little early" and the PF responded that the aircraft was "going off on its own". Almost immediately he then recognised a pitch control problem which he announced as a trim failure as the aircraft reached its top speed of 117 knots. As the application of full nose down trim was achieved, the first of three stall warnings occurred 11 seconds after take off with the aircraft in excess of 20º nose up. The aircraft stalled almost immediately and "except for a brief period just prior to impact, remained stalled throughout the remainder of the flight". Stick Pusher activation was ineffective due to the prevention of forward column movement by the NVG case and although the Pilot took control and "directed the Co-Pilot to select emergency trim, an alternate to the normal trim system", DFDR data showed that "the trim system had functioned properly in the normal position and […] switching to emergency trim had no additional effect". Control was not regained and 25 seconds after take off, with the aircraft descending at 8000 fpm, the Pilot transmitted to TWR “we’re going down” three consecutive times. Shortly afterwards, the aircraft impacted "the terrain, a perimeter wall to the right of the runway and a guard tower" with a force estimated as between 40g and upwards of 97g and exploded. A post crash fire followed. Having found no evidence that the aircraft was not airworthy in any material respect and established that it had been correctly loaded in terms of both load security and C of G, the remainder of the Investigation focused on an analysis of potentially relevant human factors. This was based on version 7 of HFACS as per standard use in US Department of Defence (DoD) Investigations and identified the following six pertinent factors: Inadequate Real-Time Assessment - the risk of placing the NVG case behind