fuel shutoff lever and resulted in the in-flight loss of engine power and the subsequent ditching". Three Contributory Factors to the accident were identified as: Liberty’s and NYONair’s deficient safety management, which did not adequately mitigate foreseeable risks associated with the harness/tether system interfering with the floor-mounted controls and hindering passenger egress.. Liberty allowing NYONair to influence the operational control of Liberty’s FlyNYON flights.. The Federal Aviation Administration’s inadequate oversight of Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 revenue passenger-carrying operations.. Two Contributory Factors to the severity of the accident were also identified: the rapid capsizing of the helicopter due to partial inflation of the emergency flotation system.. Liberty and NYONair’s use of the harness/tether system that hindered passenger egress.. A total of fourteen Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration modify the supplemental passenger restraint system (SPRS) approval process to: require letter of authorisation (LOA) applicants to specify a need for and the intended use of an SPRS for each aircraft; require the Federal Aviation Administration to evaluate and review, for each specified aircraft, the need for the SPRS on that aircraft for all intended uses; all SPRS design, manufacture, installation, and operational considerations, including, at a minimum, the potential for passengers to become entangled during emergency egress; the adequacy of passenger emergency egress briefings; and the potential for the SPRS to interfere with aircraft controls; and ensure that each LOA lists the specific aircraft on which the holder is authorised to use an SPRS. [A-19-24]. require letter of authorisation (LOA) applicants to specify a need for and the intended use of an SPRS for each aircraft;. require the Federal Aviation Administration to evaluate and review, for each specified aircraft, the need for the SPRS on that aircraft for all intended uses; all SPRS design, manufacture, installation, and operational considerations, including, at a minimum, the potential for passengers to become entangled during emergency egress; the adequacy of passenger emergency egress briefings; and the potential for the SPRS to interfere with aircraft controls; and. ensure that each LOA lists the specific aircraft on which the holder is authorised to use an SPRS. [A-19-24]. that the Federal Aviation Administration, until the supplemental passenger restraint system (SPRS) approval process as recommended in Safety Recommendation A-19-24 is implemented, prohibit the use of SPRS for passenger-carrying doors-off operations. [A-19-25]. that the Federal Aviation Administration review the activation system designs of Federal Aviation Administration-approved rotorcraft emergency flotation systems for deficiencies that may preclude their proper deployment, such as a lack of a means to identify high pull forces on manual activation handles or inadequate guidance on the intended use of the activation system, and require corrective actions based on the review findings. [A-19-26]. that the Federal Aviation Administration revise Miscellaneous Guidance 10 in Advisory Circular (AC) 27 and AC 29 to include design objectives for emergency flotation systems that consider human factors design objectives, such as activation handle pull-force characteristics; provisions for clear, unambiguous, and positive feedback to pilots to