was on type. The 30 minute ‘sunset’ accident flight was his fifth of the day during a duty period which had begun at 0930. He had been employed by Liberty Helicopters as an A350 pilot for almost two years at the time of the accident. The flight departed from the Helo Kearny Heliport (65NJ) in New Jersey just before sunset. After initially turning south and flying in the vicinity of the Statue of Liberty with the two inboard rear passengers having removed (with the pilot's permission) their mandatory harness and moved to sit on the floor held by their PSRS, the helicopter had proceeded not above 2000 feet QNH as cleared up the East River (see the ground track illustrated below). During this time, video evidence showed that the front seat passenger had manoeuvred himself to take photographs in such a way that the loose tail of the PSRS tether attached to the back of his harness had hung down loosely near the helicopter’s floor-mounted controls. Then after returning to a more upright seated position, “his tether tail appeared taut and was extended in the direction of the floor-mounted controls”. A few seconds later, he could be seen to have “pulled on the hand grip (mounted on the helicopter’s left door frame) to adjust his seating position” and as he did so, his tether tail remained taut but appeared to “pop upward”. A couple of seconds later, as the helicopter turned towards Central Park, audio from the onboard video recorded a sudden reduction in engine noise. The pilot responded to the apparent loss of power by initiating an autorotative descent from a height of 1900 feet and, after judging that Central Park was too crowded, had commenced a right turn back towards the East River. During the descent he checked the Fuel Flow Control Lever (FFCL), one of three floor-mounted controls (see the left hand illustration below) and confirmed that it was “secure in its detent”. Subsequently, he stated that when the helicopter was about 600 ft above the river and he was “committed to impact”, he had reached down to position the Fuel Shut Off Lever (FSOL), another floor-mounted control, to the closed position but found that it was already closed as a result of the front seat passenger’s tether tail having snagged the lever (as illustrated in the right hand illustration above) and pulled it up. He had immediately opened it and engaged the engine starter but by this time, there was insufficient time left to achieve a restart and he declared a ‘MAYDAY’ to La Guardia TWR and activated the emergency float system using the lever on the cyclic control (see the illustration below). With the helicopter about 100 feet above the water, the onboard video recorded a single ‘click’ sound followed by the noise of float deployment. The pilot stated that he had taken this ‘pop’ sound to indicate that the flotation system - three air bags at each skid - had deployed and had seen