An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The installed image and data recorder, which should have captured imagery of the cockpit instrument and caution/warning panel, pilot inputs to the flight controls and the near-distance external environment, and which should have detected and recorded the helicopter’s position, altitude, roll, pitch, yaw, heading and the angular velocity and acceleration in all the three axes, was found to be inoperative. Its most recent recorded data were over three years old and it had evidently been inoperative since then despite an annual functional check being required in the AMM. However, useful information was available from a digital camera mounted on the ceiling of the helicopter’s passenger cabin and a smartphone belonging to one of the passengers. Smartphone videos of the accident provided by ground witnesses were used to estimate the helicopter’s touchdown point, ground track, ground speed and rate of descent rate. It was noted that seats on the accident flight had been sold by a separate company ‘Fly NYON’ as seats on an “aerial photography flight” during which passengers would be able to take photographs while extending their feet outside of the helicopter’s removed or open doorways when permitted to do so by the pilot. This was achieved by conducting the flights with the two right side doors and the front left door removed altogether and the left sliding door locked in the open position. Passengers in the rear left and right outer and front left seats could swivel their seats 90° and the left and right inner rear seated passengers were able to leave their seats and sit on the floor at the open doors (see the illustration below). To ensure that passengers could not fall out, each passenger was fitted with a NYONair-provided body harness/tether system attached to an anchor point in the cabin. This supplemental passenger restraint system (SPRS) was additional to and quite separate from the mandatory FAA approved lap belt and shoulder harness system. Only the latter was worn by the pilot. Each passenger also wore a headset that enabled them to hear instructions given by the pilot. It was noted that Liberty Helicopters, an established Part 135 and Part 91 operator which was approved to operate ‘conventional’ air tours with ‘doors-on’ helicopters had been contracted to operate flights for FlyNYON since late in 2017 and the latter had supplied the harness/tether system which Liberty Helicopters had installed. However, unlike Liberty’s own doors-on tour flights, the flights for FlyNYON were explicitly operated under Part 91 as “aerial photography flights” using a longstanding exemption which allowed such flights to be operated outside the scope of the significantly greater regulatory and oversight requirements applicable to Part 135 operators as well as having the effect of excluding regulatory oversight of significant aspects of a Part 91 operation - such as the SPRS - despite the operation being clearly a “commercial revenue-passenger carrying” business. The 33 year-old pilot involved had a total of about 3,100 flying hours experience, of which 1,430