The type of aircraft, the complexity of the failure, previous and/or subsequent failures, and the circumstances under which the malfunction has occurred will determine what secondary actions should be taken. Actions that could be applicable to the situation include: Advise ATS. Depending upon the specifics of the failure, it may be prudent to declare an emergency using the appropriate Emergency Communications (MAYDAY or PAN) format. While the crew may not have yet formulated their plan of action, advising ATC of the hydraulic problem(s) will permit them to provide early assistance which may include: separation of the aircraft from other traffic providing diversion clearance or facilitating delaying tactics by providing vectors or a holding clearance prioritisation of the emergency aircraft for landing allowing for a long final if requested assigning a discrete radio frequency when possible advising the airport emergency services and all concerned parties in accordance with local procedures/protocols providing any information that might be requested by the crew such as weather, type of approaches available, runway length and other pertinent aerodrome details. separation of the aircraft from other traffic. providing diversion clearance or facilitating delaying tactics by providing vectors or a holding clearance. prioritisation of the emergency aircraft for landing allowing for a long final if requested. assigning a discrete radio frequency when possible. advising the airport emergency services and all concerned parties in accordance with local procedures/protocols. providing any information that might be requested by the crew such as weather, type of approaches available, runway length and other pertinent aerodrome details. Confirm Aircraft Systems Status. The crew should ascertain the status of not only the hydraulic system(s), but also any other aircraft system(s) that may have been affected by the failure.. Calculate Approach Speeds and Landing Distance. In many cases, a hydraulic failure will have an impact on approach and landing speeds, cross-wind limits and landing distance required. Higher approach and landing speeds will be required if flight controls are degraded or if high lift devices cannot be extended due to the failure. Higher approach speeds will result in significantly longer than normal landing distances as landing distance is a function of mv2. Landing distances will also be increased should the failure result in degradation of braking capability, loss of ground spoilers or the inability to deploy thrust reversers.. Determine Landing Weather Requirements. Some hydraulic failures can result in the loss of the aircraft all weather capability due to loss of the autopilot, the resultant landing flap position or to degradation in flight control function.. Confirm Range and Endurance. If the hydraulic failure has resulted in the inability to retract the undercarriage, flaps or slats, a higher than normal rate of fuel consumption will result. It may also be necessary to operate at a lower than normal altitude, in which case minimum safe altitudes must be checked. In these cases, it is critical that flight crew fuel management takes the abnormal configuration or operating level into consideration. During any hydraulic emergency, the time required before the crew is