mile, same altitude" (this system generates "same altitude" if there is less than 200 feet of vertical separation). The EC145 pilot, maintaining 4500 feet QNH, advised TWR that he would "cross behind" the F100 and turned approximately 40° left onto an approximately northerly heading to do so. He subsequently reported that "he did not observe any avoidance manoeuvre on the part of (the F100)". The F100 First Officer reported visual acquisition of the helicopter to ATC four seconds after the helicopter had made his report in respect of the F100. In doing so, he added to the report "and we're avoiding", adding afterwards that he had done so "of his own accord in order to indicate to the helicopter pilot and the ATCO that the conflict was resolved". As he was making his report, the radar recording indicated that the aircraft was descending through 5000 feet and a TCAS TA occurred. The commander indicated that he had "slightly reduced the rate of descent" in response. Soon afterwards, a TCAS RA 'CLIMB CLIMB' had occurred. The crew assessed the helicopter to be at approximately the same altitude and stated that they could see it in their 2-3 o'clock relative position. The Commander "decided not to comply with the resolution advisory and continued the approach while descending because the First Officer had permanent visual contact with the helicopter and also observed it turning north". The First Officer later stated that the Commander had carried out a minor heading correction to the left. As a result of the continued descent - at approximately 1200 fpm, a reversal RA "DESCEND, DESCEND NOW" occurred as the aircraft passed 4500 feet QNH. According to Mode S downlink data, the RA annunciated in the F100 lasted 29 seconds. The RA was not reported to ATC. According to downloaded FDR data, there was no change in the rate of descent and no marked change of course. It was found that the descending F100 had crossed from left to right 0.7nm ahead of the EC145 at 75 feet below its unchanged altitude of 4500 feet QNH. The concerns of the Investigation included that: the F100 crew had ignored clearly-stated Operations Manual guidance in respect of TCAS TA response.. Helvetic Airways had not taken any action on receipt of the Commanders internal report which had clearly stated that the RAs had not been followed.. although ATC action in this event was compliant with procedures, the risk in issuing potentially conflicting clearances to a combination of IFR and VFR traffic cannot necessarily be effectively mitigated by the issue of even good traffic information.. see-and-avoid is not necessarily a reliable means of judging collision risk and it results in a level of risk far greater than following TCAS RAs even in relatively good in-flight visibility and clear of cloud.. STCA alerts which could have been made available to controllers at Bern had been suppressed by Skyguide. The formal statement of the Causes of the conflict was: The serious incident is attributable to