An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss AIB (SAIB). No notification of the event reached the SAIB until 5 days after it had occurred. ATC radar and R/T recordings were used to assist the Investigation. It was noted that the conflict had occurred in the Bern CTR which was Class 'D' airspace. ATS was provided by APP and TWR positions both equipped with a radar display with a four second update. It was the TWR position that was working the two aircraft at the time of the conflict and which had cleared the EC145 to transit VFR at 4500 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings on the requested route from the 'FRI' VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR) to the 'WIL' VOR, one of the two designated VFR transit routes promulgated - the "Southern Transit Route" - see the chart below: It was noted that in respect of the two available VFR transit routes, the AIP stated (in German) that "unless weather conditions make it impossible or they are instructed otherwise by air traffic control, transit flights should use the published transit routes during airport operating hours" and that the Bern ATM Manual stated that "Usage of the transit routes is not mandatory." It was confirmed that the F100 was equipped with a serviceable TCAS II and that the EC145 was equipped with a Traffic Advisory System (TAS) which provided three levels of traffic information on the ND. Only the appearance of a target at the highest of these levels, a Traffic Advisory (TA) would be accompanied by an audible Alert and this would include an indication of the relative bearing of the intruder. Bern was equipped with Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) but according to the controllers there, the system had been "suppressed for years" to avoid disturbing the controllers at Bern since because it was part of the Zurich West Sector and any alerts would therefore also be triggered on the radar displays for that sector at the ACC. The F100 had been cleared by Bern APP for a visual approach to runway 32 to join right and was instructed after read back to change to Bern TWR. The Commander (PF) stated that immediately this clearance had been received, he had turned off the AP. On checking in with TWR, traffic information on transiting helicopter was passed and straight afterwards corresponding traffic information was passed to the helicopter in respect of the F100. A couple of minutes later, both were given updated traffic information. The F100 continued descending downwind right hand from the north. About a minute after that, the EC145 pilot visually acquired the F100 and at almost the same time, the TAS, which at the sensitivity relevant to the conflict being investigated would generate a TA when a conflicting flight track was less than 30 seconds or 0.55 nm away and the other aircraft transponder was indicating that there was less than 800 feet of vertical separation, was reported to have annunciated "traffic, eleven o'clock, less than one