the fact that there was a dangerous convergence of a commercial aircraft and a helicopter despite mutual visual contact, because no appropriate avoidance manoeuvre had been performed.. The limited effectiveness of the "see and avoid " principle was identified as the systemic cause of this serious incident.. The fact that air traffic control cleared the commercial aircraft for a visual approach to runway 32 created a condition that allowed the two flight paths to cross with dangerous proximity.. The fact that the crew of the commercial aircraft did not comply with the TCAS resolution advisory reduced the minimum separation of the convergence and thus exacerbated the hazard.. It was also determined that whilst the following were neither causal nor contributing, they were, in the context of the Investigation recognised as Risk Factors: the ground-based short term conflict alert system (STCA) was not available to Bern air traffic control.. the crews had insufficient knowledge of air traffic control services in class D airspace.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event by Skyguide was noted to have included the restoration of STCA at Bern with effect from 17 October 2013. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should, in cooperation with other relevant international organisations, verify the extent to which the use of traffic alert and collision avoidance systems (TCAS) and the "see-and-avoid" principle can be better coordinated, particularly in airspace without established separation criteria. [No. 489]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, together with Skyguide, take simple and effective measures to ensure that at least the protective envelope of commercial aircraft, in which resolution advisories will be triggered by the traffic alert and collision avoidance system is not violated, particularly in Class 'D' airspace and other airspace used by commercial aircraft without established separation criteria. [No. 490]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation should, together with the air navigation service provider Skyguide, take all necessary measures to allow existing safety nets to be offered to the air traffic control units affected. [No. 491]. The Final Report was completed on 3 November 2014 and approved for publication by the Swiss AIB on 18 November 2014. The event was classified as an ICAO Category 'A' AIRPROX as well as a Serious Incident.