Both assessment methods employed in the study provided similar conclusions: The overall RA compliance (for all RAs) at 8 seconds after the RA 38% (Method A) or 55% (Method B) of RAs were flown with the required vertical rates, and at 12 seconds after the RA 55% and 54%, respectively.. Opposite responses (i.e. those responses carrying the highest risk) at 8 seconds were recorded in 34% of cases in Method A and 1% in Method B. At 12 seconds 17% and 1%, respectively.. There was no significant difference in the distribution of pilot responses at various altitude layers.. There is little to distinguish between the various aircraft type groups / families.. No significant performance differences were observed while comparing crews of EASA-country registered aircraft vs non-EASA aircraft.. Compared to Method A, Method B indicates significantly fewer cases where the pilot is assessed to be not responding to the RA at all, or to be responding in the opposite sense. Further study, using airborne data, may be needed to determine which of the two methods provides the better assessment of pilot responses. Although the assessment using radar data comes with some limitations (which could be overcome with the use of recorded airborne data, but this is not generally available due to logistic, commercial, and legal reasons), it clearly indicates that the level of pilot compliance with TCAS resolution advisories is low. That, again, emphasises the need for aircraft operators to monitor carefully performance of their crews, provide them with a feedback regarding their RA performance and to take corrective measures as necessary. A subset of the data used in the above-mentioned study was used to assess operations with TCAS out of service or with TCAS in a TA-only mode. On average, 122 flights were conducted daily in core European airspace with TCAS out of service. Fourteen aircraft were observed operating without TCAS for two weeks. Analysis of operations in a TA-only mode recorded on average 50 aircraft a day (i.e. exceeding the time limit allowed by the applicable Minimum Equipment List). The study did not look into the reasons for non-compliance, which should be researched separately. The detailed results of the study and explanation of the methodology can be found in this report.