angle aural warnings, 2 stalls and final spiral dive contributed (to) the increase of the crew workload and stress level.. Symptoms similar to those of a subtle incapacitation have been identified and could have resulted from and/or explain most of the causes mentioned above. However, there is no factual evidence to confirm without any doubt such a cause.. The F/O reluctance to intervene did not help in confirming a case of Captain’s subtle incapacitation and/or to take over control of the aircraft as stipulated in the Operator’s SOPs.. The following 11 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: The Operator should revise its CRM program in order to stress F/O assertiveness and leadership requirements especially in periods of abnormal performance.. The Operator should consider its classification of airports where non-technical constraints might affect flight operations and brief their flight crew accordingly.. The Operator should re-examine (their) crew pairing and scheduling policies in order to ensure a less stressful cockpit environment.. The Operator should consider establishing write up criteria for pilots’ training files in order to avoid the adverse effects of any mis-interpretation by the trainees.. The Operator should consider developing his safety oversight program in order to detect such potential flight crew performance.. The Ethiopian CAA should ensure that the recommendations (made) to the Operator have been implemented.. The Ethiopian CAA should re-examine the regulations concerning crew pairing policies.. International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should re-examine the international requirements for the identification, training and reporting of subtle incapacitation symptoms and (causes).. The Lebanese Government should establish requirements to ensure that responses to such accidents are made systematically without reliance on foreign ad hoc assistance.. The Lebanese DGCA should re-evaluate the working conditions of the ATC personnel.. The Lebanese Government should consider establishing administrative and logistic support for (accident) investigations (such as this).. The Final Report – ET 409 of the Investigation was published on 17 January 2012.