steadily deteriorated from then on with control inputs becoming increasingly confused and the aircraft being flown out of trim and with crossed controls. After a delayed ‘recovery’ from a first stick shaker activation, a second one occurred with the aircraft at an altitude of 9000 feet and as the aircraft remained stalled, a roll to the left continued which culminated in a spiral dive in which the recorded bank angle reached nearly 120° to the left and pitch attitude reached 48° nose down. Eventually, recovery became impossible and impact followed. The Investigation considered that the request from PF for the AP to be engaged indicated “that he felt uncomfortable with manually controlling the aircraft and that he was looking for a solution” It was noted, however, that the reason why the AP did not (or could not have been engage(d) was that, as specified in the Boeing FCTM “the airplane should be in trim and the Flight Director commands should be satisfied before autopilot engagement” whereas at the time of the call these necessary conditions were not satisfied. It was noted that the stabiliser trim setting for departure had been wrongly set to a position one unit more nose down than that prescribed for the aircraft as loaded. This had resulted in a greater need for significantly more (manual) control column back pressure to achieve the required initial climb profile. Recorded data suggested that the performance of the First Officer as PM was normal in respect of normal operations but CVR evidence suggested little response to the failure to follow headings, and the alerts, warnings and abnormal attitudes which became progressively more prevalent during the flight. The Investigation concluded that the Probable Causes of the accident were: The flight crew’s mismanagement of the aircraft’s speed, altitude, headings and attitude through inconsistent flight control inputs resulting in a loss of control.. The flight crew failure to abide by Crew Resource Management principles of mutual support and calling deviations hindered any timely intervention and correction.. The following nine Contributing Factors were also identified: The manipulation of the flight controls by the flight crew in an ineffective manner resulted in the aircraft undesired behaviour and increased the level of stress of the pilots.. The aircraft being out of trim for most of the flight directly increased the workload on the pilot and made his control of the aircraft more demanding.. The prevailing weather conditions at night most probably resulted in spatial disorientation to the flight crew and led to loss of situational awareness.. The relative inexperience of the Flight Crew on type combined with their unfamiliarity with the airport contributed, most likely, to increase the Flight Crew workload and stress.. The consecutive flying (188 hours in 51 days) on a new type with the absolute minimum rest could have likely resulted in a chronic fatigue affecting the Captain’s performance.. The heavy meal discussed by the crew prior to take-off (had) affected their quality of sleep prior to that flight.. The aircraft 11 bank