battery initiated fires to other packages in the same cargo stowage location as well as to increase the amount of time it would require for the contents of the package containing lithium batteries to provide an additional source of fuel for on-board fires initiated by other sources. (SR 52/2013). that ICAO should establish a task force or working group of manufacturers, operators, and regulators to develop a concept and safety case for audible emergency checklists for non-normal emergency situations and provide a feasibility working paper for industry consideration. (SR 53/2013). that ICAO should establish a task force or working group of manufacturers, operators, and regulators to develop a concept and safety case for alternative vision assistance systems for the smoke, fire and fumes events in non-normal emergency situations and provide a feasibility working paper for industry consideration on the implementation requirements and required standards. (SR 54/2013). that the ICAO Flight Recorder Panel should expedite the ICAO SARP on Airborne Image Recording Systems (AIRS) amendment to Annex 13 to progress this matter because of the potential benefit to air accident investigation. (SR 55/2013). that the ICAO Safety Information Protection Task Force should expedite the ICAO SARP’s required for video data protection. (SR 56/2013). that the ICAO Dangerous Goods Panel should amend the ICAO Technical Instructions regarding the safe carriage of lithium batteries. Specifically, it is requested that a dedicated task force within the DG panel, including the representation of qualified stakeholders, to study the safe carriage of lithium batteries and other potentially hazardous cargo and develop recommendations to the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, The Manual of Tests and Criteria Revision 5, Lithium Metal and Lithium Ion Batteries, 38.3.4.3, Test T3-Vibration.. Structural-acoustic coupling phenomenon in an aircraft fuselage is a known characteristic. In large Class E cargo compartments, the structural and acoustic modes can be derived for vibration analysis. Structural and acoustic analysis can determine possible occurrences of vibration in the fuselage structure during predetermined phases of flight where the vibro-acoustic signatures can be used to determine the principle sources and transmitting paths of the vibration. Given the active failure modes of lithium batteries, the battery risk factors concerning possible susceptibility to various extraneous forms of mechanical energy, for example vibration, possibly in a harmonic form, could be an initiating action risk. The ICAO Dangerous Goods Panel is requested to evaluate data relative to the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, Lithium Metal and Lithium Ion Batteries, 38.3.4.3, Test T3-Vibration and advise the UNECE Committee of Experts/Working Party on the Transport of Dangerous Goods if additional criteria should be adopted for the carriage lithium metal and lithium ion batteries by air transport. (Refer to GCAA SR 49/2013) (SR 57/2013) that the GCAA should produce an In-Flight Emergency Response Manual (IFERM) for the use of ATCO and all ANS providers. The General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) should issue a manual providing formal guidance for ATCO’s to enhance responses to in flight emergencies. The manual should support CAR Part VIII, subparts 4