should evaluate the Boeing 747 Freighter/Combi/BCF modified aircraft for single points of failure where the critical systems protection of the aircraft is dependent on a single safety gate which is the cargo compartment liner at or contiguous with fire zone three: this is the area under the control cable truss assembly, the ECS ducting and the supplementary oxygen system supply line from the forward lower deck cargo hold to the crew oxygen storage boxes. If a deficiency in the current level of critical systems protection is determined, provide regulatory oversight to mitigate the risk of control and systems damage that can result from large cargo fires. (SR 41/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should review the certification and design of Boeing 747 Freighter/Combi/BCF aircraft distribution of oxygen from the supplementary oxygen bottles to the flight deck oxygen masks primarily provided through corrosion resistant steel (CRES) 21-6-9 tubes. In particular, to review the critical systems protection requirements for the area connecting the CRES supply line, via a PVC hose and connector, to the oxygen mask stowage box (MXP147-3) and provide regulatory oversight to mitigate the risk of control and systems damage that can result from large, catastrophic cargo fires. (SR 42/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should charter an Advisory and Rulemaking Committee (ARAC) to review the adequacy of current issue papers on the protection of critical systems from cargo fires and develop regulations and associated guidance material (e.g. Advisory Circulars) to codify the existing and proposed requirements. (SR 43/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should require operators to implement smoke, fire, fumes training in a dedicated smoke simulator/full immersion training device allowing crews to experience actual levels of continuous smoke in a synthetic training device or other equivalent ground-based training device as an integral process in crew emergency recurrent training. (SR 44/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should implement specific Standard Operating Procedures for scenario based multi-crew pilot incapacitation where one or more crew members are incapacitated resulting in a single pilot crew environment. (SR 45/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should implement a specific recommendation that failures of aircraft systems (such as the air conditioning packs) necessary for the continued safe flight and landing during an aircraft cargo fire event be considered in the aircraft level safety analysis and during the development of cargo fire emergency procedures. This should consider failures of dependant systems and the continued cascading failure of systems which are factors in large cargo fires. (SR 46/2013). that the FAA and the EASA regulatory certification standards should consider the development of a quantitative framework for assessing the degradation of cargo compartment liner polymer matrix or the current industry standard panel material properties and the resulting degradation in the structural integrity of these structures when subjected to extreme heat, vibration and/or thermo-mechanical energy. (SR 47/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in