coordination with EASA, should develop a test method to determine flame penetration resistance of cargo compartment liners to extreme heat at the current certification requirement temperature combined with additional input loads such as vibration, multi-axial loading, intermittent pressure pulses, thermo-mechanical loadings based on differential materials coefficients, acoustic vibration and ballistic damage. (SR 48/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA and Boeing, should evaluate the Boeing 747 Freighter/Combi aircraft Class E cargo compartment for a structural-acoustic coupling phenomena in the aircraft fuselage.. Structural-acoustic coupling phenomenon in an aircraft fuselage is a known characteristic. In large Class E cargo compartments, the structural and acoustic modes can be derived for vibration analysis. Structural and acoustic analysis could determine possible occurrences of vibration in the fuselage structure during predetermined phases of flight where the vibro-acoustic signatures can be used to determine the principle sources and transmitting paths of the vibration. Further investigation can be performed by the manufacturers of large cargo aircraft and/or the operators of these aircraft to investigate the vibration and acoustic signatures of the cargo areas for harmonic acoustic vibration resulting from the combination of engine and fuselage vibration. Currently there is no data for the class E cargo compartments of the B744F, If such data was available through a process of acoustic mapping for structural-acoustic coupling, this data could be used to expand the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria Para. 38.3.4.3 Test T.3: Vibration test and verification data. This could (be obtained) through a process of acoustic mapping (of) the cargo compartment interior and measuring the vibro-acoustic interior vibration and (the) vibration and resonance of the airframe structure. (Refer to GCAA SR 57/2013) (SR 49/2013) that the NTSB, FAA and/or EASA fire test divisions should perform a test on lithium batteries to determine the ignition properties for lithium type batteries when subjected to external sources of mechanical energy, including acoustic energy in flight range modes, acoustic harmonic modes and a separate test to determine the susceptibility of lithium batteries to vibration from a mechanical source.. The purpose of this testing is to determine the safe limits for the air carriage of lithium type batteries in dynamic aeroelastic, vibrating structures where the battery electrolyte, composed of an organic solvent (and dissolved lithium salt), could become unstable when exposed to these forms of mechanical energy. (SR 50/2013) that ICAO should review the hazardous materials classification for Class 9 materials packaging where the reconsideration of lithium batteries and other energy storage devices that are currently classified as a Class 9 hazardous material be subjected to a higher level of hazardous material classification as at present time, it is not clear that the current Class 9 hazard communication or quantity limits adequately reflect the inherent risks to aviation safety. (SR 51/2013). that ICAO should develop a SARP for package level protection of batteries being shipped to include protection from thermal degradation and damage to individual cells or cell combinations in thermal runaway, and to retard the propagation of lithium