develop an Advisory Circular which addressed the use of fire containment covers for cargo stored on pallets that could be used to cover palletized cargo or cargo containers. (SR 32/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should introduce a requirement for mandatory full-face oxygen. (SR 33/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should recommend the adoption of a rotary single piece selector for oxygen quick donning anti-smoke oxygen masks. (SR 34/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should require the use of Evidence Based Training Programs (EBTP) in line with the requirement of ICAO Document 9995 - Manual of Evidence Based Training. In particular, require operators to implement the development of evidence based simulator training using objective FOQA accident and serious incident data of smoke filled cockpit environments for crew emergency training. (SR 35/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should mandate the implementation of vision assurance devices or technology for improved pilot visibility during continuous smoke, fire, fumes in the cockpit emergencies. This could include off the shelf devices or developing mask mounted thermal imaging cameras with the capability to see through smoke/fumes with sufficient clarity to view the primary cockpit instrumentation. (SR 36/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should develop or redesign all transport aircraft checklists pertaining to Smoke Fire Fumes events to be consistent with the Integrated, Non-alerted Smoke Fire Fumes Checklist template presented in the Royal Aeronautical Society’s specialist document Smoke, Fire and Fumes in Transport Aircraft: Past History, Current Risk and Recommended Mitigations, second edition 2013, prepared by the Flight Operations Group of the Royal Aeronautical Society. (SR 37/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should review the capability of Portable Electronic Device (PED) Electronic Flight Bags (EFB) which are used for non-alerted smoke fire fumes events to be viewed in smoke filled cockpits. (SR 38/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should provide cargo crews with a revised Fire Main Deck non-normal checklist guidance for when and how to transition from the current 22-25,000 feet fire suppression altitude to the landing phase where descending early may contribute atmospheric oxygen to a latent fire during descent. This procedure should provide a method to verify or otherwise assess the condition of the fire and to evaluate the risk to the aircraft if a descent is initiated so as not to jeopardise the safety of the crew by following the checklist instruction as directed. (SR 39/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should mandate a certification requirement for continuous smoke testing for flight deck smoke evaluation tests where the smoke is required to be continuously generated throughout the test for cockpit smoke clearance and develop a mitigation procedure through regulation on how to effectively manage continuous smoke in the cockpit. (SR 40/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA and Boeing,