difficulty that the Pilot Flying was experiencing or the assistance required.. The Pilot Flying had not selected transponder code 7700, the emergency code, when radio communication with the destination aerodrome was not established.. 36 Safety Recommendations were made by the AAIS upon the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should review the single, universal, CFR14 fire protection certification standard that covers all transport category aircraft as a single design category and develop a dedicated protection certification standard for the cargo compartments of aircraft designed or modified as dedicated freighter or freighter/passenger combi aircraft to include the mandatory installation of fire suppression systems of cargo aircraft with Class E cargo compartments. (SR 25/2013). that the FAA and EASA should provide operators of cargo aircraft of a maximum certificated take-off mass in excess of 45,500 kg with the option to modify existing Class E cargo compartments, through a process of FAA or EASA recommended modifications, to control a class E cargo fire without requiring a crewmember to enter the compartment through the use of an active fire suppression system. (SR 26/2013). that the FAA in co-operation or in coordination with EASA should mandate the requirement for cargo aircraft certified under FAA 14CFR or the equivalent EASA certification requirements to have a method of detecting the early development of fire through the detection of thermal radiation, originating within class E cargo compartments, through the installation of Multi-Source Sensors (MSS) which utilise a process of thermal/heat detection in conjunction with smoke/fumes sampling. (SR 27/2013). that the FAA in co-operation or in coordination with EASA should review the certification requirement for crew alerting to provide a visual means of indicating the specific location of a fire to the crew. (SR 28/2013). that the GCAA should recommend to the US Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) standardisation of their battery packaging regulations so that they are in harmony with the ICAO Technical Instructions (TI). The requirement is the complete harmonization of the U.S. Hazardous Materials Regulations with the ICAO TI’s for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Good by Air regarding lithium batteries. This includes incorporation of quality management provisions provided in (the DG TIs) Part 2; 9.3.1 e. (SR 29/2013). that the FAA in co-operation or in coordination with EASA should develop standards for containers with suppression systems, superior heat and fire resistance and resiliency to withstand a suppression-caused pressure pulse and still contain a suppression agent in accordance with NTSB recommendations contained in NTSB A-12-68, A-12-69 and A-12-70. (SR 30/2013). that the FAA, in co-operation or in coordination with EASA, should implement certification rule changes to require containers or Unit Load Devices (ULDs) which meet the standards in Recommendation [SR 30/13], develop a design standard that enables the container or ULD to be capable of internally containing or suppressing a fire agent in accordance with NTSB safety recommendations contained in NTSB A-12-68, A-12-69 and A-12-70. (SR 31/2013). that the FAA should