flammable materials leading to an in-flight fire" with this fire then spreading and increasing in intensity rapidly. The consequences of the fire were damage to numerous critical systems which created an unsafe condition and led directly to the loss of the aircraft. A series of Primary Factors were identified including the following: The condition that resulted in the ignition source. The flammable materials that were available to be ignited, sustain, and propagate the fire. The location of the fire. The single point of failure that compromised the critical systems. The subsequent fire-induced material failures that exacerbated the fire-in-progress. The lack of detection equipment to enable the crew to accurately assess the source and significance of the initial smoke. The lack of appropriate in-flight fire fighting measures required to deal successfully with the smoke and fire. The decision making in the first stage of the accident event sequence. The emergency procedures available to the crew. Alternative vision systems – suitable use of and safety enhancements. The Investigation examined the potential effect on the outcome of the decision to return to Dubai rather than divert to Doha, which had increased the required track miles from about 100 nm (estimated at about 20 minutes to a landing) to 180 nm and led to the complication of relay communications for the single remaining pilot. However, it was considered that the likely outcome of a diversion to Doha was "inconclusive". The Causes of the accident were formally documented as follows: A large fire developed in palletised cargo on the main deck at or near pallet positions 4 or 5, in Fire Zone 3, consisting of consignments of mixed cargo including a significant number of lithium type batteries and other combustible materials. The fire escalated rapidly into a catastrophic uncontained fire.. The large, uncontained cargo fire, that originated in the main cargo deck caused the cargo compartment liners to fail under combined thermal and mechanical loads.. Heat from the fire resulted in the system/component failure or malfunction of the truss assemblies and control cables, directly affecting the control cable tension and elevator function required for the safe operation of the aircraft when in manual control.. The uncontained cargo fire directly affected the independent critical systems necessary for crew survivability. Heat from the fire exposed the supplementary oxygen system to extreme thermal loading, sufficient to generate a failure. This resulted in the oxygen supply disruption leading to the abrupt failure of the Captain’s oxygen supply and the incapacitation of the captain.. The progressive failure of the cargo compartment liner increased the area available for the smoke and fire penetration into the fuselage crown area.. The rate and volume of the continuous toxic smoke, contiguous with the cockpit and supernumerary habitable area, resulted in inadequate visibility in the cockpit, obscuring the view of the primary flight displays, audio control panels and the view outside the cockpit which prevented all normal cockpit functioning.. The shutdown of PACK 1 for unknown reasons resulted in loss of conditioned airflow to the