Officer took over as PF again as the Captain left his seat in order to locate an alternative Oxygen supply. The CVR did not record any "further interaction from the Captain or enquiry by the First Officer as to the location of the Captain or the ability of the Captain to respond". Pathological information subsequently established that the Captain had "lost consciousness due to toxic poisoning". The First Officer advised that he was unable to see enough in the smoke to be able to change the COM 1 radio frequency to Dubai and shortly afterwards communications continued using relay by other aircraft. For a short period approximately 20 minutes after the fire warning, the First Officer made MAYDAY calls on 121.5 on COM2 but no two way contact was established and Dubai ACC calls to the aircraft in 121.5 did not appear to be heard either. By now it was quite dark. The aircraft reached an intercept heading for the Dubai ILS but at 350 KCAS and 9000 feet altitude was too high and Dubai was over flown north of the runway after the First Officer had replied "negative" when asked if an orbit to reposition on final was possible. The flight was offered runway 30 at Sharjah, which with the aircraft approaching at 4000 feet was 10 nm away to the north east and would require a left turn. The radar heading given - 095º - was acknowledged but instead the aircraft turned right - subsequently this was found to have been because a heading of 195º had been set. Soon afterwards (see the diagram below) the AP was disconnected and as the descent continued, FDR data subsequently showed that pitch control had been lost "due to the de-synchronisation of the control column inputs and the elevators". An uncontrolled descent into terrain followed and, after 59 seconds of EGPWS 'PULL UP' Warnings, impact had occurred 9nm south west of Dubai Airport just under 30 minutes from the time of the fire warning. The aircraft was completely destroyed by the ground impact and a fire with some infrastructure damage but no ground casualties. It was found that the fire prior to impact - the origin of which was traced to undeclared Class 9 Dangerous Goods which had been loaded in Hong Kong - had "resulted in the exposure of primary structural elements, components and assemblies to significant heat damage" and exposed the flight deck area to "continuous smoke and toxic fume penetration". It was concluded that the fire had “severely damaged significant systems leading to failures in aircraft controllability and crew survivability systems, failures which interfered with the normal flight management, directly with the aircraft controls and with the crew supplementary oxygen system supply". It was noted too that the fire had already caused "severe damage to flight control systems" less than three minutes after the fire warning. The Investigation found that "at some point along the flight route, a failure event occurred that provided an ignition source to nearby