and looked outside. The first officer in the observer seat was also aware of an abnormal situation. However, neither of them intervened. Several factors contribute to an explanation of inadequate crew performance: The two First Officers in training had an MD83 type rating but had not yet finished their LOFT.. They had very little experience, unlike the Captain, which generated a passive attitude on their part.. The functions of the trainee first officer in the observer seat were not clearly defined, either by the airline or by the Captain. She neither had the role of backup co-pilot, nor the competence to perform the task. She had, however, performed this role for another airline on a different type of airplane.. During the approach, the two first officers on LOFT behaved like students facing an instructor. They were unaware of their responsibilities in the conduct of a commercial flight. Their attitude was passive, although the Captain was demonstrating a landing in poor visibility. The context of a learning situation inhibited Crew Resource Management. They never had the feeling of being in any danger. In conclusion, the Captain had to perform the roles of captain, co-pilot and instructor during the incident flight. There was no check of the Captain’s actions or decisions, nor any mutual crosschecking. Neither the role of co-pilot responsible for safety nor the role of First Officer were filled on board the aircraft, which is unacceptable from the point of view of the safety of a passenger-carrying flight.” On the subject of Fatigue, the Investigation found that: “the Captain had built up a high level of fatigue due to the number of flights as instructor, the simulator sessions, work on the ground and exceeding the regulatory number of flying hours. This apparently contributed to the ILS heading selection error and diminished his performance when faced with a situation requiring a high workload.” The aircraft was found to have been serviceable. It was noted that Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) was not installed at Paris Orly at the time of the event and that there were no ATC procedures requiring any monitoring of aircraft established on ILS approaches. Probable Cause It was determined by the Investigation that “the incident resulted from the decision to put the airplane into descent when, as a result of a display error, it was neither on the localizer track nor on the glide path, and with no context defined for this improvised manoeuvre. The importance that (the Operator) attached to accelerated training given to new co-pilots and to undertaking commercial flights contributed directly to the incident.” Other contributory factors were found to be: the aircraft commander’s fatigue;. the imbalance in the flight crew, made up of a very experienced instructor and an under-trained co-pilot, which led to the abrupt disappearance of teamwork and procedures the moment the workload increased;. aircraft warning system ergonomics and a fault in the automatic pilot system.. A large number of Safety Recommendations were made during and upon the conclusion of the