Investigation. Not all were specifically targeted. A preliminary report issued during the course of the Investigation contained six Safety Recommendations: That Jeppesen make its Orly approach chart compatible with the official French chart.. That Météo-France remind forecasters that they must amend TAF’s whenever a threshold amendment is forecast.. That the DGAC ensure that pilot training clearly demonstrates that the majority of METAR’s contain trends, which are meteorological forecasts valid for two hours, and can be used for the preparation of flights of short duration,. That the DGAC remind crews that in case of uncertainty or of. contradiction between different parts of the meteorological file, they can obtain direct information from the meteorological centre. That the DGAC ensure that airlines possess information which allows them to modify flight planning so as to avoid pilots exceeding the. statutory work time. That the DGAC' accelerate installation of the MSAW system and prioritise aerodromes with heavy traffic.. A total of 18 further Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: That, in liaison with the JAA and the FAA, the DGAC modify the certification regulations so as to ensure a better balance in the presentation of horizontal and vertical position data on new generation aircraft.. That the criteria for performance of flights under supervision guarantee the effective presence of an additional pilot trained in supervision.. That (the Operator)ensure that flights counted by pilots in training are really performed as members of the crew.. That the regulations on flight crew work time take into account all aspects which cause fatigue.. That the Manufacturer takes immediate steps to warn operators of MD83’s that, in certain circumstances, the active modes displayed on the FMA can differ from those which the airplane is in fact engaged in at that moment.. That the FAA, in liaison with the DGAC, immediately require modification of the MD83 so that the active modes displayed on the FMA indicate what the airplane is in fact doing at that moment.. That the DGAC ensure that the French and European certification regulations have clear specifications concerning ILS capture.. That the certification requirements be modified so that certification takes into account the overall management of alarms in the cockpit;. That the implementation of (the immediately previous) recommendation, along with Recommendation 44.3 in the Report into the Mont Sainte Odile accident of 20 January 1992, be made a priority by the DGAC and the JAA. (Editors Note: The Mont St Odile Report and its Safety Recommendations were not published online in English translation.). That the DNA study the possibility of presenting controllers with vertical airplane positions expressed in altitude when an airplane is below the transition level.. That the DGAC significantly increase the number of in-flight inspections, particularly in case of a major increase in an airline’s activity.. That the DGAC establish a scaled range of penalties for problems uncovered to allow systematic, rapid and appropriate measures to be taken. That the DGAC forbid the extension of time limits set for the correction