An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). It was found that co pilot line training had been in progress over a two day period using an experienced instructor pilot as pilot in command whilst two newly type-qualified co pilots alternated between the right hand seat as operating co pilot and the observer seat. For the incident approach, the aircraft commander had been PF, fog prevailed at destination and an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to Runway 07 was accepted with radar vectoring to the ILS LLZ and an autoland planned. The detailed sequence of events was established using a combination of Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data, ATC recordings and flight crew interviews. The aircraft commander as PF selected track 258° on NAV 1 instead of the correct 065° but the co-pilot did not notice the error. From a closing heading for the ILS LLZ of 020° level at 3000 feet and 160 KIAS, capture occurred and was announced by PF who, looking at the mis-set HSI, brought the heading indicator to the tail of the ILS LLZ track. He subsequently stated that he thought at that time that he had brought the heading indicator to the head of the arrow and not to the tail. He then noticed that the heading indicated 078° while he expected the LLZ track for Runway 07 of 065°. Thereafter, the PF did not announce the actions he took relative to the automatic systems and mis-management of FD Mode selections resulted in initial failure to descend on the ILS GS and a deviation left of the LLZ track. With the FD in VS and HDG modes, the aircraft descended through the ILS GS. At a height of 916 feet agl, a GPWS/TAWS Mode 5 ‘Glideslope’ Alert occurred and shortly afterwards, the aircraft went from clear skies into the fog bank which covered the area. The Autopilot was disconnected and, at 783 feet agl, a Mode 2 "Terrain" warning occurred. The GPWS "Glideslope" Alert started up again as soon as the overidng "Terrain" warning ended. The PF attempted to bring the aircraft back onto the approach track and then re-engaged the Autopilot at 415 feet agl and armed the "autoland" mode. At 279 feet agl, a further GPWS "Terrain" warning occurred lasting nine seconds. At approximately 200 feet agl, the PF disconnected the Autopilot again and began a go around. As the transition to a climb was made, a minimum radio-height of 67 feet was recorded at the ILS Outer Marker situated 4nm from the landing runway threshold. The co-pilot later stated that he saw the ground and read a radio-height of about 50 feet. The go around was continued into a re-positioning circuit under radar vectoring and a further approach resulted in a successful autoland on Runway 07. On the subject of ‘Crew Behaviour’ the Investigation found that: “The Captain acted alone. The co-pilot was aware of a problem in the vertical plane because he announced the glideslope track