Rates of climb should be coordinated with the flight crew, especially: when approaching the cruising level when the climb is not desired by the flight crew when temperatures are high. when approaching the cruising level. when the climb is not desired by the flight crew. when temperatures are high. Some aircraft types are generally unable to maintain a high rate of climb (e.g. AIRBUS A-321, AIRBUS A-340-300). In order to mitigate the risks for crossing or opposite traffic situations, a safety buffer of 1 or 2 minutes should be used. This can be done by e.g. Issuing the clearance(s) a bit earlier Assigning vertical speeds that are a little higher (e.g. 1500 instead of 1000). Issuing the clearance(s) a bit earlier. Assigning vertical speeds that are a little higher (e.g. 1500 instead of 1000). High rates of descent are generally incompatible with low speeds. A combined instruction to reduce speed and increase the RoD should be coordinated with the flight crew.. The aircraft needs time to achieve higher rates (2000 ft/min or higher). The transition period should be considered when calculating the necessary vertical speed.. During the final 1000 ft, the vertical speed is usually 1000 ft/min or less. This is done to avoid level busts. It is therefore impractical to assign a rate of 2000 ft/min or greater if the aircraft is to climb or descend some 2000-3000 ft.. The phrases "Expedite climb" and "Expedite descent", while being standard ICAO phraseology do not prescribe specific vertical speeds and should be used with caution. The general expectation in such case would be that: a climbing aircraft would climb at the highest rate possible (which may or may not be enough to achieve the desired result). It is therefore advisable that larger safety buffers are used or an alternative plan is ready for implementation. a descending aircraft would increase the rate of descent to at least 2000 ft/min. It is therefore advisable that this method is used for the first few thousand feet (e.g. for an aircraft at FL 390 "Descend FL 290, expedite passing FL 370 due crossing traffic"). a climbing aircraft would climb at the highest rate possible (which may or may not be enough to achieve the desired result). It is therefore advisable that larger safety buffers are used or an alternative plan is ready for implementation.. a descending aircraft would increase the rate of descent to at least 2000 ft/min. It is therefore advisable that this method is used for the first few thousand feet (e.g. for an aircraft at FL 390 "Descend FL 290, expedite passing FL 370 due crossing traffic"). There should always be an alternative plan to accommodate for an aircraft being unable to continue climb with the desired rate..