These European safety requirements therefore introduce a safety management regime in respect of ATSEP which is similar in many respects to that of air traffic controllers. The service-provider has a legal responsibility to monitor and maintain the competence of all ATSEP staff involved in the service-provision, including training and in-service experience (to maintain recency of knowledge). In the cases of certain safety-related or safety-critical systems, such training and experience is a legal requirement before the ATSEP can carry out maintenance or other work on those equipments. Furthermore, detailed records of the ATSEP work and training experience must be kept to provide evidence that the service-provider’s safety management system is functioning satisfactorily in this respect. It also provides a basis for oversight by the appropriate safety regulatory body. Achieving Competence ATSEP are required to have a basic level of initial training in the electronics and engineering domains. There is a broad level of agreement in principle on the level of this basic training requirement, even though there are many hundreds of different routes to the acquisition of basic-level training. The system for achieving adequate levels of competence of ATSEP relies entirely upon the recording of qualifications and system/equipment ratings granted. In this context, the word qualification indicates the discipline in which ATSEP have been trained to provide the service. Four disciplines have been identified through the four corresponding qualifications - Communication, Navigation, Surveillance and Data Processing. A system of system/equipment rating is then added to provide for appropriate levels of knowledge and skills for recognised competency. Equipment/system-related training includes mentored training and on-site training and is the final stage for the acquisition of competence following basic and qualification training. Recording of Competence The recognition and proof of individual competence for ATSEP is usually achieved through the records of training and experience within the safety management systems of service-provider organisations. However, some countries have nevertheless decided that their ATSEP should hold individual documents - in some cases licences - to serve as individual records of competence and /or as evidence of appropriate professional qualification.