whatsoever had been made by its crew to prepare for their arrival at Bremgarten in advance of arriving in its vicinity - had they consulted the published ‘Visual Operation Chart’ for Bremgarten, they would have had AFIS frequency to hand. Their IFR flight plan was terminated with Zurich ACC in the vicinity of the ‘HOC’ DVOR located approximately 26nm south of Bremgarten about 4 minutes before the subsequent landing after which the flight requested and was given the Bremgarten frequency - initially incorrectly as the old frequency 122.0 MHz but then corrected this to 124.030 MHz (to which it had been changed from 1 January 2018 and a NOTAM issued). Permission to leave the ACC frequency followed. One minute earlier, the flight crew had noticed that the wrong arrival aerodrome had been selected in the FMS and this had been corrected by the Captain who then gave an approach briefing including a landing distance calculation for runway 05. The Copilot attempted to contact Bremgarten and said the flight was “currently 5 miles to the south east inbound to land on runway 23” but used the incorrect frequency. Approximately 30 seconds later, the PF requested the initial approach flap setting and the Copilot asked if the speed brakes could be retracted again but was told not. About 75 seconds prior to landing, prompted by a gear status warning, the PF called for landing gear down and told the Copilot to “observe the airspace” as he flew the aircraft towards the runway 23 final approach. The Copilot then asked the Captain if they were going to land on runway 05 in which case they would have to turn downwind to which the Captain replied that he intended to land on runway 23. The Copilot followed this with “we are going to land 23 with tailwind?” and received the response “it‘s a crosswind”. An updated approach briefing for runway 23 was not performed. On short final, the Copilot called again on the incorrect frequency to advise that the flight was on final approach to runway 23. As the landing checklist was completed around 100 feet agl, the Captain finally saw the opposite direction aircraft straight ahead and having seen it begin to climb continued to touchdown. The Beech 36TC pilot saw the other aircraft and in agreement with the AFISO, he began a climb. Four Contributory Factors were formally identified as: Insufficient airspace observation by the Falcon 900B flight crew.. Selection of an invalid radio frequency by the Falcon 900B crew as a result of insufficient pre-flight preparation.. Insufficient Crew Resource Management within the Falcon 900B crew - the Captain failed to make a timely brief on the planned landing direction.. The Falcon 900 pilots’ self-generated time pressure caused by the Captain’s spontaneous decision to change the landing direction which led directly to a late configuration of the aircraft for landing and resulted in an unstabilised approach.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 11 May 2022 and released later the