In order to navigate in VFR conditions, current regulations require the pilot to carry a certified, updated and accurate VFR paper chart with the obligation to be able to find their own aircraft position on it. Besides the chart, all relevant NOTAMs, AIPs data, weight and balance, as well as weather information needs to be obtained, calculated (where required) and understood (during the pre-flight briefing) and kept in the cockpit. The chart is the primary mean of navigation due to the fact, that being paper-based, it never fails even if an on-board system such as GPS is out of service. The main disadvantages are that, being paper-based, it is not easy to handle (especially in small cockpits as found in most single engine piston aircraft) and in some regions the airspace structure is so complex that the use of such charts can be a difficult task, especially because the pilot has to maintain visual references and scan for traffic outside of the window (see-and-avoid principle) while at the same time having to search on the chart for frequencies, minimum altitude and avoiding controlled airspace. Add to this the difficulty of accurately updating the aircraft position and handling the chart in potentially turbulent conditions by a pilot who may not have significant flight experience and the potential for losing situational awareness and venturing into controlled or notified airspace without clearance can be a common outcome. To ease the problem, aircraft instrumentation can be modified to include a modern navigation system based on GPS which can be used as a primary mean of navigation. However, such systems must be certified for aircraft installation and in-flight use so they can be very expensive for the average VFR pilot. For a number of years now, less expensive variants of these types of product have been available to the private user. The arrival of tablets and smartphones has made the applications ubiquitous and inexpensive. This is also helped by the low price of the GPS sensors as well as the availability of other aeronautical information on the internet, such as the AIPs (EAD), weather etc. The preflight briefing is also made easier because all the NOTAMs, aeronautical information and MET information are directly downloaded and depicted on the most current chart. This will reduce the workload of the pilot who can therefore focus on the actual flying. Importantly however, such products are NOT certified for use as a primary means of navigation, therefore a the paper chart is still mandatory.The offer currently on the market is quite large and the user has to choose the most suitable one. For some help see the VFR navigation tools table. Naturally, each system has its own advantages and disadvantages. These are summarised below: