An Investigation into the collision was carried out by the BEA France. It was established that after the Apron Management Services Agent (AMSA) had asked them to push back facing east, the aircraft crew had called the appropriate GND frequency to request permission to pushback from their stand J10 at Terminal 2G (see the illustration below). The crew of the aeroplane parked at J11 then also requested pushback so in order to allow this aircraft to begin its departure sooner, the AMSA then asked the crew of F-HBLF to have the attached tug tow the aircraft forward to the south after completing the initial pushback until it was abeam stand 12. After completion of the pushback, during which both engines were started, the aircraft was first positioned on the "pushback axis" associated with the gate (see the detail illustration below) and designated in the applicable Airport Procedures. The requested pull forward along taxiway E7 to abeam stand 12 in order to facilitate the aircraft on stand J11 required the tug driver to tow the aircraft through a sharp 90° right turn. To achieve this turn, he positioned his tug at approximately 90° to the aircraft axis but when he began the tow, "the safety cotter pins on the tow bar coupling head broke" which left the coupling head connected to the tow bar by only an axle around which it was able to pivot horizontally. As a consequence, "under the effect of its inertia and the thrust of the two engines at idle", the aircraft continued ahead without turning and when the coupling head reached the stop, the aircraft pivoted to the right and collided with the tug. The Investigation found that the applicable Airport Authority Instructions covering stand J10 stated that ‘‘in accordance with instructions from ATC and validation by the aircraft Captain’’, the pushback must be carried out one of two ways, either a "simple" push onto the specific axis line painted in white facing east or pushed directly from the stand to the junction of taxiways E7 and P4 (see the first illustration above) and then turned to the left so that the aircraft faces west on P4. It was found that the second option was "little used" notably because of the length of the pushback. These instructions were found to state explicitly that "it is forbidden to pull the aeroplane forward again with the aid of a tug" and such a departure along taxiway E7 must be made by the aircraft under its own power. It was noted that these Airport Authority Instructions had been developed in conjunction with the ANSP and "then distributed to airlines, runway service companies and the ANSP”. It was also noted that the Operations Manual used by the Apron Management Service "repeats the same instructions as well as the ban on 'push-pull' departures from stand J10". However, it was noted that such a 'push-pull' procedure is "authorised and regularly used at other stands on the apron in order to facilitate the