An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. Information was available from the aircraft flight data maintenance recorder and from ATC and from statements made by the flight crew. Relevant CVR data was overwritten. The 41 year-old Captain had joined the operator three years previously as a First Officer and had been promoted to Captain in June 2019. He had a total of approximately 8,000 hours flying experience which included just over 2,000 hours on the A330/A350 with around 600 hours as Captain. The 45 year-old First Officer had been employed by the operator about 18 months prior to the investigated event and had over 8,600 hours flying experience of which a little over 1,200 hours were on the A330/A350. The 50 year-old Relief Pilot had joined the operator in 2016 and had around 11,700 hours flying experience of which over 3,400 hours were on the A340/350. She had boarded the flight at San Francisco and was occupying one of the flight deck supernumerary seats for the final part of the journey. A member of the cabin crew subsequently occupied the second flight deck supernumerary seat to observe the approach. With the First Officer as PF, the aircraft was established on the runway 25 ILS and configured for landing with the runway in sight with the AP and A/THR engaged. Passing 1,400 feet QNH (approximately 1,100 feet agl) the AP was disconnected and four seconds later, at 1,350 feet, an unexpected predictive windshear warning ‘GO AROUND, WINDSHEAR AHEAD’ (see point 1 on the illustration below) was annunciated. In response, the Captain called for a go-around and the First Officer responded by pitching up to around 8° and moving the thrust levers forward to the TOGA position. After a few seconds, the Captain requested that the ‘GA SOFT’ mode be engaged and the First Officer complied with the FD command bars then indicating a corresponding reduction in target pitch attitude. However, as the AP was not re-engaged, the aircraft continued to climb at a greater pitch than that now indicated on the FD as the landing gear was retracted and the flaps reselected to CONF3. ‘LVR CLB’ was then annunciated on the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) to remind the PF to move the thrust levers to the ‘CL’ detent but no such action occurred. ATC were advised of the go around and confirmed clearance to climb to the standard missed approach altitude of 2,000 feet as already set. Altitude acquisition (ALT*) was annunciated passing 1,750 feet, and following the Captain’s call of “SPEED, ALT STAR”, the First Officer was thereby prompted to move the thrust levers to the ‘CL’ detent. Recognising that the aircraft was going to exceed the selected altitude, the Captain and the Relief Pilot both reminded the First Officer to stabilise the aeroplane at 2,000 feet but he did not react. Just over half a minute after the windshear warning had prompted commencement of the go around, the aircraft continued climbing