cognitive incapacitation of the PF, which by definition was difficult for the crew to identify. It was not possible to fully establish the reasons for this. However, the following factors may have contributed to its appearance: the surprise effect linked to the unexpected triggering of the predictive windshear warning; the initiative taken by the PM Captain, without conferring, with respect to the management of the flight during the go-around phase; the workload associated with the go-around.. the surprise effect linked to the unexpected triggering of the predictive windshear warning;. the initiative taken by the PM Captain, without conferring, with respect to the management of the flight during the go-around phase;. the workload associated with the go-around.. The presence of several elements of a typical scenario identified in the 2013 BEA Aeroplane State Awareness During Go-Around (ASAGA) study: the surprise effect linked to a disruptive element, without any forewarning; carrying out the go-around in manual flight control at an altitude close to the stabilisation altitude; a complex missed approach procedure with a low stabilization altitude and a turn.. the surprise effect linked to a disruptive element, without any forewarning;. carrying out the go-around in manual flight control at an altitude close to. the stabilisation altitude;. a complex missed approach procedure with a low stabilization altitude and a turn.. The time taken for the PM to take over control.. Two Contributory Factors which may have contributed to the triggering of the low energy alert and to descending below the published missed approach stabilisation altitude were also documented as follows: the cognitive incapacitation of the First Officer, which led to his intervening on the flight systems such as the speedbrakes and AP without calling this out;. the Captain’s high workload as he had to manage the flight alone in a dynamic phase, which included the interactions with the ATC to manage the conflict with a departing aeroplane.. One Safety Recommendation was issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Direction des Services de la Navigation Aérienne (DSNA) study the feasibility of increasing the published missed approach altitude at Orly airport. [FRAN 2021-004]. Safety Action taken by Airbus as a result of the event in January 2021 whilst the Investigation was still in progress was noted as a complete revision of the procedure to be followed in the event of a predictive windshear alert on the A350. This involved “withdrawing the memory items from the FCOM [Flight Crew Operations Manual] and replacing them with a description of a “technique” in the FCTM [Flight Crew Training Manual]”. This change was justified in particular on the basis that a response to a predictive windshear warning is less critical than that necessary in the event of a reactive windshear warning which remains a memory recall procedure. It was noted that the introductory note to the new “technique” now made it clear that a predictive windshear warning could be ignored if there are no other signs of possible windshear conditions and the reactive windshear system