through 2000 feet (point 2 on the illustration below) at 1,800 fpm and 167 KCAS. The flaps were retracted to ‘CONF1’ and FD command bars indicated an increased nose-down input but pitch remained stable at around 8° nose-up. Six seconds after flying through 2,000 feet, the altitude alert began to sound continuously and the final stage of flap was retracted around 10 seconds later. The climb above 2000 feet continued as the aircraft overflew the runway 25 threshold. The ground track of the aircraft and that of the conflicting traffic during the event. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the runway 25 threshold was approached, the First Officer used his sidestick to level off around 2,800 feet. The FCU (Flight Control Unit) altitude knob was pulled which engaged ‘OP DES’ and the ‘THR IDLE’ modes but although the /A/THR was thereby set to flight idle, since the AP was not engaged, no descent followed and the aircraft altitude was unchanged. As the aircraft overflew the runway 25 threshold, ATC instructed the flight to turn left onto 180° and advised of traffic which had just taken off from runway 24 at Orly 4 nm away at one o’clock. When reading this instruction back, the Captain also advised ATC that they had climbed to 3,000 feet and were now in the process of descending back to 2,000 feet as cleared. However, although HDG mode was engaged with the selected heading set to 180°, since neither AP was engaged, there was no consequent turn. The Captain stated that (only) at this time had he become aware that the aircraft was too high, that the First Officer was not reacting to either his requests or those of ATC and that there was other traffic in the vicinity. The recorded flight data showed that he had then put his hand on the sidestick and that a few seconds later the speedbrakes were extended by one of the pilots, “probably the First Officer” without a callout. The Captain then engaged his AP and, as the aircraft began the instructed left turn and resumed its descent towards the selected altitude of 2,000 feet, announced that he had control (point 3 on the illustration above). Shortly after this, he saw that the lowest selectable speed (VLS) was increasing and reported having heard a warning about this given by the Relief Pilot. Almost immediately, a three second long low energy alert ‘SPEED, SPEED, SPEED’ was annunciated and at the same time recorded radar data showed that the aircraft had come into sufficient proximity with another company aircraft which had just taken off from runway 24 to activate the STCA on the ATC display (point 4 on the illustration above). The Captain responded to the low energy alert by selecting a target speed of 260 knots and moving the thrust levers to TOGA and then began to make inputs on his sidestick. The TOGA thrust position automatically retracted the speedbrakes even though the control lever remained in the extended position