approximately four minutes had elapsed since the predictive windshear warning had occurred, the aircraft reached and then maintained 3,000 feet at 220 KCAS. The controller then asked why they had carried out a go-around and were told that it had been due to windshear. ATC stated that no other aircraft had reported windshear before or after the investigated event. Radar vectors for a second ILS 25 approach were then provided and a normal landing followed without further event. An assessment of the meteorological conditions concluded that it was unlikely that there had been windshear at the time of the first or second approaches or in between them. The First Officer subsequently stated that “there had been moments when his mind went blank, although he had not been aware of it at the time and could only partially remember what happened”. However, he confirmed that he had initially sought to manage the flight path thinking that the AP was engaged but “could no longer remember the modes engaged or the position of the command bars on his FD”. He also stated that he had not heard any of the calls made by the Captain or the Relief pilot or the altitude alerts and ATC instructions although he said that “at the time he had not felt unwell or lost consciousness”. He added that once the Captain stated that he had control, he had completely “let go” and stated that “his brain was working in slow motion (and) he could not remember the low energy alert”. The Investigation concluded that after being surprised by the unexpected go around, the First Officer had been subtly incapacitated for a short period and that both the Captain and the Relief Pilot occupying one of the supernumerary crew seats in the flight deck had been slow to recognise this and its consequences for flight path control. An examination of the applicable Airbus procedure for a predictive windshear alert which was in use at French Bee at the time of the event was presented as a memory drill with only the accompanying notes explaining that it was discretionary if it was suspected to be false. No evidence was found from analysis of the crew’s roster or their statements about their off duty activity prior to the investigated event which indicated that tiredness could have been a contributory factor in what occurred. It was noted that the configuration of the non-parallel configuration of the two runways at Paris Orly means that any go around there will require a turn if an aircraft making a go around is to remain clear of other runway climbout. The fact that traffic separation achieved in this way was accompanied by an initial stop altitude of 2000 feet was noted to complicate matters and it was noted that this was “an old procedure” and it had not been possible to find the justification for such a low stop altitude. Three Contributory Factors to the initial flight path deviation were documented as follows: The