and this triggered a Master Caution which continued for the next 38 seconds. At the same time, returning to manual control disengaged AP1 (and both FDs at a time where the speed was below VLS with the OP DES mode engaged). The controller then repeated their instruction to the flight to turn left onto heading 180° but there was no response. Nevertheless the turn had begun when the Captain had earlier had his AP engaged. The controllers in the TWR then reported having seen the aircraft fly over the control tower 650 metres to the right of the runway 25 centreline - at this time it was descending through 2,500 feet. The left turn continued and as the selected altitude of 2,000 feet was approached, the thrust levers were moved from TOGA detent FLX/MCT and then to the CL position. The aircraft then flew through the 2,000 ft descending at 2,200 fpm with the speed increasing through 235 KCAS (point 5 on the illustration above). As this occurred, the separation from the other notified traffic reduced to 1.69 NM with 75 feet but the two flight paths were not convergent. The Captain subsequently stated that he had heard the Relief Pilot requesting that he re-engage the AP and as the aircraft descended through 1,850 feet, the First Officer selected his AP upon which the Captain then disengaged it and engaged his own. As the aircraft went from a 10° left bank to wings level, the Captain stated “everybody silent, I’m the only one giving orders”. As the descent continued through 1,800 feet with the required 2000 feet still set, the altitude alert began to sound continuously again. The Captain selected a heading of 198° and reduced the target speed to 220 knots. Half a minute after the repeated ATC request to turn onto 180° which had still not been answered, the Captain transmitted to ATC that the flight was turning towards heading 180° and received the response “thank you, for your information the traffic is very close, so I suggest you turn very quickly”. Ten seconds later, the Captain engaged the ‘OP CLB’ mode and the A/THR changed from ‘SPEED’ mode to ‘THR CLB’ mode. After the Captain disengaged his AP in descent through 1600 feet, the minimum altitude reached was 1,550 feet (point 6 on the illustration above) and at this time, the controller instructed the flight to climb to 3,000 feet. There was no readback but the target altitude was changed from 2,000 feet to 3,000 feet. A repeat of the instruction did elicit a readback from the Captain as the turn onto a heading of 180° was completed. The Captain then re-engaged his AP as the requested climb was completed at up to 3,100 fpm and at a speed of up to 281 knots KCAS. The First Officer then said that he “felt able to resume an active role (and was) ready to take over radio communications” and completed the remainder of the flight as PM. After