Nearly a hundred sleep disorders are classified into four categories. This section focuses on the most common problems such as: Diagnosis and treatment are beyond the scope of this section. For more information visit: National Electronic Library for Mental Health or Sleep Disorders on Helpguide. Insomnia is not generally considered a disorder; rather it is more of a symptom or complaint. Insomnia is characterized by both a lack of sleep and excessive worry about sleep disturbances. Common complaints given by individuals experiencing insomnia are: Short-term insomnia: Two or four weeks of poor sleep Sleep apnoea describes a condition in which breathing stops for brief periods throughout the night. Each pause in breathing typically lasts 10 to 20 seconds or longer in some cases. These pauses can occur 20 to 30 times an hour. Sleep apnoea occurs when the muscles at the base of the throat relax, resulting in loud snoring and laboured breathing. When complete blockage of the airway occurs, breathing stops or is impaired so drastically that the individual is prevented from reaching the deeper stages of sleep, which results in extreme daytime drowsiness. The most common symptoms are: People with narcolepsy can fall asleep virtually any time (e.g., while working, talking, driving a car). These sleep attacks can last from 30 seconds to more than 30 minutes. Narcolepsy is a chronic disorder affecting the part of the brain where regulation of sleep and wakefulness take place. Narcolepsy can be thought of as an intrusion of REM sleep into the waking state. It causes a person to: Research suggests that the cause of narcolepsy is a lack of a chemical called hypocretin in the brain. This chemical stimulates brain cells and helps promote wakefulness. It is not known why hypocretin is missing in people who have narcolepsy. Some factors that may work together to cause a lack of hypocretin include: The prevalence of narcolepsy has been calculated at about 0.03% of the general population. Onset can occur at any time throughout life, but the peak onset is typically during the teen years. Narcolepsy has been found to be hereditary as well as being associated with some environmental factors. Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is characterized by sensations in the lower legs that make a person uncomfortable and causes the uncontrollable urge to move the legs in order to relieve the discomfort. RLS can make it difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep. People with RLS often do not get enough sleep and may feel tired during the day. This condition can be worsened by stress and can result in decreased quality of sleep. One variation of RLS is periodic limb movements in sleep (PLMS), which is characterized by leg movements or jerks that typically occur every 20 to 40 seconds during sleep and can greatly disrupt it. These movements fragment sleep, leaving the person with excessive daytime sleepiness. Usually, it is the bed partner that makes the person suffering from PLMS aware that there is a problem.