Nearly a hundred sleep disorders are classified into four categories. This section focuses on the most common problems such as: Insomnia. Sleep apnoea. Narcolepsy. Periodic limb movement (Restless Leg Syndrome). Parasomnia.. Diagnosis and treatment are beyond the scope of this section. For more information visit: National Electronic Library for Mental Health or Sleep Disorders on Helpguide. Insomnia is not generally considered a disorder; rather it is more of a symptom or complaint. Insomnia is characterized by both a lack of sleep and excessive worry about sleep disturbances. Common complaints given by individuals experiencing insomnia are: Difficulty falling asleep. Difficulty staying asleep (many awakenings). Waking up too early. Feeling anxious, worried, depressed or irritable, especially at bedtime. Feeling physically or mentally tired during the day. Daytime sleepiness. Impaired concentration. Impaired memory. Short-term insomnia: Two or four weeks of poor sleep stress. surrounding physical environment: noise, temperature. sleep/wake schedule (jet lag/shift work). medication side effects. Often results from a combination of the above factors related to transient and short-term insomnia.. One of the most common causes of chronic insomnia is depression.. Other causes: arthritis, kidney disease, heart failure, asthma, sleep problems (e.g., apnoea), behavioural factors (e.g., caffeine or alcohol consumption). Sleep apnoea describes a condition in which breathing stops for brief periods throughout the night. Each pause in breathing typically lasts 10 to 20 seconds or longer in some cases. These pauses can occur 20 to 30 times an hour. Sleep apnoea occurs when the muscles at the base of the throat relax, resulting in loud snoring and laboured breathing. When complete blockage of the airway occurs, breathing stops or is impaired so drastically that the individual is prevented from reaching the deeper stages of sleep, which results in extreme daytime drowsiness. The most common symptoms are: Loud snoring. Morning headaches. Trouble staying awake during the day. Memory or learning problems. Feeling irritable/depressed. Not being able to concentrate on work. Dry throat when waking up. Frequent urination at night. Waking up sweating. usage of alcohol or sedatives before sleep. anatomically narrow airways. enlarged tonsils or adenoids. overweight/obesity. The area of the brain that controls breathing does not send the correct signals to the breathing muscles. No effort is made to breathe for brief periods. People with narcolepsy can fall asleep virtually any time (e.g., while working, talking, driving a car). These sleep attacks can last from 30 seconds to more than 30 minutes. Narcolepsy is a chronic disorder affecting the part of the brain where regulation of sleep and wakefulness take place. Narcolepsy can be thought of as an intrusion of REM sleep into the waking state. It causes a person to: Suddenly lose muscle tone and control when awake (cataplexy). Not be able to move or speak while falling asleep or waking up (sleep paralysis). Have vivid dreams while falling asleep or waking up (hallucinations).. Research suggests that the cause of narcolepsy is a lack of a chemical called hypocretin in the brain. This chemical stimulates brain cells and helps promote