in the first four hours. As shown in Figure 1, REM sleep becomes longer and longer in the later hours of the sleep cycle. The last two sleep cycles are generally made up of REM sleep and Stages N1 and N2. During sleep, brief awakenings occur from time to time. The total duration of these awakenings throughout the night is typically about 10 minutes. They are common for adults and are considered normal. Research has shown that sleep provides several benefits. REM sleep is said to be involved in the restoration of: Attention. Learning. Memory in ATC. Emotional balance and mood mechanisms.. Deep, slow-wave sleep appears to allow reconstruction, or maintenance, of physical integrity through nocturnal increases in protein synthesis and cell division. Two components control the timing of sleep: Circadian component - Sleep onset, due to circadian rhythms (the biological clock), is a periodic phenomenon that occurs at almost the same time every day. Sleep generally starts at the end of the day when body temperature begins to drop, and it continues for 6 to 8 hours. The spontaneous awakenings occur during the part of the thermal cycle when body temperature is rising, 2 to 3 hours after the thermal minimum. This temperature increase takes place, on average, around 5 am.. Homeostatic component - Homeostasis[1] refers to maintaining equilibrium in physiological and metabolic functions. Sleepiness increases with the length of time a person stays awake. The longer an individual stays awake, the higher the tendency to fall asleep.. The interaction of these two components determines the optimum time for sleep. The circadian component limits the ability to sleep at unusual times. How long a person stays asleep depends on when in the circadian cycle the individual falls asleep. Therefore, even when strong sleepiness results from sleep deprivation, the homeostatic component may not be powerful enough to lead to good sleep if the timing of a sleep attempt goes against the circadian component. Average sleep duration is between 7 and 8 hours. The widely recommended minimum and maximum sleep duration limits are 4 and 11 hours, respectively. A small percentage of the population (less than 5%) is either short sleepers or long sleepers. Short sleepers generally sleep less than 5.5 hours, and long sleepers more than 9.5 hours. The difference between short and long sleepers is primarily explained by differences in Stage N2 and REM sleep. Long sleepers have more awakenings, more light sleep and more REM sleep stages, but almost the same amount of deep, slow-wave sleep (Stages N3 and N4) as short sleepers. Awareness of how sleep is affected by age can help an individual understand why he or she feels tired during certain times of the day or has sleep difficulties. As a person ages, many changes in sleep occur. Research has demonstrated that older adults have shallower nocturnal sleep with more arousals, meaning that they are more easily awakened during the night. This is primarily due to the fact that older adults have less slow wave