Sleep is a temporary state in which the senses are disengaged. A variety of techniques are used to study sleep. These include the monitoring of electrical activity in the brain (electroencephalograph, EEG), muscles (electromyograph, EMG) and eye movements (electroocculograph, E0G). Research has demonstrated that sleep is divided into five stages: Stage N1, Stage N2, Stage N3, Stage N4 and rapid eye movement. Stages N1 to N4 are called non-REM sleep because the eyes show very little or no movement. When falling asleep, a person enters Stage N1. This stage is the transition between waking and deep sleep. Brain activity slows down, and an EEG will show a shift from fast alpha waves to slower theta waves, an indication that brain activity is slowing. During this time, a person will no longer respond to cues such as a visual alarm or tones. The eyes close and start to roll slowly and involuntarily. During Stage N1, a person may experience sudden muscle contractions. In Stage N1, an individual may appear to be awake. This is referred to as microsleep, or as a microlapse, that often occurs when driving, flying, watching TV or during a meeting. When sleep lasts for more than 10 minutes, the memory of the few minutes before sleep is lost. Sleep then progresses through Stages N2, N3 and N4. In Stage N2, brain activity shows a stereotypical pattern of activity called sleep spindles and K-complexes. Stages N3 and N4 are called slow-wave sleep since EEG readings of brain activity show longer and slower delta waves. The frequency of these slow waves distinguishes Stage N3 from Stage N4. In Stage N3, the slow waves account for 20 percent to 50 percent of brain activity; in Stage N4 the slow waves account for more than 50% of brain activity. It becomes more and more difficult to awaken people as they move from Stage N1 sleep to Stage N4 sleep. A person waking up out of slow-wave sleep may feel disoriented and confused for several minutes and is said to be in a state of sleep inertia. The fifth stage of sleep, REM, is different from the other stages of sleep in a number of ways. The eyes move rapidly from side to side, brain activity becomes very fast and de-synchronous, and muscles are completely relaxed. REM sleep is also the stage during which most dreaming occurs and when dreams are most vivid. The muscle relaxation prevents a person from moving around and acting out any dreams. During the night, an individual passes in and out of the five stages many times. This occurs in a predictable pattern called a sleep cycle (Figure 1). Each sleep cycle typically lasts 90 to 120 minutes. Sleep begins in Stage N1 which lasts about 5 minutes, and then progresses to Stages N2, N3 and N4. They are followed by REM sleep, which concludes the first cycle. During the first half of the night, there is much more non-REM sleep. Nearly all deep sleep is obtained