The first stage of the data verification process is an initial review of the observations, conducted by an independent analyst. The analyst should reconcile threats, errors and undesired states coded by observers with those noted during their review. Any discrepancies between what the observer and independent analyst have coded should be discussed during the second phase of data verification. The second phase of data verification utilises a group of subject matter experts from the organisation to review the data points collected by the observer. The group reviews the threats, errors and undesired states logged by the observers to affirm that they should be considered in the analysis. In order to do this, it is necessary to have all relevant reference materials available to consult (national and local procedures, letters of agreement, charts, operations bulletins, etc.). Also at this time, potential threats, errors and undesired states that a post-data collection review of the narratives may indicate that the observers failed to log will be discussed and potentially added. For all Threat and Error Management (TEM) components that are included in the data set, the group reviews the coding for each event to ensure proper and consistent coding. Additionally, any biases that observers may be bringing to the data may be addressed at this stage to ensure that personal agendas that might compromise the objectivity of the NOSS data are not included in the data set. According ICAO NOSS Manual, the data verification process is typically led by the NOSS facilitator and the data analyst. In addition to the facilitator and the analyst, the data verification group consists of three to five subject matter and operational experts. Suitable participants include, but are not limited to, the NOSS project manager, a (unit) procedures specialist and NOSS observers (preferably with a suitable background, e.g. in instruction or procedure development). Consideration should be given to including a senior representative from the controllers' association (with a suitable background similar to that of the NOSS observer), which will enhance the transparency of the process. Ideally, the data verification participants would have served as observers and, at a minimum, have attended the NOSS observer training. Whatever the composition of the group, it is important that they be able to have an open and frank discussion of issues that arise during the process. Regarding undetermined value of reported data, ICAO suggests that if during data verification doubt arises concerning the validity of a particular observation report, and this doubt cannot be resolved among the participants, the report is simply put aside and not used for further analysis. Experience from the trials has shown however that the number of discarded observation reports during data verification normally is low, e.g. one or two reports out of a total of 100 or more observations.