the system”. It was found that the FAA Principal Operations Inspector assigned to Eastern Airlines considered that “the training in the manual for a go-around was similar to the syllabus used by other airlines” and he had "assumed" that they did some go-around training in the flare and some training in low visibility. In fact, the Investigation found that “training did not include any scenarios that addressed performing go-arounds in which pilots must decide to perform the manoeuvre rather than being instructed or prompted to do so”. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: the absence of adequate go around decision training had contributed to both the Captain's and the First Officer's failure to call for a go-around.. the recorded increase in pitch attitude in the flare occurred at almost twice the height recommended in the FCTM and contributed to the aircraft floating above the runway.. the delay in reducing the thrust to idle in the flare also contributed to the aircraft floating above the runway.. given the known wet runway conditions and aircraft manufacturer and operator guidance concerning "immediate" manual deployment of the speed brakes upon landing, the Captain's manual deployment of the speed brakes was not timely and contributed to the overrun.. an unannounced input to the controls by the Captain as the end of the runway approached represented a breakdown of crew resource management.. the Captain's failure to call for a go-around demonstrated his lack of command authority.. The Probable Cause of the investigated event was determined as "the First Officer's failure to attain the proper touchdown point and the flight crew's failure to call for a go-around, which resulted in the airplane landing more than halfway down the runway”. Four Contributory Factors were also identified: The First Officer's initiation of the landing flare at a relatively high altitude and his delay in reducing the throttles to idle.. The Captain's delay in manually deploying the speed brakes after touchdown.. The Captain's lack of command authority.. A lack of robust training provided by the Operator to support the flight crew's decision-making concerning when to call for a go-around.. Safety Action taken by Eastern Airlines whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included the enhancement of pilot go-around training by the addition of scenarios requiring them to decide to conduct a go around rather than just doing so when instructed to by ATC. Scenarios in which go-arounds are initiated from idle thrust and rejected landings commenced after touchdown with the automatic speed brake inoperative were also stated to have been added. A training module emphasising that if a touchdown is predicted to be outside of the TDZ, a go around should be flown had been added with the declared intent to make this mandatory. The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the NTSB on 18 September 2017 and published on 21 September. No Safety Recommendations were made.