An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Data from the DFDR and two hour CVR was successfully downloaded and used to inform the Investigation. Once no evidence was found of relevant airworthiness defects which might have been contributory to the excursion and its prelude, the main focus of the Investigation was on the operation of the aircraft during the approach and landing. The 58 year-old Captain had 20,638 hours total flying experience including 3,000 hours on type but only 202 hours on type in command, all of the latter obtained since being promoted to Captain by Eastern Airlines in February 2016 after employment as a First Officer with the airline for the previous 8 months. In the 90 days prior to the accident, records showed that he had flown 75 hours in total. Prior to joining Eastern Airlines, he had worked for Centurion Cargo on the DC10 and MD11, achieving command there after 5 years as a First Officer. The 49 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the accident sector, had 6,200 hours flying experience including 225 hours on type. He had begun work as a flight instructor in 2007 and prior to joining Eastern Airlines 11 months prior to the accident had been employed by Republic Airlines on the ERJ-170. Both pilots were based in Miami and had been operating together on an extended 'trip' involving a wide range of domestic sectors since 14 October. The trip involved a succession of night stops, most recently at Indianapolis, Minneapolis and Omaha. It was established from CVR data that the First Officer had “partially briefed” the runway 13 ILS approach at destination just under an hour before the landing occurred specifying Autobrake 3 and Flaps 30° based on the ATIS then current/ which gave the surface wind as from 130º at 9 knots, the visibility 3 miles in rain, the lowest cloud at ceiling 1,500 feet with braking action advisories in effect. A few minutes later the First Officer revised his briefing to cover an ILS approach to runway 22 after the Captain noted that the ATIS was giving runway 13 for departures and it was completed based on unchanged autobrake and flap settings as the aircraft descended through 18,000 feet QNH. The applicable Vref was noted as 137 KIAS and manual deployment of the speedbrakes by the Captain was also discussed since their automatic activation was inoperative and listed as an ADD in the Aircraft Technical Log. The flight was radar vectored to the ILS LOC and shortly before the ILS GS was captured, the landing gear was selected down and, as the aircraft approached 5 miles from touchdown, flap 30 was selected and the landing checklist was completed. The Captain pointed out the approach lights soon afterwards and the First Officer subsequently disconnected the AP at about 300 feet agl “as required by Eastern Airlines SOP” and the A/T. FDR data indicated that shortly after this, the aircraft began to deviate above the ILS GS and crossed