aircraft fuselage landing gear and antennas were “coated with a dried residue resulting from the mixture of the EMAS material and rainwater” with pieces of a matting material used in the EMAS found in various places on the aircraft. When this debris was subsequently removed, it was found that the underside of each gear strut had been damaged as had wiring support brackets on both main gear assemblies and the wire conduit sleeve on the left main gear assembly. Conversation recorded on the CVR once the aircraft had stopped included the pilots agreeing that they should have conducted a go-around. The Captain later stated that he should have called for a go-around when the aircraft floated during the flare. It was noted that the runway involved had TDZ markers on positioned 500, 1,200, 2,000 and 2,500 feet (152, 366, 610 and 762 metres) from the threshold as well as TDZ lights which consisted of two rows of steady white transverse light bars running symmetrically about the runway centreline between 100 feet (30 metres) and 3,000 feet (914 metres) from the threshold. There were also lighted signs indicating the runway distance remaining at 1,000 foot (305 metre) increments measured from the runway end. The runway centreline lights were out of service at the time of the excursion. The EMAS installation was set back about 30 feet (9 metres) from the end of the runway and had originally been installed in 2005 and then replaced in 2014. It was capable of decelerating and stopping an aircraft overrunning the runway on the extended centreline at up 80 mph (70 knots) and had been installed because it was not possible to provide the full 1,000 feet (305 metre) RESA. Detailed analysis of the FDR data found that there had been an increasing tailwind component as the aircraft approached the runway and at touchdown it had reached about 10 knots, the FCOM maximum for a landing. A Boeing simulation of the aircraft’s stopping performance requested for the Investigation showed that had the speed brakes been manually deployed within 1 second of touchdown - the criteria for automatic deployment - and followed by thrust reverser deployment 7 seconds later, only the nose of the aircraft would have left the paved surface and had the thrust reversers been deployed within about 2 seconds after manual speed brake deployment, the entire aircraft would have remained on the runway. An NTSB review of FDR data for previous landings of the accident aircraft found that on average, manual deployment of the speed brakes had been achieved within half a second of touchdown. It was noted that the FAA had approved the Eastern Airlines SMS implementation plan 8 months prior to the accident. It was noted that at the time of the accident, “EMAS training was not part of Eastern Air Lines' pilot training program” and the Captain stated during interview that “he had forgotten that an EMAS was installed at the end of runway 22” although he “had read about