There are a number of factors which vary the propensity for ice to accrete on an aircraft: When any aircraft moves through the air, the resultant kinetic hearting due to both compression at points of air obstruction and friction at surfaces of air passage raises the aircraft skin temperature above that of the ambient air in the vicinity. The extent to which this occurs, and therefore the extent of its significance to ice formation, has been calculated to be directly proportional to the square of 1/100 x the true airspeed in knots. Pilots will be aware of the consequent difference between SAT and TAT which can be observed to increase with speed since the effect of True Airspeed increase is greater than the opposite effect of air density decrease.. If an aircraft is climbing into colder air and frozen or semi frozen deposits are resting on the upper surfaces of the wings or horizontal tailplane surfaces or in related flight control hinge gaps, the possibility exists that these deposits might freeze fully and attach to the airframe in situ. However, this will usually only be a significant problem if the climb is made concurrently into conditions likely to produce independently significant ice accretion.. When an aircraft is descending from high altitude, the increase in the structure surface temperature as the ambient air warms is likely to lag behind the ambient air temperature increase, especially in the case of wings used as fuel tanks which still contain a significant quantity of fuel. This will particularly apply where fuel is ‘tankered’ for use on the next flight sector in preference to uplifting at the initial destination. The significance of fuel is its tendency for temperature to recover from prior cold soak more slowly than the structure containing it. One particular effect of this is the formation of ‘fuel ice’ on the lower surface of a wing because this is where the cold fuel is in direct contact with the wing structure. Such clear ice is often still present during the subsequent turnaround even when OAT is several degrees above freezing..