to clearances being issued.. It was noted that the TWR position involved in the issue of the conflicting clearances was being operated by a trainee and an OJTI and found that, in the weeks leading up to the investigated event, the trainee had been consistently recorded as performing below acceptable standards. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined by the Investigation to be “rejected takeoff due to runway incursion” with Contributory Factors being: the error caused by ATC when giving instructions to one aircraft whilst taxiing to cross the active runway, after takeoff clearance was given to another aircraft using the same runway.. the early takeoff clearance given to (the Boeing 737-800) , while still taxiing on taxiway “A” to RWY 21R holding point.. the early crossing instruction given to (the Boeing 737-400) while still taxiing on taxiway “L” to RWY 21R holding point.. the situational awareness (ability to keep track of the prioritised significant events and conditions in the environment of the subject) did not allow the ATC – Tower West to immediately detect the error.. the ATC (Tower West) controllers (instructor and student) became complacent due to a sense of security, over-confidence and a perceived absence of threat resulting in inattention, due to the undemanding environment on the day.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that the Director of Civil Aviation (DCA) through the relevant department/division develop a requirement that ATNS should institute mandatory, recurrent, proficiency training related to reducing runway incursions for all controllers in high-fidelity tower simulators.. that the Director of Civil Aviation (DCA) through the relevant department/division develop a requirement that Airlines/Operators and ATNS should increase training on runway crossing instructions and/or procedures.. that the Director of Civil Aviation (DCA) through the relevant department/division develop a requirement that ATNS should develop (if not already existing) or amend the current Station Standard Instructions (SSI) to include an Air Traffic Control Resource Management (ATCRM) programme for aerodromes where coordination between two or more sectors exists.. that the Director of Civil Aviation (DCA) through the relevant department/division develop a requirement that ATNS should change their procedures to give guidance to controllers regarding the minimum time interval/estimated distances from the runway holding point where takeoff and crossing clearances may be issued.. that the Director of Civil Aviation (DCA) through the relevant department / division should define standard data requirements and standard data analysis methodologies for reports of events that may be classified as runway incursions in the Republic.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published in August 2012.