An Investigation was carried out by the South African CAA AIID but its commencement was delayed as a result of poor process at the AAID. It was noted that at the time of the event, the traffic situation was quiet and the weather conditions benign. The departing aircraft had been given a take off clearance whilst taxiing towards the intended intermediate runway entrance point and whilst still a significant distance from it. The arriving aircraft had just landed on the parallel runway and needed to cross the runway being used by the departing aircraft at a later intermediate point in order to reach its allocated parking gate. Prior to reaching the runway crossing point, the arriving aircraft had been transferred to the responsible runway controller and had then received a crossing clearance just over a minute after the take off clearance had been given to the other aircraft. As the crossing point was approached, the corresponding stop bar was seen on red and the aircraft stopped. Upon querying the stop bar status with ATC, the bar was switched off and the instruction to continue was re-iterated. It was noted that both aircraft had been on the frequency when their respective runway clearances had been given but had assumed that appropriate ATC instructions had prevailed. In the case of the departing aircraft, a rolling take off had been commenced upon entering the runway and the flight crew “did not pay attention to the radio broadcast between ATC and (the crossing aircraft)” which gave the latter crossing clearance. The flight crew of the arriving aircraft, although they were aware of the take off clearance given to the departing aircraft, “had not said anything to ATC about their concern regarding being cleared to cross the runway, while the other aircraft was cleared to takeoff from the same runway”. It was concluded that both flight crews “were confirmation biased that ATC had the situation under control”. It was found that the departing aircraft had reached a speed in excess of 80 knots and travelled 1000 metres down the runway when ATC cancelled the take of clearance. The response had been prompt and after reaching a maximum speed of 101 knots, the aircraft had slowed to taxi speed by approximately 1000 metres further on, which was about 1000 metres before the position at which the other aircraft was crossing the runway. The Investigation noted that stop bars were installed at all runway and taxiway intersections and at the time were subject to a requirement that “no crossing of red stop bar lights will be allowed unless specifically approved by ATC and accompanied by a leader vehicle”. It was found that the ANSP Station Standard Instructions (SSI) for the operation of the stop bars were as follows: The stop bars must be operated on a 24/7 basis. The controller (effecting) the crossing clearance is also responsible for the operation of the relevant stop bar.. Controllers are to ensure that all stop bars are correctly activated prior