had no mention of any risk of low cloud or poor visibility. This new forecast gave a 3,000metre visibility, scattered cloud at 300 feet and an improvement in both as imminent. It also included a PROB 30 of visibility 500 metres in fog for the next two hours. The Virgin Australia crew began the runway 27 RNAV (GNSS) non-precision approach soon after this based on having sufficient remaining fuel to carry out a go around and a further approach if necessary. When they were not visual with the runway at 132 feet agl - 261 feet below the MDA for the approach - a go around was initiated. The First Officer reported that "as they commenced the missed approach, it was possible to confirm that they were aligned with the runway by looking directly down". ATC "initiated a distress phase" as the aircraft was positioned for a second approach. The Cabin Crew were briefed to prepare for an emergency landing and instructed passengers to brace accordingly. After again significantly exceeding the approach minima, with no documented prior discussion about a lower minimum transition to flight by visual reference, the aircraft made a successful landing 10 minutes after initiating the go around. The SPECI weather observation promulgated three minutes prior to touchdown gave the visibility as 200 metres in fog with the base of the overcast 100 feet. Fuel remaining after the flight was below minimum reserves with 594 kg in the No. 2 tank and 18 kg in the No. 1 tank with the crossfeed valve open. The imbalance - which with the crossfeed valve open would have not caused any interruption to the fuel supply to the no. 1 engine had its usual tank run dry - was found to have been a consequence of the crew opening the cross feed valve (prior to the display of 'LO FUEL QTY' messages for both main tanks) from memory without the usual subsequent check against the written QRH procedures for low fuel and fuel imbalance. This was considered both understandable, given the pressure of other priorities, as well as beneficial, since actioning the fuel imbalance drill with low fuel would have directed the closure of the crossfeed to protect against a possible causal fuel leak, for which there had been no evidence but introduced the potential for the No. 1 engine to be starved of fuel. It was noted that neither aircraft formally declared any urgency or emergency status based on their fuel status or their prior intention to substantially breach the applicable approach minima but based on their air traffic communications, the appropriate precautionary measures were implemented at Mildura. The 50 minute delay in updating the significantly inaccurate Mildura TAF which was the basis for the diversion decisions made by the crews of both aircraft was found to have been a consequence of priorities in place in the aviation forecasting section of the Bureau of Meteorology (BoM). The updated forecast was also not issued until after one of the aircraft