the CVR evidence suggested, was continuing to "take the lead" in facilitating continued taxiing despite the increasing uncertainty of position and the risk that the aircraft was now no longer complying with its clearance and GND had not been informed. In any event, after a conversation between the two pilots which did not produce any clear understanding for either of them of exactly where they should go next, the aircraft was then turned not hard right onto taxiway Xray but slightly right onto Oscar 4 and, without appreciating it, onto the active departure runway 3C facing south, where the Captain decided in eventual recognition that they were lost and could be on an active runway, to stop the aircraft on the left hand side, set the parking brake and seek ATC assistance. At this point, the 727 was 96 seconds from beginning their take-off roll. After a further 16 seconds of inter-pilot exchanges on the DC9 flight deck, the Captain called GND and in an exchange in which GND sought to clarify the aircraft position, eventually stated after advice from the First Officer that "it looks like we're on 21 centre here". GND then took 10 seconds to reply and requested confirmation which was tentatively given. Five seconds later, GND transmitted "if you are on 21 centre, exit that runway immediately". The two aircraft collided 7 seconds later with the 727 still on the ground and accelerating towards take off. The 727 had been making its take-off with the Captain as PF and with the visibility being promulgated equivalent to the Company minimum for that runway. The crew subsequently detected a deterioration in visibility as the aircraft accelerated towards 100 knots but the Captain reported having had sufficient visual reference to be able to keep the aircraft on the centreline. The DC9 had "suddenly appeared on the right side of the runway" and in the path of the 727s right wing. An avoidance manoeuvre was attempted but to little effect in the time available and the right wing tip impacted the right side of DC9 fuselage 37 seconds after the take-off had begun. The 727 right wing then passed over the DC9 right wing and the DC9 right wing tip was detached by impact with the 727 right main gear assembly. Finally, the DC9 right engine was detached during impact with the 727 wing tip, the latter then detaching too. The 727 was brought to a stop approximately 640 metres beyond the DC9. The DC9 First Officer reported having ducked as the 727 wing tip grazed his side of the flight deck and the Captain immediately ordered an emergency evacuation of the aircraft on the PA system. A fuel-fed fire broke out immediately and evacuation was accomplished using L1 door, initially without the evacuation slide and subsequently the R1 door and the left over wing exit. Although the aft-stationed cabin crew and one passenger entered the tail cone via the access hatch, the exit was not opened during the evacuation