Extratropical cyclones develop along fronts that separate warm air from cold air. In the Northern Hemisphere, the counterclockwise circulation of these lows pulls warm air northward ahead of the storm and cold air southward behind hit. In the Southern Hemisphere, where lows rotate clockwise, warm air, this time from the north (and southward), still occurs ahead of the storm with cold air from the south behind it again (going northward). Extra-tropical cyclones are often associated with strong winds. The warm air flow ahead of the storm is known to meteorologists as the Warm Conveyor Belt (WCB) and can be associated with concentrated strong southerly winds - a warm jet (WJ). Conversely, the cold air flow is called the Cold Conveyor Belt (CCB) and can also be associated with a “cold jet” (CJ). Wind speeds exceeding 50 knots can occur over a fairly large area with both jets. When moisture is available, lifting with the low and associated fronts produces clouds and precipitation. The cloud pattern is clearly revealed by satellite imagery. The initial front is depicted by a line of clouds. As the cyclone develops, its circulation will produce a bulge or ball of clouds on the west side of the front. Strong cyclones will pull in dry air from aloft to the west and generate a cloudless dry slot feature. This can wrap around the storm, finally producing almost a question mark appearance. Researchers at the University of Reading, led by Professor Keith Browning, reanalysing the violent extratropical storm that caused significant damage over southern England 1-16 October 1987, identified an even smaller scale flow with the most damaging winds in the same general region as the cold jet but apparently a separate feature. The mesoscale flow was shown to be emanating from the evaporating tip of the hooked cloud head on the southern flank of the cyclone. It is thought that a zone of strong winds, originating from within the mid-tropospheric cloud head of an explosively deepening depression, are enhanced further as the "jet" descends for reasons that are not yet clear. Sting jets were first observed in oceanic storms of the eastern North Atlantic. The damage produced by the October 1987 storm prompted a closer examination of that event and other similar cyclones. There was no physical reason why sting jets couldn’t occur in other regions and indeed, they have been noted in the Bering Sea and elsewhere. However, few other high latitude regions have heavily populated areas which could be affected like Western Europe.