Within the formation flight, responsibility for separation lies with the pilots-in-command of the participating aircraft. This includes transition periods when aircraft within the formation are manoeuvring in closer proximity than prescribed minimum IFR separation during formation break-up or formation join-up. Controllers do not provide separation between the formation elements but separate the formation itself (considered as a single flight) and other traffic depending on the applicable procedures (e.g. airspace class, RVSM procedures, etc.). ICAO SARPS do not prescribe different separation minima when formation flights are involved. In some countries however, increased separation is provided in such cases. For example, in the USA, a standard formation is to be separated from single flights by adding one nautical mile to the applicable minimum and if two formations are to be separated, the minimum is increased by 2 NM. Within RVSM airspace, 2000 ft vertical separation is to be provided between a formation flight and other flights. In making initial contact with the ATC unit, formation leaders should clearly state the number of aircraft in the formation. All ATC instructions and clearances are to be addressed to the formation leader. Nevertheless, all aircraft in the formation must monitor the relevant ATC frequency. No universal SSR code procedures are developed, therefore these may vary from country to country. Normally, a discrete code is assigned to the lead aircraft, and all other aircraft are instructed to squawk "standby". However, if the formation has the shape of a "stream" that extends for e.g. 3 NM (or more), the last aircraft may also be allocated an SSR code (which can be the same one as the code for the leader). For longer streams, codes may be allocated to intermediate aircraft as appropriate. During all co-ordination between ATS units, traffic information and handover messages, controllers must: Procedures for take-off/landing of aircraft in formation at/from controlled aerodromes are described in national AIPs. In some countries this is not permitted. This means that aircraft take of one by one as separate flights and then the join-up takes place. Similarly, at the approach stage, the group breaks up and the aircraft land one by one. There are countries where the decision whether or not to make simultaneous take-offs and landings is up to the pilots involved (some restrictions may apply). In this case the clearance for take-off and landing is issued only to the flight leader and the responsibility for ensuring safe separation during take-off, approach and landing rests on the flight leader and the wingmen aircraft. Sometimes the general rule is that simultaneous take-offs and landings are not allowed unless a special authorization is granted for the particular flight.