ATC can assist flight crew in making appropriate decisions on whether to use an available runway. Proactively offering an alternative runway can sometimes prompt flight crew to consider their options more thoroughly than they might otherwise have done; this is especially relevant to approaching aircraft which do not have any opportunity to make direct observations of conditions until they are quite close to a landing. In some cases, especially for the landing case, assessment will lead to a decision to offer an alternative runway, whereas in others it may lead to a decision not to offer an alternative. The balance to be struck is between a focus on saving airborne time and fuel and a focus on supporting flight crew decision making from an operational safety perspective, with special reference to containing the risk of a runway excursion. There are three aspects worth considering before deciding whether, if the option exists, an alternative runway offer is appropriate: Wind Velocity. Whilst ATC cannot necessarily be aware of limiting crosswind and tailwind components for take off and landing of particular aircraft types, they will have a general appreciation which can be used, together with their access to continuous readouts and stored history of wind velocity readings, to aid their decision on whether to offer an alternative runway to the ‘default’ one for landing or for take off. Low Level Turbulence/Wind Shear. The ATC Tower controller will have a much better picture of current weather conditions relevant to the last few hundred feet and the landing, especially at times of rapid synoptic change, than any inbound flight crew can have. The controller will pass relevant information on directly observed conditions, and recent aircraft reports about weather conditions in the immediate vicinity of the airport; in addition, flight crew decision making on whether to complete an approach can sometimes be usefully aided by supplementing this with the proactive offer of an alternative runway which could be preferred, even if a delay would be involved. To a lesser extent, the same consideration also applies to departing aircraft. Runway Braking Action. The presence of, for example, packed snow and ice allow reliable tactical measurement of surface friction, which can be given to ATC by the airport authority for transmission to flight crew. However, other precipitation-related influences on braking action and directional control can be much more difficult for flight crew to consider, especially in rapidly changing conditions which can negate the value of pilot reports from preceding aircraft. Offering an alternative runway which is longer, apparently less affected by precipitation/slow drainage of water, or a potentially unhelpful crosswind component, may be extremely useful to aircraft on approach if surface water appears to be at risk of crossing the border between ‘wet’ and ‘flooded’. Since runway flooding is usually a temporary condition, a suggestion of delaying action may be welcomed.