their frequency to report that they were at the holding point. However, once the TWR controller had issued a takeoff clearance to the departing 737, they had switched their attention to other aircraft on the apron knowing that the arriving aircraft would not be able to cross runway 06 from ‘J1’ to ‘J2’ for some time and that access to the runway was stop bar protected. Still not in contact with the GND controller, the inbound aircraft crossed the holding point for runway 03 with a groundspeed of a little over 20 knots. As this happened the First Officer, who was aware of the need to get a runway crossing clearance from the GND controller at about this time, assessed that the Captain was still slowing the aircraft down at a rate compatible with a stop at the runway 06 holding point and assumed that he would stop. The First Officer had then gone ‘head down’ and discovered that the Perth GND frequency had not been pre-set as the COM 1 standby frequency and stated that the time spent referring to the aerodrome chart to find this frequency delayed their initial contact with the GND controller. The Captain stated that he remembered “briefly looking down to understand the reason for the delay and telling the First Officer what the required frequency was". He also said that although aware that controllable lit stop bars had recently been installed at Perth, he had been “surprised to see one ahead” and, since he believed that the aircraft was on a taxiway which would lead directly to the apron without crossing runway 06, had “rationalised that the stop bar had been mistakenly constructed with omni-directional lighting” and was meant for aircraft taxiing in the opposite direction towards runway 03. The Captain also thought that, given their current taxi speed and how quickly this stop bar had appeared after exiting the runway, it “could not be meant for their aircraft” and having “not recalled noticing any markings that identified runway 06” had intentionally “continued taxiing over the red illuminated stop bar and through the runway 06 holding point” at a recorded groundspeed of 17 knots. Three seconds later the ATC ‘Integrated Tower Automation Suite’ (INTAS) annunciated the first of two Alerts at the TWR controller’s position which included a synthetic voice stating ‘warning runway zero six stop bar violation’ as the departing aircraft was beginning a rolling takeoff. It was noted that this initial alert was triggered whenever an aircraft was “registered to be 8 metres past the (lit) stop bar” but because the INTAS was being used with default settings, this alert was not duplicated at the GND controller’s position. However, this controller “later reported hearing the aural alert through a speaker at the TWR controller’s workstation” and being thus prompted to look up and see the inbound aircraft entering runway 06 without clearance and the departing aircraft rolling for takeoff on the same runway. At this time they were part way through issuing