An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). Relevant FDR data from both aircraft was successfully downloaded but that from the inbound aircraft was overwritten after it was not stopped following the incursion. It was noted that the crew of the inbound aircraft were both based at Brisbane and were on the second day of a three day duty sequence together which had been preceded by three days off. This second day’s duty had commenced after a 16 hour rest period and the incursion occurred on their second sector of the day. Although the Captain had operated into Perth “many times, including three to four times in the last 4 to 5 months” he stated that he had only rarely landed on runway 03 and when having done so had always exited onto taxiway ‘D’. He also stated that he was aware that controllable illuminated stop bars had recently been installed at Perth but had not previously encountered them there. The First Officer had recently completed their training to qualify as a 737 First Officer after previously being an Airbus A330 Second Officer. He stated that he had landed at Perth on five earlier occasions of which two, including two landings on runway 03, both of which had been followed by exits onto taxiway ‘D’. No other details of the flying experience of either pilot were provided. It was noted that the controller operating the TWR position had in excess of 30 years’ experience and that the controller operating the GND (Surface Movement Control) position had three years’ experience at Perth which had followed prior experience as a controller overseas. Both controllers were qualified in all three positions - Runway Control, Surface Movement Control and Clearance Delivery. At the time of the incursion, the GND controller was also operating the Clearance Delivery position. It was established that prior to their flight to Perth, for which the First Officer was PF, the crew had reviewed relevant NOTAMs and had noted the recent installation of stop bars at Perth. Prior to beginning descent, the flight had been cleared for an RNAV-X approach to runway 03. When briefing for this approach, the First Officer had noted that taxiway ‘J2’ (see the illustration below) was the preferred exit from this runway given their expectation of a Terminal 4 gate and that this would involve crossing runway 06. The First Officer subsequently stated that although he had been aware that the taxiway ‘J2’ intersection with runway 06/24 was a designated ‘hot spot’, he had not mentioned this in the briefing, and had suggested requesting a taxiway ‘D’ exit since this would provide a more direct routing to the terminal. The Captain “recalled the briefing as professional and very thorough” but stated that he had not fully absorbed all of it “due to the level of detail”. He admitted overlooking the significant difference between the two potential landing runway exits, namely that a taxiway ‘D’ exit would occur after crossing intersecting runway