After taxiing passed the illuminated stop bar, the Captain was distracted by the presence of another aircraft on the apron. This focused the Captain’s attention on the distant apron area, reducing the likelihood of visually identifying the runway immediately in front of the aircraft.. During the approach briefing, the flight crew discussed taxiway J2 and taxiway D, but they did not discuss the potential threat of the hot spot associated with taxiway J2.. Although Qantas provided detailed guidance to flight crews about the content of departure and approach briefings, it did not specifically require aerodrome hot spots to be briefed. [Safety Issue]. Although some aerodrome navigational charts in Australia had identified hot spot locations, they generally provided limited explanatory information to enhance flight crew understanding or awareness of why the hot spot was there and what actions they could take to mitigate the associated risk.. The location and design of taxiway J2 at Perth Airport significantly increased the risk of a runway incursion on runway 06/24 for aircraft landing on runway 03. Taxiway J2 was published as the preferred exit taxiway for jet aircraft and, although mitigation controls were in place, they were not sufficient to effectively reduce the risk of a runway incursion. [Safety Issue]. Although the flight crew of the aircraft taking off on runway 06 were provided with an instruction to stop immediately to reject their take-off, no safety alert or instruction was provided to the flight crew of the arriving aircraft during the period between when the controllers received a stop bar violation alert and the Captain applying the brakes 15 seconds later.. One Other Factor that increased risk was also identified: Airservices Australia’s configuration of the Integrated Tower Automation Suite (INTAS) at Perth Airport had resulted in a situation where controllers performing some combined roles had the INTAS aural and visual alerts inhibited at their workstation. As a result, controllers performing such combined roles would not receive a stop bar violation alert or runway incursion alert at their workstation. [Safety Issue]. Two Other Findings were also documented: The stop bar alert and the TWR controller’s high level of situational awareness led to a timely instruction to the flight crew of the departing aircraft to stop immediately.. The high level of situational awareness of the departing aircraft flight crew significantly aided their immediate action to reject their take-off on runway 06 following the controller’s instruction.. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated occurrence whilst the Investigation was in progress was recorded as having included, but not been limited to, the following: Qantas added a requirement to flight crew SOPs to brief on relevant charted hot spots in their departure and arrival and approach briefings to mitigate against the possibility of collision or runway incursion.. Airservices Australia on receiving a recommendation to that effect from the Civil Aviation Safety Authority, issued an instruction that taxiway J2 would no longer be used for any operations and that this would be included in the ATIS broadcast.. Airservices