actions on a flawed mental model of the taxi in route taken. His failure to fully adsorb the First Officer’s approach and landing briefing and add his own contribution for when he would necessarily take over control thereafter saw him referring to an inappropriate chart and failing to intervene in respect of potentially relevant runway incursion ‘hotspots’. This made it possible for him to “rationalise” that the stop bar he subsequently saw had been “installed incorrectly”.. Flight Crew workload and distraction - although the workload prior to landing was unexceptional, workload and distraction at key points in time combined together to result in a situation where the problem with the Captain’s mental model was not detected and corrected. The Captain’s failure to set the GND frequency as the standby frequency after changing to TWR subsequently led to both pilots independently being distracted instead of making the required frequency change to GND and actively validating the taxi route against the aerodrome layout. Further distraction followed when the Captain focussed on an aircraft on the other side of the runway about to be crossed rather than the fact that it was an active runway and no crossing clearance had been given.. Approach briefing and approach briefing guidance - the briefing was the primary opportunity to identify risks to the safe completion of the flight, but did not include any discussion about the charted hotspot on taxiway J2 or any meaningful discussion of alternative runway exits and the taxi-in implications of them. It was considered that providing explanations of the reasons why hotspots have been designated would help flight crews to better understand and mitigate the risk(s) they were intended to highlight.. Taxiway location and design – whilst the exit from runway 03 to taxiway J2 was relatively gentle, it did not (quite) ‘qualify’ as an RET despite having a superficially similar appearance to one. This regularly encouraged some pilots to make relatively high speed exits onto it - in the case of the incursion aircraft, the exit was made at a ground speed which was four knots over the 31 knot design limit, which an examination of Qantas’ OFDM data showed was not unusual. The consequence of such an exit was that flight crews may not have sufficient time during a high workload period after landing to identify and comprehend runway holding point visual cues and to allow ATC to intervene, if required, before a runway incursion risk was created.. Air traffic control response - The TWR controller assumed that the inbound aircraft would most probably have changed to the GND frequency and so when a collision risk presented itself, the most effective immediate action was to instruct the departing aircraft to reject its takeoff. Only after this action had commenced did the GND controller ask if the inbound aircraft was on his frequency which did not accord with appropriate task prioritisation. Although not directly related to the incursion event, during the investigation of it, a number of “limitations with ATC processes