When conditions for radiation fog exist, it is a good idea to examine the pattern of weather over the preceding days to see if fog has occurred and at what time of the day and at what temperature.. Monitoring the temperature and dewpoint at an airport can help controllers and pilots alike to predict the onset of radiation fog and plan operations accordingly.. If conducting local flying operations, such as flying training, beware getting airborne when there is early afternoon lifting of fog while conditions for radiation fog still exist - you could find yourself spending the night somewhere else!. If planning to fly to an aerodrome where conditions for radiation fog exist, time your planned arrival for about an hour after local noon when maximum solar heating takes place. expect delays and carry additional contingency fuel.. time your planned arrival for about an hour after local noon when maximum solar heating takes place.. expect delays and carry additional contingency fuel.. Flying at low level, i.e. below safety altitude, in conditions of frontal fog and low cloud can quickly become extremely hazardous if visual flight rules cannot be maintained. Attempting to fly between layers of Stratus, so-called "letter boxing", can result in impact with terrain CFIT if forward visibility and Situational Awareness is lost.. In circumstances where advection fog can quickly make an aerodrome unusable, the same risk may apply to potential diversions as well and pilots should ensure that an appropriate fuel endurance is available and that alternates unlikely to be affected by advection fog remain within range in the event that the destination weather deteriorates unexpectedly.. Information on improved forecasts of clearing time of advection fog over the approaches to San Francisco International Airport is available at the following the case-study article: Forecast-base decision support for San Francisco International airport, NextGen Prototype System That Improves Operations during Summer Stratus Season (David W. Reynolds, David A. Clark, F. Wesley Wilson, and Lara Cook). Crews and controllers should exercise additional caution during low visibility operations - loss of situational awareness is a major contributory factor in Runway Incursion events.. Airports should ensure that collaborative decision making arrangements to maximise airport capacity involve met service providers.. Flight crews should anticipate longer taxiing times in low visibility operations and carry additional fuel accordingly..