The controller then cleared the flight for takeoff from runway 3, and the flight departed. At 0738, the OAIX controller instructed the crew to contact the departure controller, and the crew acknowledged. There was no record of radio communication between the flight crew and the departure controller, and no further known radio communication was received from the flight. A review of ground-based radar data revealed the airplane did not depart on the southerly heading but, instead, departed to the northwest. Radar contact was lost approximately 9.5 nm northwest of OAIX, consistent with the normal expected limit of radar coverage for the area. The last recorded radar position showed the flight on a westerly heading at an approximate altitude of 10,000 feet msl; the position and heading were consistent with the flight entering the Bamiyan Valley." "The cockpit voice recorder (CVR) recording began about 0748:37.7 The flight was airborne, and the first officer stated, “cruise check is complete.” Initial conversation indicated that the crew had never flown the selected route to OAFR and the mechanic8 noted that the valley they had chosen to fly through was not the direct route to OAFR. At 0753:28, the captain stated, “we’ll just have to see where this leads.” The CVR then recorded the captain, the first officer, and the mechanic discussing a topographical map, outside visual references, their current position coordinates (obtained from a GPS as they navigated), and their route over the mountains to OAFR. At 0756:12, the captain stated, “well normally we’d have time to on a short day like this we’d have time to play a little bit do some explorin’ but with those winds comin’ up I want to [expletive] get there as fast as we can.” At 0800:12, the captain stated, “with this good visibility … it’s as easy as pie. you run into somethin’ big you just parallel it until you find a way thru [sic]. … this is the first good visibility day I’ve had in the Casa. It’s not just good it’s outstanding.” An unidentified passenger asked about the route of flight at 0802:25, and the mechanic stated, “I don’t know what we’re gunna see, we don’t normally go this route.”9 The captain stated, “all we want is to avoid seeing rock at twelve o’clock.” At 0803:21, the first officer stated, “yeah you’re an x-wing fighter star wars man,” and the captain replied, “you’re [expletive] right. this is fun.” At 0803:34, the captain stated, “okay it’s about time we’re gunna start climbin’ … we’re comin’ up to a box up here. … yeah I think this valley might peter out right up here.” The first officer and the captain then discussed some of their previous mountain flying experiences. At 0812:45, the captain stated, “I swear to god they wouldn’t pay me if they knew how much fun this was,” and the first officer replied, “yeah, yeah, this is what we do flyin’ jumpers … we always do this. as low as we can get,” and the