captain stated, “yeah that’s the way I use to do it.” At 0813:06, the captain added, “it takes an extraordinary day that you can actually get down in … and do some (expletive] like this.” At 0815:47, the first officer stated that the ridgeline off to their left had a minimum elevation of approximately 14,000 ft msl. The captain replied that he wanted to look for a notch to fly through. At 0818:26, the first officer stated, “boy it’s a good thing we’re not too heavy today I guess,” and the captain replied, “yeah oh I wouldn’t have done this if we were at gross. we can always turn around up in here.” At 0819:04, the mechanic asked, “okay you guys are gunna make this right?” The captain replied, “yeah h h [sic] I’m hopin’.” About 10 seconds later, the cockpit area microphone (CAM) recorded a sound similar to a stall warning tone single beep, and the mechanic immediately asked if there was a way out. At 0819:16, the captain stated they could execute a 180° turnaround, and he instructed the first officer to “drop a quarter flaps.” At 0819:25, the first officer stated, “yeah, let’s turn around,” and the captain again requested, “drop a quarter flaps.” The mechanic then stated, “You need to ah make a decision.” At 0819:44, the CAM recorded a sound similar to a stall warning that continued to the end of the recording. The mechanic stated, “call off his airspeed for him,” and the first officer stated, “you got ninety five.” Eight seconds after the first officer’s statement, the recording ended." The reports conclusions include: "The flight crew flew a nonstandard route into a box canyon and did not take remedial action in a timely manner.". "The flight crew did not use supplemental oxygen as required by Federal regulations for the altitudes at which the flight was operating.". "The operator did not provide sufficient oversight of and guidance to it its flight crews.". and the probable cause of the accident was given as: "The captain’s inappropriate decision to fly a nonstandard route and his failure to maintain adequate terrain clearance, which resulted in the inflight collision with mountainous terrain."