This is an extract from the official report into the accident published by the National Transportation Safety Board (National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB)) (USA) "On November 27, 2004, about 0820 Afghanistan time, a Construcciones Aeronauticas Sociedad Anonima C-212-CC (CASA 212) twin-engine, turboprop airplane, N960BW,registered to Aviation Worldwide Services, LLC, and operated by Presidential Airways, Inc., of Melbourne, Florida, collided with mountainous terrain in the vicinity of the Bamiyan Valley, near Bamiyan, Afghanistan.2 The Department of Defense (DoD) contract flight was operated under the provisions of 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 135, with a company flight plan filed. Daylight visual meteorological conditions (Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC)) prevailed. The captain, the first officer, and the mechanic-certificated passenger, who were U.S. civilians employed by the operator, and the three military passengers, who were active-duty U.S. Army soldiers, received fatal injuries. The airplane was destroyed. The flight departed Bagram Air Base (OAIX), Bagram, Afghanistan, about 0738." "Presidential Airways provided transport services for U.S. military personnel and cargo within Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, and Pakistan under an Air Mobility Command (AMC) contract with the DoD.3 According to Presidential Airways’ program site manager, he briefed the captain on the mission itinerary about 0700. The purpose of the mission was to transport military cargo4 to Farah, Afghanistan (OAFR), and the three military passengers were traveling in a “space available” status. The flight was to depart OAIX and fly to OAFR, and then fly to Shindand, Afghanistan (Shindand Airbase), for fuel before returning to OAIX. The briefing included the expected cargo and passenger loads, as well as military intelligence information that there were no significant threats for the mission. The program site manager and the captain discussed the area weather forecast, which primarily consisted of VMC with the possibility of blowing dust at OASD, and they agreed that Kandahar, Afghanistan (Kandahar International Airport), would be an appropriate alternate destination if the flight were unable to land at OASD. According to the program site manager, he was not aware if route planning was performed for the mission. The accepted visual flight rules (Visual Flight Rules (VFR)) flight plan contained destination information but did not indicate the specific route of the flight. The program site manager stated he assumed the crews followed certain typical routes between destinations; the pilots were to fly the routes “GPS [global positioning system] direct” while maintaining flight in VMC and clearance from terrain. According to OAIX air traffic control transcripts, during initial radio contact with the ground controller, the crew announced an intended flight altitude of 10,000 ft mean sea level (msl) and a departure heading to the south; this departure heading was consistent with the operator’s typical route from OAIX to OAFR, which involved a departure and flight to the south for approximately 32 nautical miles (nm) to avoid the mountains west of OAIX, then a turn to the west direct to OAFR. The crew taxied the airplane for takeoff but then stopped it briefly on the taxiway and boarded an additional passenger.6