The guidance in Attachment E to ICAO Annex 13 takes the form of a series of principles that could be adapted or modified to meet the particular needs of the State enacting laws and regulations to protect safety information. Note: The principles given below are an extract from Attachment E to Annex 13. The sole purpose of protecting safety information from inappropriate use is to ensure its continued availability so that proper and timely preventive actions can be taken and aviation safety improved.. It is not the purpose of protecting safety information to interfere with the proper administration of justice in States.. National laws and regulations protecting safety information should ensure that a balance is struck between the need for the protection of safety information in order to improve aviation safety, and the need for the proper administration of justice.. National laws and regulations protecting safety information should prevent its inappropriate use.. Providing protection to qualified safety information under specified conditions is part of a State’s safety responsibilities.. Safety information should qualify for protection from inappropriate use according to specified conditions that should include, but not necessarily be limited to: that the collection of information was for explicit safety purposes and the disclosure of the information would inhibit its continued availability.. The protection should be specific for each SDCPS, based upon the nature of the safety information it contains.. A formal procedure should be established to provide protection to qualified safety information, in accordance with specified conditions.. Safety information should not be used in a way different from the purposes for which it was collected.. The use of safety information in disciplinary, civil, administrative and criminal proceedings should be carried out only under suitable safeguards provided by national law.. Exceptions to the protection of safety information should only be granted by national laws and regulations when: There is evidence that the occurrence was caused by an act considered, in accordance with the law, to be conduct with intent to cause damage, or conduct with knowledge that damage would probably result, equivalent to reckless conduct, gross negligence or willful misconduct;. An appropriate authority considers that circumstances reasonably indicate that the occurrence may have been caused by conduct with intent to cause damage, or conduct with knowledge that damage would probably result, equivalent to reckless conduct, gross negligence or willful misconduct;. A review by an appropriate authority determines that the release of the safety information is necessary for the proper administration of justice, and that its release outweighs the adverse domestic and international impact such release may have on the future availability of safety information.. Subject to the principles of protection and exception outlined above, any person seeking disclosure of safety information should justify its release. Formal criteria for disclosure of safety information should be established and should include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: Disclosure of the safety information is necessary to correct conditions that compromise safety and/or to change policies and regulations;. Disclosure of the safety information does