issuing a landing clearance. The automated 'one thousand' callout occurred which required the PF to respond with either “stable” or go around, in which case the missed-approach procedure was to be initiated. It was found that on the contrary, the Captain "made no response […] although the Check Captain believed he heard him 'grunt'". The First Officer, who had not previously flown with the Captain but said he was "aware of his reputation for not being overly communicative", stated that "the Captain’s lack of a response was not unexpected and because the aeroplane was stable on the instrument approach, he did not challenge". The ATR landed but with the 737 at "about one and a half nautical miles from the runway threshold", the controller could not yet see it and advised the 737 crew to expect a late landing clearance. A few seconds later, the controller caught sight of the ATR as it turned off the runway approximately 500 metres from the TWR and issued a landing clearance to the 737. At 100 feet above DA, the automated call 'plus hundred' was annunciated. This should have been followed by the Captain saying “confirmed” but although he later said that he thought he had responded, he could not remember what he said and neither the First Officer nor the Check Captain heard any response. The First Officer stated that "he was about to prompt the Check Captain for a response when the aeroplane reached the decision altitude and the third automated voice call of 'Minimums' was made". The required response was either 'continue' if the prescribed visual reference had been acquired or 'go around' if it had not, but the Captain did not say anything. He subsequently stated that "as they were approaching decision altitude he was looking down at the instruments" and when he looked up after the 'minimums' callout, he had been "confused [surprised] that he was unable to see the runway or the environs". The First Officer had repeated the 'mimimums' call and had "then looked across at the Captain to check if he was still actively flying". Since he "appeared okay", he "then looked forward, expecting to see the runway ahead, but all he could see was cloud". He stated that as he was about to prompt the Captain again, the runway approach lights became visible with the aeroplane estimated to be about 100 feet below DA. The Captain disconnected the AP and landed the aeroplane without saying anything. The Check Captain later said that he was also about to challenge the Captain’s intentions and "was trying to locate his microphone ‘press-to-talk’ switch when the runway approach lights became visible". The controller was unable to see the 737 "until it had taxied clear of the runway (abeam the TWR)"'. After the aeroplane had been taxied to its parking position and shut down, the Check Captain informed the Captain that he had failed the Check Flight and he was stood down. It was noted that the next two