aeroplanes to make an approach, four and seven minutes later respectively, had both carried out the missed approach procedure. The Investigation observed that "when an aeroplane is on an instrument approach to a runway, it is a serious safety issue when the pilot continues with the descent below the [[Minimum Descent Altitude/Height |minimum (decision) height]] without having the required visual references". It was noted that approach procedure decision heights "are calculated with safety margins which allow aircraft to initiate safe missed approaches in the event of runway lights or markings not becoming visible" and "if a decision height is not heeded, safety margins are rapidly eroded and there is a real risk of the aeroplane landing with enough force to damage the landing gear" with the likelihood of far worse consequences if the aircraft were not to be properly aligned with the runway at the time. It was noted that "at a standard rate of descent and a standard approach speed, there were only about another five seconds available for either the First Officer or the Captain to react and arrest the rate of descent to avoid striking the ground before initiating a missed approach, or to avoid a heavy landing". The Investigation considered various reasons which might explain why the Captain had not initiated the mandatory missed approach that was prescribed. One of the reasons discussed was plan continuation bias which involves "the tendency to favour or accept information that supports a pilot’s expectation and ignore or downgrade information that may be contrary to that expectation". It was noted that the crew had received a number of indications during the approach that the cloudbase was lower than had been forecast before departure and had significantly deteriorated from the ATIS weather obtained prior to descent. The chances of being able to continue to a landing were clearly diminishing and whilst it was considered that the effect of these multiple indications "could have been offset by the knowledge that the ATR aeroplane only two minutes ahead had made a successful landing […] the reported information should have prompted a discussion (about) the possibility of a missed approach". It was also noted that, taken in the context of the Captain's habitually "minimalistic" approach to communication, the failure of the First Officer to challenge three consecutive failures to give [[[SOPs|SOP]] responses to the three automatic callouts had represented a lost opportunity to break a mindset which the Captain may have developed that he would become visual at decision height. It was considered that the addition of a Check Captain to the usual two-pilot dynamic addressed by CRM had the potential to alter the situation in the flight deck. The potential effect of the fact that the flight was a route check was considered and it was possible that other factors may have been contributors to stress. These could have included "his dislike for having his performance evaluated" and "his past experience involving the same Check Captain, which from the Captain’s perspective was a