The event was notified to the Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC) by Air New Zealand two days later and after making preliminary inquiries, it was decided to open an Investigation. ATC radio and radar recordings for the approach were obtained but aircraft flight recorder data was not used. It was found that the Captain under check and in command was 68 years old, had been employed by Air New Zealand for 47 years and had been a Captain since 1974. He had spent 14 years as a Boeing 747 Captain before joining the Boeing 737 fleet in the same rank when reaching the age of 60 in 2003 due to pilot age restrictions applicable in the USA. He had accumulated 23,875 hours total flying time which included 7,210 hours on type. His medical required him to wear trifocal spectacles when exercising the privileges of his ATPL. The 43 year-old First Officer had joined Air New Zealand in 2007 and had accumulated 8420 total flying hours which included 2,320 hours on type. The 49 year old Check Captain had joined New Zealand in 1995 and had accumulated 17,200 total flying hours which included 9,200 hours on type. The Investigation noted that "all three pilots said that they had had about eight hours’ sleep the preceding night and that fatigue had not been a factor" and all three "were familiar with Christchurch and the ILS/DME approach procedure". It was established that the operating Captain was PF for the sector on which the event under investigation had occurred, which was the first flight of the day. The Check Captain's pre-flight brief advised that he was there "to observe a normal day's work from the flight deck supernumerary crew seat". He stated that he had not elaborated further because of the Captain's experience. It was noted that "the operator’s guidelines stated that Check Captain's "should not generally contribute to the operation except in emergency/abnormal situations when full assistance should be offered.”" Shortly before commencing descent, the Christchurch ATIS was checked and the weather report found to correspond to that forecast for the ETA which would be suitable for the intended Cat 1 ILS/DME approach to runway 02. The approach brief was given and included the applicable minima of 200 feet aal (323 feet QNH) and the fact that the approach would be flown with the AP engaged and in accordance with the operator’s standard approach procedure which meant the Captain was flying and would look outside the cockpit when approaching the decision height, whilst the First Officer would keep his head down monitoring the instruments. The aircraft subsequently checked in with Christchurch TWR and after advising that it was established on the ILS was instructed to continue following an ATR 72 ahead. The controller also advised that the cloud had "descended to the ground now" with surface visibility approximately 800 metres and that a late landing clearance should be expected because they would need to get the ATR in sight off the runway before