negative experience". However, it was also obvious that "check flights were not new to the Captain" - "according to the operator’s records he had undergone 47 previous route checks and 94 simulator proficiency checks over his 47 years with the company" - but unexpectedly marginal weather conditions during a route check could still have been a new experience. It was noted that "a common dilemma for Check Pilots is how far they let a situation develop to enable key lessons to be demonstrated before it becomes unsafe" and that the pre-flight briefing was therefore important to both the pilot under check and their colleague who is not. It was considered that the non-intervention by the First Officer when the Captain failed to follow SOP may have been a consequence of doubt in his mind as to what was expected of him and when. For example, a pre-flight statement by the Check Captain that they will not intervene unless there was a direct threat to safety (such as the violation of minima) would have made it clear that he should not have expected any intervention by the Check Captain when the Captain missed responding to the '1,000' and 'plus 100' and "it would have been clear to him that any [such] intervention needed to come from himself" in accordance with SOP. In respect of the Captain's dis-inclination to follow some SOPs, the Investigation found that Air New Zealand was aware of his "tendency over a period of at least three years to not always follow standard communication procedures" and noted that "the informal method the Company used to address the issue did not result in any measurable improvement" and had been contrary to the process described as applicable in such circumstances. As a result of the investigated event, it was noted that a performance management plan for the Captain had been developed, "but he retired before it could be put into action". Finally, it was found that in respect of the Captain's age alone, "there was no evidence to support the possibility that it was a factor affecting his performance during the approach to landing". Six Findings from the Investigation were formally recorded as follows: The Captain did not make the appropriate response to two automated calls prior to the aeroplane reaching the point (decision height) at which the flight crew needed to decide whether to continue and land, or initiate a missed approach, and the First Officer did not challenge the Captain for an appropriate response on either occasion.. The Captain compromised the safety of the flight by not initiating a missed approach when the aeroplane reached the decision height and the meteorological conditions were not suitable to land.. The only appropriate decision was for the Captain to commence a missed approach. He did not make that decision probably because he was operating under a level of stress, where anxiety was interfering with his cognitive functioning.. There was no evidence to suggest that the Captain’s age was a factor affecting