For reasons of efficiency aircraft often cruise at levels that are at or close to the ‘maximum’ level with regards to the aircraft’s performance. When at or close to the ‘maximum’ level the aircraft is often therefore close to its ‘minimum’ speed. The ‘minimum’ speed may be due to one of a variety of aerodynamic reasons; however, the speed must be kept above the ‘minimum’ speed in order to ensure that the aircraft is not in danger of stalling. The ‘minimum’ speed is typically displayed on the Primary Flight Display (PFD) speed tape as an amber or yellow band. The ‘maximum’ level that the aircraft may operate at due to these performance reasons is specified by the regulatory authorities and will be such as to provide a specified margin to the ‘minimum’ speed. What is useful for controllers to note is that such a margin may be in the region of as little as 10kts. Consequently, should an engine failure or loss of thrust occur at a level where the margin to the ‘minimum’ speed is relatively small, the commencement of a descent will be required almost immediately due to the fact that the aircraft is unable to maintain a safe speed with the remaining thrust and therefore would be in danger of stalling if the descent was not commenced in order to maintain a safe speed. During fam flights controllers may observe on the PFD the margin to the ‘minimum’ speed from the current speed as described above. Things to look out for. The distance and relative heights that traffic is visible on TCAS; The margins between minimum and maximum speed at high altitude; Incremental climbs as the aircraft becomes lighter and how the crew makes the decision to climb (other traffic, turbulence, speed margin etc); How the crew handle direct routings and vectors from ATC; How the crew handle weather deviations; How the crew manage fuel and time.. The distance and relative heights that traffic is visible on TCAS;. The margins between minimum and maximum speed at high altitude;. Incremental climbs as the aircraft becomes lighter and how the crew makes the decision to climb (other traffic, turbulence, speed margin etc);. How the crew handle direct routings and vectors from ATC;. How the crew handle weather deviations;. How the crew manage fuel and time.. Go To Descend, Approach and Landing Return to Flight Deck Procedures - A Guide for Controllers