An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the aircraft had not flown between July 2009 and March 2010 and early in 2010, two new engines had been fitted to the aircraft and it had been flown from Athens to Exeter on 18 March 2010 for a ‘C’ Check by Flybe Engineering during which both engine oil coolers had been removed and refitted. The previous (uneventful) flight to the incident one had been a non-revenue positioning flight eight days earlier from Exeter to East Midlands after completion of the ‘C’ Check and was to enable re-painting at East Midlands. It was concluded that oil had already been weeping slowly from both oil coolers when the aircraft arrived at East Midlands Airport on 16 April, and that it had continued to do so during the ensuing week, manifesting itself in oil drops underneath the nacelle butt joints on either side of the oil coolers. However, these leaks had appeared to have stopped or slowed just before the aircraft departed, only restarting (unknown to the crew) as the aircraft taxied out and then leaking at a higher rate during the incident flight. It was estimated that the engines lost about 5.5 litres and 3.5 litres of oil respectively during flight. It was noted that the oil cooler fittings had not leaked at this rate during the earlier flight from Exeter to East Midlands and yet there was no evidence that the oil coolers had been disturbed while the aircraft was at East Midlands. It was therefore concluded that either engine vibration or loads imposed during the landing at East Midlands had slightly shifted the position of the oil pipes so that the effect of the cuts in the O-ring seals were exacerbated. Shortly after landing there, the engines had been shut down and so, with reduced oil pressure, any oil leak would have slowed. It was considered probable that any oil leak during the low power engine run carried out prior to departure on the incident flight at the request of the supervising engineer would have only been apparent had the lower forward cowlings been opened and the oil coolers inspected. The two minutes for which the engine run was carried out was considered unlikely to have been sufficient time for the oil to appear externally. The Investigation concluded that the oil leaks from both engines had been caused by damage to O-ring seals at the respective oil cooler fittings during re-installation of the oil coolers after their removal during the ‘C’ Check. It was also considered that a number of factors had led to this damage and to the subsequent failure to carry out oil leak checks prior to release to service. It was noted that Flybe Engineering had implemented a ‘Critical Task Checklist’ for each aircraft type that it maintained after a CAA Audit in 2009 had found that there was no such list. As introduced, it had required that specified tasks which could present