An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and from some undamaged Non Volatile Memory in one of the Flight Management System computers and the Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) but the aircraft was not fitted with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and was not required to be so equipped. No evidence was found to suggest anything other than that the aircraft had been airworthy and it was also concluded that it had been loaded within normal weight and balance limitations. The focus therefore moved to the performance of the pilots. It was established that the 40 year old aircraft Captain had been PF and that he was experienced in command on the aircraft type and in the same role on the Learjets also operated by East Coast Jets. The 27 year old First Officer was found to have joined the company from flight school some nine months earlier and to have accumulated almost 300 hours flying since that time, nearly all of it on the HS125. The aircraft was radar vectored around the worst of some widespread and active convective weather as it neared the destination and eventually onto the Instrument Landing System (ILS) for runway 30 at the request of the PF. The ILS approach to the unlicensed and uncontrolled airport was uneventful and visual reference was acquired in good time. The aircraft subsequently touched down within the TDZ at correct speed and it was concluded that the Captain had probably "applied sufficient pressure on the brakes during the initial part of the landing roll to take full advantage of the available runway friction" but concluded that he had not deployed the lift-dump system (a mechanically interconnected combination of a extreme trailing edge flap deflection and airbrakes lift spoilers installed as an alternative to thrust reversers) immediately after touchdown in accordance with company procedures. About 20 seconds after touchdown, the lift dumping system appeared to have been stowed followed by thrust being applied to initiate a go around. The aircraft then overran the end of the 1676 metre long runway by approximately 300 metres before striking the ILS antenna as it became briefly airborne for about another 360 metres before finally coming to a stop in a field beyond an unsurfaced access road that borders the airport some 650 metres from the end of the runway. Subsequent calculations indicated that at the time the go-around was initiated, the rate at which the aircraft was decelerating was such that had that action not been taken, the aircraft would have left the runway at a ground speed of between 23 and 37 knots and stopped with a maximum overrun of 90 metres, well within the 305 metre Runway End Safety Area. It was concluded that "it can be reasonably assumed that, at some point during the landing roll, the Captain likely became concerned that the airplane would run off the runway