landing or initiate a go-around". It was discovered that the First Officer had taken "a prescription sleep aid for which he did not have a prescription" the night before the accident, but concluded that "because of the short duration of its effects for most individuals" it was unlikely that this would have degraded his performance by the time the accident occurred. The Investigation found that the Probable Cause of the accident was “the Captain’s decision to attempt a go-around late in the landing roll with insufficient runway remaining". It was additionally determined that Contributory Factors were: the pilots’ poor crew coordination and lack of cockpit discipline;. fatigue, which likely impaired both pilots’ performance; and. the failure of the Federal Aviation Administration to require crew resource management training and standard operating procedures for Part 135 operators.. 14 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration require manufacturers of newly certificated and in-service turbine-powered aircraft to incorporate in their Aircraft Flight Manuals a committed-to-stop point in the landing sequence (for example, in the case of the Hawker Beechcraft 125-800A airplane, once lift dump is deployed) beyond which a go-around should not be attempted. [A-11-18]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91 subpart K operators and Part 142 training schools to incorporate the information from the revised manufacturers’ Aircraft Flight Manuals asked for in Safety Recommendation A-11-18 into their manuals and training. [A-11-19]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 and 91 subpart K operators to establish, and ensure that their pilots adhere to, standard operating procedures. [A-11-20]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require principal operations inspectors of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 and 91 subpart K operators to ensure that pilots use the same checklists in operations that they used during training for normal, abnormal, and emergency conditions. [A-11-21]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require manufacturers and 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121, 135, and 91 subpart K operators to design new, or revise existing, checklists to require pilots to clearly call out and respond with the actual flap position, rather than just stating, “set” or “as required.” [A-11-22]. that the Federal Aviation Administration work with the National Weather Service to revise Advisory Circular 00-24B, “Thunderstorms,” by including explanations of the terms used to describe severe thunderstorms, such as “bow echo,” “derecho,” and “mesoscale convective system.” [A-11-23]. that the Federal Aviation Administration revise regulations and policies to permit appropriate use of prescription sleep medications by pilots under medical supervision for insomnia. [A-11-24]. that the Federal Aviation Administration require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 and 91 subpart K pilots to receive initial and recurrent education and training on factors that create fatigue in flight operations, fatigue signs and symptoms, and effective strategies to manage fatigue and performance during operations. [A-11-25]. that the Federal Aviation Administration review the policy standards for all common sleep-related conditions,