end and had to decide whether it was preferable to overrun the runway or attempt a go-around". It was noted, however, that there was no evidence to indicate that the Captain was "prepared for the possibility of a go-around". About 8 minutes prior to landing, the final weather given to the crew by ATC was a surface wind of 320° at 8 knots - but the controller cautioned that this was already about 20 minutes old. The weather conditions subsequently found to have been recorded by the airport Automated Weather Observation System (AWOS) at the time of the accident gave a wind velocity of 170° at a mean speed of 6 knots and calculations using all the evidence available indicated that there had been an 8 knot tailwind component for the landing. However, although it was raining and the runway had been wet, there was no evidence that either reverted rubber or dynamic hydroplaning had occurred on what was found to be an un-grooved concrete runway in good condition and not prone to the accumulation of standing water. It was noted from the CVR evidence that during the descent and approach, both pilots repeatedly failed to complete the various required checklists properly "demonstrating that neither was focused on proper checklist execution". It was considered that the Captain had "allowed an atmosphere in the cockpit that did not comply with well-designed procedures intended to minimise operational errors, including sterile cockpit adherence, and this atmosphere permitted inadequate briefing of the approach and monitoring of the current weather conditions, including the wind information on the cockpit instruments; inappropriate conversation; nonstandard terminology; and a lack of checklist discipline throughout the descent and approach phases of the flight". It was also concluded that both pilots had "exhibited poor aeronautical decision-making and managed their resources poorly, which prevented them from recognizing and fully evaluating alternatives to landing on a wet runway in changing weather conditions, eroded the safety margins provided by the checklists, and degraded the pilots’ attention, thus increasing the risk of an accident". It was noted that whilst "both pilots had excellent performance records as individual pilots (they had) functioned less effectively as a crew". The First Officer had essentially been treated as a trainee and given minor tasks such as contacting ground operations and resetting the transponder at critical times during the approach "when both pilots should have been attentive to the landing". It was considered of particular note that "the Captain (had) never discussed the First Officer’s role in initiating or supporting a go-around decision, a role which may have provided a decisive advantage in the accident situation". Finally, a review of the evidence led the Investigation to conclude that the performance of both pilots was probably "impaired by fatigue that resulted from their significant acute sleep loss, early start time, and possible untreated sleep disorders" and that "fatigue might have especially degraded the Captain’s performance and decision-making abilities when he had to decide while under time pressure whether to continue the