occurrences are categorised as follows: 1. Aircraft-related occurrences This category includes reportable aircraft-related occurrences such as a collision or a near collision on the ground or in the air, between an aircraft and another aircraft, terrain or obstacle, including near-controlled flight into terrain (near CFIT), separation minima infringement and inadequate separation. 2. Degradation or total loss of services or functions This category includes reportable occurrences related to the degradation or total loss of services or functions such as the inability to provide ATM services or to execute ATM functions and the failure of communication or surveillance service. 3. Other occurrences This category includes other air navigation services and facilities reportable occurrences such as the declaration of an emergency, fuel dumping and bomb threat or hijack. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: Safety management of an aerodrome. This category includes reportable occurrences related to the safety management of an aerodrome and are further categorised as follows: Aircraft- and obstacle-related occurrences; Degradation or total loss of services or functions; Other occurrences.. Aircraft- and obstacle-related occurrences;. Degradation or total loss of services or functions;. Other occurrences.. Ground handling of an aircraft. This category includes reportable occurrences related to aircraft ground handling and are further categorised as follows: Aircraft- and aerodrome-related occurrences; Degradation or total loss of services or functions; Ground handling specific occurrences.. Aircraft- and aerodrome-related occurrences;. Degradation or total loss of services or functions;. Ground handling specific occurrences.. This annex includes reportable occurrences related to aircraft other than complex motor-powered aircraft, including sailplanes and lighter-than-air vehicles, that are categorised as follows: Aircraft other than complex motor-powered aircraft excluding sailplanes and lighter-than-air vehicles;. Sailplanes (gliders); and. Lighter-than-air vehicles (balloons and airships).. Under each of all the above categories the reportable occurrences are further categorised as follows: Air operations;. Technical occurrences;. Interaction with air navigation services and air traffic management;. Emergencies and other critical situations;. External environment and meteorology..