The detailed classification to be referred to when reporting occurrences, through mandatory reporting systems, pursuant to regulation (EU) No 376/2014 is set out in Annexes I to V to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1018. Annexes I, III, IV and V are structured so that the pertinent occurrences are linked with categories of activities during which they are normally observed, according to experience, in order to facilitate reporting. However, the regulation requires that such a structure does not mean that occurrences must not be reported in case they take place outside the operational category to which they are linked in the list. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: Air operations. This category includes reportable occurrences categorised according to the operational phase of occurrence: Flight preparation; Aircraft preparation; Take-off and landing; Any phase of flight; Other types of occurrences.. Flight preparation;. Aircraft preparation;. Take-off and landing;. Any phase of flight;. Other types of occurrences.. Technical occurrences.This category includes airworthiness related reportable occurrences: Structure and systems; Propulsion (including engines, propellers and rotor systems) and auxiliary power units (APUs);. Structure and systems;. Propulsion (including engines, propellers and rotor systems) and auxiliary power units (APUs);. Interaction with air navigation services (ANS) and air traffic management (ATM). This category includes ANS and ATM interaction related reportable occurrences such as unsafe ATC clearance and prolonged loss of communication with ATS.. Emergencies and other critical situations. This category includes reportable occurrences related to emergency and other critical situations such as any event leading to the declaration of emergency and the use of any emergency equipment or non-normal procedure affecting in-flight or landing performance.. External environment and meteorology. This category includes reportable occurrences related to the outer environment and meteorology such as a collision or a near collision on the ground or in the air, with another aircraft, terrain or obstacle, the unexpected encounter of poor runway surface conditions and wake-turbulence encounters.. Security. This category includes reportable occurrences related to security and namely a bomb threat or hijack, difficulty in controlling intoxicated, violent or unruly passengers and the discovery of a stowaway.. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: 1. Manufacturing This category broadly includes products, parts or appliances released from the production organisation with deviations from applicable design data that could lead to a potential unsafe condition as identified with the holder of the type-certificate or design approval. 2. Design This category broadly includes any failure, malfunction, defect or other occurrence related to a product, part, or appliance which has resulted in or may result in an unsafe condition. This category is applicable to occurrences occurring on a product, part, or appliance covered by the type- certificate, restricted type-certificate, supplemental type-certificate, ETSO authorisation, major repair design approval or any other relevant approval deemed to have been issued under Commission Regulation (EU) No 748/2012 on initial airworthiness. 3. Maintenance and continuing airworthiness management This category includes failures, malfunctions, defects, damages, incorrect maintenance data and other occurrences experienced or discovered during maintenance and continuing airworthiness management tasks. The reportable