The detailed classification to be referred to when reporting occurrences, through mandatory reporting systems, pursuant to regulation (EU) No 376/2014 is set out in Annexes I to V to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1018. Annexes I, III, IV and V are structured so that the pertinent occurrences are linked with categories of activities during which they are normally observed, according to experience, in order to facilitate reporting. However, the regulation requires that such a structure does not mean that occurrences must not be reported in case they take place outside the operational category to which they are linked in the list. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: 1. Manufacturing This category broadly includes products, parts or appliances released from the production organisation with deviations from applicable design data that could lead to a potential unsafe condition as identified with the holder of the type-certificate or design approval. 2. Design This category broadly includes any failure, malfunction, defect or other occurrence related to a product, part, or appliance which has resulted in or may result in an unsafe condition. This category is applicable to occurrences occurring on a product, part, or appliance covered by the type- certificate, restricted type-certificate, supplemental type-certificate, ETSO authorisation, major repair design approval or any other relevant approval deemed to have been issued under Commission Regulation (EU) No 748/2012 on initial airworthiness. 3. Maintenance and continuing airworthiness management This category includes failures, malfunctions, defects, damages, incorrect maintenance data and other occurrences experienced or discovered during maintenance and continuing airworthiness management tasks. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: 1. Aircraft-related occurrences This category includes reportable aircraft-related occurrences such as a collision or a near collision on the ground or in the air, between an aircraft and another aircraft, terrain or obstacle, including near-controlled flight into terrain (near CFIT), separation minima infringement and inadequate separation. 2. Degradation or total loss of services or functions This category includes reportable occurrences related to the degradation or total loss of services or functions such as the inability to provide ATM services or to execute ATM functions and the failure of communication or surveillance service. 3. Other occurrences This category includes other air navigation services and facilities reportable occurrences such as the declaration of an emergency, fuel dumping and bomb threat or hijack. The reportable occurrences are categorised as follows: This annex includes reportable occurrences related to aircraft other than complex motor-powered aircraft, including sailplanes and lighter-than-air vehicles, that are categorised as follows: Under each of all the above categories the reportable occurrences are further categorised as follows: