The Incident was classified as a Serious Incident by AIBN and an Investigation was carried out. It was established that the initial account of the occurrence by the flight crew had not been accurate. However, the Investigation had access to both a radar recording of the aircraft track and an RTF recording and subsequent interviewing of both the two pilots and the air traffic controller involved provided additional information. The Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) fitted had been serviceable but had been overwritten and no Flight Data Recorder (FDR) was installed. The (very experienced) aircraft commander was found to have been PM. It was noted that the aircraft had been wet leased to Norwegian AOC holder Lufttransport (LTR) because their own helicopter was on maintenance. However, the lease period approved by the Norwegian CAA was found to have expired a week before the event. It was confirmed that the aircraft had been operated in contravention of both the applicable minimum altitude for all Visual Flight Rules (VFR) flight (500ft) and the applicable minimum in-flight visibility for SVFR (800m) and that although weather conditions in which visual flight might become impossible in the Bodo area had not been included in the TAF, the Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) issued 15 minutes prior to the attempted visual approach indicated weather conditions at the airport which were incompatible with a visual approach taking into account the prevailing and applicable regulations. It was found that the aircraft was fitted with a permanently installed Global Positioning System (GPS) system in addition to the main ground-based navigation systems. It was noted that the GPS display was mounted on the lower part of the mid console and therefore difficult to use as a source of direction and distance to a selected navigation point when looking outside the aircraft for visual reference at very low altitude, although input from it could be selected to the CDI on both pilots’ HSIs as an alternative to (but not at the same time as) a display based on terrestrial navigation sources. This GPS system was found to have been used for primary navigation whilst purporting to be conducting flight under SVFR but the aircraft had failed to intercept the extended centreline of the runway and had instead drifted further and further to the north of it into proximity with high ground. It was found that when the ATCO on duty had realised that the intended SVFR approach had failed and that the aircraft was being flown towards rising terrain, they had proposed an avoidance climb and turn which was eventually successfully followed. The rest of the approach had then taken place in IMC from an altitude of 1500 ft as “a combined radar-guided ILS approach with good support from the air traffic controller”. The Investigation was told that flight on the ILS was observed to have been "wobbly" by the air traffic controller. The track of the aircraft during its close encounter with terrain is reproduced from the Official Report below which