Depending upon the piece of machinery or type of component concerned, there are a number of different parameters that can be measured or monitored. There are also a number of different types of sensor with which these measurements can be accomplished. Sensor types include, but are not limited to: Vibration monitors - these are particularly relevant to rotating machinery such as engines, fans, compressors and generators. All rotating equipment exhibits a certain degree of vibration. As the equipment degrades, or falls out of alignment, the amount of vibration increases. Vibration sensors can be used to detect when this becomes excessive. An increase in vibration can be indicative of an "out of balance" condition or the progressive failure of a shaft bearing or other component.. Temperature monitors - in the context of aircraft systems, there are numerous potential components subject to temperature monitoring. These include items such as engine oil temperature, bleed air temperature, both at the engine extraction point and at the user components such as the anti-ice system or the Pressurisation and Air Conditioning System (PACS), and engine exhaust temperature, most typically measured as one of Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT), Turbine Inlet Temperature (TIT) or Interstage Turbine Temperature (ITT). Abnormal temperatures in any of these components can be indicative of a leak, blockage or a component failure, as appropriate to the monitored system.. Pressure monitors - measurable parameters include engine oil pressure, hydraulic system pressure, bleed air duct pressure and aircraft cabin differential pressure. A change in a pressurisation parameter can be indicative of a progressive (or catastrophic) failure of a pump, duct or valve.. Electrical current measurement and analysis - many components of an aircraft electrical system can be monitored. Generator output, system (or individual bus) load and battery health are all measurable parameters.. Speed ​​Measurement - in the general context of condition monitoring, speed measurement most often refers to rotational speed as would be the case in an engine, fan, motor or generator. However, from an aviation perspective, there is also significant merit in measuring other speed related parameters to monitor the occurence of events such as aerodynamic stall, activation of Stall Warning Systems, unreliable airspeed indication events, airspeed exceedances or the extension/retraction speed of various ancillary components..