The aircraft can approach the gate either under its own power or under tow. Although collisions during the parking process most often occur as a result of the aircraft striking items in its path, it is also possible that the aircraft itself could be struck by support vehicles, improperly secured equipment or by other aircraft, either manoeuvring or under tow. Some of the more commonly encountered causes of collisions include: Failure to follow lead-in guidance - "cutting the corner" whilst approaching a gate can cause a wingtip to strike an aircraft on an adjacent gate. Inappropriate gate assignment - not all gates can accommodate all aircraft types. If the gate assigned is too small for the aircraft type, the aircraft could strike airport infrastructure, equipment outside of the safety zone or aircraft on adjacent gates. Inappropriate stop guidance or failure to stop when directed - a late stop can result in the aircraft striking the Passenger Boarding Bridge or other support equipment. Vehicle traffic failing to yield right-of-way to aircraft - this action can lead to a collision but is even more likely to result in harsh braking action by the aircraft and potential personnel injuries. Compromised safety zone- vehicles or equipment positioned within the gate's aircraft safety zone may be struck as the aircraft approaches the stop point. Compromised taxiway clearance - there are numerous reasons that a parking aircraft might stop short of the gate (lack of marshaller, inappropriate automated guidance, safety zone violations, etc). However, in doing so, the taxiway behind the aircraft may be compromised and there is risk that another taxiing aircraft could strike the tail of the one in the process of parking. Premature positioning of support equipment - no personnel or equipment should approach the aircraft until the aircraft beacon has been turned off, indicating that it is safe to do so. Failure to adhere to this rule can lead to collision due to further movement of the aircraft or due to the effects of jet blast.