aircraft was returned to the gate, shut down and the passengers disembarked. Data from the aircraft DAR showed that on completion of pushback with both engines at idle thrust, all three pitot masts had been sensing airspeeds in excess of 100 knots even though the aircraft was not moving. During the three minutes the aircraft was stationary, eleven ECAM alerts had been generated all of which were associated with an airspeed of < 80 knots. Inspection found that two out of the three static masts were blocked with debris similar to that found the previous morning on G-EUUO. The two affected probes were changed and after extensive system testing was successful, the aircraft was released to service. Since the aircraft had been parked on a stand next to the one which G-EUUO had been, the aircraft operator still considered that this was likely to be a problem confined to that particular area of their parking bays. (3) G-YMMR 11 June Prior to being positioned to Terminal 5 to operate a mid morning departure to Accra as BA81, the aircraft had been at Heathrow parked out of service for five days since arriving from Johannesburg on the morning of 6 June. Most of this time the aircraft was in the overspill parking area at Terminal 4, but at times also on a maintenance stand at the north-eastern corner of the airport, at all times without pitot mast covers being fitted. No system anomalies were observed until the takeoff roll had commenced. Then, just after the PM called that takeoff thrust was set, both pilots looked at their PFD airspeed displays and saw that their airspeed indications were absent. The Captain immediately called “STOP” and the takeoff was rejected 275 metres into the take off roll at 64 knots groundspeed. The aircraft was taxied clear and returned to Terminal 5 where the engines were shut down and the passengers were disembarked. Inspection of the pitot masts found that both right and centre ones were blocked by debris similar to that already found in the masts of the two A320s. This time, since the aircraft had been parked at a different location to the other two, the operator recognised that this should now be considered as a wider issue so the aircraft was quarantined and the AAIB notified. The operator also introduced an immediate requirement for any aircraft that had stopped at Heathrow overnight to be subject to a Detailed Visual Inspection (DVI) of the interior of the pitot masts within the two hours prior to any Heathrow departure from within an arm’s length of the masts and with the use of visual aids if necessary. The results of each inspection were to be entered into the aircraft Technical Log. By 14 June, 265 such DVIs had been carried out with no further pitot mast blockages found. One of the two blocked pitot masts on Boeing 777-200 G-YMMR. [Reproduced from the Official Report] On arrival at Heathrow, the AAIB team were briefed on