and noise around the airport indicated that the dramatic reduction in the volume of both air and road traffic during the spring and summer of 2020 due to very significant pandemic-related travel and activity restraints had created a number of potential contributors to an increased prevalence of flying insects. These insects included those associated with solitary wasps and bees looking for nest sites. These environmental changes were noted to have included: A very significant reduction in all the primary pollutants such as Nitrogen Dioxide.. A change in air quality which increased the floral aromas from vegetation because their hydrocarbons were no longer being destroyed by the presence of much higher than normal levels of ground level ozone than those normally detected. This normally high ozone level would usually have negatively affected plant health and thus indirectly affected flying insect habitats resulting in more energy being expended both to forage and to seek out nest sites. Its absence would alone have been likely to lead to a more successful breeding season.. Vibration and noise pollution were both dramatically lower, a significant benefit to animals of all kinds due to their acute sensitivity to both. Apart from very low levels of aircraft and vehicle movements, activity at construction sites on or in the vicinity of Heathrow was greatly reduced compared to normal.. It was considered that “the temporary surge in these events came about as a result of a confluence of factors of the pandemic, but it is also a reminder that the environmental response to changes in human behaviour can be unpredictable and have unforeseen consequences”. It was also noted that one long term consequence of “greener aviation” and improved urban environmental quality will be to create the kind of environments in and around urban area airports which are more attractive to insects such as bees and wasps. The Conclusion of the Investigation was formally documented as follows: Over a short period of time, several aircraft suffered air data problems related to the blockage of pitot probes by insect nests. From an operational perspective, pilot training, preparedness and effective TEM should be considered key elements for assuring early detection of pitot/static system blockages in the takeoff roll, thus minimising the hazards associated with high-speed rejections. As the airline industry increases its operational tempo toward pre-pandemic levels, operator support for crews balancing commercial pressures against reduced recency will be an important enabler for safely rebuilding operational fluency. Insects blocking aircraft pitot/static systems is not a new hazard, but one likely exacerbated at Heathrow in 2021 due to the unusually low operational tempo resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic. Reduced traffic levels and human activity resulted in a surge of insect activity during the pandemic lockdowns. With less aircraft activity, including less noise and jet efflux to deter the insects, the parked aircraft made an attractive opportunity, with the pitot probes providing an ideal construction site for nests. The high level of insect activity in 2021 could lead to a larger number of insects