air speed indication was still less than 40 knots whereas the First Officer’s was already over 70 knots. By the time he made a “STOP” call, it almost coincided with the First Officer’s routine100 knot call. The rejected takeoff was completed with considerable runway still remaining ahead and the subsequent return to stand was uneventful. The parking positions of three of the affected aircraft. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Subsequent maintenance inspection of the pitot/static system found that the left pitot mast – the one feeding the left side PFD, was blocked with what appeared to be solid soil-like material and it was replaced after which the system was tested and confirmed serviceable. At this point, the operator took the view that this was an isolated occurrence and noted that the blockage must have occurred when the aircraft was parked in an area where insect-source pitot/static contamination had occurred in the past although not since most of a hedge in the vicinity had been removed for other reasons. Although the computed airspeed recorded by the FDR was as displayed to the crew, it was sourced from a single pitot mast, the computed airspeed from each of the three pitot masts was recorded in the aircraft’s Digital ACMS Recorder (DAR). This allowed the performance of each of the three airspeeds recorded during the takeoff roll to be displayed (see the illustration below). It confirmed the failure of the left PFD indication and the normal function of the right PFD display and that fed to the standby display system (2) G-TTNH 10 June 2021 Prior to being towed to Terminal 5 to operate a domestic passenger flight to Aberdeen as BA1306, the aircraft had been on stand TD5 next to the one occupied by G-EUUO for two days since its last flight. Again in accordance with company procedures for such a relatively short period parked, the fitting of pitot/static covers had not been required. DAR speed and engine thrust data generated by the three independent source systems. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Once push back from the gate was under way with the engines being started, multiple, unexpected error messages were presented, the first being a short duration ECAM alert relating to the rudder travel limiter system. Towards the end of the pushback, the Captain saw his PFD speed scale indicating in excess of 160 knots before it then fell to zero. With no hard faults present, engine starting continued but once the first (right) engine was running, a series of new ECAM messages began to appear including failure messages for both radio altimeter systems, engine 1 (although it had not yet been started) and for the right side AoA sensor. The flight control mode had also downgraded from Normal to Alternate Law. On advice from Maintenance Control, engine 2 was shut down and the Air Data Inertial Reference Units (ADIRU) were re-initialised before a second attempt at engine start but when this made no difference, the ECAM faults remained so the