the first three events and having inspected the blockages just found, concluded that some form of insect infestation had been a significant contributor if not the sole cause of all three events. It was considered that some form of alert to aircraft operators was necessary and the UK CAA agreed to do this (see the section ‘Safety Action’ below). Blocked pitot probes removed from the three aircraft involved were examined by the AAIB to see if it was possible to identify the exact origin of the debris causing the blockages. On 15 June 2021, three aircraft failed their pre service DVIs and findings from these ‘events’ were included in the AAIB Investigation. The aircraft involved were as follows: a Boeing 787-9 (G-ZBKJ) right pitot mast was found to be blocked with insect eggs after being parked on stand TA4 for three days.. a Boeing 777-300 (G-STBJ) parked on stand TA6 was found to have its right pitot mast blocked and an insect, suspected to be a bee or wasp, was photographed entering the mast.. a Boeing 787-8 (G-ZBJF) parked on stand TA3 was found to have its right pitot mast blocked.. Following these three findings, the operator introduced new procedures for the fitting of pitot mast covers at Heathrow which required them to be used on any aircraft parked on an engineering base stand and to any aircraft staying parked overnight at any location. The Boeing 787-9 G-ZBKJ was subsequently released to service as the BA165 flight to Tel Aviv during which an ECAM fault indication for the left Air Data Module (ADM), which measures air pressure in the pitot static system, was annunciated. On the ground in Tel Aviv, a system test cleared the fault message and after a DVI of all pitot masts did not lead to any recording of blockage evidence. However, on the return sector from Tel Aviv to Heathrow as BA 164, the same fault message re-appeared. Since abnormally high pitot system air pressure is typically caused by partial obstruction of the air flow, on arrival at Heathrow, a fault investigation was initiated. After a succession of events affecting British Airways aircraft, on 1 July 2021, a Virgin Atlantic Airways Airbus A330-300 (G-VKSS) which had been ferried from long term storage at Manchester and then prepared for a return to service, departed Heathrow for Milan Malpensa and a failure of the right hand side pitot heater was annunciated en route. The required response, to select the standby system, resolved the fault and there were no other fault annunciations or abnormal Electronic Attitude Director Indicator (EADI) indications. Following the return flight to Heathrow under MEL-based release to service provisions, maintenance subsequently found evidence of “debris and contamination” at the quick-disconnect union on the rear of the right hand pitot mast unit but also discovered further similar debris and contamination within in the left hand side pitot mast, although not enough to compromise function. It was found that after arriving at Heathrow on 17 June, the aircraft