After a third Heathrow event involving a departing British Airways aircraft experiencing faults in the display of air speed information had occurred in the space of two days, a low speed rejected takeoff by a Boeing 777-200 which had been parked prior to flight at a different location to the first two, the operator determined that immediate reporting action to the UK AAIB was appropriate and quarantined the aircraft. The AAIB immediately attended and commenced a Field Investigation into all three events. During this, two other related events which subsequently occurred at the airport were added to the initial three. Only the first event involved a high speed rejected takeoff with one other, a British Airways Boeing 777-200 (G-YMMR) making a low speed rejected takeoff and the other, involving a British Airways Airbus A320neo (G-TTNH) which occurred during engine start/pushback. Two subsequent in-flight events in which related pitot/static system anomalies occurred were also included in the Investigation. These involved a British Airways Boeing 787-9 (G-ZBKJ) and a Virgin Atlantic Airways Airbus A330-300 (G-VKSS). The Investigation sought to determine the likely reasons for an abnormal concentration of pitot system-related problems associated with the operation of Heathrow-based aircraft both before and after the flight concerned had become airborne. Relevant Digital ACMS Recorder (DAR) data for the first three events was downloaded to assist the Investigation. (1) G-EUUO 9 June 2021 On 4 June 2021, the aircraft had made an uneventful flight to Heathrow from London Gatwick after a period of 2 months storage. Before this positioning flight, it had been through standard return to service requirements which had included a flush of the pitot/static system and subsequent leak checks with no adverse findings. On arrival at Heathrow the aircraft was subject to further maintenance action to prepare it for service which included an operational check of the engine bleed air valves. No further work was carried out on the pitot/static system and the aircraft was then parked on remote stand TD4 in the south eastern part of the airport (see the illustration below) for 26½ hours until being towed to Terminal 5 for an early morning departure on 9 June 2021. The fitting of pitot/static covers for such a short period remotely parked was not required and they had not been fitted. The flight crew consisted of a 40 year-old Captain with a total of 9,271 flying hours experience, all but 189 hours on type and a First Officer for whom age/experience details were not given. The Captain was acting as PF for the first sector. Both pilots stated that just after the engines had been started, they had been aware for about ten seconds of a smell described as similar to “burning hair” from the air conditioning ducts but all flight deck indications were normal as they taxied to the takeoff runway. Takeoff commenced with rapid acceleration due to the unusually low takeoff weight and shortly after the First Officer had called that thrust was set, the Captain saw that his