had been parked at various remote stands when not in a hangar but that pitot mast covers had not been fitted until 20 June. Enhanced use of pitot cover for all company aircraft was implemented. Finally, on 19 July, a live insect was observed inside the left hand pitot mast of a British Airways Airbus A319 (G-DBCG) during the pre service DVI and after sealing and removing the mast, engineers captured and contained the live insect (see the illustration below) and passed it to the AAIB Investigators. No further events were reported. The live insect recovered from the A319 G-DBCG. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A detailed analysis of debris found in the pitot masts ultimately removed because of debris contamination was made. That from the masts of the first two events had been reduced to dust because the mast heaters had been on. In the case of the third event, a hard cap remained at the entrance to the mast and specialist advice identified it as typical of solitary bees but as the debris inside had also been reduced to dust by heating, no more could be learnt from that. The pitot mast subsequently removed from the 777-300 which a wasp or bee had been photographed entering was found to be a capped nest which, because the mast heater had not been on, contained a larva which was still alive (see the illustration below) and was sent for analysis. The blocked mast (left) with the blockage removed to show the larva inside. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Unlike the other cases, the debris recovered from the Virgin Atlantic A330-300 (G-VKSS) had been further from the mast heater and as a result had been better preserved. On removal, it was found to consist of a mixture of “small shards of leaf material and dead larvae”. The London-based Natural History Museum was contracted to carry out an expert analysis of insect, larvae and debris evidence collected. Their DNA analysis and expert visual identification identified two species involved as the Mason Wasp Ancistrocerus parietum and the Leafcutter Bee Megachile pilidens. The former was the species involved in the case of the live insect photographed entering the A319 mast on 19 July and also the larva discovered inside a 777-300 mast on 15 June. The latter was the species involved in the Virgin Atlantic A330-300. Whilst the Mason Wasp species found was described “common and widespread” throughout much of the British Isles and widely distributed in mainland Europe, North Africa and Asia, the Leafcutter Bee species found was described as “not generally found” in the British Isles although present in Europe, North Africa and Central Asia. It was observed that “whilst the hazard of insects blocking pitot masts is not new, it is unusual for such a spate of events to occur in such a short timeframe” with aerodrome wildlife hazard management understandably more focused on the dangers to aircraft presented by birds. Data available from routine environmental monitoring of both air quality