The principles of the Boeing approach to fly-by-wire electronic flight control systems were established with the Boeing 777. The design principle adopted is to provide a system that responds similarly to a mechanically controlled flight control system. Because the B777 system is controlled electronically, it is also able to provide flight envelope protection. The electronic system operates on two levels - there are 4 Actuator Control Electronics (ACE) units and 3 Primary Flight Computers (PFC). The ACEs control actuators (from those on pilot controls to control surface controls and the PFC) and the PFC determines the applicable control laws and provide feedback forces, pilot information and warnings. The 777 flight control system is designed to restrict control authority beyond certain range by increasing the back pressure once the desired limit is reached. This is done via electronically controlled backdrive actuators (controlled by the ACE). The protections and augmentations are: bank angle protection, turn compensation, stall protection, over-speed protection, pitch control, stability augmentation and thrust asymmetry compensation. The design philosophy is: "to inform the pilot that the command being given would put the aircraft outside of its normal operating envelope, but the ability to do so is not precluded." In other words, the flight envelope protection system provides crew awareness of envelope margins and limitations by means of tactile, visual and aural cues and warnings. However, the protection functions of the system do not reduce or limit pilot control authority. Normal mode In Normal mode during manual flight, the ACEs receive pilot control inputs and send these signals to the three PFCs. The PFCs verify these signals and utilise information from other airplane systems in order to compute control surface commands. These commandas are then sent back to the ACEs which then send the enhanced signals to the flight control surface actuatos which convert them into analog servo commands. Full functionality is provided including all enhanced performance, envelope protection and ride quality features. When the auropilot is engaged, the autopilot system sends commands to the PFCs. The PFCs generate control surface commandas which are sent to the ACEs in the same manner as pilot control inputs. The autopilot commands move the flightdeck controls to provide autopilot feedback to the pilots. If a pilot overrides the autopilot with control inputs, the PFCs will disengage the autopilot and utilise the pilot control inputs. Note that the autopilot is not available should reversion to Secondary or Direct mode occur. Secondary mode Boeing Secondary mode is somewhat similar to the Airbus Alternate Law. When the PFCs can not support Normal mode operation due to internal faults or to loss of information from other aircraft systems, they automatically revert to Secondary mode. Reversion to Secondary mode results in the loss of the autopilot and the pilots must control the aircraft manually. The ACEs still receive pilot control inputs and send the appropriate signals to the PFCs. However, due to the degraded mode of operation, the PFCs use "simplified" computations to generate the flight control surface commands.