Aircraft compliant with Mode S ELS provide the following functionality (this is also referred to as "Basic Functionality"): Automatic reporting of aircraft identity. This is the aircraft callsign used in flight which is automatically presented to the controller. Altitude reporting in 25ft intervals (subject to aircraft capability). Transponder capability report - a technical function to enable ground systems to identify the data link capability of the transponder. Flight status (airborne / on the ground) - a technical function. SI code capability - a technical function to identify transponders capable of operating within a Surveillance Identifier (SI) code ground environment (which permits a reduction in ground infrastructure complexity). Basic functionality with SI code capability is the minimum level permitted for operations in European airspace.. Aircraft compliant with Mode S ELS provide the following operational benefits: Unambiguous aircraft identification. The availability of almost 17 million unique aircraft addresses, in conjunction with the automatic reporting of flight identity, permits the unambiguous identification of aircraft independently of any Mode 3/A code assignment. Mode S is the primary means of correlating radar tracks with system flight plans in automated ATC systems.. Improved integrity of surveillance data. Selective interrogation and the superior resolution ability of Mode S over existing SSR and MSSR installations eliminates synchronous garble, resolves the effects of over interrogation and simplifies aircraft identification in the case of radar reflections.. Improved air situation picture and tracking. Radar controllers are presented with a better current air situation picture through system acquisition of flight identity and enhanced tracking techniques. The greater accuracy of Mode S radars (less random or systematic errors together with the production of more stable speed vectors) results in an improved horizontal and vertical tracking capability over current SSR installations.. Alleviation of Mode 3/A code shortage. The situation concerning SSR code shortage in the EUR Region is reaching a critical stage. The unique aircraft address ability of Mode S will, in conjunction with other measures, help ease this problem.. Improvements to Safety Nets (e.g. Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA)). The ability of Mode S to eliminate synchronous garbling, to produce a more stable speed vector and to acquire aircraft altitude reporting in 25ft increments (if supported by compatible barometric avionics), provides valuable improvements to the quality of safety nets. These improvements should reduce the number of nuisance alerts and enhance the integrity of separation assurance.. Increased target capacity. In order to handle current and forecast increases in traffic, Mode S radars are able to process many more aircraft tracks (approximately double the number) than conventional MSSR installations..