Goods Regulations (DGR) was possible under Special Provision A70 which would have allowed the helicopter to be transported by air without being declared as dangerous goods providing batteries and other dangerous goods were removed and that the fuel tank and fuel system had been flushed and purged of all fuel and fuel vapours. The helicopter was presented to Cargolux for carriage under an A70 exemption which was invalid. It was noted that the responsibility for complying with the Dangerous Goods Regulations lies with “the shipper”. It was stated by Bristow US that “under the terms of the sales agreement, the buyer had complete responsibility for inspecting and transporting the helicopter”. The FAA were notified of the event and undertook its own investigation into the issues relating to undeclared and leaking dangerous goods. This involved interviews with many of the individuals and organisations who had been involved but although details from these interviews were shared with the AAIB, not all the parties involved “engaged directly with the AAIB” who as a result were therefore unable to fully explore some of the issues. A number of aspects of the event were examined further and various positions established, including but not limited to the following: Notwithstanding the issue of where the contractual commitment for preparation and de-fuelling of the helicopter lay, the disassembly of the helicopter and preparations for its transport took place at the seller’s facility and were conducted by its staff, despite a substantial amount of fuel remaining on the helicopter. The buyer assumed that the helicopter would be prepared in accordance with guidance published by the helicopter manufacturer, which recommends de-fuelling as part of the preparations for transportation. Neither the seller’s staff undertaking the disassembly, nor the buyer’s representatives who were subsequently in attendance, identified the fact that a substantial amount of fuel remained onboard the helicopter prior to it being packaged and transported.. The Shipper’s Export Declaration for the helicopter indicated that no hazardous materials were being exported and formed the basis for other transportation documentation. However, it did not accurately reflect the presence of fuel on board the helicopter, nor the battery and fire extinguisher within the helicopter cabin, which also required identification as dangerous goods. The documentation prepared in connection with carriage by air indicated the helicopter was being shipped as unrestricted cargo under the provisions of DGR Special Provision A70 which did not reflect the actual condition of the helicopter and precluded both Cargolux and its flight crew from awareness of the actual hazard it represented. As the designated shipper named on the Air Waybill, the legal contract of carriage by air was between the cargo logistics company and the operator. However, the cargo logistics company further delegated responsibility for production of the shipping documentation to the shipping agent and this documentation was not in compliance with the DGR nor did it correspond to the actual state of the helicopter. The dilution of responsibility among the various individuals and organisations involved in the shipping of the