helicopter meant that no single organisation or individual was able to assure that the shipping documentation was correct. Whilst there was insufficient evidence to support a formal Safety Recommendation on this matter, findings of the Investigation were with the IATA Dangerous Goods Board which in conjunction with ICAO publishes the DGR.. The small fuel leak observed when the helicopter was first loaded onto an aircraft at Houston provided a missed opportunity to detect the presence of Dangerous Goods. No attempt was made to determine the actual fuel state of the helicopter during the subsequent inspections and a series of incorrect documents followed as a result.. The way in which the fuel had escaped during flight was considered. Since the battery was disconnected, none of the fuel pumps could have operated during the flight and it was noted that possible ways for fuel to escape would have been via the fuel vent lines, the sump drain valves, the de-fuelling valves or a loose connection in a fuel system interconnect line. It was considered that the most likely origin of the leak was the forward right-hand fuel vent tube which had been found protruding from the shrink wrap whereas the forward left-hand vent was completely sealed. Given the nature of the fuel system, it was considered that the sealed forward left vent tube “may have prevented the pressure within the fuel tank’s four forward fuel cells from equalising in response to aircraft cabin pressure changes during the descent into Prestwick […] (and) induced a siphon-like effect, or caused the flexible fuel cells to temporarily deform as the aircraft’s cabin pressure equalised during the descent”, either of which would have caused fuel to be ejected via the open forward right-hand vent tube.. The precise fuel state of the helicopter prior to its shipment by air was unknown but it was considered that the 255 kg difference between the declared and post-shipment weight of the helicopter fuselage pallet represented the weight of fuel which had escaped from the helicopter during the flight, a weight would be equivalent to approximately 322 litres. On this basis, the fuel state of the helicopter prior to transportation was calculated to have been approximately 1,442 litres which would have meant that all the lower fuel cells would have been full. It was noted that the combined capacity of the lower forward and lower middle tanks, served by the forward vent lines, is approximately 304.7 litres, broadly equivalent to the quantity of fuel calculated to have escaped during the flight.. The formal statement of the Conclusions of the Investigation was as follows: Regardless of the exact mechanism by which the fuel escaped from the helicopter, the IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations (DGR) exist to prevent the transportation of hazardous cargo representing a hazard to the safety of an aircraft. Adequate steps were not taken to correctly prepare the helicopter for transport and this situation was not identified prior to it being offered for transportation by air. The Investigation identified that the