that the shipment was non-hazardous” and issued an Air Waybill for the shipment the following day. The shipment arrived at the Cargolux facility at Houston Airport on 26 January 2017 and was “accepted for travel by the Dangerous Goods Manager from the Operator’s contracted Ground Handling Agent (GHA)”. It was then not released for export by US government agencies until 21 March 2017. After loading onto a Cargolux aircraft on 27 March 2017, the Operator’s loading supervisor noticed a small fuel leak from the helicopter and so it was offloaded and the Operator’s sales asked the shipping agent to arrange for an inspection of the helicopter. This was carried out the following day by a mechanic in the presence of representatives from the shipping agent and the Operator’s sales department. A further inspection, again with shipping agent present and this time escorted by a GHA employee, was carried out later the same day. Review of CCTV footage showed that this second inspection took approximately 30 minutes. It was noted that “no walkround was conducted, the mechanic appeared to focus his attention on the lower surface of the helicopter and did not use any tools or remove the shrink-wrap to facilitate inspection of the helicopter”. He “used a cleaning spray to clean parts of the exterior surface, inserted absorbent pads between the shrink-wrap and the helicopter skin and applied some white tape over the shrink-wrap” and the airline and the other agencies involved including the cargo logistics company were then informed “the fuel leak had originated from residual fuel in the fuel lines and had been capped off”. After the shipping agent had provided Cargolux with a revised Air Waybill and Air Cargo Manifest and “Purge Certificate” indicating that the helicopter was free from fuel, the shipment was accepted and was loaded onto flight CV7754 as being exempt from the regulations applicable to the carriage of Dangerous Goods by air. The loading supervisor responsible for the flight reported having checked the helicopter prior to, during and after loading and having seen “no evidence of a fuel leak or spill”. A considerable number of administrative irregularities and incorrect declarations were discovered in respect of the shipment of the helicopter as air freight and it appeared that there had been confusion between the seller and buyer of the helicopter as to who was responsible for disassembly of the helicopter and its preparation for carriage by air in accordance with applicable regulations. At the end of this process, the Dangerous Goods NOTOC (Notification to Captain) presented to the Captain of the aircraft made no mention of the helicopter. The applicable requirements of ICAO Annex 18 include that dangerous goods must be carried in accordance with ICAO document 9284 ‘Technical instructions for the safe transport of dangerous goods by air’. The helicopter was Class 9 Dangerous Goods and in the category ‘UN3166 Vehicle, flammable-liquid powered’ and had required special preparation, packaging and labelling to identify it as dangerous goods. However, conditional exemption from the Dangerous