took a 467 litre uplift - equivalent to approximately 369 kg - to reach a full tanks indication. No fuel leaked from the helicopter after this refuelling had taken place. The interior of the aircraft main deck had been extensively contaminated. Once the fuel vapours had dispersed, internal floor and ceiling panels and sidewall liners were lifted and all the contaminated insulation blankets removed. All the aircraft’s electronics, avionics wire looms and harnesses also needed to be decontaminated. After a ferry flight to Luxembourg two weeks after the event, a number of additional actions were required to return the aircraft to a fully airworthy condition, including extensive inspections, cleaning and the application of corrosion-inhibiting fluid. All the insulation blankets and lower deck ceiling liner panels and some components of the cargo loading system also had to be replaced. It was established that in December 2016, the helicopter had been sold by Bristow US, who were based in Louisiana, to a new German owner, Agrarflug Helilift. The process of arranging the shipment which Cargolux eventually carried was found to have involved a number of different agencies and individuals dealing with various aspects of the sale, preparation and transport of the helicopter to Houston Airport for loading. Apart from the seller and the buyer, these included a sales agent representing the buyer in the US and his assistants and “freight forwarding work” carried out by three organisations. A New Zealand-based routing agent was also appointed to oversee the export requirements and transportation of the helicopter to Germany and it subsequently sub-contracted this work to a US-based cargo logistics company to act on their behalf in the US and this sub-contractor then appointed a US-based shipping agent to prepare the Air Waybill and monitor progress. The helicopter had been partly disassembled by the seller’s staff at their facility and loose items were crated. The fuselage was then shrink-wrapped in heavy duty plastic by a specialist company contracted by the sales agent who subsequently noted that “an open flame torch was used to shrink the plastic wrap and that they would not have wrapped the helicopter if they had known it was fuelled”. It had been intended that the buyer’s sales agent would oversee the disassembly of the helicopter and its preparation for transport by the seller but he was unable to attend and arranged for two assistants to attend instead. However, only one was present when the helicopter fuselage was shrink-wrapped and it had already been disassembled prior to his arrival. The second assistant was present to observe the shipment being loaded onto the vehicles of a road haulage company which had been engaged to move the shipment from the seller’s facility to Houston Airport. The Cargolux Sales Department booked-in the shipment of 9 loose crates and the helicopter fuselage on 23 January 2017 based on a quotation they had given five months earlier. The shipping agent “explicitly indicated in writing that all fuels and batteries had been removed from the helicopter and