A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The 52 year-old Captain of the flight was noted to have accumulated 12,900 hours of which 9,200 hours were on type. It was found that the first hint that anything was amiss was a smell of fuel detected by the flight crew as they shut down the engines. When the ground operations agent entered the aircraft via the main deck door to commence unloading operations, he also detected a strong smell of aviation fuel and reported having heard the sound of running liquid. He identified the source of the fuel as a Bell 412EP helicopter which was part of the main deck cargo and discovered that fuel appeared to be leaking from a vent on the forward right-hand side of the helicopter. The situation was reported to the flight crew and the Airport Authority and the Airport RFFS were notified. The Airport Emergency Response Plan was activated and the aircraft was fully shut down and the crew escape hatch and upper deck service door were opened to help ventilate the aircraft. Upon arrival at the aircraft the RFFS established that fuel from the helicopter was coming out of a drain hole at the bottom of the fuselage close to the left body landing gear, having leaked through the main deck, lower deck and avionics bay. They subsequently advised that “the measured fuel vapour levels indicated a high risk of explosion and that the fuel flammability limits were potentially in range”. It was also observed that “the presence of fuel in proximity to potentially hot wheel brakes (had) created a substantial risk of fire”. Overall it was considered that “the escape of fuel from the helicopter represented a substantial hazard to the safety of the aircraft, the flight crew and those on the ground at Prestwick Airport”. After the aircraft had been made safe, all cargo, including the helicopter, was offloaded manually. When the helicopter was examined prior to the removal of the shrink wrapping in which it had been shipped, this wrapping was found to have been breached at the forward right hand fuel vent and fuel had evidently leaked from there. Some fuel was also present in the wells of the pallet on which it had been loaded and some of the straps securing it to that pallet were “soaked with fuel”. There was no sign of fuel leaking out of breaches anywhere else in the shrink wrapping. When the helicopter cabin was opened, it was noted that the helicopter’s main battery with a ‘Class 8 (corrosive) hazard’ label affixed was found to be installed in its normal position although disconnected. A fire extinguisher was also found secured to a floor stowage. A comparison of the declared weight of the consignment as shipped and the weight of it after fuel had leaked showed a difference of 255 kg. When the helicopter was electrically powered-up, the total quantity of fuel on board was indicated as 1,440 lb and it subsequently