the nomination of an alternate aerodrome or the carriage of additional fuel to reach an alternate aerodrome.. If the aircraft manufacturer’s ‘1124A Westwind Operational Planning Manual’ was used, the aircraft departed with sufficient fuel for the flight for normal operations. If the operator’s specified fuel planning methods were used, the aircraft departed with insufficient fuel for the flight for normal operations. In either case, the flight departed with insufficient fuel to meet the regulatory requirements as there was insufficient fuel to allow for aircraft system failures.. At the time of the accident, many emergency locator transmitters (ELTs) were not GNSS-equipped. Such ELTs were of limited effectiveness for impacts where the ELT was unable to continue sending signals for an extended period, such as in the case of a ditching or water impact when the ELT and the associated aerial could not remain above the water for an extended period.. In very difficult circumstances, the doctor and flight nurse did an excellent job evacuating the patient, and then assisting the patient and injured first officer in the water. Both the doctor and nurse had undertaken helicopter underwater escape training (HUET), which they reported had helped them prepare for the evacuation.. The chance observation of the Captain’s torch by a fire-fighter redirected the search for the survivors to the correct location and facilitated the timely arrival of the search vessel.. Safety Recommendations Prior to the completion of the Re-Opened Investigation, the response to all the identified Safety Issues that had been shared with the organisations at which they were directed was assessed. Almost all were classified as “adequately addressed”. However, three were not and this resulted in the issue of three Safety Recommendations as follows: that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority continue its work in reviewing fuel planning requirements and guidance and address the limitations associated with requirements and guidance for fuel planning of flights for all types of passenger operations to isolated aerodromes in Australia and internationally. [AO-2014-190-SR-042]. that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority continue its work to address the limitations associated with the requirements and guidance for in-flight fuel management. [AO-2014-190-SR-043]. that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority continue reviewing the requirements for air ambulance / medical transport operations and address the limitations associated with the current classification of these flights as aerial work rather than air transport. [AO-2014-190-SR-044]. The 531-page Final Report of the Reopened Investigation was on released on 23 November 2017.