and safety management processes at the Operator.. The Investigation identified many other factors that increased the risk to safety but the evidence did not allow it to conclude that they contributed to the accident.. The accident involved a combination of rare events. For example, historically, weather conditions below landing minima at Norfolk Island were found to occur just 0.1 per cent of the time, the Operator conducted relatively few flights to Norfolk Island or similar destinations and it was rare for any of the Operator’s long-distance flights to such islands to depart with less than the maximum possible fuel endurance. It was also unlikely that both Nadi ATS and Auckland ATS would not provide all the relevant weather information to a flight crew and then that the crew themselves would not request it at the appropriate time.. Nevertheless, each of these ‘rare events’ increased aggregate risk and ultimately provided a context for the accident outcome. This highlights the importance for all ‘front-line’ personnel and their organisations of both minimising the chances of any of them occurring and by having sound practices, controls and processes in place to identify and manage the consequences if they do occur.. The fact that the Reopened Investigation identified (see below) 16 Safety Issues when the Original Investigation identified just two ‘Minor Safety Issues’ was due in part (only) to the amount of information gathered by the former and the depth to which it was analysed. The more effort or resources are applied to an investigation, the more problems are likely to be found.. Overall, it was concluded that a Fundamental Lesson for all flight crew, operators and regulators is “to recognise that un-forecast weather can occur at any aerodrome (and) consequently, there is a need for robust and conservative fuel planning and in-flight fuel management procedures for passenger-carrying transport flights to remote islands and isolated aerodromes”. Seven Additional Safety Messages were also identified as: Flight crew should discuss and consider options to manage threats when there is time available to do so.. Operators should ensure their flight crew proficiency checks assess the performance of all key tasks required of their flight crew.. Operators should not rely on informal risk controls for managing the performance of safety-critical tasks, particularly when there is a significant turnover of pilots in a fleet.. Operators of air ambulance flights should ensure medical personnel have clearly defined procedures and practical training for using the emergency equipment on board to ensure they can effectively assist a patient in the event of an emergency.. All organisations in safety-critical industries should use proactive and predictive processes to identify hazards in their operations.. Organisations that use a bio-mathematical model of fatigue (BMMF) as part of their fatigue risk management system should ensure they have a detailed understanding of the assumptions and limitations associated with such models.. Regulators should develop effective methods for obtaining, storing and integrating information about operators and the nature of their operations so they can develop effective surveillance plans.. These were divided