level was breached marginally to no less than 750 feet but nothing was seen. The Captain took over as PF whilst the aircraft was at MDA on the first approach and remained in that role thereafter. The Captain stated that after the second approach, he had become “significantly concerned about their prospects for landing successfully”. He then flew a third approach using the VOR procedure for runway 11 which had an MDA of 750 feet but nothing was seen on that approach either. Soon after commencing the missed approach from runway 11, the CVR recorded the Captain stating that they would have to ditch the aircraft. At this time the aircraft was heading south-southeast over the sea and away from the airport and as it did so, it was noted that it had passed within 1½ nm of the 919 ft spot height on a small island just off the main island at about the same height as its terrain. After several discussions about whether to ditch or try another approach, the Captain decided to make another approach to runway 29 whilst at the same time, the passengers were instructed by the First Officer to prepare for a ditching and did so. The First Officer stated that at the start of the fourth approach, the fuel gauges indicated that about 200 lb remained - the Investigation subsequently calculated that there was “probably about 520 lb of fuel remaining”. At the end of the fourth approach when again nothing was seen, the Captain recalled seeing “between 0 and 100 lb indicated on each fuel quantity gauge”; 23 minutes had elapsed since the start of the first approach. The Captain turned the aircraft towards what he reported knowing was open sea with no islands and set up a descent. At a recorded 80 feet above the sea, this was stabilised at about 360 fpm with the landing gear up and the airspeed 108 knots (and decreasing). The First Officer called out heights of ‘40’, ‘30’ and ’10 feet and the aircraft hit the sea at an airspeed of 92 knots. Data from both the CVR and the FDR indicated there had been three impacts successively recorded as 3.24 g, 2.30g and 1.98 g although the peak values may have been higher than those recorded. The nurse seated at the rear of the aircraft stated that the first impact had “involved a very significant vertical force” and the First Officer stated that the aircraft nose had entered the water on the final impact which had resulted in a significant longitudinal deceleration. Both pilots stated that although the aircraft landing lights were on, they had not seen anything outside before hitting the water and so were unable to align the aircraft track with the sea swell. The aircraft was subject to significant impact damage and the main door partially opened during the last impact after which the aircraft cabin rapidly began to fill with water entering through this gap and into the rear of