evacuated the aircraft with only three life vests and without the aircraft’s life rafts.. One of the lights on the three life jackets operated for less than 85 minutes, significantly less than the 8 hours required by the relevant design standard.. The First Officer did not advise the Norfolk Island Unicom operator of the runway being used for the fourth approach, and her subsequent advice that they were proceeding with the ditching did not include the intended location. As a result, the rescue services initially started proceeding to an incorrect search datum, potentially delaying the recovery of any survivors.. Due to limited sleep in the previous 24 hours, the Captain was probably experiencing a level of fatigue that has been demonstrated to adversely influence performance.. The Operator’s application of its fatigue risk management system overemphasised the importance of scores obtained from a bio-mathematical model of fatigue (BMMF), and it did not have the appropriate expertise to understand the limitations and assumptions associated with the model. Overall, the operator did not have sufficient risk controls in addition to the BMMF to manage the duration and timing of duty, rest and standby periods. [Safety Issue]. Guidance material associated with the FAID bio-mathematical model of fatigue did not provide information about the limitations of the model when applied to roster patterns involving minimal duty time or work in the previous 7 days. [Safety Issue]. Although the Operator installed an enhanced ground proximity warning system (EGPWS) and traffic alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS) on VH-NGA in August 2009, it did not provide relevant flight crew with formal training on using these systems, or incorporate relevant changes into the aircraft’s emergency procedures checklists. [Safety Issue]. The Operator had not formally defined the roles and responsibilities of key positions involved in monitoring and managing flight operations, such as the Standards Manager for each fleet and the General Manager Flying Operations (Medivac and Charter). [Safety Issue]. Although the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) collected or had access to many types of information about a charter and/or aerial work operator, the information was not integrated to form a useful operations or safety profile of the operator. In addition, CASA’s processes for obtaining information on the nature and extent of an operator’s operations were limited and informal. These limitations reduced its ability to effectively prioritise surveillance activities. [Safety Issue]. The Civil Aviation Safety Authority’s procedures and guidance for scoping an audit included several important aspects, but it did not formally include the nature of the Operator’s activities, the inherent threats or hazards associated with those activities, and the risk controls that were important for managing those threats or hazards. [Safety Issue]. Other Findings: In 2009, the amount of un-forecast weather below the landing minima at Norfolk Island was similar to that for other remote islands and also for capital city airports in Australia.. At the time the flight was planned, there were no weather-related or other operational requirements that affected the planning of the accident flight, or necessitated