An Accident Investigation was carried out by the ATSB and a 77 page Final Report was released on 30 August 2012 with a minor correction subsequently made to this the following day. Shortly after release of this Report, a television program questioned its findings and a Parliamentary Committee decided to commence an inquiry to examine the findings of the Report, the investigation process involved and related matters. The Committee’s report, released in May 2013, made a number of recommendations to the Australian Government, the ATSB and other government agencies which included that ATSB re-open the Investigation “with a focus on organisational, oversight and broader systemic issues”. The ATSB then asked the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) to conduct an independent peer review of their investigation methodologies and processes. This was carried out based on three completed ATSB investigations including the Norfolk Island one and was “finalised” on 1 December 2014. It noted that there had been “significant limitations” in the ATSB’s application of its processes during the Norfolk Island investigation, especially in respect of “insufficient collection of factual information” including but not limited to the decision not to recover the CVR or FDR from the wreckage. Three days later, the ATSB formally reopened the Investigation which then reviewed the evidence obtained during the original investigation process as well as collecting a substantial amount of new information. The work of the re-opened Investigation informs the remainder of this much-abbreviated account of the Norfolk Island event. The flight was carried out for medevac purposes and was conducted in a transport category aircraft but under prevailing Australian regulations was classified as an aerial work operation. Aerial work operations are a category distinguished from passenger carrying charter and scheduled air transport operations. The four passengers on the accident flight were a doctor, a nurse, the patient and the spouse of the patient. The Captain, who had been employed by Pel-Air since 2005, had a total of 4,347 flying hours which included 889 hours on type of which 298 hours were in command on type. He had previously, after 130 hours line training, qualified as a First Officer on the Operator’s SA-227 Metro night cargo operations and then, in September 2007 after 68 hours line training, as a First Officer on the Westwind. He subsequently failed Westwind command training in June 2008 after 98 hours and finally gained command five months later after further training. It was noted that all type conversion training at the Operator was carried out on the aircraft, not in a full flight simulator, and that he had obtained some simulator experience in 2004 during Second Officer training with “a major Australian airline (which) was discontinued after he did not meet the required standard on multiple exercises”. He had made four previous flights to Norfolk Island, all of which were air ambulance flights at night, as well as a number to similarly remote aerodromes since gaining command. The First Officer had joined Pel-Air in January 2008 as a First Officer and