that although the minima for Norfolk Island used as an alternate were no longer satisfied, conditions were still above destination landing minima. At this time, the Investigation estimated that the aircraft was “about 644nm from Norfolk Island, 649nm from Noumea and 317nm from Nadi” with more than enough fuel on board to divert to Nadi or Noumea and land with the required fuel reserves unused. However, as the flight progressed, unknown to the crew, the conditions were continuing to deteriorate and half an hour later, another SPECI gave the cloud as broken at 300 feet and overcast at 900 feet which was below landing minima. By this time, the aircraft had continued on track beyond the point where the flight crew reported they had been confident that the aircraft had sufficient fuel to reach Noumea. The crew indicated that their doubts about the feasibility of this diversion were based on uncertainty as to the wind component which might prevail given their experience of the greater than expected headwind component on track. However, the Investigation calculated that 10 minutes later, with about 435nm to go to Norfolk Island and Noumea about 500 nm away and Nadi 465nm away, the fuel remaining was still more than sufficient to divert to either, without using reserve fuel. The captain stated that he had “regularly estimated the Point of No Return (PNR) during the accident flight and had considered both Nadi and Noumea as potential diversions as the flight progressed but he “could not recall the position or time of the PNR”. The First Officer stated that it was the Captain’s job to monitor the PNR and “she could not recall any discussion about it during the flight”. There was also no discussion on the CVR recording about the PNR for a diversion to either Nadi or Noumea. About half an hour out from Norfolk Island, it was possible to establish contact with the Norfolk Island UNICOM operator and the flight was given the present weather there as measured by the Automatic Weather Station (AWS). As earlier, this included broken cloud at 300 feet but in addition now included a prevailing visibility of 6000 metres. CVR data showed that following receipt of this report, both crew were evidently becoming “noticeably more anxious” about the weather conditions. However, the Captain stated that at that time, he remained confident that they would still be able to land as he was “expecting the actual cloud conditions would be better than those detected by the AWS”, noting that “if he had been really concerned he would have elected to take over as PF for the approach”. However, reports from the UNICOM Operator continued to give cloud below landing minima. Beginning at 1000 UTC, 4¼ hours after takeoff from Apia, a sequence of 4 unsuccessful approaches were flown - see the illustration below. The aerodrome elevation was 371 feet. The first two approaches used the VOR approach to runway 29 with a MDA of 850 feet which, once at that