formal guidance material regarding what types of weather information to obtain during a flight and when to obtain the information no procedure for a Captain’s calculation of the PNR to be checked by another pilot little if any assessment during proficiency checks of a pilot’s ability to calculate a PNR and conduct in-flight fuel management on long distance flights no fitment of a satellite phone in most of the operator’s Westwind aircraft. [Safety Issue]. no formal guidance material about how to calculate a point of no return (PNR) for an off-track alternate aerodrome. no formal guidance material regarding what types of weather information to obtain during a flight and when to obtain the information. no procedure for a Captain’s calculation of the PNR to be checked by another pilot. little if any assessment during proficiency checks of a pilot’s ability to calculate a PNR and conduct in-flight fuel management on long distance flights. no fitment of a satellite phone in most of the operator’s Westwind aircraft. [Safety Issue]. The flight crew were aware that the reported weather conditions were below the alternate minima before they briefed the first approach and they were aware the reported conditions were below the landing minima before the top of descent. However, the crew did not discuss approach options, or effectively discuss contingencies if they could not successfully land off the first approach. After the first approach, the crew did not effectively review their fuel situation and consider alternate emergency options prior to ditching the aircraft.. The flight crew experienced significant workload, time pressure and stress during the latter stage of the flight which reduced their capacity to assess their situation, make effective decisions and conduct approaches.. Associated with the limited time available following the decision to ditch, the flight crew did not refer to the emergency procedures checklist for ditching and some checklist items were not completed. In particular, the Captain conducted the final approach at an airspeed significantly below the reference landing speed (Vref), which reduced the aircraft’s energy state and increased the descent rate just prior to impact.. The ditching was conducted in dark night conditions, which resulted in the flight crew being unable to evaluate the direction of the main swell, as well as increasing the Captain’s difficulty in conducting the flare manoeuvre.. The aircraft probably encountered forces during the impact sequence that were significantly greater than those the aircraft was designed to withstand. Although the survivable space within the cabin was maintained, the forces resulted in serious injuries, significant damage and rapid flooding of the aircraft.. Although the operator’s safety management processes were improving, its processes for identifying hazards extensively relied on hazard and incident reporting, and it did not have adequate proactive and predictive processes in place. In addition, although the operator commenced air ambulance operations in 2002, and the extent of these operations had significantly increased since 2007, the operator had not conducted a formal or structured review of its risk controls for these operations. [Safety Issue]. Other