factors that increased risk: The Operator and Air Ambulance provider did not have a structured process in place to conduct pre-flight risk assessments for air ambulance tasks, nor was there any regulatory requirement for such a process. [Safety Issue]. The aircraft’s fuel quantity gauges were probably under-reading by a total of about 260 lb during the flight. Although the flight crew were aware the fuel gauges were under-reading, the Captain became significantly concerned about the fuel situation when the indicated fuel remaining approached 0 lb.. Following a pilot report of under-reading fuel quantity gauges on VH-NGA on 9 October 2009, the gauges were probably not effectively calibrated.. The aircraft’s fuel flow gauges were probably under-reading. The flight crew of the accident flight had not identified the problem, and flight crews of previous flights had not identified and/or reported the problem.. The available regulatory guidance on in-flight fuel management and on seeking and applying en route weather updates was too general and increased the risk of inconsistent in-flight fuel management and decisions to divert. [Safety Issue]. Although the Operator provided its flight crew with basic awareness training in crew resource management (CRM), it was limited in nature and did not ensure flight crew were provided with sufficient case studies and practical experience in applying relevant CRM techniques. [Safety Issue]. Prior to departing Apia, the flight crew did not conduct a pre-flight safety briefing for the aircraft’s other occupants.. The operator’s risk controls did not provide assurance that the occupants on an air ambulance aircraft would be able to effectively respond in the event of a ditching or similar emergency. Specific examples included: insufficient information provided during the pre-flight demonstrations and on the passenger safety brief card to demonstrate how to use a life jacket limited procedures and guidance regarding the relative roles, responsibilities and required actions of flight crew and medical personnel during emergencies, particularly with regard to the evacuation of a patient no practical training or demonstrations for medical personnel on how to use the safety equipment on board the aircraft no designated location for a stretchered patient’s life jacket no formal, specific procedures and limited training on how to secure life rafts in an appropriate, readily-accessible location prior to a ditching. [Safety Issue]. insufficient information provided during the pre-flight demonstrations and on the passenger safety brief card to demonstrate how to use a life jacket. limited procedures and guidance regarding the relative roles, responsibilities and required actions of flight crew and medical personnel during emergencies, particularly with regard to the evacuation of a patient. no practical training or demonstrations for medical personnel on how to use the safety equipment on board the aircraft. no designated location for a stretchered patient’s life jacket. no formal, specific procedures and limited training on how to secure life rafts in an appropriate, readily-accessible location prior to a ditching. [Safety Issue]. Associated with limited preparation time before the ditching and the rapid ingress of water into the cabin after the ditching, the six occupants