the cabin through the breached cabin floor. Although the cabin lighting soon failed, all six occupants were able to escape. The Captain opened and departed through the left emergency exit, the doctor and nurse assisted the patient out of the right emergency exit and the patient’s husband and the First Officer followed out of the left emergency exit although by then, both reported having to swim up to reach the sea surface. The occupants had only three of the on-board life jackets with them and neither of the two aircrafts life rafts. It was noted that all occupants except the stretchered patient had been through wet drill training and Helicopter Underwater Evacuation Training (HUET). As the intended ditching area communicated by the flight crew was not understood by the Unicom Operator, there was a significant delay in locating the occupants who had to wait almost 1½ hours to be rescued. Significantly, the original Investigation had decided not to recover the aircraft flight recorders, which included a 2 hour CVR. This decision had been based on a number of considerations including that: all the occupants had survived and could be interviewed. the depth of the wreckage (48 metres) meant that recovery would be difficult and costly.. key items of evidence from the CVR, such as communications about weather conditions and fuel management would only be available for the final 2 hours of the flight. only a small number of parameters were recorded on the FDR.. After the Investigation was reopened the feasibility of recovering the recorders was revisited and following an underwater survey of the wreckage, a specialised salvage contractor was engaged to conduct a recovery operation. This involved excavating sand from the wreckage location, specialised diving to prepare the tail section of the aircraft for recovery and then lifting of the tail section to the surface to retrieve the recorders which was successful. Good quality data was downloaded from both recorders and provided a valuable new insight into the circumstances that had prevailed. Very considerable new investigative effort was also applied to a range of other relevant issues including meteorological aspects, ATS issues, fuel planning and management, pilot training and checking at the Operator, the Operator’s approach to risk assessment, safety management and fatigue risk management, ditching survival issues and the oversight of the Operator by the safety regulator. Significant concerns were identified in a range of areas including but not limited to the Captain’s poor pre flight planning especially in relation to fuel and his equally poor in flight approach to risk management en route, a lack of sufficiently robust Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) at the Operator and limitations in regulatory requirements. After reviewing all the assembled evidence, the Investigation made a series of “final comments” which included, in summary, the following: The accident involved a combination of multiple safety factors including the individual actions of the flight crew and ATS personnel, local conditions influencing the flight crew, weakness in some aspects of regulatory oversight and incomplete risk controls