had subsequently failed command upgrade training earlier in 2009 after 95 hours line training. She had a total of 1,961 hours flying experience of which 656 hours was on type and had made three previous flights to Norfolk Island, two with the same Captain as the accident flight. It was noted that the same aircraft and crew had positioned the previous night from Sydney to Apia after spending the day on Standby until the mission to Apia was notified. The aircraft arrived in Apia via Norfolk Island in the early morning after approximately 6½ hours flying time and the crew then had just under 8 hours off duty during the day prior to beginning preparations for the return night flight. Both flight crew reported considering that they had achieved adequate rest during the day but in the case of the Captain in particular, this was not supported by contextual evidence. It was found that pre flight planning by the aircraft commander consisted of obtaining the 12 hour TAF for Norfolk Island whilst submitting the FPL. This indicated that the forecast weather conditions were above the landing and alternate minima, the latter meaning that the FPL did not have to include an alternate. The flight briefing officer who provided the TAF also noted a TREND for the final 3 hours of the TAF periods which detailed an expected deterioration but “when the briefing officer asked if the commander would like the details of the trend, he declined”. It was also noted that the commander did not request an en route forecast and “did not obtain any other meteorological information, NOTAMs or additional briefing information from the briefing officer”. Instead, he used the weather and NOTAM briefing information from the outbound flight from Sydney to Samoa when planning the return flight to Norfolk Island “because of difficulty accessing internet-based briefing resources”. The aircraft was refuelled to full main tanks but exceptionally, none was added to the tip tanks for the approximately 1470nm flight to Norfolk Island for reasons that “could not be fully determined”. It was noted that applying the methods outlined in the Pel-Air OM would result in a total fuel required greater than the capacity of the main tanks alone. The First Officer was designated as PF and the Captain reported that once in the cruise at FL390, he had reviewed the fuel required for the remainder of the flight against the fuel remaining and recalled that the prevailing 80 knot headwind component was greater than the 50 knots he had expected and he had therefore adjusted engine thrust setting to achieve a more efficient but slower cruise speed to allow completion of the sector without using reserve fuel. Two and a quarter hours into what the Captain expected would be about a 4 hour flight, a SPECI received for Norfolk Island from the Nadi IFISO disclosed an earlier deterioration in the weather than had been contained in the TAF with a current overcast at 1100 feet aal. This meant