for a Captain’s calculation of the total fuel required to be checked by another pilot. little if any assessment during proficiency checks of a pilot’s ability to conduct flight/fuel planning. [Safety Issue]. Although passenger-carrying charter flights to Australian remote islands were required to carry alternate fuel, there were no explicit fuel planning requirements for other types of passenger-carrying flights to remote islands. There were also no explicit Australian regulatory requirements for fuel planning of flights to isolated aerodromes. In addition, Australia generally had less conservative requirements than other countries regarding when a flight could be conducted without an alternate aerodrome. [Safety Issue]. Although air ambulance flights involved transporting passengers, in Australia they were classified as ‘aerial work’ rather than ‘charter’. Consequently, they were subject to a lower level of regulatory requirements than other passenger-transport operations (including in terms of requirements for fuel planning of flights to remote islands). [Safety Issue]. The meteorological conditions were below the landing minima at the time the aircraft arrived at Norfolk Island (1003 UTC). This level of deterioration in the conditions was not indicated in the aerodrome forecast issued at 0437, prior to the departure of the flight (although an amended forecast issued at 0803 included conditions below the alternate minima).. Although the Nadi international flight information service officer had provided the flight crew with the 0800 UTC special weather report (SPECI) (which included conditions below the alternate minima), he did not proactively provide the flight crew with the amended aerodrome forecast for Norfolk Island issued at 0803 (which forecast conditions below the alternate minima) or the SPECI issued at 0830 (which included conditions below the landing minima).. After responsibility for the flight transferred to Auckland air traffic services at 0835 UTC, the Auckland air/ground operator did not confirm the flight crew had received the 0803 amended aerodrome forecast for Norfolk Island or the 0830 special weather report.. The flight crew did not request sufficient weather information at an appropriate time prior to reaching the point of no return (PNR) to support effective decision making. In addition, the Captain’s method for estimating the PNR to an off-track alternate aerodrome during a flight would generally not produce a specific, accurate time that could be used as an effective basis for deciding when to gather relevant weather information.. The Captain underestimated the risk associated with continuing the flight to Norfolk Island. This underestimation was probably associated with several contextual factors, including the limited weather information he had been provided with during the flight, the limited information he had requested during the flight, and a strong though mistaken expectancy that the automatic weather station at Norfolk Island generally overestimated the amount of cloud that was present.. The operator’s risk controls did not provide assurance that the operator’s Westwind pilots would conduct adequate in-flight fuel management and related activities during flights to remote islands or isolated aerodromes. Limitations included: no formal guidance material about how to calculate a point of no return (PNR) for an off-track alternate aerodrome no