into ‘Contributing Factors’ (17), Other Factors that increased risk (19) and 6 ‘Other Findings’. Five of the ‘Contributing Factors’ and eleven of the ‘Other Factors which increased risk’ were classified as ‘Safety Issues’ requiring explicit attention. In contrast, the Original Investigation had identified only three ‘Contributory Factors’, none of them classified as ‘Safety Issues’, four ‘Other Safety Factors’ of which two were classified as ‘Minor Safety Issues’ and three “Key Safety Findings”. Contributory Factors: Contrary to the consistent practice of the operator’s Westwind fleet, the long-distance flight to a remote island aerodrome departed without uploading the maximum possible amount of fuel prior to departure. Had the flight departed with the maximum amount of fuel, it is very likely the aircraft would have had sufficient fuel to divert from the top of descent or to hold at the remote island for a significant period of time.. The Captain’s pre-flight planning did not include many of the elements needed to reduce the risk of a long-distance flight to a remote island or isolated aerodrome. Limitations included: miscalculating the total fuel required for the flight under normal operations not obtaining relevant forecasts of upper-level winds and, in the absence of such forecasts, underestimating the potential headwind component not calculating the additional fuel required to allow for aircraft system failures not obtaining a current aerodrome forecast and NOTAMs for potential alternate aerodromes not calculating a point of no return (PNR).. miscalculating the total fuel required for the flight under normal operations. not obtaining relevant forecasts of upper-level winds and, in the absence of such forecasts, underestimating the potential headwind component. not calculating the additional fuel required to allow for aircraft system failures. not obtaining a current aerodrome forecast and NOTAMs for potential alternate aerodromes. not calculating a point of no return (PNR).. The operator’s Westwind pilots generally used a conservative approach to fuel planning, and the operator placed no restrictions on the amount of fuel that pilots uploaded. However, the operator’s risk controls did not provide assurance that there would be sufficient fuel on board flights to remote islands or isolated aerodromes. Limitations included: no explicit fuel planning requirements for remote islands or isolated aerodromes no formal fuel planning guidance for some relevant situations, such as a loss of pressurisation or flight below reduced vertical separation minimum (RVSM) airspace no formal training for planning flights to remote islands or for international operations no guidance information about potential hazards at commonly-used aerodromes no procedure for a Captain’s calculation of the total fuel required to be checked by another pilot little if any assessment during proficiency checks of a pilot’s ability to conduct flight/fuel planning. [Safety Issue]. no explicit fuel planning requirements for remote islands or isolated aerodromes. no formal fuel planning guidance for some relevant situations, such as a loss of pressurisation or flight below reduced vertical separation minimum (RVSM) airspace. no formal training for planning flights to remote islands or for international operations. no guidance information about potential hazards at commonly-used aerodromes. no procedure