EASA became operational on 28 September 2003 as an independent body of the European Community with its own legal personality. In 2004 the Agency set up its permanent headquarters in Cologne, Germany. It may, with the consent of the Member State concerned, establish local offices in any Member State. EASA is represented by its Executive Director. The Executive Director alone is empowered to take decisions and adopt acts concerning safety and environmental protection. He decides on inspections and investigations and is the manager of the Agency and, as such, is responsible for preparing and implementing the budget and work programme and for all questions relating to personnel. Since these decisions directly affect people and organisations, the EASA Regulation creates an independent Board of Appeal whose role is to check that the Executive Director has correctly applied European legislation in this field. The Executive Director is appointed by the Agency's Management Board. The Board is responsible for the definition of the Agency’s priorities, the establishment of the budget and for monitoring the Agency’s operation. It adopts EASA annual report and work programme (after approval by the European Commission) and the working procedures to be followed by the Agency. The Management Board is composed of one representative of each Member State and one representative of the Commission. The Management Board elects a Chairperson and a Deputy Chairperson from among its members. The term of office is three years and is renewable. The EASA Advisory Board assists the Management Board in its work. It comprises organisations representing aviation personnel, manufacturers, commercial and general aviation operators, maintenance industry, training organisations and air sports. The Agency's already employs some 400 professionals from across Europe assigned to several directorates. The core safety related tasks are carried out by the “Rulemaking”, “Certification” and “Approvals & Standardisation” directorates. The Agency's budget is financed by a contribution from the European Community, fees (paid for certificates issued by the Agency) and charges for publications and training provided by the Agency.