The Investigation found that: “the Immediate Cause of the Accident (was)the runway incursion in the active runway by the Cessna” and noted that “The obvious consideration is that the human factor related action of the Cessna crew during low visibility conditions must be (weighed) against the scenario that allowed the course of events that led to the fatal collision; equally it can be stated that the system in place at Milan Linate airport was not capable of trapping misunderstandings (or the consequences of) inadequate procedures, blatant human errors and (a) faulty airport layout.” The Investigation Final Report provided a list of the “Immediate and Systemic causes that led to the Accident” as follows: the visibility was low, between 50 and 100 metres;. the traffic volume was high;. the lack of adequate visual aids;. the Cessna crew used the wrong taxiway and entered the runway without specific clearance;. the failure to check the Cessna crew qualification;. the nature of the flight might have exerted a certain pressure on the Cessna crew to commence the flight despite the prevailing weather conditions;. the Cessna crew was not aided properly with correct publications (AIP Italy & Jeppesen), lights (red bar lights and taxiway lights), markings (contrary to) standard format and unpublished, S4) and signs (non existing, TWY R6) to enhance their situational awareness;. official documentation failing to report the presence of unpublished markings (S4, S5, etc) that were unknown to air traffic controllers, thus preventing the ATC controller from interpreting the unambiguous information from the Cessna crew, a position report mentioning S4;. operational procedures allowing high traffic volume (high number of ground movements) in weather conditions as were current the day of the accident (reduced visibility) and in the absence of technical aids;. radio communications were not performed using standard phraseology (read back) or were not consistently adhered to (resulting in untraced misunderstandings in relevant radio communications);. radio communications were performed in Italian and English language;. Air Traffic Control (ATC) personnel did not realize that Cessna was on taxiway R6;. the ground controller issued a taxi clearance towards Main apron although the reported position S4 did not have any meaning to him;. instructions, training and the prevailing environmental situation prevented the ATC personnel from having full control over the aircraft movements on ground.. It also stated that: “Furthermore: the aerodrome standard did not comply with ICAO Annex 14; required markings, lights and signs did either not exist (TWY R6) or were in dismal order and were hard to recognise especially under low visibility conditions (R5-R6), other markings were unknown to operators (S4);. no functional Safety Management System was in operation;. the competence maintenance and requirements for recent experience for ATC personnel did not fully comply with ICAO Annex 1;. the LVO implementation by ENAV (DOP 2/97) did not conform with the requirements provided in the corresponding and referenced ICAO DOC 9476.”. And concluded that “the combined effect of these factors, contemporaneously present on the 8 October 2001 at Milano Linate, (served to) neutralise any