fire fighting procedures to be followed. b) Reference maps shall contain the official denomination of key positions (locations) and made public. c) The plan shall be updated, made public and verified with periodic limited exercises (regarding communication and vehicle movement), full exercises (regarding also Fire Station crews intervention). They should be conducted without prior notice; exercises results shall be conducive to implementation of corrective measures, when needed. d) Fire Station crews shall inform duly the TWR for the necessary coordination. e) The plan shall make provision for priority radio and telephone links and a mandatory coded information flow between control centres of organisations. f) The plan shall require that a specific telephone line will be dedicated to non-operational information flow to avoid overloading essential communication. g) The plan shall contain guidelines to participating organisations for other important aspects to be taken into account, such as the continuing alertness by all involved (organisational aspects like personnel shift times, new recruits training, etc,). [1/113-15/A/04] That in respect of ATC equipment and procedures, ENAV and ENAC, the national competent Authority, should evaluate the following: a) TWR personnel (to) be invited to on-site periodic recognition of existing markings, lightings and signs of airport manoeuvre area; b) the TWR airport emergency signal equipment should be recorded and time stamped; c) the emergency frequency speaker system should be positioned so as to be audible from all controller of the TWR control room; d) the addition of visual recognition capability (light source) to the ELT activation signal; e) the installation of the necessary equipment (radio and frequency) to allow TWR to monitor firemen service communications, when needed; f) giving TWR immediate access the necessary information to make available to rescue personnel prior to their intervention on accident site (persons on board, fuel, dangerous goods, etc,…). [1/113-16/A/04]. a) TWR personnel (to) be invited to on-site periodic recognition of existing markings, lightings and signs of airport manoeuvre area; b) the TWR airport emergency signal equipment should be recorded and time stamped; c) the emergency frequency speaker system should be positioned so as to be audible from all controller of the TWR control room; d) the addition of visual recognition capability (light source) to the ELT activation signal; e) the installation of the necessary equipment (radio and frequency) to allow TWR to monitor firemen service communications, when needed; f) giving TWR immediate access the necessary information to make available to rescue personnel prior to their intervention on accident site (persons on board, fuel, dangerous goods, etc,…). [1/113-16/A/04] That the Ministry of Internal Affairs and ENAC as the national competent Authority should require in respect of Airport fire station organisation that: a) in case of accident the essential information should be shared by TWR and fire station using the dedicated communication equipment provided; b) the Fire Station Control Centre should have immediately available the necessary information (number of passengers, fuel, dangerous goods, etc,…) to adopt the appropriate intervention technique; c) all communication lines of the fire station shall be recorded and