Aerodromes in Italy have a functional Safety Management System, according to ICAO Annex 14, vol.1 paragraph 1.3.4. [1/113-9/A/04]. That the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, ENAC and ENAV as national competent Authority, should ensure that (requirements for the achievement and maintenance of competence and the) requirements for recent experience for ATC personnel fully comply with ICAO Annex 1 Standards. [1/113-10/A/04]. That ENAC and ENAV as national competent Authority, should ensure that all required information to operate safely is contained in the AIP Italy and updated as needed. [1/113-11/A/04]. That that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and ENAC as national competent Authority forward proposals to ICAO regarding mandatory installation of Cockpit Voice Recorder equipment in (any) aircraft operated under an AOC or equivalent approval. [1/113-12/A/04]. That the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and ENAC as national competent Authority seek to encourage (all) ECAC States to (promote) the additional requirements in ESARR 5, SRC DOC 5, to the ICAO Council with the objective of getting the ICAO Council adopt corresponding changes to ICAO Annex 1. [1/113-13/A/04]. That the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and ENAC as the national competent Authority (work to encourage) European Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC) States (to) establish standardisation teams which on behalf of the Member States can perform checks of air traffic management units similar to the established functions of the JAA standardisation teams. [1/113-14/A/04]. That the Ministry of Internal Affairs and ENAC, the national competent Authority should evaluate the need to design the airport emergency plans applicable to all Italian airports in accordance with the ICAO (Annex 14 paragraph 9.1.12.) provisions and to establish guidelines applicable to all Italian airports, paying a special attention to the following requirements: a) The plan shall cater for an immediate dissemination of all necessary information (aircraft type, dangerous goods, fuel, persons on board) so as to allow correct rescue and fire fighting procedures to be followed. b) Reference maps shall contain the official denomination of key positions (locations) and made public. c) The plan shall be updated, made public and verified with periodic limited exercises (regarding communication and vehicle movement), full exercises (regarding also Fire Station crews intervention). They should be conducted without prior notice; exercises results shall be conducive to implementation of corrective measures, when needed. d) Fire Station crews shall inform duly the TWR for the necessary coordination. e) The plan shall make provision for priority radio and telephone links and a mandatory coded information flow between control centres of organisations. f) The plan shall require that a specific telephone line will be dedicated to non-operational information flow to avoid overloading essential communication. g) The plan shall contain guidelines to participating organisations for other important aspects to be taken into account, such as the continuing alertness by all involved (organisational aspects like personnel shift times, new recruits training, etc,). [1/113-15/A/04]. a) The plan shall cater for an immediate dissemination of all necessary information (aircraft type, dangerous goods, fuel, persons on board) so as to allow correct rescue and