of the flight, prior to the delayed completion of the memory actions for shutdown of the failed left engine, the aircraft was noted to have remained below 500 feet agl. Throughout, ATC issued radar vectors as requested and the aircraft commander visually avoided obstacles whilst continuing to fly the aircraft manually. ATC had no depiction of terrain or obstacles on their radar and it was noted that the MRVA of 1200 feet agl within the Schiphol CTZ. In respect of the issue of radar vectors below MRVA, it was noted that a previous generic review of the risk to persons on the ground had not considered “the risks of advising aircraft in distress below the minimum vectoring altitude, in particular when the visibility becomes outside (the) visual meteorological conditions. In this respect the absence (of) high obstacles on the radar screen increased the imposed risk during the emergency situation. (The ANSP) has no procedure for air traffic controllers that allows for guidance to aircraft in distress in such a situation (and) has not considered the risks of assisting aircraft in distress that are flying below the minimum vectoring altitude in the Schiphol control zone. The Investigation further found that: “Air traffic controllers do not know the (exact) location and height of high obstacles in the Schiphol control zone, or cannot know this information because it is not presented on their radar screens. However, controllers do provide headings to aircraft in distress that are flying below minimum vectoring altitude, regardless of the visibility conditions. As a result, aircraft that are flying outside visual meteorological conditions could, if the worst comes to the worst, collide with a high obstacle. In other words, in such a case the ‘assist’ principle would not have contributed to preventing a collision. Although the likelihood of such an emergency is small, the potential consequences are huge, rendering the risk level unacceptable. The fact that crew members do not always follow the instructions and advice provided by air traffic control during an emergency does not diminish this conclusion.” However, it was concluded that “the threat of this (particular event) for the residents around Schiphol was mainly caused by the crew not observing the ‘initial climb – one engine inoperative’ procedure”. On the possible value of tactical detection of birds by radar, the Investigation concluded that: “Further studies should be conducted to assess the operational implementation and applications of radar detection at civil aviation airports. This should also include efforts to identify the responsibilities of the parties involved in radar bird detection, and the extent to which these parties are authorised and at liberty to intervene in flight operations in order to reduce the risk of bird strikes.” The formal statement of Conclusions of the Investigation was as follows: Causal Factors Shortly after take-off a bird strike occurred which caused damage to the left engine and reduced thrust to approximately 45%. The flight crew then took the right decision to return to Schiphol airport.. However, this decision was not