aircraft flying lower than the minimum vectoring altitude. This is particularly the case when flying outside visual meteorological conditions.. The presence of one or more birds with a large total mass in the flight path of an aircraft is a risk to flight safety. This particularly applies to geese due to their considerable mass and because they fly in groups. Most bird strikes occur during the take-off and landing phases of the flight.. The Investigation has shown that parties that have a direct influence on bird control at Schiphol airport have exhausted their options. Except for the closing of active runways more often, it is up to other parties, therefore, to take further measures to reduce the safety risk caused by bird strikes.. All the aviation, agricultural, and bird and environmental protection parties acknowledge the bird strike risk as such and the need to reduce this risk. Although the parties agree on the necessary measures, there is no such consensus with regard to their effect. As a result, there are also differing views as to the (cost-)effective implementation of these measures.. Due to the high level of urgency involved, there is no time to wait for the outcome of ongoing pilots to assess alternative control measures that would yield results in the longer term. The reduction of goose populations represents the most effective short-term measure. In the longer term, habitat management and improvement of the measures to detect and scare off birds could also help structurally reduce the risk of bird strikes.. Seven civil-society organisations united in the “Goose 7” recently prepared a joint national and regional recommendation, outlining measures to reduce and stabilise the population of various types of geese in the Netherlands at a certain level. The implementation of this recommendation as a short-term measure will require the approval of the State Secretary of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, which approval thus far has not been forthcoming.. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, responsible for aviation safety, has not sufficiently coordinated measures aimed at reducing the risk of bird strikes.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: That Royal Air Maroc demonstrate to the Moroccan Ministry of Transport that: the procedures for communication and crew resource management between crew members have been harmonised with the international standard for airline pilots. pilot training has been expanded to include simulations of multiple unexpected failures.. the procedures for communication and crew resource management between crew members have been harmonised with the international standard for airline pilots.. pilot training has been expanded to include simulations of multiple unexpected failures.. That Air Traffic Control the Netherlands and the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment: ensure that aircraft in distress flying under the minimum vectoring altitude are informed about high obstacles in the Schiphol Control Zone.. ensure that aircraft in distress flying under the minimum vectoring altitude are informed about high obstacles in the Schiphol Control Zone.. That the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment, responsible for aviation safety: