After the engineer had re-connected the pitch control system and obtained approval to release the aircraft to service, the same crew continued with their final rostered flight leg to Denpasar uneventfully. Following their arrival there, the crew reported the occurrence at Ende to their Chief Pilot but did not mention that it had included a runway excursion. Approximately 2½ hours after it had arrived at Denpasar, another flight crew operated the same aircraft on an uneventful flight to Komodo. At this point, the Indonesian DGCA received a report from AirNav Indonesia about the Ende runway excursion and advised the Garuda Safety Department, who in the absence of a report from the flight crew were unaware of it, accordingly. The Safety Department then sought information about the occurrence and, once it had been confirmed, the aircraft was grounded and the event reported to the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT) by the Safety Department, which commenced a Serious Incident Investigation. The CVR and FDR were removed from the aircraft and it was subsequently possible to download relevant data from the FDR. Relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that both pilots were French nationals. The 53 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 9,701 hours flying experience of which 609 hours were on type and the 27 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,300 hours flying experience of which 335 hours were on type. The aircraft and flight crew involved were rostered to operate six sectors that day, Denpasar- Komodo-Ende-Kupang and return. The event at Ende occurred on the fourth sector of this sequence for which the Captain was the pilot flying (PF). The flight from departure until visual positioning for the second landing of the duty at Ende commenced was uneventful with the Ende ACO (Aeronautical Communications Officer) advising on first contact that runway 27 was in use with the wind from between 140° and 180° with a mean speed of 13 knots gusting to 18 knots and scattered Cumulus at 1,500 feet. After configuring the aircraft for a flap 30 landing, the First Officer subsequently transmitted that they were about to complete the left turn onto final approach and the ACO responded that the spot wind direction was from 150° at 18 knots and advised that the runway was clear. The AP was disconnected passing a recorded 654 feet agl and on completing the turn onto finals, the aircraft passed over a 180 foot high atoll which was 1200 metres from the threshold and very close to the extended runway centreline at approximately 360 feet agl. The Captain then increased the rate of descent and, although the power was also reduced, the speed increased briefly to 140 knots. On short final, the First Officer recalled having confirmed that the wind sock close to the beginning of the runway was indicating a similar wind velocity to that provided by the ACO. FDR data