finding, it was noted that despite the fact it had been approved by the DGCA , the Visual Manoeuvring Chart for runway 27 Ende published by Garuda for use by its pilots made no mention of any specific procedure to manage an arrival by avoiding the atoll located on short final. It was considered that this omission “may trigger the pilot to improvise the approach based on knowledge, skill and experience that may deviate from the standard”. In respect of the simultaneous and conflicting attempts by both pilots to control the pitch of the aircraft for touchdown, it was noted that when the PM First Officer intervened with an unannounced pitch up input on his control column the rate of descent was about 1,000 fpm with a hard nose-down contact in prospect and imminent. It was considered that this pitch up input might have indicated that he “intended to correct the aircraft profile in accordance with the procedure and landing technique described in the FCOM” which stated that “from 20 feet agl, the flare shall be initiated by visual reference”. However, the absence of any announcement that he was taking control meant that the Captain was unaware of this. It was thought possible that this intervention might have been based on previous experience that the First Officer had of “assisting the same Captain during landing approaches at Ende”. In his statement to the Investigation, the First Officer said that as he had often “assisted the same Captain during the landing approach at Ende”, he had assumed that the Captain was uncomfortable flying into there due to the local terrain conditions. He also described the Captain “as a person whom it was difficult to assist” and collectively “these assumptions resulted in the First Officer voluntarily assisting the PF Captain without advising him”. The Investigation noted that the force of 114 lbs (equivalent to approximately 52 kg) was required to disconnect the control columns “to minimise the risk of untimely disconnection” and that if pitch disconnect occurs without real jamming, applicable procedures require that the airspeed does not thereafter exceed 180 KIAS and that the bank angle is limited to 30° until the flaps are extended to avoid overstressing the stabiliser. In respect of the failure to report what had happened, it was noted that this was completely contrary to the operator's mandatory procedures as was the crew’s failure to electrically isolate the CVR following any runway excursion. The Investigation formally identified two Contributory Factors in respect of the occurrence as: the continuation of an unstabilised approach with a high approach speed, a nose down attitude and with a roll of about 3° to the left resulted in the aircraft bouncing to the left of the runway centreline.. the absence of an immediate go around after the first bounce resulted in the aircraft making a second touchdown on the left shoulder of the runway.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Garuda Indonesia review the