subsequently showed that from 500 feet agl to touchdown the mean wind direction had remained around 140° whilst the wind speed varied between 7 and 33 knots with a mean of 24 knots. At a recorded 26 feet agl, FDR data showed that with the rate of descent at 1000 fpm a 13 second duration pitch up input on the First Officer’s control column had begun. Six seconds later, at 11 feet agl, a simultaneous pitch down input had begun on the Captain’s control column. Three seconds later, the aircraft touched down within the TDZ of the 1650 metre-long runway with the opposing pitch inputs still present. With the achieved pitch recorded as -4°, the nose landing gear was the first to touchdown on the 30 metre-wide runway quickly followed by the main gear at a recorded 1.6g. The presence of a slight left wing down aileron input at touchdown meant that after a 2 second bounce, the aircraft then touched down (and again bounced) on the left shoulder of the runway having drifted left, although this time on the main gear first at a recorded 2g. The First Officer stated that when he noticed that the right control column was functioning as the first touchdown appeared imminent, he had taken over control “whilst the Captain was trying to check the left control column function”. Two seconds after the second bounce, with opposing pitch commands still continuing, FDR data showed that a pitch disconnect warning had occurred and this was recorded as being annunciated two seconds after it happened. Four seconds after this, the Captain ceased his pitch down input, engine power was increased and a climb away was commenced with the First Officer’s now unopposed pitch up input. After a few more seconds, the First Officer ceased using his now disconnected control column, the Captain took back control and the aircraft climbed away, turning to the right to avoid a known obstacle. Once the go-around had been completed, the Captain reported that he had “become aware of the severity of the occurrence” and had asked the ACO to check for the possibility of debris on the runway or its left shoulder as a result of the aircraft bounces but was subsequently told that there was none. After assessing the situation, it was decided to divert to what would have been their next stop, Komodo. During this diversion, the Captain explained the situation to the SCCM and, having asked if there was any problem with the passengers, was advised that there was not. The flight to Komodo was completed without further event. FDR data showed that the final approach had been unstable because the maximum allowable airspeed for an approach at the prevailing aircraft weight at 500 feet agl had been exceeded by either 13 knots (Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM)) or 18 knots (the Company OM). This situation required the commencement of a go around but this was not called or initiated. As a potentially relevant context for this