the left wing and the fuselage aft of it. Examination of the failed disc showed that the primary fracture which had originated the rupture was a small dent at a blade slot at the bottom aft corner and that it had led to a rim-to-bore radial fracture. The Investigation formed the view that had the failure occurred during flight rather than on the ground during maintenance, the aircraft may not have been able to maintain safe flight. It noted a previously investigated uncontained failure of an HPT stage 1 disc on the same engine type six years earlier during engine ground runs and the Safety Recommendations issued as a result if it and also an in-flight uncontained HPT stage 1 disc rupture that had occurred to an Air New Zealand Boeing 767-200 with the same engine type in 2002. It was considered that although all four of the previous NTSB Recommendations were closed in either an acceptable or acceptable alternate status following FAA action, the fact that an uncontained failure of an HPT stage 1 disc had recurred was considered to indicate that further action was necessary. The Investigation also noted that the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been intentionally disabled prior to the ground running, and that this action had removed the opportunity to access useful data for investigative purposes. The Investigators were told that that disabling the CVR prior to ground running was normal practice. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as: “The HPT stage 1 disk failed from an intergranular fatigue crack because of GE's inadequate design of the CF6-80 series HPT stage 1 disk. The inadequate design of the disk resulted in a high stress area in the blade slot bottom aft corner that was at or nearly at the material's capability so that there was no damage tolerance such that a small dent could cause a crack to initiate and propagate to failure.” It was also considered that: “Contributing to the disk's failure was the FAA's failure to mandate an accelerated inspection schedule after a previous CF6-80A uncontained HPT stage 1 disk failure had occurred and after other CF6-80A HPT disks had been found during routine overhaul to have cracks in the blade slot bottom aft corners.” On 26 August 2006, during the course of the Investigation, five Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the FAA require that all CF6-80A and -80C2 high pressure turbine (HPT) stage 1 disks and applicable -80E1 HPT stage 1 disks that have more than 3,000 cycles since new (CSN) and have not been reworked in accordance with General Electric Service Bulletins (SB) 72-0788 or 72-1089 or have not yet been inspected in accordance with SB 72-0779 or Alert Service Bulletin 72-A1026 be immediately removed from service for inspection and rework in accordance with these SBs. Those CF6-80A and -80C2 HPT stage 1 disks and applicable -80E1 HPT stage 1 disks that have fewer than 3,000 CSN and have not been reworked or inspected in accordance with