Although there was no intention of flight, an Investigation into the event was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was established that maintenance were performing a high-power engine run-up in response to a flight crew defect report entered after the previous flight that the left engine lagged behind the right engine by about 2 percent during the climb from FL360 to FL380. The technicians who had been on board reported that they had performed a series of troubleshooting procedures, including deselecting the EEC and then making two rapid movements of the thrust levers from idle to maximum thrust and back to idle. They reported that after the left engine had reached maximum thrust for the second time and was decelerating through 95 percent N1, they had heard a loud explosion that was quickly followed by a fire under the left wing and in the fuselage aft of the wing. They stated that they had immediately shut down both engines, discharged fire shot 1 into the left engine and evacuated the aircraft. The fire continued until it was extinguished by the attending RFFS personnel. Examination of the No. 1 engine showed that the HPT stage 1 disc had ruptured and completely split the engine with the fan, booster, high pressure compressor, and combustor hanging from the forward-engine mount and the low pressure turbine and exhaust hanging from the rear-engine mount. The HPT stage 1 disc was found to have separated from the shaft at the conical section of the shaft and was completely missing from the engine. The recovery of the pieces of the ruptured disc showed that it had broken into three approximately equally sized pieces, a fourth triangular-shaped piece and several smaller fragments. One piece of the disc, which had initially bounced off of the ground before penetrating the aircraft fuselage had completely severed the aircraft left-hand keel beam and partially severed the right-hand keel beam before exiting the fuselage to become lodged in the No. 2 engine exhaust duct. Another piece of the disc was found in the airplane embedded in an air duct. A third piece of the disc was found nearly 800 metres away from the aircraft against an airport perimeter fence after crossing over two active runways, 25R/07L and 25L/07R, as well as taxiways. It was noted that an Air New Zealand Boeing 747-400 had just landed on Runway 25L. The fourth triangular-shaped piece of the disc was found embedded in the engine pylon. Examination of the No. 2 engine showed that the left side of the nacelle was peppered with holes and impact marks made by debris from the No. 1 engine in addition to a piece of the HPT stage 1 disc that had gone through the exhaust duct and was protruding from the right side of the engine. The examination of the aircraft generally found numerous holes in the left and right wing fuel tanks where fuel had leaked out and fed the ground fire that burned