chosen landing site was seemingly very suitable, but the crew did not detect in time that a power line ran across the final part of the approach." However, it was noted that "only when looking beyond the completely obvious cause and effect can you see that the accident is more complicated" and so an analysis of underlying safety-related factors was carried out "because it can form the basis for lasting improvements that can help prevent similar accidents in the future". This analysis was particularly concerned with why the power line was not detected. It was concluded that barriers that could potentially have prevented the threat this power line represented, were not functioning or were missing when the accident occurred: Neither the lines nor the poles were physical marked, and it was unusually difficult to detect the power line.. The helicopter had no sensors that could have detected and provided a warning about the obstacle.. The helicopter's moving map system had a visual warning function, but the system had weaknesses and was not used during the final part of the approach.. The preparations for landing do not appear to have included a positive verification of where in the terrain the power line they saw on the map was actually located. They probably also did not discuss whether the overhead line may have been removed, or whether it was actually the line between the lamp posts that was shown on the map.. The police did not succeed in achieving contact with the crew via communications to inform about the landing conditions.. The crew was not successful in achieving contact with personnel on the ground via communications.. The helicopter's wire cutter did not work due to the low speed.. Latent weaknesses in the company's established system for creating and maintaining sufficient safety margins during approach to unknown landing sites and approaches during time pressure may have influenced the crew's decisions.. In this connection, the analysis also considered deficient visual detection and why the moving map with built in obstacle warning was ineffective. It also examined opportunities for improvements in maps and warning systems and in communications between helicopter occupants and ground personnel at landing sites. In particular it was found that "the current national register of aviation obstacles was incomplete and not wholly compatible with Global Positioning System (GPS)-based warning systems". Finally, the Investigation identified a need for Norsk Luftambulanse - which had been operating since 1991 without a fatal accident - to take action to ensure that, whilst too much prescription was not appropriate for the task variety typical of a VFR HEMS operation, harmonisation of single pilot 'process' was actively pursued. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was that "the accident occurred because the helicopter collided with a power line during approach, which caused such extensive damage to the main rotor that it fell vertically down from an altitude of approximately 25 metres" and that "the impact with the ground was so severe that two of the crew members died