An Investigation was carried out by the AIB Norway. No Flight Recorder was carried - or required to be carried - on the accident helicopter but a number of high definition video recordings shot by people on the ground were made available. Also, the Non Volatile Memory in the Moving Map system installed in the helicopter which recorded, at frequent timed intervals, heading, speed, height agl and altitude amsl was successfully downloaded by the Operator. The 52 year-old helicopter pilot had been flying for Norsk Luftambulanse since leaving the Air Force, where he had been trained as a helicopter pilot, in 1991. He had been based at Lørenskog since 2001 at which point he had been appointed Flight Operations Manager, a post he had continued to hold until 2010. Since then, he had continued to act as an instructor and test pilot for the Operator. He had a total of 1382 flying hours on the accident type and over 6000 hours in total. The accident helicopter and three man crew were at their base at Lørenskog when they were called to attend a road traffic accident involving an overturned truck at Sollihøgda, which was approximately 21 nm to the west. En-route, the physician on board received the accident site coordinates from the emergency medical communication centre and the HEMS crew member occupying the left hand front seat set a course for the position in the onboard digital map system so that it was displayed on the MFD. Flying conditions were adequate for flight by visual reference in uncontrolled airspace and an altitude of 2000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings was maintained for most of the flight. In line with normal practice no contact was made Oslo ATCC and no Fight Plan was filed. It was not possible to establish radio contact with personnel at the accident site. Although all crew members were generally familiar with the area, a check of the landing site environment on the moving map disclosed wires across it. After a ten minute flight, the helicopter arrived overhead the scene. The pilot reduced speed to 50 knots and flew slightly south of the site in a south-western direction at approximately 800 feet agl (equivalent to 1 460 feet QNH) so as to identify a suitable landing site. None of the crew noticed anyone on the ground attempting to visually indicate one (although in fact a police officer was attempting to signal visually) and there was still no radio contact with anyone on the ground. After deciding to land in a layby on the road near the southern exit of the Ness tunnel (see the annotated site picture below), the helicopter began a descent to 80 feet agl, initially continuing in a south-westerly direction before making a wide right turn to track in the opposite direction towards the chosen landing site. At this stage, the only survivor, the HEMS crew member stated that he had switched the MFD from Map to Flight Instrument mode and then concentrated on the