radio altimeter readout. The helicopter was flown horizontally and sideways very slowly to the left whilst the pilot inspected the area. As they approached poles with a line between them, the HEMS crew member opened his door so as to look down and check that there was adequate clearance from them. He reported that just as he closed the door and looked forward again, "he heard a bang and the helicopter started to shake severely" and so "as they started to drop, he gripped the door handle with one hand and the lock on the seat belt with the other" that in the case of fire, he would be able to get out quickly. However, the impact was so severe - the rate of descent was subsequently estimated to have been around 3600 fpm - that he had lost consciousness. Veibelysning. Lighting Pole. Veltet lastebil. Overturned truck. Havarilomme. Emergency Lay-by. Sønsterudtunnelen. Sønsterud Tunnel. Nesstunnelen. Ness Tunnel. Helikoptervrak. Helicopter Wreckage. Video evidence confirmed that the helicopter had hit the 22 kV power line marked on the moving map which consisted of three live lines and a grounded line that crossed directly above another line between the street lamp posts which was not indicated on the moving map. Some "powerful flashes" occurred as the main rotor blades came in contact with the live wires and, as all lines were cut, the helicopter started to fall straight down, hitting the ground less than 3 seconds later with the forward left section leading. It was observed from the video recordings that during the fall the remains of the main rotor had begun to "shake heavily in relation to the helicopter fuselage" and before ground impact, it was possible to see that "the main gear box and main rotor were about to come apart from the fuselage". The fact that the helicopter was fitted with a series of wire cutters did not provide a complete defence against inadvertent wire strike. Although a wire which passes below the lowest knife would also pass under the skids, one which passes above the uppermost knife could hit the main rotor - which is what happened in this case. It was noted that "according to Airbus Helicopters, the system is designed so that it is efficient at speeds between 13 and 52 knots". The power line wires were found to consist of an aluminium outer covering with an overall diameter of 10.5mm which enclosed a steel core 5mm in diameter. It was not physically marked to prevent aircraft collisions. The Investigation noted that because the course of events had been well documented, the accident was simple to explain: "During approach for landing, the helicopter flew into a power line that destroyed the main rotor. Thus, it was no longer possible to control the helicopter, and it fell almost vertically and hit the ground with substantial force. The accident took place during a highly ordinary mission with a very experienced crew in weather conditions that should not pose problems. The