The response of the flight crew to what turned out to be the early signs of the bearing problem was considered procedurally correct with the situation initially kept under control with all indications normal. There was nothing to suggest that the number 3 bearing would completely fail only 30 minutes after ENG 2 OIL FILTER CLOG’ message had appeared. Their subsequent response to the multiple Warnings/Alerts activated at 6000 feet on approach was, to the extent time was available, in line with FCOM guidance which advised that “multiple smoke-related ECAM alerts (lavatories, avionics and cargo hold) may indicate that the smoke is coming from the air conditioning system.” This guidance also noted that an engine failure “can cause smoke to enter the flight deck and passenger cabin through the engine's bleed air system, in which case the smoke will re-circulate through the aircraft until it disappears from the air conditioning system”. The Investigation was appraised of the findings of British Airways internal investigation which identified opportunities for improved crew communication in circumstances such as those which had prevailed including: Better communication processes between the passenger cabin and flight deck, not only during an evacuation but at any time when oxygen masks and smoke hoods are being used.. Passenger control techniques following a “cabin crew at stations” message with particular reference to exit opening by passengers.. The Cause of the event was formally recorded as the misalignment and breakage of bearing number 3 (and its hydraulic seal) in engine number 2. This resulted in the bleed air from engine number 2 becoming contaminated with engine oil, which, in turn, caused smoke to enter the passenger cabin and the presence of oil in the anti-ice system. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 23 February 2022 and simultaneously published in both English translation and in the definitive Spanish language version the following month. No Safety Recommendations were made.