The flight from London proceeded normally until just over an hour after takeoff by which time the aircraft was in the cruise at FL350 over the Pyrenees. At that point, an ECAM ‘ENG 2 STALL’ caution was annunciated but resolved itself automatically. Nevertheless, the crew performed the QRH ‘ENG STALL’ procedure and activated the right engine and wing anti-ice systems. Whilst this was being done, the cabin crew reported that they had just heard a noise and that at the same time a “slight mist” had momentarily formed in the passenger cabin before disappearing. A couple of minutes later, an ECAM ‘ENG 2 OIL FILTER CLOG’ information only caution appeared. In the absence of any ongoing or further abnormalities, it was decided to continue the flight as planned and two minutes later descent to destination was commenced and the Captain, who had up to then been acting as PF, passed control to the First Officer so that he could focus on monitoring the performance of the right engine. No further anomalies were detected during this descent and after a further 26 minutes and following the routine instruction, the cabin crew subsequently reported “cabin secure” to the flight crew. Shortly after this, Valencia APP cleared the flight for an ILS ‘Z’ approach to runway 12. Three minutes later, as the aircraft was at 6,000 feet QNH on the approach, white smoke suddenly began to enter both the flight deck and the passenger cabin. Both pilots donned their oxygen masks. ECAM Alerts were then annunciated within just two minutes in the order ‘LAVATORY SMOKE’, ‘AVIONICS SMOKE’ and ‘AFT CARGO SMOKE’. The flight crew responded by taking the immediate actions listed in the QRH Checklist ‘SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE’. In the passenger cabin, the Purser instructed the other cabin crew members to put on their smoke hoods and instructed the passengers to “keep their heads down”. As this was happening, the flight was cleared to land on runway 12 and did so less than two minutes later, exiting onto the H4 RET. ATC were not informed of smoke. Almost immediately after touchdown, ECAM Warnings of ‘ENG 2 OIL LO PR’, ‘FWD CARGO SMOKE’ and ‘ENG 2 OIL FILTER CLOG’ were annunciated. The aircraft was stopped on the RET and a ‘MAYDAY’ call was made requesting the immediate attendance of the airport RFFS. The Captain made the company standard on-ground readiness PA ‘ATTENTION CREW AT STATIONS’ and after opening the flight deck windows, which rapidly dispersed the smoke on the flight deck, the crew began to action the received ECAM messages. Whilst this was in progress, two of the cabin crew wearing smoke hoods entered the flight deck and, with the door open, the pilots could see that visibility in the cabin was “significantly reduced”. The TWR controller was asked to advise if there was any external evidence of fire at the aircraft and, after consulting with the RFFS crew who had reached the aircraft, reported that there was no external evidence