Electromagnetic waves in the VHF band propagate in a straight line. Due to the earth curvature, it is often not possible to use it for communicaiton in some parts of the oceanic airspace. Therefore, alternative solutions need to be employed, e.g.: Operations in the NAT outside VHF coverage require the carriage of two long range communication systems, one of which must be HF. The second one can be SATVOICE or CPDLC provided that the coverage criteria are met. For example, this is not the case with Inmarsat CPDLC or SATVOICE system when operating north of 80N. In certain situations waivers from the HF requirement can be requested, e.g. if the system is unserviceable and the aircraft is returning to the base for repairs. This is subject to approval from the area control centre (ACC) serving the route of flight provided the aircraft has at least two other appropriate long-range communication systems. Routine air-ground voice communications in the NAT region are conducted via aeronautical radio stations staffed by radio operators who are not air traffic controllers. The operators relay messages between the aircraft and the relevant oceanic ACC (note that CPDLC communicaiton is conducted directly between the air traffic controller and the aircraft). There are six radio stations in the NAT: Bodø Radio (Norway), Gander Radio (Canada), Iceland Radio (Iceland), New York Radio (USA), Santa Maria Radio (Portugal) and Shanwick Radio (Ireland). Radio stations are also responsible for the operation of General Purpose VHF (GP/VHF) outlets. Radio operators usually maintain a continuous watch on more than one frequency therefore it is useful for flight crews to state the frequency used when placing their initial call. Reykjavik centre operates a number of VHF stations in Iceland, Faroe Islands and Greenland. They provide tactical procedural control and ATS Surveillance services. The callsign used is "Reykjavik Control" (or just "Reykjavik") and indicates that the flight crew is communicating directly with an air traffic controller. Note that the callsign "Iceland radio" refers to the radio station manned by a radio operator who is only relaying messages.