Supplement to Order № 93 of the Russian Ministry of Transport dated 14.04.2010.. The content of the training and checks plan in Supplement A (of the Provision of ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation) is not consistent with the purpose (the reason for training is substituted by the objective).. The content of the boxes in the Log of Simulator Training in Supplement B (of the Provision of ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation) is not consistent with the purpose (the reason for training is substituted by the objective).. Since June 2014, the controller simulator training and check records have been kept in violation of the established procedure (numbers of training tasks were not recorded).. The on-the-job training of the trainee controller (in progress at the time of the accident) was conducted in violation of regulations and corporate documents. In violation of Para 18, Supplement to Order № 93 of Russian Ministry of Transport, the practical training of the trainee controller (in progress at the time of the accident) was conducted without the required on-the-job training plan. In violation of Para 7.1 Section 10 of the Provision on ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation, only 12 hours were scheduled for simulator training and 2 hours for the simulator skill check instead of having complete simulator training to accomplish Tasks 1 to 4 (24 hours). No records were made of the date and time of the OJT sessions at the TWR controller working station in the OJT log. There were no task and exercise numbers in the training assignments for trainee controller simulator sessions, which violated the methodology of the trainee controller OJT training and decreased its quality and efficiency.. In violation of Para 18, Supplement to Order № 93 of Russian Ministry of Transport, the practical training of the trainee controller (in progress at the time of the accident) was conducted without the required on-the-job training plan.. In violation of Para 7.1 Section 10 of the Provision on ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation, only 12 hours were scheduled for simulator training and 2 hours for the simulator skill check instead of having complete simulator training to accomplish Tasks 1 to 4 (24 hours).. No records were made of the date and time of the OJT sessions at the TWR controller working station in the OJT log.. There were no task and exercise numbers in the training assignments for trainee controller simulator sessions, which violated the methodology of the trainee controller OJT training and decreased its quality and efficiency.. The following deficiencies were found in the individual logs of ATM personnel: The records of simulator training, theoretical and practical checks did not contain information on the name of the evaluator. The records in the medical examination section were not consistent with the conclusion of the medical check. Boxes in the various sections of