their operation of the A3000 A-SMGCS system using readouts of the system’s recorder.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should determine criteria to be used by the ATC shift supervisor when deciding to combine ATC sectors.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should ensure that radio exchange and reference radio communication by TWR/GND ATC units complies with the Coordination Procedure of Aerodrome Service with Vnukovo ATC Centre and Other Ground Support Services at Vnukovo Aerodrome.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should ensure that background recording and video monitoring of ATM working positions at the Moscow ATM Centre of the State ATM Corporation complies with the Provision of Usage of Recording Devices and Data during ATM at Moscow ATC Centre of the State ATM Corporation.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should ensure that ATM personnel simulator training complies with Order № 182 of the State ATM Corporation dated 16.04.2014.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should, in cooperation with the Main Aviation Meteorological Centre (MAMC), ensure automatic notification of the meteorologist at the main observation post upon the Emergency Landing (Alarm) signal.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should ensure that terminology used in the Job Description of ATC Shift Supervisor at the Vnukovo ATC Centre complies with the pertinent regulations.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should conduct training for ATM personnel on the use of Terma Scanter 2001 Airfield Surveillance Radar and the A3000 A-SMGCS.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should consider clarifying the contents of exercises in Task 2 of the Arrangement and Conduct of Vnukovo ATC Centre Personnel Simulator Training Procedure to specify exercises to train personnel actions during runway and taxiway incursions.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should develop and enforce an 'Instruction on Management Personnel Actions, Responsibilities and Accountabilities in Case of Accidents' and have it accepted by the Central Territorial Office of the Federal Air Transport Agency (Rosaviatsiya) in compliance with Para 2.3 of PRAPI-98.. that Vnukovo Airport (and each airport operator in the IAC/MAK Contracting States as applicable) should improve its SMS in the light of the findings of the Investigation and take efficient measures to prevent runway incursions taking into account any intersecting runways.. that Vnukovo Airport (and each airport operator in the IAC/MAK Contracting States as applicable) should ensure that, if required, a check that proper aerodrome signage and marking prescribed by the applicable regulations is in place.. that Vnukovo Airport (and each airport operator in the IAC/MAK Contracting States as applicable) should ensure that medical checks of aerodrome vehicle drivers at Vnukovo AP are conducted in compliance with the requirements of the Instruction