rapidly increased by an "abrupt nose up control column deflection" which achieved an AoA of just over 17° "at the moment of the collision". It was noted that this AoA was "less than the stall AoA for the take-off aircraft configuration without ground proximity effect, which is 19.5° (with) the stall AoA with ground proximity effect having not been defined by the aircraft designer". However, during the initial rapid pull up, AoA was found to have peaked momentarily at 22-24° before the control column was pushed forward 17° within less than a second just two seconds before impact. It was considered that this final action "could have been caused by the will of the pilot to avoid exceeding the critical AoA". With the FDR airspeed recorded at 133 KCAS and the radio altitude as less than 20 feet agl, the aircraft collided with the now stationary snowplough, its right wing hitting the cab roof and the snow expulsion outlet while its right main landing gear hit the rear of the vehicle. After the collision, the impact damage to the right wing resulted in an abrupt right bank which full left input to the control column by the crew did not counteract. The aircraft rolled and hit the ground inverted about 250 m further on. Detachment of the left wing during the collision and the impact damage to the right wing resulted in both wing tanks being breached and a fuel-fed fire rapidly engulfed the main body of the impact-damaged wreckage. The snow plough was damaged but the driver was uninjured. The Investigation found from recorded surveillance radar data - which would have been visible to the TWR Instructor controller and the unqualified ab-initio trainee who was being supervised in position - that the snowplough had stopped moving soon after the aircraft Captain had first seen it (the "car") and had been stationary close to the centre of the runway intersection for 11 seconds prior to the collision. This data also showed that the same snowplough had crossed the active runway at the same intersection in the opposite direction some 4½ minutes earlier, again without requesting or obtaining ATC permission to enter the active runway and again without being noticed by the controllers. It was found that although the radar display of moving airside objects was fully functional, the associated system of runway incursion alerting, which had been installed in its current form over a year previously, had never been properly configured and, to the extent that it was active, did not function at the positions used by the TWR and GND controllers. Such configuration would have had to be done by "technical staff" and in any case, it was found that most controllers had not been adequately trained in use of the system, with ATC "corporate documentation" found not to "contain any guidance or recommendations for the controllers […] with regard to conflict detection on their displays" - not even "how different alert modes are switched on". The Investigation attempted