Air Transport Agency.. In violation of Para 45 in the Supplement to Order № 93 of Russian Ministry of Transport, the duties of ATC shift supervisor in April-May and June-August 2014 were delegated to Chief Shift 3 controller who had not passed the annual check for work as an ATC shift supervisor.. In violation of Para 4.1.1 Section ENR 1.10 and 1.11 of the Russian AIP, Para 52.1 of the FAR "Planning of Use of Airspace in the Russian Federation" (approved by Order № 6 of the Russian Ministry of Transport on 16.01.2012) and Para 3.7.1 of FAR-293, Ground Handling Agent VIPPORT did not submit information on the delay of over 30 minutes to the unscheduled LEA074P flight from Moscow Vnukovo to Paris Le Bourget to ATC.. The Interaction Procedure of Aerodrome Service with Vnukovo ATC Centre did not contain the requirement to establish reference contact between the Aerodrome Service shift supervisor and ATC every 15 minutes in violation of Para 36 of Instruction 82.. Incomplete weather information was provided to the Falсon 50EX F-GLSA crew by the representatives of the VIPPORT Ground Handling Agent.. The Falcon 50EX F-GLSA crew did not have current weather forecast and actual weather for the destination, alternate and en-route aerodromes before the take-off.. At the emergency and rescue station № 1 observation post, located at the area of runway 01/19 departure (magnetic heading 013º) the observation of the part of this runway around the landing area is obstructed as there is a structural frame at the observation sector, so that the observer is forced to move within the post whilst on duty.. A report on the findings in respect of aerodrome lighting had not been drawn up.. In violation of Para 2.3.1 of PRAPI-98, there is no specific instruction on the actions, responsibilities and accountabilities of management personnel at the Vnukovo ATC Centre in the event of an accident that is within the area covered by the Central Regional Office of Rosaviatsiya, the Federal Air Transport Agency.. FAR-293 does not specify a procedure for monitoring that the runway is clear of foreign objects during the take-off run and the landing roll.. There is an inconsistency between the provisions of FAR-362 and Instruction № 82 in terms of fitting all aerodrome vehicles involved in airfield operations with equipment to enable their occupants to listen to the radio exchanges on the active runway control frequency.. The method of recording knowledge testing of aerodrome vehicle drivers used during the seasonal training for autumn 2014/winter 2015 does not comply with the Manual on the Operation and Maintenance of Aerodrome Vehicles at Airports in the Russian Federation enforced by Letter № 30/И of the Federal Air Transport Agency dated 07.04.1997.. There is no system in the Russian Federation for the planning and implementation of the A-SMGCS system. The implementation of A-SMGCS is conducted in the course of its operation. No aerodrome regulation contains a requirement that there shall be A-SMGCS systems deployed at aerodromes.. The following 55 Safety Recommendations