were made: that the Russian Aviation Authorities communicate information on the accident to civil flight operations personnel, ATM personnel and aerodrome service personnel.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities consider the practicability of developing additional measures to prevent runway incursions taking into account ICAO Doc 9870 AN/463 "Manual on the Prevention of Runway Incursions".. that the Russian Aviation Authorities consider the practicability of developing additional action plans to monitor that the runway is clear of foreign objects during the take-off run and landing roll.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities consider amending the aviation regulations to add a requirement of mandatory monitoring of ATC objects with the help of background recording and video monitoring of ATC working positions.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities consider mandating the check of aerodrome vehicle drivers performing airfield operations for alcohol influence during the medical check before and after the duty shift and introduce a standardised form of the medical check log for drivers of aerodrome vehicles.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities conduct a re-assessment of ATC personnel working stations paying special attention to the field of view and mutual positioning of the screens providing necessary information to carry out air traffic control.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities eliminate the contradiction between the provision of Para 1, Article 53 of the Air Code of the Russian Federation and Para 18, Section III of Order № 93 of the Russian Ministry of Transport dated 14.04.2010 in terms of the possibility of air traffic control being provided by trainee controllers not holding aviation personnel licences.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities consider the practicability of introducing additions to FAR-262 in terms of mandating the marking of runway holding points at runway/runway intersections.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities bring the provisions of Instruction № 82 into compliance with those of FAR-362 with regard to all vehicles which perform works on the runway being permanently equipped with a means of continuous monitoring of radio communications on the frequency being used for active runway control.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should clarify (improve) the training and authorisation procedure for accredited instructors to be authorised to work as an instructor of trainee controllers.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should develop unified rules for the maintenance of the individual log books of ATC personnel.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should, due to a large number of hazards identified in the Vnukovo Airport and Vnukovo ATC Centre Aerodrome Service operations, consider conducting a re-assessment of pertinent risks and taking risk mitigation actions.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should develop technical specifications and operation procedures for Advanced Surface Movement, Guidance and Control Systems (A-SMGCS).. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should introduce requirements for the A-SMGCS system similar to those in Section 9.8 of ICAO Annex 14 Aerodromes, Volume I, ICAO Doc 9476 and ICAO Doc 9830 into the national aviation regulations on certification and operation of aerodromes.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should ensure that an Airport SMS includes both documentation and implementation of a procedure to