the logs were filled in with violations of the applicable requirements. There are no rules for ATC personnel individual log book maintenance and no responsible persons are assigned for the maintenance of the ATM personnel individual logs.. The records of simulator training, theoretical and practical checks did not contain information on the name of the evaluator.. The records in the medical examination section were not consistent with the conclusion of the medical check.. Boxes in the various sections of the logs were filled in with violations of the applicable requirements.. There are no rules for ATC personnel individual log book maintenance and no responsible persons are assigned for the maintenance of the ATM personnel individual logs.. In violation of FAR-216 of the Russian Ministry of Transport dated 26.11.2009, a Class 2 Air Traffic Controller (Instructor Controller) was authorised to work as an instructor of a trainee by order № 601 of Deputy Director for ATM of Moscow ATM Centre, State ATM Corporation dated 01.09.2011.. When maintaining radio exchanges, Controllers of the Vnukovo ATC Centre, the Moscow ATC Centre, the State ATM Corporation, aerodrome service personnel of Vnukovo Airport as well as drivers of Russia Special Flight Squadron violate the RTF rules and callsigns established by Para 11.6 of the 'Technology on Coordination of Aerodrome Service with the Vnukovo ATC Centre and Other Ground Services at Vnukovo Aerodrome' and Para 7 of the 'Temporary Instruction on Aircraft Towing at Vnukovo Aerodrome' (as introduced by Order № 146 of the General Director of Vnukovo Airport dated 15.05.2007).. In violation of Para 2.1, Provision of Usage of Recording Devices and Data during ATM at the Moscow ATC Centre, State ATM Corporation 24/7 background recording and video monitoring of ATM working positions was not provided.. In violation of Flowchart 5 of the ATC Shift Supervisor’s Job Description, the Main Aviation Meteorological Centre (MAMC) Officer was not ordered to make an unscheduled measuring of all weather elements being monitored at the time of the accident.. In violation of requirements of Para 2.37, Section 2 of the ATC Shift Supervisor’s Job Description, the ATC shift supervisor did not make a record in the Log of Airfield Condition when approving the times of the start and the end of airfield operations.. In violation of Para 4.1.2 of the Interaction Procedure of the Aerodrome Service with the Vnukovo ATC Centre, the coordination of operations between the ATC shift supervisor and the Aerodrome Service shift supervisor was done without using the internal aerodrome communications radio, telephones or intercom telephony.. In violation of Para 39 of Instruction 82 the Aerodrome shift supervisor did not report the problem with one of the three snowploughs prior to the accident to ATC.. In violation of the Supplement to Order № 93 of Russian Ministry of Transport, an ATC controller was authorised to work with a trainee as an instructor controller by Order № 921 of Moscow ATC Centre Director, State ATM Corporation with effect from 11.12.2012 without the necessary approval of the Federal