take off when there was pertinent radar information on the A-SMGCS screen and as a result the failure to inform the flight crew about an obstacle on the runway;. the lack of guidance in the Operator’s (Unijet) OM at the time of the accident on actions by pilots when external threats appear (e.g. foreign objects on the runway) during the takeoff;. the aircraft flight crew failing to take measures to reject take-off as soon as the Captain observed "the car crossing the road". The absence of a decision to reject the take-off at that point might have been caused by probable non-optimal psycho-emotional status of the crew as a result of the long wait for departure at an unfamiliar airport and their desire to fly home as soon as possible, which might have made it difficult for them to assess the actual threat level as they noticed the snowplough after they had started the take-off roll;. the fact that in the Falcon 50EX aircraft, the nose wheel steering can only be controlled from the left seat which results in the need to transfer aircraft control at a high workload phase of the take-off roll when the pilot in the right seat performs the take-off.. The Investigation also formally documented the following 24 "Shortcomings": The ELT failed to activate during the accident. Despite examination, it was not possible to determine the cause of this. During the subject accident, the ELT failure did not affect the outcome, whereas under different circumstances it could bear significant impact on the survival aspects.. Personnel simulator training at the Vnukovo ATC Centre was organised and conducted in violation of the Provisions of the ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation. Some provisions of the arrangement and conduct of Vnukovo ATC Centre personnel simulator training procedure are not consistent with the requirements of the Provision of the ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation and the Supplement to Order № 93 of the Russian Ministry of Transport dated 14.04.2010. The content of the training and checks plan in Supplement A (of the Provision of ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation) is not consistent with the purpose (the reason for training is substituted by the objective). The content of the boxes in the Log of Simulator Training in Supplement B (of the Provision of ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation) is not consistent with the purpose (the reason for training is substituted by the objective). Since June 2014, the controller simulator training and check records have been kept in violation of the established procedure (numbers of training tasks were not recorded).. Some provisions of the arrangement and conduct of Vnukovo ATC Centre personnel simulator training procedure are not consistent with the requirements of the Provision of the ATC Simulator Training Arrangement and Conduct for Personnel of the State ATM Corporation and the