conduct medical checks (pre-duty and post-duty) as well as oversight during shifts to mitigate the risk of drivers carrying out their duties when under the influence of alcohol.. that the Russian Aviation Authorities should consider the practicability of amending the applicable regulations to include a requirement to fit an airfield surveillance and control system (if installed)) with MLAT/ADS-B functions.. that the State ATM Corporation, in cooperation with the management of the Vnukovo ATC Centre should arrange training for their personnel on the use of the A3000 A-SMGCS system and improve Working Instructions to include provisions on the recommended settings of the A3000 system depending on the working position as well as guidance on attention allocation while operating the system and reaction to various types of alerts. The applicability of this recommendation to other ATC Centres where the same or similar system is used should be considered.. that the State ATM Corporation should consider revoking authorisations for work as instructors of trainees held by ATC controllers which have been issued in violation of the Supplement to Order № 93 of the Russian Ministry of Transport dated 14.04.2010.. that the State ATM Corporation should consider introducing standardised OJT logs for all ATC personnel for use during on-the-job probationary training.. that the State ATM Corporation should maintain records of annual practical checks of instructor training for instructor controllers, both staff and trainee ones, in personal ATC controller log books.. that the Moscow ATM Centre of the ATM State Corporation should take measures to prevent falsification of records in personnel documents. With regard to the previous recommendation, it should consider conducting an internal investigation into the falsification of records in individual log books and the Log of Simulator Training in the case of the training of the TWR instructor controller on duty at the time of the accident.. that the Moscow ATM Centre of the ATM State Corporation should consider revoking authorisations to work as instructors of ATC controllers authorised as trainee instructor controllers by orders № 601 by Moscow ATM Centre of the State ATM Corporation dated 01.09.2011, № 921 dated 11.12.2012 and № 4.1.1-08801 dated 17.08.2011.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should improve its SMS taking into account the results of this Investigation paying special attention to the functioning of the voluntary reporting system.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should develop a procedure for and accomplish the setting of Reserved Lines on the A3000 A-SMGCS in the area of the runway intersection and assess the necessity of having and/or correcting Reserved Lines in other locations.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should consider changing the format and duration of the sound alarm when various alert modes are activated to ensure a better attention-getting effect.. that the Vnukovo ATC Centre of the Moscow ATM Centre, ATM State Corporation should arrange regular checks of ATC controllers in terms of efficiency of