An Investigation was carried out by the Interstate Aviation Committee (the MAK). The FDR and CVR were recovered from the aircraft and their data were successfully downloaded. ATC recorded radar data was also available. It was noted that the Captain, a 45 year-old French national, had been employed by the Operator since 2010 and had 6,624 total flying which included 1,266 hours on type since gaining the type rating in late 2013 and 3,304 hours in command. The 28 year-old First Officer was also a French national, had been employed by the Operator since 2011 and had 1,478 total flying hours including 246 hours on type, the latter since gaining the type rating also in late 2013. For the year prior to the accident, the two pilots had been "flying as fixed crew" and both still held current type ratings on the Cessna 525 Citation. The driver of the snowplough which the aircraft collided with was noted be have been born in 1954 and to have had 10 years of experience as a civil aerodrome vehicle driver, eight of them as a qualified snowplough driver. The runway control position in the TWR was being worked by an ab-initio trainee controller supervised by an Instructor Controller. It was established that the departure of the flight had been significantly delayed awaiting the arrival of the only passenger. Once they had boarded, the aircraft was started up and taxied to the departure runway 06. It had been decided that the First Officer would act as PF for the flight but as the aircraft only had a steering tiller at the left seat position, it was necessary for the Captain to taxi out and begin the take-off roll before a standard hand over of control to the First Officer when the airspeed reached 80 knots. Take-off clearance was given as the aircraft was lining up with the runway clear ahead and the take-off was commenced 48 seconds later. Fourteen seconds after take-off as the aircraft approached 80 knots, the Captain was recorded on the CVR as exclaiming (in French) "What’s the car crossing the road, eh". This "car" was in fact one of three snowploughs working airside on the closed intersecting runway 01/19 and was fully lit and moving from left to right at the intersection without requesting or obtaining ATC permission to enter the active runway. However, the Investigation concluded that this sighting had not been assessed as an obstruction to the continued take-off and three seconds after this the Captain had handed control to the First Officer who confirmed with "my control". After a further 4 seconds, V1 was called at 110 KCAS followed by "Rotate" at 118 KCAS. Then, as the aircraft passed 123 KCAS, approximately 210 metres before the now-stopped snowplough, the Captain was recorded as exclaiming (again in French) "Hey there’s, there’s a truck there". One second after this call, at 127 KCAS, the aircraft became airborne with approximately 145 metres to run to the snowplough. The pitch was