receiving clearance from the GND controller;. violations by Airport medical personnel of vehicle driver medical check requirements by performing only external assessment of drivers after their duties which significantly increased the risk of drivers consuming alcohol during those duties. The measures and controls applied at Vnukovo Airport to mitigate the risk of aerodrome drivers carrying out their duties whilst under the influence of alcohol were not effective enough;. the lack of any opportunity for snowplough drivers engaged in airfield operations to continuously listen to the radio frequency being used for control of the active runway because of a lack of the necessary equipment in their vehicles. This does not comply with the specified 'Interaction Procedure for Aerodrome Service' with Vnukovo ATC Centre.. a loss of situational awareness by the snowplough driver whilst performing airfield operations that led to a runway incursion and stopping on the runway in use with his awareness potentially impaired by alcohol consumption. His failure to contact the aerodrome service shift supervisor or ATC controllers after situational awareness was lost;. ineffective procedures that resulted in ATC personnel being insufficiently trained in the use of the A-SMGCS airfield surveillance and control subsystem A3000 at the Vnukovo ATC Centre for air traffic management;. the absence of any guidance in the SOP for ATM personnel at the Vnukovo ATC Centre on how to set up the A-SMGCS including activation and deactivation of the 'Reserved Lines' function and alerts at the TWR and GND controller’s working positions which resulted in all alerts being de-activated. Also, the absence of any guidance on how to operate the system including attention allocation techniques during aircraft take-off and actions to deal with system messages and alerts;. the use of the A-SMGCS screen at the ATC shift supervisor position for the display of weather information which is not envisaged by the Operations Manual for the system. When weather information is selected to be displayed on this screen, the radar data and the light alerts (which were present during the accident take-off) become unavailable to the ATC shift supervisor’s working position;. the ATC shift supervisor’s decision to combine the working positions of GND and TWR without considering the actual level of personnel training and possibility for them to use the information of the A-SMGCS. The criteria for combining these two positions is not defined in the Job Description of ATC shift supervisor and in particular this description does not take into account the technical impossibility of changing the settings of the A-SMGCS;. the failure by the GND controller to comply with the SOPs, by not taking action to prevent the incursion of runway 01/19 (which was closed for take-off and landing operations) by vehicles by having radar information and alerts on the screen of the A-SMGCS system;. the failure by the OJT (on-the-job training) instructor controller and their trainee controller to detect two runway incursions by the snowplough onto the runway in use, both prior to and then again after the departing aircraft had been cleared to