the theoretical pitch attitude during a go-around”. See: Appendix 6: Study of Spatial Disorientation. It was surmised that the PFs successive callouts of ‘Flaps’ at this point may well have been “due to his detection of the red and black stripe on the speed tape and the very high speed trend due to acceleration”. It was further considered that this apparent ‘tunnel vision’ of the speed trend at the expense of the more central indication of the increasingly unfavourable aircraft attitude was indicative of a desire to avoid replicating what had happened during a go around from an unstable approach to the same runway with the same crew two weeks earlier during which the over speed warning had been was activated. This event had been identified by the Operator OFDM system but no follow up action had been taken by the time of the accident approach. As the aircraft had begun to descend from 450 ft agl, it was noted that “neither crew member seemed to be aware of the flight path of the aircraft”. The Captain had responded to the PFs ‘Flaps’ calls and spoken to TWR but was not monitoring the flight path. As the aircraft descended again through the MDA equivalent 410 feet agl and the automatic ‘MINMIMUM’ Call activated again, there was no recorded response from either pilot. It was found from FDR data that, from the point of go around onwards, the Captain had begun making small inputs to his side stick, but these had not been sufficient to trigger the ‘Dual Input’ Alert. It was considered that the available evidence indicated that, “like the PF, the Captain’s attention appeared to be focused on the speed tape”. He had called ‘Speed’ and had pulled the Speed/Mach button on the FCU to select the current speed at 176 KCAS when the speed trend was still mainly in the red band. It was considered possible that the Captain also wanted to avoid triggering the over speed warning with a similar recollection of the earlier approach. Finally, “three seconds after having selected the speed on the FCU and during the seven seconds before the aircraft struck the ground, a succession of TAWS alerts and warnings of increasing severity was recorded. In response to the first of these, the Captain had applied a sharp nose-down input followed immediately by a contrary pitch-up input by the First Officer. The Captain maintained his nose-down input on the side stick whilst taking side stick priority so that the effect of First Officer’s side stick selection to the pitch-up stop was negated. At about 180 feet agl, less than two seconds before impact and one second after the last GPWS/TAWS ‘PULL UP’ warning was triggered, the Captain had applied a pitch-up input to the stop and released the priority side stick push button with the First Officer’s side stick input also to the pitch-up stop. It was considered that these inputs probably indicated that the two operating crew members had finally become aware