on frequency of “fog patches beginning to form” advised the Investigation that although when he initiated the final descent, he could see the airport and the runway lights through the mist, he had “then passed through a more or less dense cloud layer that he considered to be low stratus cloud. Close to the minimum descent altitude, he regained sight of the ground and landed”. He had also suggested to ATC once parked that the runway in use should be changed and when he had heard the missed approach call, had thought this manoeuvre was due to his message about the weather conditions. The departing aircraft crew reported that when they left their hotel in town at 0240Z, the tops of taller buildings were already invisible due to low cloud. Once on board their aircraft, they found that the ATIS being broadcast was timed at 2130Z the previous day. Then, when cleared to taxi for a 09 departure at about 0350Z, they again noticed that weather conditions were different from those being reported on the ATIS and estimated the cloud ceiling to be lower than reported and the visibility to be 2000-3000 metres. Shortly afterwards, they reported having heard the accident aircraft declare a go around and subsequently saw it “appearing below the clouds, in a low-nose attitude and almost wings level” before it impacted the ground. In respect of the deteriorating weather conditions for approaches to runway 09 and the potential for a change to runway27, a recorded telephone exchange between the TWR and Tripoli ACC controllers had begun at 03:55:47Z with the Tripoli ACC controller answering a call from the Tripoli TWR controller on the direct line after 45 seconds of calling and three minutes prior to the transfer of the accident aircraft to the TWR. ACC was asked about a runway change from 09 to 27 and replied that this was impossible because there were six or seven flights in sequence. The TWR controller informed the ACC controller that wind was 240/10 Knots and tried to convince ACC to change the runway but could not and the final answer from the ACC was that there is no way to change the active runway adding the nearest traffic was 10 miles away. The call was ended by the ACC Controller saying that he was busy and would call TWR later. It was concluded that the Cause of the Accident was: The lack of common action plan during the approach and a final approach continued below the MDA, without ground visual reference acquired.. The inappropriate application of flight control inputs during a go- around and on the activation of TAWS warnings,. The lack of monitoring and controlling of the flight path.. It was considered that these events could be explained by the following: Limited CRM on approach that degraded during the missed approach. This degradation was probably amplified by numerous radio-communications during the final approach and the crew’s state of fatigue. Aircraft control inputs typical in the occurrence of