somatogravic perceptual illusions.. Inappropriate systematic analysis of flight data and feedback mechanism within the AFRIQIYAH Airways. Non adherence to the company operation manual, SOPs and standard terminology. The Investigation Committee also identified the following as Contributory Factors to the accident: The weather available to the crew did not reflect the actual weather situation in the final approach segment at Tripoli International Airport.. The inadequacy of training received by the crew.. Shared use of the Tower frequency by both air and ground movements control.. A total of 21 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that Flight Crews (should be) required to comply with company operations manual in regard to reportable events regardless of the Crew member position.. that Flight Crews should strictly adhere to Company SOPs.. that all Airlines must to comply with the current regulation related to operation of a flight (data) analysis programme and create an environment of safety awareness.. that Aircraft Maintenance Personnel must not perform any maintenance work unless it is covered by the (aircraft) manufacturer’s documents and subsequent consultation with the manufacturer is recommended.. that Air Traffic Control personnel have to comply with the national and international standard in performing their duties as well as to stick with the standard phraseology used in the field.. that Air Traffic Control personnel should take due care about runway selection taking in consideration wind speed, direction and runway facilities as (the) main factors.. that the Libyan Civil Aviation Authority Air Navigation Department should distinguish the ground and the air as will as approach and area movements communication knowing that facilities are available.. that the Airports Authority should upgrade runway 09 at Tripoli International Airport to be equipped with precision approach facilities.. that the Libyan Civil Aviation Authority and the National Safety Board should make available and use of radio communications facilities between (the) airport tower and fire fighting trucks.. that Airbus should review its training course syllabus (to place) emphasis on go around, emergency procedures taking into account low visibility and somatogravic illusion.. that the Libyan Civil Aviation Authority should develop a system for the supervision and control of medical examiners, including action to be taken in the event that sufficient evidence exists to demonstrate that a medical examiner has not performed his or her duties in accordance with the prescribed procedures.. that Flight crew must immediately after landing report occurrences such as a go around to ATC and to the Company Safety Division before next flight and that ATC staff should be encouraged to report such events too.. that ATC should report any abnormal occurrences associated with the operation of aircraft to the (relevant departments) in the Civil Aviation Authority.. that Those conducting audits on AFRIQIYAH Airways (including the company quality system, LYCAA, and IATA Operational Safety Audit) should pay more attention to areas related to safety, operation and flight (data) analysis during their audits.. that AFRIQIYAH Airways should make available and use a clear crew rest programme for augmented crew on long haul