of the aircraft path and ground proximity. However, it was seen from the data that the Captain had reversed his pitch-up input to a pitch-down input one second before impact. In respect of the flight crew performance, it was noted that the approach brief given had been minimal and selective. Initially, although there was some evidence of non standard flight management with the AP engaged, exchanges between the two pilots “suggest that at this stage of the flight, both crew members shared the same approach strategy”. Thereafter, although the PF was clearly focused on his task, Crew Resource Management was not very effective and it was considered that in the latter part of the approach, “the pilots no longer seemed to share the same strategy for conducting the final approach” and that meaningful CRM had effectively ceased as soon as the go around had been initiated. The vertical profile shown below was included as Appendix 11 to the Report and is based on consolidated data from the FDR and CVR summarises the approach and go around sequence leading up to impact. The third illustration, Appendix 10 to the Official Report, shows selected FDR parameters for the go around and adds a modelled representation of perceived pitch due to the effects of somatogravic illusion for comparison with actual pitch. It was noted that the lack of any follow up after the unstable approach to the same runway flown by the same crew on the same aircraft two weeks earlier had removed a potentially significant opportunity for the both pilots to recognise the potential issues associated with managing non-precision approaches and the transition to any go around from one. It was accepted that the performance of both pilots may have been impaired by fatigue but the available evidence did not allow this possibility to be confirmed or eliminated. See Appendix 7: Study of Fatigue. It was considered that whilst the go around could have been performed with the AP remaining engaged, the First Officer’s choice of manual control “may be explained as a response to an emergency” as if a TAWS ‘PULL UP’ warning rather than the ‘TOO LOW TERRAIN’ alert which had actually occurred. Overall, it was concluded that evidence led to a conclusion that the go around had been attempted without the Captain having fully engaged with the change from his previous expectation of a landing. The question of inaccurate surface weather reports and broadcasts was considered. It was clear that, in respect of the prevailing visibility as the accident aircraft approached, evidence from the crew of the aircraft which landed just before the crash and another that was allowed (despite the degraded fire cover) to take off just after it was that the real cloud cover and visibility were not being reported by Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) / Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). The pilot of the aircraft ahead of the accident aircraft on approach that landed on runway 09 four minutes before the accident and had advised