1,800 metres when in fact the two were the same due to the high standard of approach lighting on runway 36L and that the Captain did correct this. On checking in with Lahore APP, the controller noted that the aircraft was to the right of track and queried this. The CVR record disclosed that prior to the First Officer’s reply, the Captain had “quickly asked him to tell ATC that they were following the RNAV procedure for runway 36L”. The controller acknowledged this and instructed them to make a corresponding position report whilst continuing descent as cleared to FL 070. The Controller made no mention of her previous clearance for a VOR/DME approach to runway 36L. Thereafter, the prescribed RNAV procedure was followed but remained between 2,000 and 2,500 feet above the procedure vertical profile. To increase the rate of descent, Flaps-1, 2 and 5 were selected “in quick succession” but the speed brakes were not used. The APP controller asked if they intended to continue the approach or would discontinue it due to being high and the Captain “immediately prompted the First Officer to respond that they would continue” and the First Officer replied “affirmative, we can make it”. The First Officer proposed using the speedbrakes to regain the correct vertical profile and the CVR recorded his response in an exhausted voice which it was considered was an “indication that he was unable to cope with the difficult situation”. As the aircraft reached an approach procedure waypoint located 9.7 nm from the runway 36L threshold, it was at 5,400ft with 180 KCAS and the radar controller, observing this, cautioned that they should have been at 3,000 feet and advised them to continue at their discretion, confirmed the missed approach procedure as climb in runway heading and instructed them to contact TWR. Immediately after this, the Captain disengaged the AP and increased the rate of descent to between 2,000 and 3,500 fpm which increased the speed beyond that for the now-deployed Flap 30. It was concluded that by this time “the approach had become unstabilised and warranted a go around”. The First Officer reset the Flight Directors in anticipation of a go round but the approach was continued. As the aircraft passed 4.6 nm from the runway threshold, it was at 1,200 feet agl with 170 KCAS but still without runway visual reference. It was found that, contrary to their request for and approval of an RNAV approach, the Captain was actually making a VOR/DME approach for which the required minimum visibility was not available. A landing clearance was given by TWR and acknowledged. Passing 460 feet agl, the runway was not in sight and the speed was 14 knots above Vref. The VOR/DME procedure MDA was 1,100 feet QNH, equivalent to an MDH of 388 feet. Then, just before the auto callout of “Minimums”, the First Officer sighted the runway towards the right of track, took over the controls and asked the Captain to inform ATC that runway was