since the normal level is 4.5 - 23 mg/dl. There were no abnormal findings in the medical investigation report on the First Officer. EDITOR’S NOTE: At the time of this accident there were no prescribed limits for pilot blood alcohol level in Pakistan and no further reference was made to this finding by the Investigation. No firm evidence was found that any prior lack of airworthiness had directly contributed to the excursion and the high speed landing itself was found to have created a loading on the left main gear assembly of “approximately its design limit level” with the right main gear then collapsing due to overload stresses resulting from the left main gear collapse as it too departed the runway. However, in the case of the left main gear, it was suspected that its collapse may have been the consequence of more than the specified limits of play in the linkages of shimmy damper mechanism which would have induced torsional vibrations in the assembly. These would have hastened the failure of the shimmy damper altogether and the resultant “torsional excitation” in the gear assembly due to free pivoting of the wheels along the vertical axis would then have caused its complete collapse. Although not proved to be contributory, the Operator’s Maintenance Schedule in respect of shimmy damper and linkages during ‘C’ Checks was found not to include requirements for enhanced frequency checks in the light of recommendations contained in an applicable Boeing Service Letter. The Investigation formally recorded the Cause of the accident as follows: The flight crew landing the aircraft after an unstabilised approach (high ground speed and incorrect flight path).. The low sink rate of the left main landing gear as it touched down and the probable presence of more than the specified limits of play in the linkages of the shimmy damper mechanism. This situation led to torsional vibrations / breakage of the shimmy damper after touchdown. The resultant torsional excitation experienced by the assembly due to free pivoting of the wheels along the vertical axis (then) caused the complete collapse of the left main landing gear.. The right main landing gear then collapsed due to overload as the aircraft moved onto an unprepared surface.. Fifteen Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Shaheen Air International should ensure implementation of Crew Reporting time as approved by the Flight Standards Directorate in the Shaheen Air International Operational Manual Part A (Edition II Ch-7 p.10 para 7.7.). that the Pakistan CAA should study and issue clear policy providing guidelines on delaying departure or rescheduling of flights in case of marginal weather at departing / destination aerodrome keeping in view the trend of weather deterioration or improvement.. that the Pakistan CAA should issue necessary instructions to all operators in Pakistan to emphasise that their aircrew must read and understand NOTAMs in pre flight brief and utilise the information in NOTAMs in their flight planning.. that All Aircraft Operators should encourage their aircrew to make in-flight decisions to divert to