in sight. FDR data recorded that the aircraft temporarily levelled off in the vicinity of the MDA for approximately 7 seconds as a turn to the right was made. Descent with the First Officer as PF then continued with an erratic rate of descent until the Captain sighted the runway at approximately 150 feet aal and took over control from the First Officer but failed to properly align the aircraft with the runway centreline and as the auto callout of 100 feet occurred, the First Officer “forcibly took over the controls in order to land the aircraft” with the Captain reportedly unaware that he was still holding his control column despite repeated calls from the First Officer to desist. The throttles were retarded to idle and touchdown occurred 1,400 feet past the threshold on the left half of the runway initially on the right main gear only with both pilots still holding the controls whilst the First Officer made the landing. After an earlier increase in thrust whilst the aircraft had briefly levelled after the First Officer had seen the runway and initially taken control, the recorded touchdown airspeed was 174 knots, 40 knots above the Vref. The speed brakes had been armed and were automatically deployed after which there was a bounce and left main gear touched hard followed by shimmy and the whole left main gear assembly braking off from the airframe. The thrust reversers were deployed and wheel braking commenced but due to the high drag generated by the rubbing of the left engine cowling on the runway surface, the right main gear also collapsed due to overload as the aircraft departed the runway onto soft ground. As this happened, the fuselage was left resting on both engines and nose gear which remained intact and continued to skid on the soft surface for approximately 2,450 metres before finally coming to a stop located 2,530 metres from the threshold and 60 metres from the centreline of the 46 metre-wide runway. Once the aircraft had stopped, the Captain did not ask the First Officer to run the engine shutdown and passenger evacuation Checklists and this was done by the First Officer. Although the aircraft fuselage remained intact, it was damaged on the right side of the tail section where, fortuitously, the seats were not occupied. In addition to the detachment of both main landing gear assemblies, the wing structure adjacent to the main landing gear attachment points was extensively damaged as were both engines as a direct consequence of landing gear assembly detachment. Blood samples were taken from both pilots after the accident and the results of those given by the Captain showed a blood alcohol level of 83 mg/dl compared to a threshold for impairment of the central nervous system of 50 mg/dl. It was concluded that this may have contributed to “judgmental errors as evident” and that the measured blood lactate level of 70 mg /dl could be interpreted as indicative of “fatigue due to increased stress”