An Investigation was carried out by the Pakistan Safety Investigation Board (SIB). The FDR and CVR were recovered from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 59 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had accumulated 19,302 hours total flying experience of which the 4,859 hours on type had included 3719 hours in command. The 34 year-old First Officer had 2,076 hours total flying experience of which 410 hours were on type. It was established that both pilots had reported late for duty prior to the departure from Karachi, the rostered report time being 90 minutes prior to the scheduled flight departure time (STD). The First Officer arrived ahead of the Captain and obtained operational briefing and the weather for Lahore which showed that it was below the minimum RVR for the available approaches at that time although with an improvement forecast. The Captain arrived 45 minutes before the STD. A NOTAM obtained by the First Officer stated that the main runway at Lahore (36R) was not available due to work to upgrade the ILS and instead a VOR/DME approach was available on runway 36L. It was found that this information was not accorded the appropriate degree of pre-flight attention by the crew. After takeoff, the flight climbed to its planned cruising altitude of FL 330. Before the top of descent, the latest destination weather was obtained and included a visibility of 1,200 metres, which was below the minimum of 1,600 metres required for the available VOR/DME approach by a Category ‘C’ aeroplane. In the expectation that the weather would improve, the approach brief was conducted for that approach and on transfer to Lahore ACC, the Captain instructed the First Officer to request initial positioning to a 10 mile final for closed runway 36R, apparently because he was planning to follow the ILS procedure for runway 36R and then break off after becoming visual with the runway to land on runway 36L - a non-standard procedure. Lahore ACC declined this request and confirmed that the visibility was still below that required for the available VOR/DME approach. Before changing to Lahore APP, the Captain told the First Officer to request the RNAV approach for runway 36R despite the fact that the aircraft was not in compliance with the mandatory navigation equipment for RNAV approaches and the Operator had “issued necessary instructions in this regard”. Soon afterwards, the First Officer had to point out that the Captain had selected runway 18L instead of runway 36L on the FMGC and the CVR data from this time indicated that the Captain was having difficulty “identifying / reading and feeding the correct arrival procedure due to loss of concentration” and that thereafter, the First Officer had been “continuously prompting the Captain for decision making”. It was also noted that the First Officer was not fully familiar with the conversion of prevailing visibility to RVR and had calculated that the 1,200 metre visibility converted to an RVR of