an alternate aerodrome in the event that the planned destination aerodrome weather falls below the minimum required.. that the Pakistan CAA should ensure that Alcohol / Drugs spot checks of all aircrew operating in Pakistan are carried out as mentioned in PCAA ANO-002-XXAM-1.0, which was not being done regularly prior to this occurrence.. that All Operators in Pakistan should advise their pilots to mutually brief in detail any alternative procedure, especially landing, which may have become essential during flight under specific circumstances.. that the Pakistan CAA should carry out a study and issue necessary instructions regarding disengagement of autopilot for correcting of approach parameters. This aspect is to be viewed in conjunction with OEM recommended procedures and overall safety of aircraft.. that the Pakistan CAA should issue necessary instructions to all operators to make their airline doctors / flight surgeons more effective. All sickness of aircrew must be reported to airline doctors / flight surgeons and proper record keeping is to be ensured in accordance with PCAA ANO-001-XXAM-2.0.. that All Operators should ensure implementation of their Selection and Recruitment Policy, especially verification of licences and educational / experience certificates, which was not followed during the induction of the Captain of the investigated flight.. that the Pakistan CAA should issue necessary instructions to all Boeing 737 operators in Pakistan to follow the landing technique given in Boeing Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM), Chapter 6.. that Shaheen Air International should ensure that the Captain and First Officer involved undergo CRM refresher training as lack of CRM in the entire sequence of events is evident.. that Shaheen Air International should perform a one-time check of the “Torsion Links Apex Joint” and conduct a “Torsional Free Play Check” in accordance with the applicable Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) (AMM) and perform necessary adjustment/rectification as required. (This recommendation was implemented by the operator during process of SIB investigation).. that All Operators of Boeing 737-100 / 200 / 300 / 400 / 500 variants should conduct a review of Boeing Service Letter 737-SL-32-057E for implementation of the recommended enhanced frequency of maintenance on Shimmy Damper and associated linkages.. that the Pakistan CAA should review its existing airworthiness procedures to ensure that all operators perform necessary technical reviews of non-mandatory manufacturer’s instructions/service letters and implement any required measures especially if they are intended to rectify problems in the area covered by the subject instructions/service letters.. that All Boeing 737-400 flight crews should be briefed to adhere to Boeing-recommended procedures & landing technique to ensure effectiveness of shimmy damper mechanism.. The Final Report was published on 27 September 2017.