The ways in which safety performance is monitored is determined partly by international agreement, and partly at the discretion of the States and organisations concerned. At the international level, ICAO Annex 13 requires States to report to ICAO information on all aircraft accidents which involve aircraft of a maximum certificated take-off mass of over 2250 kg. Annex 13 also requires that States establish a mandatory incident reporting system and additionally recommends the establishment of a voluntary reporting mechanism as an accident prevention measure. In Europe, the Regulation (EU) No 376/2014 on the reporting, analysis and follow-up of occurrences in civil aviation on occurrence reporting in civil aviation and EUROCONTROL Safety Regulatory Requirement ESARR 2 contain similar requirements but have an increased legal effect. Measurements of safety in terms of undesirable events, such as accidents and incidents, are examples of “Lagging indicators”, which can capture safety performance “a posteriori”. Such indicators give valuable signals to all involved in an air traffic service - provider, regulator and recipient - of the levels of risk being experienced, and the ability of the organisations concerned to take appropriate mitigation action. However, other types of measurement - “Leading indicators”- can give a wider perspective of the safety “health” of the ATM system, and focus on systemic issues, such as safety maturity and SMS performance. A holistic approach to performance monitoring is an essential input to safety decision-making. It is important to ensure that good safety performance is attributable to good performance of the safety system and not simply to a lack of incidents. It is also essential that the metrics chosen match the requirements of the stakeholders and decision-makers involved in safety improvement. As shown in the diagram, stakeholders in the wider aviation industry and the general public require a relatively small number of safety indicators (safety performance indicators or key performance indicators) which can give an instant ‘feel’ for the overall position regarding safety performance. Conversely, those involved in the management of the services concerned need a more detailed set of metrics on which to base decisions regarding the management of the services and facilities being reviewed.