There are many safety and performance requirements that must be met before an aircraft will be issued a type certificate. For multi-engine, transport category jet aircraft, minimum runway requirements that allow the safe rejection or continuation of a takeoff in the event of a failure and the ability to comply with minimum specified engine out climb gradients and obstacle clearance criteria are both critically important. Regulatory criteria for minimum runway requirements encompass multiple calculations inclusive of Takeoff Distance (TOD), Takeoff Run (TOR) and Accelerate Stop Distance (ASD). The most limiting of these criteria, based on aircraft weight and prevailing atmospheric conditions, defines the minimum runway required for takeoff. Note that, depending upon the regulations under which the aircraft certification is granted, these distances may have to take into consideration the runway distance lost during line-up. The Takeoff Distance on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: Distance covered from the brake release to a point at which the aircraft is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming the failure of the critical engine at VEF (Engine Failure Speed) and recognized at V1. 115% of the distance covered from brake release to a point at which the aircraft is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming all engines operating. The Takeoff Distance on a wet runway is the greater of: Takeoff Distance on a dry runway (see above). Distance covered from brake release to a point at which the aircraft is 15 feet above the takeoff surface, ensuring that the V2 speed can be achieved before the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming failure of the critical engine at VEF and recognized at V1. Takeoff Distance must not exceed the Takeoff Distance Available (TODA), with a clearway distance not to exceed half of the TODA Takeoff Run (TOR) calculations incorporate the operational advantage of a designated clearway when one is present on the departure runway. If no clearway exists, TOR = TOD. When a clearway exists, the Takeoff Run on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: Distance covered from brake release to a point equidistant between the point at which VLOF (Lift-off Speed) is reached and the point at which the aircraft is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming failure of the critical engine at VEF and recognized at V1. 115 % of the distance covered from brake release to a point equidistant between the point at which VLOF is reached and the point at which the aircraft is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming all engines operating. When a clearway exists, the Takeoff Run on a wet runway is the greater of: Takeoff Distance (TOD) wet runway. 115 % of the distance covered from brake release to a point equidistant between the point at which VLOF is reached and the point at which the aircraft is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, assuming all engines operating.. Takeoff Run must not exceed Takeoff Run Available (TORA) Accelerate Stop Distance