calculations assume the following: Delay between VEF and V1 = 1 second. ASD is determined with the wheel brakes at the fully worn limit of their allowable wear range. reverse thrust is not considered for a dry runway distance determination, it can be used for wet runway calculations. The Accelerate Stop Distance on a dry runway is the greater of the following values: Sum of the distances necessary to:. Accelerate the airplane with all engines operating to VEF. Accelerate from VEF to V1 (assumes that engine fails at VEF and first action to reject is taken at V1). Come to a full stop. Plus an additional distance equivalent to 2 seconds at constant V1 speed. Sum of the distances necessary to:. Accelerate the airplane with all engines operating to V1 (assumes that first stopping actions are taken at V1). With all engines still operating come to a full stop. Plus an additional distance equivalent to 2 seconds at constant V1 speed. The Accelerate Stop Distance on a wet runway is the greatest of: ASD on a dry runway (see above). Sum of the distances on a wet runway necessary to:. Accelerate the airplane with all engines operating to VEF. Accelerate from VEF to V1 (assumes that engine fails at VEF and first action to reject is taken at V1). Come to a full stop. Plus an additional distance equivalent to 2 seconds at constant V1 speed. Sum of the distances on a wet runway necessary to:. Accelerate the airplane with all engines operating to V1 (assumes that first stopping actions are taken at V1). With all engines still operating come to a full stop. Plus an additional distance equivalent to 2 seconds at constant V1 speed. Note: Depending upon the criteria under which the aircraft was certified, the additional 2 seconds distance equivalent might not be required Accelerate Stop Distance must not exceed the Accelerate Stop Distance Available (ASDA) Declared distances such as TORA and ASDA are based on measurements from the runway threshold. However, unless the aircraft enters the runway from a point prior to the threshold, it is not possible to use the full length of the runway. Aircraft typically enter the takeoff runway from an intersecting taxiway. The aeroplane must then be turned to align it on the runway in the direction of takeoff. In some cases, it may be necessary to backtrack on the runway and turn through 180° before the takeoff run can be initiated. FAA regulations do not explicitly require airplane operators to take into account the runway distance used to align the aeroplane on the runway for takeoff. However, EASA regulations require that the applicable distance be taken into consideration. When required, the TODA and TORA must be reduced by the distance from the runway threshold to the main landing gear and ASDA reduced by the distance from the threshold to the nose gear. Manufacturers will provide minimum lineup distances required for both 90° and 180° turns. Some Operators provide data which takes