speed recorded as 51 knots. It was found that there was no designated Clearway beyond the end of the runway so that there was a greater risk of gear collapse on the uneven surface - note the gulley immediately after the end of the runway in the illustration above. The Investigation noted that the First Officer had called out "airspeed 145 knot" as the aircraft had passed 300 feet (the Captain had responded with "airbrake out") but the report did not mention any other calls alerting the Captain to excessive speed. The prevailing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) documented in both the FCOM and the Operations Manual included a requirement to go around if the speed is more than Vref +14 at the threshold whereas it was in excess of Vref + 20. Examination of wind velocity measurement at Khark Island and the diurnal pattern of summer winds there indicated that although the 15 knot tailwind component limit for landing had not been exceeded relative to the wind readings passed to the aircraft, it was quite likely that the actual tailwind on final approach to and touchdown on runway 31 had been much closer to the limit than the Captain probably anticipated. The correct function of all the main systems involved in deceleration was confirmed but signs that the anti-skid on the right hand main gear had failed were found in the marks made by the right main gear tyres on the surface of the runway near to its end and bench testing of the corresponding control box confirmed this. In summary, analysis of the evidence showed that: The Captain's approach had been unstable but not challenged by the low-experience First Officer.. The aircraft speed on short final was such that a go around should have been performed.. Touchdown occurred well beyond the normal distance beyond the runway threshold.. Braking effectiveness after touchdown was compromised by late deployment of the lift spoilers and almost certainly by inappropriate forward pressure on the control column.. The failure of the right anti skid system would have slightly worsened the rate of deceleration but did not cause or significantly contribute to the overrun.. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the Main Cause of the accident was a series of errors by the aircraft commander. These comprised his poor judgement in continuing with a landing on the short runway 13 with a tailwind instead of going around after flying an unstabilised approach, the obviously weak CRM on the flight deck and his incorrect calculation of landing speed without taking account of the tailwind component. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The failure of the right hand main landing gear anti-skid which prolonged the landing distance required.. The variability of surface wind velocity within the aerodrome traffic pattern.. The late activation of airbrakes and spoilers (especially the airbrakes) which with the prevailing tailwind led to an increase in the landing roll distance.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation