An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). The 2 hour SSCVR and the SSFDR were recovered from the aircraft and successfully downloaded. It was found that the 46 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had 5,494 total flying hours which included 1,270 hours on type as Captain. The 28 year-old First Officer had 300 total flying hours which included 110 hours on type. The two pilots had taken over as operating crew at Ahwaz after travelling as passengers with the aircraft on its first two sectors of a planned six sector sequence from Tehran to Ahwaz via Shiraz. It was noted that only Visual Approaches are permitted at Khark Island because of "some ground obstacles near the airport" but also that this was not published in the Iranian AIP. It was noted that Khark Island Airport provided only FIS using the call sign 'Khark Information' but had nevertheless transmitted "approved clear to land" to the accident aircraft whose First Officer had responded with "cleared to land". It was established that the flight had been behind schedule and that, although the Captain had initially briefed for a downwind join followed by an approach to and landing on runway 31 because of the likely tailwind on runway 13, he had eventually decided, on receipt of the latest surface wind from the Khark Island Information Officer as being from 300° at a mean speed of 16 knots, to accept a (just within limits) tailwind approach to runway 13. The subsequent visual approach was much steeper and faster than normal as the pilot attempted to reach a normal vertical profile on final and as the aircraft passed 1,000 feet, recorded data showed that the rate of descent was almost 1,100 fpm and the airspeed was 31 knots above the applicable Vref for the 38 tonnes ELW of 119 knots. Passing 500 feet, the rate of descent was still almost 900 fpm and the airspeed was Vref plus 17 which was 7 knots above Vapp defined for the aircraft type as Vref + 10. Thereafter, the airspeed increased to Vref + 26 knots at 105 feet and had reduced only slightly as the runway threshold was crossed just below the 50 feet agl target. Touchdown on the 2,334 metre long runway did not occur until approximately 685 metres past the threshold at a recorded speed of 121 knots and there was then a significant (7 second) delay in the deployment of the lift spoilers. Although control column position was not recorded on the FDR, it was considered that the fact that pitch attitude during the landing roll had remained negative throughout was likely to have been a result of excessive forward pressure on the column which, crucially, would have reduced the downward pressure on the main landing gear both prior to and after lift spoiler deployment. Both factors would have reduced braking effectiveness. The overrun then occurred with the aircraft