He then made a ‘MAYDAY’ call to ATC and advised the flight’s intention to divert to N’Djaména - the aircraft was at this time at position 4 on the ground track illustration. Five minutes later, an ECAM ‘FUEL F. USED/FOB DISAGREE’ alert was annunciated (position 5 on the ground track illustration). This alert refers the crew to the FUEL LEAK procedure which had been ignored and the Captain deleted the message and in the absence of a ‘STATUS’ indication reported having “considered that the alert had been processed”. The Relief First Officer then asked that they agree on when the left engine would be shut down and the Captain responded by repeating his view that the engine should remain in “for as long as there was fuel available”. The crew then calculated the landing performance for an ILS approach to runway 05 at N’Djamena and the Relief First Officer reminded the operating crew that the thrust reversers must not be used. However, ATC subsequently advised that the 05 ILS was out of service so the crew modified the FMS route to make an RNP approach to the same runway. The Relief First Officer then checked the N’Djamena NOTAMs and having noted the ILS outage saw that the runway 05 threshold was temporarily displaced by 390 metres reducing the LDA to 2410 metres although this was still sufficient. However, he then explained that the RNP 05 approach “risked bringing them to the usual 05 threshold and not the displaced threshold and that it would be better to carry out the RNP 23 approach” which was agreed. It was noted that the reduced LDA was also applicable to runway 23 as the area prior to the displaced threshold was only available for taxiing access to and from the military apron due to WIP on and close to the runway. The Captain indicated that there was the possibility of a tailwind during a 23 approach and discussed taxiing in after landing, saying that the left engine would only be shut down once clear of the runway. However, no discussion of landing performance for this runway appears to have occurred despite the fact that a tailwind component rather than a headwind component would now apply. The aerodrome diagram is shown below. The N’Djamena LIDO aerodrome chart [Reproduced from the Official Report] One of the Technicians on board then called to advise that there was now “a visible streak under the cowling of the left exhaust nozzle”. The Captain indicated that this did not change their plan and he called for the approach briefing to be started. Once it was complete, the crew conducted TEM review of threats associated with the approach. The First Officer opined that he viewed the main threat as being a fire breaking out on the ground. The Captain responded that if the left engine was shut down before touchdown, the threat would be having to fly a single engine holding pattern in the event of a go-around. He then indicated