that the decision as to when to shut down the engine was for the PF First Officer and that “he could also shut down the engine before beginning the final approach” but then concluded by repeating they would keep the engine in operation as the remaining quantity of fuel was sufficient to avoid a flame-out. The Relief First Officer again reminded the other two that the thrust reversers must not be used and the First Officer stated that he “would like to be reminded of this at the time of landing” and the Captain added that in the worst case, reverse idle could be used. Shortly after this (position 7 on the ground track illustration), a ‘FUEL IMBALANCE’ alert, which again referred the crew to the ignored ‘FUEL LEAK’ procedure was annunciated. The Captain reacted to this by questioning whether there was any danger of keeping the engine operative and “concluded that it was not specified in the FUEL LEAK procedure that it had to be shut down” adding that “there was no possibility of a fire”. Although this statement was factually incorrect, it was not directly challenged although the Relief First Officer did then say that “he thought that shutting down the engine was not a bad idea but that it was a good idea to keep it running for the time being because they were in the air and there was no emergency”. When the Captain then announced his intention to shut down the engine after completing the landing roll before turning round at the end of the runway, the Relief First Officer said that this risked spilling fuel on the runway. The Captain then stated whether to shut down the engine before or after turning round “would depend on the information provided by the fire fighters”. The Captain mentioned the risk of hot brakes close to the fuel in case of excessive braking due to the relatively short length of the landing runway and asked the First Officer to “modulate the braking”. Having been cleared for the RNP 23 approach, the aircraft was established on finals by 3,000 feet QNH and configured for landing. As the approach was continued, the crew were aware that although the METAR was only giving a mean wind of 8 knots from 340°, information accompanying the N’Djamena charts stated that in the winter period, there was a risk of “a strong wind even at very low levels, with a risk of a strong tailwind on runway 23”. The Captain “mentioned a tailwind of up to 32 knots and referred to the possibility of a go around” but in the end, the maximum sensed tailwind component was 28 knots at 610 feet agl and when the AP was disconnected at 500 feet agl, the sensed tailwind component had reduced to 21 knots with the Captain subsequently recorded saying that it was “now less than 10 knots”. Touchdown occurred 550 metres past the runway threshold 23 at a speed of VAPP+8. Seven seconds after