After being informed of the event the following day, the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency (the BEA) decided that the State of Occurrence was Chad and invited the authorities there to delegate the Serious Incident Investigation to the BEA. The Chadian Ministry of Civil Aviation and National Meteorology accepted this invitation on 12 January 2021. Relevant CVR and FDR data was successfully downloaded although in respect of the CVR only after some difficulty arising from an internal fault in the unit which was subsequently repaired by the OEM. The 54 year-old Captain had a total of 12,399 hours flying experience of which 3,852 hours were on type with 1,077 of those hours as Captain. He had joined Air France in 2002 after initial experience as a military pilot followed by four years as a Boeing 737 Captain at the Air France low cost subsidiary Transavia. The 53 year-old First Officer, who was acting as PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 5,656 hours flying experience of which 550 hours were on type. He had joined Air France four years previously after a career initially as a military pilot and then as an engineer. The 54 year-old Relief First Officer had a total of 4,800 hour flying experience of which 803 hours were on type and had also joined Air France four years earlier, in his case also after a career as a military pilot but then as a flight simulator instructor at Airbus including for the A330. The flight departed Brazzaville with the First Officer as PF and the Relief Pilot occupying a supernumerary crew seat on the flight deck. Two of the passengers were Air France maintenance technicians qualified to work on the A330. Everything was normal until the top of climb was reached 35 minutes after takeoff and the aircraft had been levelled at FL380. A routine fuel check by the Captain found that 1,400 kg of fuel was missing without this creating any visible imbalance between the fuel tanks. He attributed this to fuel transfers from the inner wing tanks to the trim tank which were in progress and after discussing this situation with the two First Officers, he left the fight deck for a rest period. Before doing so, he asked them to monitor the fuel contents indications. Around twenty minutes after the Captain had begun his rest period, he was called back to the flight deck at which point the quantity of missing fuel had increased to around 2,100 kg with a difference in between the two inner tanks of about 400 kg which suggested the possibility of a leak on the left side. With the aircraft approximately 250 nm east of Yaoundé (Cameroon) to the left of track and approximately 520 nm south of N’Djamena (Chad) - see position 3 in the first illustration below - the crew began the QRH ‘FUEL LEAK’ procedure (see the second illustration below) which indicated that a diversion must be considered as soon as possible