and started by instructing the crew to shut down the engine associated with the fuel tank from which fuel is missing in order to check if this is where the leak is originating from. However, having hesitated about shutting down the engine indicating that to so would be “the beginning of something big” the Captain “postponed shutting down the engine for the time required to re-evaluate the actual quantity of fuel that had been lost”. Whilst the Relief Pilot and the maintenance technicians on board “tried to confirm the fuel leak by visually observing the left engine" (which was not successful) the other two pilots obtained the weather for N’Djamena, Libreville (Gabon) and Yaoundé airports and “considered diverting to Yaoundé”. The option of returning to Brazzaville was not considered. The ground track of the flight with key points annotated. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A FORDEC review was carried out with the Captain indicating that factually, there was a fuel leak, but noting “that they had quite a lot of fuel and could fly some time even on one engine” and adding that the risk was finding themselves with one engine operative and having to divert. The debate about the advisability of diverting continued to Yaoundé which was the closest option and the Captain stated that the FORDEC review was “not finished” and pointed out that they had enough time to fly to N’Djamena with 12,000kg - 15000kg of fuel left “plus possibly the trim tank”. He then restated his reluctance to shut down the engine, saying that “flying on one engine was not a very comfortable situation”. The Captain then spoke with the operator’s OCC and said that “due to a fuel leak, the crew were hesitating between a diversion to either Yaoundé or N’Djaména and suggested that N’Djaména was perhaps more suitable from an operational perspective” and during this exchange, the First Officer “also expressed his preference for N’Djamena”. The OCC then passed the call to a “sector manager” who subsequently confirmed that there was “no problem” with an N’Djamena diversion. On completing this call, the Captain referred to the uncompleted ‘FUEL LEAK’ procedure and told the other two pilots that “in any case they would have to divert as they had now lost too much fuel to consider continuing to Paris”. He then briefed the SCCM about the intended diversion and advised that “it was not necessary to prepare the cabin as the situation was under control and that the crew would try to keep both engines operative up to landing”. He proposed to the to First Officers that the left engine should be kept running for as long as possible with shutting it down only being considered when fuel remaining in the associated fuel tank was “close to five tonnes in order to avoid the engine flaming out spontaneously”. The A330 QRH FUEL LEAK PROCEDURE. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain “completed the FORDEC review” and confirmed with them the decision to divert to N’Djamena.