by chance”. This event was noted to have been only one of a number involving Air France-operated flights where “the crews concerned have not, intentionally or otherwise complied with safety related procedures”. Whilst it was accepted that “rare technical or operational situations” may require a crew to operate outside of procedures when there is a clear safety imperative to do so, none of the Air France procedural non compliance events investigated were in that category and all involved a reduction in safety margins without the crew appearing to recognise this. It was suspected that these occurrences indicated that “there is a certain culture among some Air France crews which encourages a propensity to underestimate the extent to which strict compliance with procedures contributes to safety”. The BEA therefore considered that “Air France should put compliance with procedures back in the centre of the company's safety culture”. Consequently, one Safety Recommendation was made as follows: Whereas: the recurrence of investigations concerning Air France occurrences recently carried out by the BEA, show an adaptation of procedures or even a deliberate violation of these leading to a reduction of safety margins,. just culture does not accept repeated intentional deviations, serious negligence and deliberate breaches,. deviations from procedures detected in flight or by means of OFDM may require strong general and individual actions,. the (French) Aviation Safety Regulator told the BEA that its flight checks had given rise to comparable findings,. Air France told the BEA that its flight analysis protocol was being revised with the aim of reinforcing the individualised monitoring of crews,. Air France decided to carry out a transversal LOSA audit from the autumn of 2022:. Air France should continue, and if necessary extend, the internal actions undertaken in order to make its safety culture evolve towards a stricter application of in-flight procedures. This could be based on a general action plan which could include the following topics: The individual identification and management of deviations from in-flight procedures, in the scope of OFDM and within a just culture framework;. Providing pilots with tools to replay and analyse their flights and promoting the use of these tools;. Changes to the Operations Manual to limit deviations from procedures to exceptional circumstances in which the available procedures cannot be applied or are clearly not appropriate;. The involvement of management, instructors and flight crews in the construction of these cultural changes. [Recommendation FRAN 2022-011]. The Final Report was initially published in the definitive French language on 23 August 2022 and this was followed on 25 August 2022 by an English Language translation.