as possible. The Investigation noted that the French State Agencies overseeing the operation of aircraft for commercial air transport, the Civil Aviation Safety Directorate (DSAC) and the Flight Control Organisation (OCV), which perform in-flight and on-ground checks to ensure that the applicable regulations and procedures are complied with including those covering training, ratings and medical fitness of flight and cabin crew had been contacted and had told the BEA that their own findings “were consistent with the observations in this report”. The Conclusions of the Investigation in relation to its findings included the following: The purpose of shutting down an engine when a fuel leak is identified is both to conserve the fuel in the associated fuel tank and prevent the fuel from being dispersed into potentially dangerous areas. The fire hazard was underestimated by the crew in part because it was not clearly indicated in the corresponding procedure or in the supplementary manuals.. The crew’s partial application of the ‘FUEL LEAK’ procedure contributed to a degraded decision making process, in particular by excluding alternate options closer to the route and resulted in the choice of a diversion to N'Djaména where the infrastructure and the weather conditions were not optimal.. Four Contributory Factors to the occurrence of the left engine fuel leak at the point where the primary engine fuel supply hose was attached to the pylon were identified as follows: The design of the mounting flange.. Intrinsic difficulties in assembling the mounting flange.. Difficulties in checking that the mounting flange was correctly assembled.. The use of a former mounting flange model, which made it possible to assemble the flange incorrectly and for a large leak to occur.. Four Contributory Factors to the flights reduced safety in particular with regard to the fire hazard pylon were identified as follows: The crew’s partial application of the FUEL LEAK procedure for the management of a fuel leak.. Insufficient leadership and crew cooperation competency probably due to an excessive search for consensus and a possible group effect.. No mention of the fire hazard in the manufacturer's documentation.. Selection of N'Djamena airport for the diversion when other suitable airports were closer to the route.. One Contributory Factor which limited the fire hazard was identified as the intervention of the Relief Pilot who reminded the operating crew that, in accordance with the FUEL LEAK procedure, the thrust reversers should not be extended, even at idle speed. One Contributory Factor which contributed to the safety of the flight after the landing was the Chief Purser preparing the cabin for a possible evacuation on their own initiative. Safety Recommendation Context The primary concern raised by this Investigation concerned the context in which intentional but unjustified non-compliance of the flight crew with operational procedures, both emergency and normal, had occurred and especially in the former case a decision to intentionally ignore the FUEL LEAK procedure which thereby “created a notable fire hazard and led to a substantial reduction in the flight’s safety margin, the fire having been avoided