flange positioning error had been notified as available by the OEM through a 2015 ‘Special Bulletin’ although it was indicated that stocks of the former model could be used until depleted. No SB on this redesigned part was issued by the OEM or the engine manufacturer GE even though failure to change to the new flange design would leave operators exposed to an avoidable fuel leak risk. The Flight Crew Response The complete failure of the crew to make a timely diversion and follow a vitally important Emergency Checklist which required engine shutdown and a landing as soon as possible was an extremely serious breach of well stated procedures aimed at both preventing fuel exhaustion and minimising the risk of in flight or on ground fire fed by a large and continuing supply of fuel. A significant difference was noted to exist between the Air France and EASA documentation on compliance with and deviation from operating procedures, both normal and emergency: The Air France documentation states: “Know how to deviate from procedures in consultation with the crew when safety requires it. Deviate from the procedure for safety reasons”. The European documentation states: “Follow SOPs unless a higher degree of safety dictates an appropriate deviation”. The apparent view of the Captain of the aircraft involved that unnecessarily extending the duration of a flight in which a fuel leak of unknown origin is identified and doing so because of a personal belief that stopping the fuel leak and making a single engine diversion as per established procedures is a greater risk cannot be justified when measured against the European guidance but depending on the degree to which a meaningful ‘safety culture’ existed in Air France at the time, might be assumed by individuals to be acceptable. The Investigation also made another relevant comparison between the wording of comparable European and Air France documentation in that while the European documentation recommends that the pilot “adapts when faced with situations where no guidance or procedure exists”, the Air France documentation in their OM Part ‘D’ recommended that “the pilot improvises when faced with the unforeseeable to obtain the safest result”. Finally, in terms of flight crew co-operation as defined by the expected behaviour of Captains versus that of pilots under their command, the distinction between the two in the Air France OM Part ‘A’ was such as to imply predominantly assistance and support to Captains with more junior pilots only tentatively expressing any doubts “in a spirit of responsible cooperation”. It was noted that “such a distinction between the Captain and Co-Pilot is not envisaged in the European documentation”. Given the significant contributions of the Relief First Officer during the investigated emergency, it was noted that “the role of a Relief Pilot was not defined in Air France documentation”. It was considered notable that “not one of the flight crew questioned the deviation from the FUEL LEAK procedure” in particular the failure to shut down the engine and the failure to land as soon