Airworthiness An inspection of the left engine quickly “identified a substantial leak in line with the mounting flange of the left engine primary fuel hose". This hose transfers fuel from the wing fuel tanks to the engine and its mounting flange forms the interface between the pylon and the engine which is split whenever an engine is removed. This hose was found to have a play of 3 to 5 mm when it was handled after the occurrence. The four nuts were all safe-tied but two of them were not sufficiently torqued and as a consequence, pressurised fuel supplied to the engine was being ejected from both sides of the hose inside the engine cowlings. The aircraft had been parked out of use for a significant period earlier in the year and had been subject to a corresponding comprehensive inspection to prepare it for a return to service. This work, which was completed on 30 September 2020, had been subcontracted to a third-party MRO and had included the removal and reinstallation of both engines which required disassembly and reassembly of the main fuel hose mounting flange. It was confirmed that no leak had been observed at this interface during checks carried out at the completion of the return-to-service work, including when the fuel system had been pressurised. Although the aircraft was ferried to France on release from the MRO, it was found that it did not then fly again until five days prior to the flight under investigation. It had then made six uneventful flights and an examination of FDR data found no evidence of a fuel leak during any of them. It was found that the fuel supply connection involved was widely considered “difficult” to assemble and that although evidence was found which suggested that the four bolts securing the connection had been correctly torqued after the engine had been returned to the wing in September, it was clear that there was a history of problems in correctly seating the fuel hose mounting flange on the pylon before tightening the bolts which secure it there. It was already widely known that if the four securing bolts were tightened on an incorrectly seated flange then a leak could subsequently develop when vibrations in service and under more pressure than a post maintenance ground run creates. In respect of a fire hazard arising from a fuel leak at this location, it was found that the risk of spontaneous ignition is maximised by a combination of a relatively high air pressure and a relatively low ventilation flow. The former occurs on or close to the ground and the latter occurs at low aircraft speed on approach, on the ground or during a go-around. However, Airbus indicated that “the high fuel saturation of the air in the engine zone probably prevented a fire from breaking out during the approach or on the ground”. It was found that a new and improved fuel hose mounting flange which reduced the chances of an inadvertent mounting