until he heard the controller advising the P180 pilot of this new code before leaving the room. The P180 shown as two targets (the false target shows traffic heading to Anchorage (PANC). [Reproduced from the Official Report] At about this time, a visual and audible ‘Traffic Alert’ was activated (and heard by another controller nearby) in respect of the intersecting flight paths but neither form of it was noticed by the controller. Within a minute, the DHC8 flight crew observed an aircraft target which corresponded to the P180 on their TCAS display 6 nm away in their 11 o’clock relative position which was flying towards them at the same level. One minute after the activation of the controller’s ‘Traffic Alert’, loss of lateral separation between the DHC8 and the P180 occurred and triggered a visual and audible ‘Conflict Alert’ which again, the controller stated that he had not seen or heard (but again it was heard by another controller nearby). At the same time, a TCAS RA ‘DESCEND’ was annunciated on the DHC8 flight deck with the P180 now 3.9nm away and on a converging track. Almost immediately thereafter, the controller began transmitting the previously requested Kamloops weather to the P180. As the DHC8 descended, its pilot received a TCAS TA in respect of it and obtained visual contact with it. Immediately the controller had finished passing the Kamloops weather to the P180, the DHC8 crew called to say they were actioning a TCAS RA and now had the P180 in sight. The minimum prescribed separation between the two aircraft was restored half a minute after the annunciation of the DHC8 TCAS RA. It was noted that at the time of the conflict, the sector workload could be characterised as “heavy and complex” with up to 18 aircraft being worked at the same time with thirteen “pending departures” being listed for airports within the sector. Staffing levels on the shift involved were “normal” and it was for the Team Supervisor on duty to determine whether traffic levels were suitable for a combination of the KA and LW sector positions. The display disparity error for the P180 which contributed to the distraction of the controller from his primary task of facilitation safe traffic separation was found to have occurred after the controller who had transferred the northbound Alaska flight to Anchorage ACC had not cancelled the transponder code manually after transfer (entirely optional) without being aware that the automated process to recycle transponder codes once no longer being used was not going to function normally. This ‘malfunction’ resulted from the failure of the “data system coordinator” involved to follow the necessary data resynchronisation procedure after completing the upgrade before he was “called away and passed completion of the work to a colleague who did not then do it”. The same failure to follow procedure also disabled the function of the ‘Medium Term Conflict Alert’ system in respect of the P180 since as a result, its transponder code was not correctly correlated