with its flight profile. It was evident that the workload in the combined sector position had increased and recognising this, the controller who had previously been relieved and subsequently returned to the control room and, on request had assisted the controller in position by sorting out a new transponder code for the P180, had then been asked to continue assisting. He had then left to retrieve his headset in order to do so and on the way to get it, he had passed a controller returning from a break and asked her to help by opening the LW sector. This was agreed but the loss of separation then occurred as this third controller was in the process of opening the LW sector. It was found that prior to the investigated event occurring, the Team Supervisor had left the operations room “to verify some information” and was not present when the loss of separation occurred. It was concluded that this Team Supervisor had not adequately monitored the developing situation in relation to controller workload in the combined sector and had failed to notice that the level and complexity of current and anticipated traffic in the combined KALW sector had increased. Without such recognition, there had been no proactive intervention to address the situation. The Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were, in summary, as follows: The data systems coordinator “did not manually purge the flight plan data from the radar data processing system re-host”, which resulted in the Air Traffic System disparity error associated with the P180.. As a result of this disparity error, the Medium Term Conflict Detection tool did not alert the sector controller involved to a conflict involving the P180.. The “incomplete scan of flight plan information, combined with high workload and a visually cluttered Situation Display resulted in the sector controller involved developing an incomplete and inaccurate mental representation of the traffic situation” which resulted in his lack of awareness that the track of the P180 would cross that of the DHC8-400 at the same level and result in a loss of separation.. The sector controller involved “would rarely use the Extended Computer Display System for early prediction of possible conflicts, likely due to the workload required to accurately assess the current and future flight paths of all aircraft in the sector” which contributed to him not identifying the potential conflict between the two aircraft.. The sector controller involved “had come to rely on Medium Term Conflict Detection” which may have affected his information scan even when such detection was unavailable. “As a result, he did not use any other method to identify the imminent conflict”.. The controller involved missed the visual Traffic Alert indications on the traffic display data tags of both aircraft and the associated audio alarm “because they were not sufficiently compelling to attract his attention”.. While the controllers attention was “focused on a secondary display”, the Traffic Alert changed to a Conflict Alert on the data tags of both aircraft but he