An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). It was quickly apparent that the two aircraft involved had been flying in accordance with their respective clearances prior to the avoiding action taken in response to the TCAS RA which had been the sole action taken which resolved the loss of separation. Sufficient relevant recorded ATC data and testimony was available to enable a detailed reconstruction of the events leading up to the conflict so no recorded information or crew experience details were sought in respect of the two aircraft involved. Rather, the focus of the Investigation was on the failure of ATC to ensure that clearances which maintained prescribed separation were issued. It was noted that the Vancouver ACC Airports section included two sectors identified as Kamloops (KA) which covered all airspace up to FL 250 except airspace up to 13000 feet defined as the smaller Kelowna (LW) (see the illustration below). At the time of the investigated event, only a few aircraft were scheduled to Kelowna and so the two sectors were combined. The only controller involved in this event had been working in the Airports section of the Vancouver ACC for almost 15 years. It was noted that with the KA sector lateral extent all on the controller’s traffic display screen (an area which was not increased when the KA and LW sectors were combined), an inch (2.54cm) on the screen represented a distance of 14.3 nm. Airspace Sectors showing the ‘KA’ & ‘LW’ sectors separately. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The DHC8 was on a south westerly track from northeast of Kelowna and the P180, inbound to Kamloops, was on a north north-westerly track from south of Kelowna. Both aircraft were at level at FL220 as cleared and their projected tracks showed that they would cross to the west of Kelowna (see the illustration below). The tracks of the two aircraft involved superimposed on the low level chart. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Shortly after the DHC8 had checked in on the Kamloops/Kelowna sector frequency, the in-position controller changed with the changeover briefing pointing out the transiting DHC8. Soon afterwards, the new controller observed that the initial appearance of the P180 on his traffic display was abnormally shown as two targets, the correct one and an obviously erroneous one for an Alaska Air flight. This circumstance was identified on screen as a “disparity error” as shown on the illustration below. At this time, the P180 was still under the control of the Seattle ARTCC (Air Route Traffic Control Center) and the controller contacted them to resolve the issue observed. P180 was subsequently handed over and it checked in and requested the Kamloops weather and descent, both of which were acknowledged. At this point the controller asked his predecessor in the position “who had returned to the control room for an unrelated reason” to “help him resolve the error with the P180 transponder code” which he then did by changing it and “remained nearby”