Passenger survival rates are improved when the passengers are informed about the correct use of safety equipment and the actions they should take in the event of an emergency situation. ICAO has stated that well-informed, knowledgeable passengers have a better chance of surviving a life-threatening situation that may occur on board an aircraft. But, as numerous accident investigations have shown, emergency evacuations do not always go smoothly and often take several minutes from the time the aircraft stops until the last person has evacuated. According to the Transportation Safety Board (TSB) of Canada, “Research has also demonstrated that in a heightened state of fear, individuals have difficulty in understanding and adhering to instructions given.” Among the issues that typically garner attention following an event and emergency evacuation is the tendency of many passengers to retrieve their carry-on baggage before evacuating the aircraft. Such actions, among other things, can block access to exits, cause congestion in the aisles and potentially damage escape slides. For example, following a 2005 runway overrun occurrence at Toronto/Lester B. Pearson International Airport (A343, Toronto Canada, 2005), the TSB found that “many passengers took their carry-on baggage with them during the emergency evacuation of the aircraft, despite the fact that [flight attendants] repeatedly provided specific instructions to the contrary. Operators frequently begin on-board safety briefings with “Regulations state that …” or “FAA requires …” or "Transport Canada requires …” or similar wording. But studies cited by Transport Canada indicate that the perceived importance of briefings is significantly lessened when introduced with a statement stressing regulatory obligation to comply, rather than safety accountability. Surveys also indicate that an apparent lack of endorsement by an operator, as well as a lack of individual crewmember responsibility, often has a contradictory or negative impact on the way passengers react to information provided to them.