an estimated 1300 fpm with a load factor in excess of 4g followed by a bounce to a second and final ground contact with a load factor of 2.26g. Contact with the ground was made with a load factor in excess of 4 G and with a vertical speed calculated at -1,300 ft/min. The aircraft bounced and the load factor upon second contact with the runway was 2.26 G. The PF successfully controlled the aircraft trajectory on the runway and then proceeded to taxi to the apron. The Cabin Crew described the landing as “violent”. The track and vertical profile followed by the aircraft are superimposed on the ILS approach plate taken from the AIP below: The estimated rate of descent in relation to the height during the final 800 feet to touchdown is show in the diagram below: Damage to the bolts attaching the shock absorbers to both main landing gear assemblies was found and both assemblies had to be replaced. The reinforcing plate from the fairings between the fuselage and the wing was also bent and some of its rivets were broken. A review of the applicable Operations Manual requirements for visual approaches found that visual approaches must be stabilised "at the latest by the MDA of the visual manoeuvre once aligned in the axis of the landing runway”. The applicable MDA for runway 31 at Ljubljana was 2610 feet QNH, equivalent to a height of 1337 feet. However, it was apparent that the approach flown had not been stabilised at any time. At the required stabilisation height, descent was being made at 4° and at 170 knots, 36 knots above the calculated Vapp for the flap 22 then set. The fact that a go around was never called by either pilot in respect of the unstabilised approach and that there was no response consequent upon the continuous EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ and ‘PULL UP’ activations below 800 feet agl was attributed to a combination of an over confident commander and a passive First Officer, the latter placed in a difficult situation following the handover of control after the advice given by the former about when to turn base had resulted in arriving on finals much too high and at excessive speed. It was considered that the First Officer had “gradually found himself taking a back seat with regard to the progress of the flight and the seeming ease with which the pilot-in-command took over the controls probably reassured him in his role as an observer”. The failure of the commander to take any notice of the EGPWS was associated with “his experience as a glider pilot and aerobatic pilot (which had) reassured him in his decision to continue to land”. The formally-recorded Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The crew was authorised to perform a visual approach. The co-pilot decided to turn on base leg too close to the runway taking into account the altitude, which positioned the aircraft in a final approach above the final approach