An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). No Investigation was performed by the State of occurrence. Recorded flight data was successfully retrieved and crew testimonies obtained. Both pilots were experienced generally and on the aircraft type and noted as being of identical age - 54 years. It was noted that the weather conditions had been compatible with a visual approach and also that the Operator had classified Ljubljana, which is situated at an elevation of 1273 feet in a north west/south east valley within steep surrounding terrain, in their Operations Manual Part ‘C’ as an airport requiring a specific self-briefing for pilots before operating there. It was established that the aircraft was initially being radar vectored for an ILS approach to runway 31 but, during descent to 7000 feet QNH on a heading of 110°, the First Officer who was the PF agreed to a suggestion from the aircraft commander that a visual approach should be requested. The APP controller approved visual positioning and re-cleared descent to 4000 feet. The weather report for the airport, situated at an elevation of 1273 feet with high terrain to the north, was CAVOK. The PF turned onto left base at an altitude of 6500 feet at approximately 4.5 nm from the threshold of the landing runway 31 and the descent restriction was lifted as the aircraft passed 5500 feet. This turn was made on the basis of advice from the aircraft commander as the PF did not have the runway in sight. The landing gear was lowered and flap 22 selected. The aircraft reached final approach when 2.8 nm from the threshold and at 1709 feet aal (2900 feet QNH). The runway was equipped with a Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems. Shortly after this, an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) ‘SINK RATE’ Alert was activated and the First Officer stated that “he was struggling to control the aircraft” so the aircraft commander took over, considering that although the aircraft was high, he “did not feel he was on a particularly steep approach”. Having briefly levelled the aircraft at approximately 800 feet aal between 1.5nm and 0.9 nm from the threshold in order to allow the speed to reduce sufficiently to set the flaps to 45°, he recommenced a high rate of descent which re-activated the EGPWS ‘SINK RATE’ Alert at approximately 640 feet agl. This Alert sounded continuously for 6 seconds until 400 feet agl when it changed to a continuous ‘PULL UP’ Warning for 11 seconds before reverting to a ‘SINK RATE’ alert at 60 feet agl until the system was automatically no longer active at 30 feet agl. The attempt to touch down involved a “nose-up action (which caused) a significant and rapid variation in the pitch attitude” and then, “at a height of 10 feet, the thrust levers (were) pushed half-way forward and immediately brought back to the idle position”. These actions were not sufficient to prevent the hard landing which occurred at