Loss of Control accidents and incidents can happen as a result of a particular form of flight crew ’loss of situational awareness’, namely a temporary loss of awareness of the aircraft bank angle. There are three typical ways in which an unusual roll attitude can develop with delayed flight crew awareness: When an aircraft is being flown manually and being controlled solely by external visual reference in conditions of poor flight visibility and/or visual discrimination, sometimes at night.. When a flight crew temporarily cease flight instrument scan to undertake other duties in the false belief that the AP is engaged and that their aircraft will therefore follow the flight trajectory defined by FMS/FD inputs.. When a single ADI or AH malfunctions.. In all cases, loss of awareness is possible because there is an absence of tactile sensory feedback. Any sensations that might be readily detected and identified are often masked by a simultaneous lowering of the aircraft nose - resulting in altitude loss or a reduced rate of climb. However, in all cases, loss of bank angle awareness should be confined to just one pilot and the consequence of this should be promptly observed by the monitoring pilot (PNF) and corrected by Pilot Flying (PF). Nevertheless, reports of accidents and serious incidents, in which a loss of control occurs, show that even with three crew members on the flight deck, this scenario can still occur. Examples of documented occurrences of this sort, where recovery is successful, are relatively scarce. However, two current trends are providing increasing evidence that there are many more incidents than are documented. These are a gradually increasing habit of self reporting flight crew errors under 'just culture' regimes and the increasing prevalence of routine Flight Data Monitoring (FDM) programmes. The ideal source of data is a combination of comprehensive flight crew reports/interviews and the flight data record to go with it. Relevant parameters which should be monitored for the particular risk being considered here are bank angle, rate of roll, flight control inputs, and angle of attack. The altitude of occurrence is also of interest in relation to the recovery opportunity. If, for whatever reason, flight crew initial reports are not received promptly, then it becomes even more important that the capture and identification of the incident flight data is both reliable and prompt. Flight crew recollections of all the circumstances are less easily recalled as time passes. In terms of accident prevention, knowledge of a potential risk scenario provides the reason to re-visit crew procedures and training. Unfortunately, whilst all Operators can act on evidence from others (“learning from other peoples mistakes”), it is likely that data on this type of incident found as a result of FDM analysis will not be sufficiently serious to qualify as a ‘Serious Incident' under the ICAO definition, and will not be widely or openly shared. Finally, there is one partial technical safety net which has become quite widespread. This is the simple device of a voice call-out to