Recently approved changes to several Annexes of the Chicago Convention introduce harmonised requirements for the implementation and operation of safety management systems (SMS) by aircraft operators and aviation service providers. Within the organisational framework of the SMS, operators/service providers “shall develop and maintain a formal process for effectively collecting, recording, acting on and generating feedback about hazards in operations, based on a combination of reactive, proactive and predictive methods of safety data collection”. The safety assessment process in the Design and Certification process identifies and classifies most of the hazards, assesses the risks, and introduces controls - this is a good starting point for identifying the hazards to the operation and there should ideally be a clear link between design and certification and operations. Safety Reporting - includes safety occurrence reporting through mandatory and voluntary reporting schemes;. Internal investigation of safety occurrences;. Safety occurrence trend analysis;. Information provided by personnel, from operational perspective and training;. Analysed data from automated data collecting tools (e.g. flight data analysis (FDA) in the airline industry);. Results from safety surveys and operational oversight safety audits carried out internally (by the operator/service provider) and by States;. Monitoring of “day-to-day” normal operations and environment;. Official State investigation results of accidents and serious incidents; and. Information-exchange practices between operators/service providers.. (Note: The list of sources listed above is by no means full and comprehensive.) The SMS Working Group of the European Commercial Aviation Safety Team (ECAST) has produced guidance material on hazard identification for airline operators. The document provides a summary of a number of specific tools and techniques for hazard identification and lists their advantages and disadvantages. Depending on the hazard identification sources and the approach to hazard identification, two groups of methods for identifying hazards can be defined: Reactive hazard identification methods - hazards are recognised through trend monitoring and investigation of safety occurrences. Incidents and accidents are clear indicators of systems’ deficiencies and should be therefore investigated to determine the hazards that played role in that event.. Proactive hazard identification methods - hazards are identified analysing systems’ performance and functions for intrinsic threats and potential failures. The most commonly applied proactive methods are the safety surveys, operational safety audits, safety monitoring and safety assessments. Other methods, such as FDA, specifically designed to track normal operations (trends), and Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) and Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS) designed to capture real life strategies (i.e. human performance), play an important role in proactive hazard identification.. In real life scenarios, both reactive and proactive methods provide an effective means of hazard identification. Incident investigation is still one of the largest contributors in identifying hazards. In successful safety management systems, the proactive approach for hazard identification is utilised extensively, so the hazard is recognised and addressed before it could turn into an occurrence. According to the Future Aviation Safety Team (FAST) three complementary approaches should be used to identify hazards that affect safety of the global aviation system: The “Historic” approach is based on accident and incident