of electrical origin.. Declaring MAYDAY — If time permits, the flight crew should communicate with air traffic control (ATC) before powering down the electrical system for the following reasons: Declaring an emergency will inform ATC that there is a potentially life-threatening so that ATC will be able to provide direct assistance to the flight crew, or advise the search and rescue (SAR) authorities in case of a forced landing, and alert the aerodrome's rescue firefighting (RFF) authorities to prepare for all landing contingencies. By setting secondary surveillance radar (SSR) transponder code 7700, the flight crew will also draw the attention of ATC.. Declaring an emergency will inform ATC that there is a potentially life-threatening so that ATC will be able to provide direct assistance to the flight crew, or advise the search and rescue (SAR) authorities in case of a forced landing, and alert the aerodrome's rescue firefighting (RFF) authorities to prepare for all landing contingencies.. By setting secondary surveillance radar (SSR) transponder code 7700, the flight crew will also draw the attention of ATC.. Position-reporting beacon — By activating the emergency locator transmitter (ELT), which has its own self-contained power supply, the flight crew automatically will help guide the SAR teams to the location of a forced landing, should that become necessary.. Portable NAV/COM — On smaller aircraft, carrying a handheld radio transceiver, with integrated or separate handheld GPS navigation can be very helpful if the aircraft electrical system needs to remain off for optimal safety.. Evacuating smoke/fumes — Managing the smoke is another important part of dealing with an electrical fire. There is no universal solution. Venting the smoke may improve breathing and vision, but the process may also feed the flames oxygen. If the latter situation happens, the flight crew's best option is to close the vents. Current best practices for aircraft operators to update smoke-fire-fumes checklists on their fleets, as noted, also address the mitigation of toxic fumes..