An Investigation was carried out by the French BEA. It was established that passenger boarding had commenced via air bridges connected to doors 1G and 2G (see diagram below) approximately 20 minutes after the crew had arrived at the aircraft. In line with normal procedures, the emergency evacuation slides at the doors not being used for passenger boarding were not armed and at least one member of the cabin crew was present at each of pair of opposite doors. Approximately 15 minutes after boarding had commenced, the three pilots in the flight deck (Captain, operating Co-pilot and relief Co-pilot) reported detecting a ‘‘burnt’’ smell and the Captain and the relief Co-pilot left the flight deck to look for the source of the smell. Soon afterwards, the cabin crew member at door 3D/G contacted the flight deck and reported to the remaining pilot that there was "a smell of sulphur in the area of door 5", adding that passengers at the rear of the cabin seemed worried and were asking questions about the origin of the smell. An Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) annunciation of SMOKE in the forward crew rest quarters appeared and this message also appeared on the Cabin Management System Control Panel. The Captain had noted that the smell and a thin smoke haze was present in the passenger cabin and asked for the ovens in the galleys to be checked. At the request of the Captain, the cabin crew at the front of the aeroplane donned protective breathing equipment and entered the forward crew rest quarters with a fire extinguisher, however he found thick smoke but no signs of fire. On return to the flight deck, the Captain decided to order an evacuation of the aircraft and in preparation made a PA instructing the cabin crew to go to their stations whilst the Co-pilot made a MAYDAY call to ATC requesting AFS attendance. Detecting "the onset of panic" the Chief Flight Attendant made a PA asking passengers to remain in their seats. Cabin crew at doors 3 and 4 armed the evacuation slides and those at doors 3G, 4 and 5 explained to relevant passengers their role as facilitators in the event of an evacuation. The Ramp Area Manager then contacted the crew and reported that smoke seemed to be coming from the APU which prompted the crew to shut it down. Then, forty-five seconds after his initial PA, the Captain made a further PA "Cabin crew this is the cockpit, evacuate the passengers via the doors, only via the doors". In the cabin, a cloud of thick smoke had formed under the cabin ceiling and was moving from the rear of the cabin towards the front. The evacuation began with the cabin crew ordering the passengers to leave quickly. The interpretation of the Captain's PA reference to "doors" led to confusion which was exacerbated by passengers' concerns. A number of doors which had not been used for boarding were opened and slides deployed, including