doors 3G/D from which passengers exited onto the wings. The relief Co-pilot noted the opening of doors 3G/D and the Captain entered the cabin and asked those passengers who were still on the wings to return inside the cabin. Passengers who had evacuated via slides were assisted by ground personnel and taken to the terminal; one of the passengers sustained a major injury during the evacuation. Once all the passengers were off the aircraft, and with the smoke having dissipated, the Chief Flight Attendant went to the flight deck and a review of the evacuation was held with the flight crew. In respect of the Captain's use of the PA to communicate with all his cabin crew in order to prepare for and commence the evacuation, the Investigation noted that the crew interphone on the Boeing 773 allows a general emergency call to be made to all cabin crew. The Investigation concluded that lessons could be learned in respect of the following areas: Crisis Situation Management. The fact that the Captain and one of the two Co-pilots left the flight deck to investigate the origin of the suspicious smell was not conducive to effective management of the developing situation by the Captain. Had the investigated event occurred when airborne, it was considered that the Captain would have probably remained on the flight deck. "Nevertheless this single event does not make it possible to reach a conclusion on the strategy to adopt in all the emergency situations which may arise on the ground and in flight". Evacuation. The Air France Operations Manual did not provide for an evacuation of the aircraft by the boarding doors only. The PA made by the Captain was open to various interpretations. Other Operators do have such a procedure, which removes doubt as to what process will be followed. Smoke Toxicity. On the basis of "technical considerations and human factors relating to the activity of mechanics", Air France had decided to use an oil for APU lubrication which might generate toxic gases if heated to an abnormal temperature. It might be reasonable to also consider the potential consequences for aircraft occupants "in the framework of a safety study". Use of Protective Equipment. Crew members were "exposed to smoke that may have been toxic" yet most did not make use of the protective equipment they had available. It was considered that "when in doubt, the crew members must wear suitable protection to ensure their duty of safety". The origin of the fumes and smoke was found to be the failure, for undetermined reasons, of a bearing in the APU which resulted in the loss of integrity of an oil seal associated with it and allowing its lubricating oil to pass into the compressor. Since the APU was, as usual, providing cabin air conditioning prior to engine start the fumes/haze were distributed around both the flight deck and passenger cabin. It was noted that the Mobil Jet Oil II used for lubrication in the APU was the same