Some selected Accident and Incident Reports which include discussion of some of the issues highlighted above include: Thrust reverser deployment during landing and air/ground status. On 29 December 2010 an American Airlines Boeing 757-200 overran the landing runway at Jackson Hole WY after a bounced touchdown following which neither the speed brakes nor the thrust reversers functioned as expected. The subsequent investigation found that although the speed brakes had been armed and the ‘deployed’ call had been made, this had not occurred and that the thrust reversers had locked on transit after premature selection during the bounce. It was noted that had the spoilers been manually selected, the thrust reverser problem would not have prevented the aircraft stopping on the runway. read more... Note that whilst the crew involved in this accident (and their Fleet Manager!) believed at the time that they had suffered a simultaneous failure of two systems critical to deceleration on the short runway available, the thrust reversers actually functioned exactly as designed. The relationship of thrust reverser locking to the status of the slats in the context of a fault which only became obvious at rotation and had not been foreseen at the systems design stage. On 11 May 2009, a British Airways Boeing 747-400 departing Johannesburg came close to stalling following a stall protection system activation during night rotation which continued until landing gear retraction despite immediate appropriate crew response. Subsequent investigation found that loss of lift on rotation had resulted from the unintended effect of a design modification introduced to automatically retract the slats during normal ground use of reverse thrust if thrust reverser unlocked signals registered from both inner engines with the aircraft in ‘ground’ status. The potential effects of this on the transition from ‘ground’ to ‘air’ status had not been foreseen. read more... Problems arising from asymmetric deployment of thrust reversers after landing. On 28 August 2002, an America West Airbus A320 operating under an ADD for an inoperative left engine thrust reverser veered off the side of the runway during the landing roll at Phoenix AZ after the Captain mismanaged the thrust levers and lost directional control as a consequence of applying asymmetric thrust. Substantial damage occurred to the aircraft but most occupants were uninjured. read more... On 8 July 2006, S7 Airlines Airbus A310 overran the runway on landing at Irkutsk at high speed and was destroyed after the Captain mismanaged the thrust levers whilst attempting to apply reverse only on one engine because the flight was being conducted with one reverser inoperative. The Investigation noted that the aircraft had been despatched on the accident flight with the left engine thrust reverser de-activated as permitted under the MEL but also that the previous two flights had been carried out with a deactivated right engine thrust reverser. read more... Consequences of attempting a go around from the runway after thrust reverser deployment. On 10 January 2011, an Air Atlanta Icelandic Airbus A300-600 on a scheduled cargo flight made a bounced