symptoms. Some types of medicine prescribed for non-psychological conditions can also have side-effects that alter a patient’s mood. Other side-effects from medicine can affect cognitive functioning, behaviour and motion, each of which in turn can impact on mood. Keep an open dialogue with your doctor and employer regarding the continued use of medication. Never self-medicate! It is recognised that partaking in enjoyable activities and consuming certain natural foods can affect serotonin levels in the brain; serotonin is one of many biochemicals that modulate moods, and in particular serotonin is associated with elevated mood. Safety critical workers in aviation should seek expert advice on diet and exercise such that their mood (and energy levels) facilitate effective workplace performance. Aviation organisations can benefit from establishing well-being programmes for employees to provide diet and exercise education, as well as a point of contact to discuss and address stress, illnesses and alcohol and drug use. People use alcohol and other drugs (legal and illegal) to alter their moods (to feel good and have a good time). Nowadays there are many drugs and natural substances (known as legal highs) that are psychoactive i.e. they directly affect the brain and central nervous system. Small amounts of alcohol, and some other drugs, can alleviate depressed moods temporarily and in the short term. However, excessive and/or prolonged use of alcohol and other drugs can cause serious and permanent mental, and physical, illness. Tobacco can reasonably be included within this category of mood triggers – the increase in mood that smokers experience when smoking is only a re-balance towards the norm; in fact smokers are usually not smoking and therefore their mood, due to withdrawal, is often altered negatively[6]. Even small amounts of alcohol and other drugs will affect a person’s concentration, perception, judgement, decision-making, behaviour and coordination. Withdrawal too will have a negative affect on mood and performance. Consumption of any psychoactive substance, including alcohol, is not conducive to safe working. Organisations need to establish appropriate Alcohol & Other Drug (AOD) policies and procedures to educate, inform and manage employees.