An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) and the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) was removed and downloaded to assist. Recorded damage to the aircraft was documented as: a large hole in the radome. a bent left side pitot head with a piece of broken radome lodged on it. a dent to the leading edge of the vertical stabiliser. Bird remains were recovered from inside the radome, from the left side pitot head and from the vertical stabiliser leading edge. Following feather and DNA analysis, the species was identified as White‐faced Ibis. It was noted that this species is common in Colorado during migration and locally (although not within the airport perimeter) during breeding. The average weight of an adult bird was advised to the Investigation as being 1.3lbs (0.6kg) with a body length of 2' (60cm) and a wingspan of 3' (90cm). The flight crew reported that with the First Officer acting as PF, and skies clear, a single large bird had been struck passing approximately 11000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings (equivalent to 5500 feet aal) during descent in VMC approximately 25 miles east south east of Denver. Following the impact, noise in the flight deck increased markedly, making communication with ATC and within the flight deck difficult. The AP and A/T disengaged and the left hand side ASI and VSI were inoperative. Various abnormal messages appeared on the FMC and the right hand side ASI and VSI indications were "erratic". An emergency was declared and the aircraft commander took over as PF. ATC assisted by reassigning runway 26 for landing in place of the originally-expected 16R. It was reported that "the Captain eventually lost all instrument indications on his primary flight display (PFD)" and that "the crew referenced the standby instruments, but the readings did not make sense given the airplane altitude and power settings". Because of this, power settings relative to aircraft configuration along with ATC information on their observed ground speed were used to make the approach where an uneventful landing was completed. After clearing the runway and having the AFRS (Rescue and Fire Fighting Services) inspect the aircraft, the taxi in to the gate was completed. The aircraft operator later reported that the standby airspeed indicator readings during the descent had appeared to match the ground speed callouts provided by ATC. The FDR data was reviewed and showed a rapid loss of airspeed while descending through approximately 11,500 feet pressure altitude at approximately 290 KCAS. The rapid drop in computed airspeed to the "no computed data" (NCD) value of 45 knots was consistent with a complete loss of airspeed reference (pitot pressure) on the left air data system. According to Boeing, the rapid drop observed in computed airspeed would have been consistent with the display of an amber "SPD" flag on the left side PFD. Many other air data parameters exhibited erroneous behaviour consistent with a loss of a valid airspeed input including a loss of wind velocity and an