in which the aircraft was at the gate.. The Captain’s pitot probe was almost completely obstructed by an insect nest, consistent with mud wasp residue, during the 2 hour and 3 minute period while the aircraft was in transit on the ground at Brisbane.. The blocked captain’s pitot probe was not detected by engineering staff after the initial rejected take off. The relevant tasks in the trouble shooting manual did not specifically identify the pitot probe as a potential source of airspeed indication failure. [Safety issue]. During the second take off roll, the faulty airspeed indication (displayed on the captain’s PFD) was not detected and acted upon by the crew before V1 and the take off was continued.. Airbus' response to the identified Safety Issue - which included modification of the A330/A340 TSM to include the possibility that pitot probe malfunction could be a possible "root cause" of airspeed display malfunction - was considered adequate by the ATSB. Other relevant Safety Action taken by the Brisbane Airport Corporation in respect of additional risk management of the already-known wasp nest hazard at the airport was noted as including the following: Implementation of a weekly inspection and eradication program for the International Terminal Building to replace the monthly inspections which had been undertaken since 2006;. Implementation of a weekly inspection and eradication program for the Domestic and Terminal Services Buildings;. Engagement of an entomologist to provide the airport and its stakeholders with a better understanding of wasp activity, habits and behaviour;. Issue of a NOTAM to communicate wasp activity;. Extension of the pest management program to include removal of spider webs on the grounds that spiders are a wasp food source;. Acquisition of pitot probes from Qantas and Virgin Australia to undertake research as to what aircraft type pitot tube is likely to be at greatest risk of wasp nest use;. Identified amendments to be made to the Airport Wildlife Hazard Management Plan in relation to wasp activity.. Aircraft Operator Ethihad also advised that it had been decided that in future pitot and TAT probe covers would be installed during all Brisbane turnrounds irrespective of ground time. Finally, State Safety Regulator CASA took various actions aimed at raising awareness of the mud wasp hazard including the issue of an Airworthiness Bulletin on the various ways in which a wasp nest infestation can compromise airworthiness. The Final Report was published on 6 May 2016. No Safety Recommendations were made.