was found to be in accordance with CMM requirements and there was no evidence of drain hole obstruction. However, when a borescope examination was performed through both the inlet and through the pneumatic port, it was found that "the interior of the probe was occluded by an incomplete insect nest and the nest material was consistent with that of the mud-dauber wasp" (see illustration below). After application of compressed air to the component had failed to dislodge any of the material, "the base of the nest was broken away with a sharp instrument and (then) fully removed by flushing with hot water". After functional testing, it was possible according to the CMM to re-certify it for return to service. It was noted that the (unintended) effect of the maintenance intervention after the rejected take off was to disable two of the aircraft's three airspeed display systems which had resulted in "consequential serious degradation of other aircraft systems" as experienced. It was also noted that after the second speed display failure, the crew had reported that the airspeed fault flag had "appeared after V1" but that downloaded flight data "again showed that CAS sourced from ADR1 (i.e. the CAS that was displayed on the Captain’s PFD) was zero when ground speed increased through 50 knots", at which point there had been plenty of time to reject the take off again. The Investigation noted that during the course of this Investigation an occurrence of similar nature and origin had occurred at Brisbane. On 3 April 2014, during the take off of a Boeing 737-800, the crew detected incorrect airspeed indications just prior to becoming airborne and intermittent stick shaker activation followed. The aircraft returned to Brisbane where subsequent investigation found that the Captain's pitot head "was partly obstructed by material consistent with a mud-dauber wasp nest". There had also been another similar occurrence at Brisbane on 19 March 2006, involving an Airbus A330-300 rejected take off. After "a post-flight engineering inspection of the aircraft found what appeared to be wasp-related debris in the Captain's pitot head", the aircraft operator had concluded that this contamination was the likely cause of the airspeed display fault and both "the (aircraft) operator and (the) airport owner undertook a number of safety actions to minimise the risk of future wasp activity at Brisbane Airport". After the 2013 event, the Brisbane Airport Corporation "reviewed their Wildlife Hazard Management Plan (which includes wasp activity)" as detailed below. The airline's maintenance contractor advised that "the use of pitot covers was dependent on customer requirements and was not a standard practice" and they had not been installed during the 2 hour period that the aircraft was at the gate. The Investigation considered that aircraft operators could minimise the risk of pitot tube obstruction by consistently using pitot covers, even during short transit periods. The Findings of the Investigation in the form of Contributing Factors were formally documented as follows: Pitot probe covers were not installed by maintenance staff during the period