An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). FDR data was successfully downloaded and used in the Investigation. It was established that the initial take off from Runway 01 had been rejected after the Captain had observed an airspeed indication failure flag on his PFD. The recorded maximum airspeed recorded was 88 KCAS. After a return to the gate, maintenance attended and troubleshooting was carried out. ADIRU 1 and ADIRU 2 were transposed and the aircraft was released to service with the ADR part of ADIRU 2 inoperative in accordance with MEL provisions. Prior to the release, the First Officer’s ADR source was switched to ADIRU 3. The Captain’s ADR source remained selected to the normal ADIRU 1 position. After an interval of almost two hours, a second take off was commenced from the same runway with the Captain as PF. The crew subsequently advised that "they became aware of an airspeed discrepancy after V1 and (so) the tak eoff was continued". As a result of the airspeed discrepancy, the A/T and both FDs disengaged automatically. Once airborne, the flight control system reverted from Normal law to Alternate law. The Captain reported having handed over control to the First Officer. Soon afterwards, the slat/flap lever was selected to the 'up' position but only the flaps subsequently retracted and as the slat limit speed was exceeded, the corresponding alert was annunciated. A MAYDAY was declared to ATC and a return to Brisbane was made with the Captain's instrument display selected to the ADIRU 3 position. An overweight landing on the departure runway was uneventful. A visual inspection of the pitot heads found that "there was an internal obstruction of the Captain’s probe while the FO and standby probes were clear". The maintenance intervention following the initial rejected take off was reviewed. It had been based on a combination of crew observations and messages downloaded from the CMC (Central Maintenance Computer) using an MCDU connected to the aircraft on the flight deck. This information was then used as the means to find the appropriate response in the Trouble Shooting Manual (TSM). The prescribed function tests were then carried out but "no faults had been positively identified". On a precautionary basis, and in order to maintain ETOPS functionality, the engineer released the aircraft to service as described above. It was noted that "the TSM procedure did not specifically identify the pitot probe as a possible cause". However, it was also found that on 15 January 2013, Airbus had published a new edition of SIL (Service Information Letter) 34-084 which did discuss this possibility and explicitly recommended additional "specific tasks related to pitot probes" in the event of reports of airspeed discrepancy. This SIL was not referred to by the maintenance personnel involved in the initial intervention. Following the air turnback and discovery of the blocked pitot tube which had been installed at build 7.5 years earlier, the pitot tube was removed from the aircraft for examination. The inlet condition