- a rate of descent estimated at about 12,000 fpm. The radar track then indicated an approximately 45-degree turn to the right and a further 1,800 feet of descent in the next 5 seconds - a rate of descent of over 21,000 fpm. There were no further verifiable radar altitude returns. Groundspeed deduced from radar had been fairly constant at around 260 knots until the descent had begun after which it increased to between 280 knots and 290 knots in the minute prior to the beginning of the rapid descent. With no evidence found that there had been any in-flight mechanical failures which might have resulted in a loss of control, all the available evidence pointed to an initial loss of control resulting from pilot action which may have led to a spiral dive followed by a subsequent in-flight breakup of the aircraft as the result of an attempted pilot recovery involving a sharp pull-up at high speed. It was impossible to be sure which pilot was at the controls when either of these had occurred. It was noted that the aircraft was not equipped with either an AP or a yaw damper. The considerable history of similar events involving this aircraft type was examined to see if similarities existed. In one case, the pilots of an AP-equipped SA 227 had intentionally induced an excessive slide slip as a means to balance fuel between the wing tanks and when the AP tripped out, and an uncontrolled roll resulted. However, "in the current investigation, the fuel cross feed valve was found in the closed position, indicating that a fuel imbalance was likely not a concern of the flight crew". In at least two other previous events, including a fatal 2005 accident in New Zealand, unequal fuel loads had developed with the AP engaged and with no corrective action taken, the AP eventually reached its cut out threshold and this precipitated a sudden roll. Whilst the aircraft in the case under investigation here did not have an AP, previous occurrences were found to indicate that any "sudden yawing or rolling motion, regardless of the source, could result in a roll, nose tuck, and loss of control". Such rolls "may have been recoverable, and in one documented case, a pilot was able to recover" but only after a height loss of almost 11,000 feet. During the accident flight, it was considered likely that "during the descent, the flight crew did regain control […] to the extent that the flight control surfaces were effective [but] with darkness and the rapid descent at a relatively low altitude, one or both crew members likely pulled hard on the yoke to arrest the downward trajectory, and, in doing so, placed the wings broadside against the force of the relative wind, which resulted in both wings failing upward". There was evidence that as this happened, both propellers had "simultaneously chopped through the fuselage" to the rear of the flight deck. At the same time, "the horizontal stabilizers were