An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The accident aircraft was operating under an FAA Part 135 AOC and configured for freight operations and it was not equipped with an FDR or a CVR, nor was it required to be, although it had previously been fitted with a CVR when configured for passenger operations. The 35 year-old Captain had an estimated 1,740 hours total flying experience which included 686 hours on type and the 28 year-old First Officer had an estimated 1,954 hours total flying experience which included 92 hours on type. Although it was not possible to be certain who had been the designated PF for the accident flight, circumstantial evidence indicated that it was likely that the Captain had been. It was established that the aircraft had been on an out and back trip from San Juan to Santo Domingo with round trip fuel on board. It had been "moderately loaded" for the return flight which would have taken less than an hour to complete in good weather conditions. The flight had been uneventful and in the cruise at 11,000 feet until San Juan Combined en route Approach Control (CERAP) had cleared the aircraft to descend, initially to 7,000 feet. Thirteen minutes later after checking in with the next CERAP sector, the crew advised that they were leaving 11,000 feet and were re-cleared to 7,000 feet. The read back of this instruction was the last transmission received from the aircraft. Soon afterwards, ATC advised the aircraft to descend to 3,000 feet and expect an ILS approach at San Juan. Radar contact was lost four minutes later. A witness on the ground who was subsequently interviewed stated that having heard engine noise, he had looked outside and "seen the aircraft with the right wing down, turning in a spiral form" and had also noticed a red light "spinning". After that, he had heard an "impact noise" and, 5 seconds later, "another solid impact noise". The radar trace of the aircraft showing the latter part of the cruise and the subsequent descent is shown in the first of the two illustrations below with the second showing the flight path derived from the final few returns. The wreckage was found scattered over a large area approximately 580 metres long and up to 180 metres wide oriented south. The wreckage field was at an elevation ranging from 575 feet to 675 feet. There was no obvious impact crater and the remains of the aircraft were scattered throughout the wreckage field. Examination of the wreckage found no evidence of any in-flight fire or explosion and both wings were found to contain residual fuel, although the quantities of this could not be determined. Recorded secondary radar data showed that having begun the descent from 11,000 feet, the aircraft had descended on track to 8,300 feet over the next 3 minutes but the radar track then indicated "a 20-degree turn to the left" and a descent to 7,300 feet in the next 5 seconds