An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU with the relevant data available from both FDRs but only the 737 Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) since the A321 had departed immediately after the incursion and the relevant recording had therefore been overwritten. It was established that the aircraft commander of the A321 had been acting as PF and that although runway 16 was the runway in use, they had needed to use runway 28 for performance requirements. After start, the aircraft had been cleared to taxi from stand 35 on AT4 to hold short of Link 2 (see the diagram below) until another aircraft had completed its landing roll on runway 16 and turned left via taxiways B2 and B1 to parking. The crew had apparently mistakenly thought that the aircraft about to clear runway 16 was on taxiway F2, so when cleared to proceed via taxiways F1 and E1 to hold short of runway 28, they had instead taxied onto ‘A’. The PF stated that as the aircraft approached the edge of runway 16 without them noticing the signage, the holding point markings or the intermittently illuminated runway guard lights whilst taxiing into sun on a wet surface, the First Officer had questioned their position so he had stopped the aircraft, by which time they had begun to enter the runway. It was noted that in accordance with prevailing procedures, the stop bar coincident with the runway 16 holding point on taxiway ‘A’ had not been illuminated since it was only used during LVP. It was considered possible that the fact that the E2 stop bar was illuminated, and would have been visible straight ahead on the other side of RWY 16, may have led the flight crew to assume that they had not yet reached an active runway, even though the runway 16 edge lighting was illuminated. It was also noted that since the A321 had been on the GND frequency, the crew would not have heard the take off clearance being given to the 737 on TWR. Whilst the taxi routing error had not been noticed by ATC, the imminent incursion was seen by the B737 pilots and when the aircraft commander as PF realised that the taxiing aircraft had entered runway 16, she immediately actioned a rejected take off. The FDR showed that the rejected take off had been commenced at approximately 124 KIAS, just 4 knots below the applicable V1, and that a maximum speed of 134 KIAS had been reached subsequently. The elapsed time from the receipt of take off clearance to the aircraft stopping was approximately 60 seconds. The Investigation noted that the action of the crew had “reflected very positively on the continuous simulator training provided by the operator and carried out by the flight crew.” In respect of the absence of controller awareness of the taxi error by the A321 it was apparent that as the visual control room (VCR) was a half mile away from the A321, the latter’s position