would have been uncertain when judged visually, especially given the complex taxiway layout in the area where the aircraft was. It was also noted that as taxiway A is very short, so too was the corresponding time available for controller detection of the error. Although it was accepted that reference could have been made to the Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System display had the controller observed something possibly wrong, the level 1 system in place at the time of the event was regarded as merely information to assist the primary visual and procedural methods of control. The Investigation had inspected taxiway ‘A’ shortly after the occurrence and “noted a number of signs in the area due to the confluence of taxiways A, B2 and E1 and the co-located thresholds of RWY 28 and RWY 34” as well as the fact that the orientation of both Link 2 and taxiway ‘A’ was the same. It was considered that the pavement markings in the area of Link 2 were complex but confirmed that all taxiway markings and signage in this area and in taxiway ‘A’ conformed to the requirements of ICAO Annex 14 Volume I. The Investigation considered that the taxiway layout in the vicinity of the place where the wrong taxiway had been taken was particularly complex and that there were ways in which it could be simplified which could reduce the chances of future errors. It was considered that for those relatively unfamiliar with the layout of the airport such as the A321 pilots, the lack of any logical progression in taxiway designation in the area where the error was made was conducive to such error. It was noted that the ICAO Runway Incursion Manual states that in such a case there is an argument that standard taxi routes should be developed to minimise the potential for pilot confusion. It was established that ATC procedures did not provide any instructions or guidance on how to provide service when runway 16 was active and there were also departures from runway 28. It was considered that “this omission was probably due to the infrequency of use of this runway combination”. It was noted that although three runway hot spots were designated, they did not include the access to runway 16 from taxiway ‘A’ and in any case controllers had no procedures or guidance material in respect of hot spots and hot spot charts were not displayed at relevant controller working positions nor were they highlighted on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). It was found that although there had been three events over the previous four years of mistaken entry by aircraft onto taxiway A from Link 2, none of these had been classified as “Serious Incidents” and thereby subject to Annex 13 Investigation The Investigation noted that ASMGCS Level 2 was undergoing testing at the time of the incursion and became operational three months after the event, with the subsequent addition of RIMCAS and Stop-bar Violation Monitoring (SVM), the