Dublin ATC informed the Investigation that, as a consequence of this and the previous runway incursion on the 16 October 2010: B738 / A319, Dublin Ireland, 2010 the following action has been taken: Simultaneous use of Runways 28 & 16 is not allowed.. Conditional line up clearances have been discontinued.. RWY 10/28 has now been protected by CAT I stop bars over its entire length.. An independent, 5 level brightness control for stop bars has been installed with a minimum selectable to maintain brightness during daytime operation.. Lead on lights for RWY 28, associated with E1 stop bar, have been installed. This should militate against aircraft lining up on the wrong runway at the RWY 34/28 intersection.. Apron Centreline Lighting is now illuminated H24.. Guidance material covering operations in the vicinity of runway incursion hot spots has been included in local ATC Procedures Manual.. Information cautioning the hot spot areas is now broadcast on the ATIS.. Hot spot charts are available in the Tower.. The Dublin Airport Authority informed the Investigation that, as a consequence of this serious incident, the following measures were implemented during 2012: The necessary Airfield Ground Lighting control system adjustments have been installed to facilitate the 24-hour operation of stop bars on taxiways A and B2.. Additional taxiway directional pavement paint markings have been provided to supplement existing elevated taxiway directional signage in the vicinity of taxiways F1, Y and A (see illustration below).. The Runway Incursion Hot Spot areas currently included on the Aircraft Parking/Docking Chart have now also been added to the Aerodrome Chart and both charts have been reformatted in full colour.. Trials are being undertaken to see if it is possible to improve the visibility of markings on both concrete and bituminous pavements and to ensure that markings are equally effective in both wet and dry surface conditions and in both daylight and in the hours of darkness.. The Investigation concluded that the Probable Cause of the incursion was that “the flight crew of (the A321) lost situational awareness, having misidentified their position, and taxied onto an active runway while another aircraft was taking off. It was further concluded that there had been three Contributory Causes as follows: Sunshine on a wet pavement probably rendered pavement markings and runway signage less visible to the crew as they taxied directly towards a low strong sun.. Crew workload and unfamiliarity with the complex taxiway markings and signage.. The absence of an illuminated stop bar on taxiway A and the presence of one on E2.. Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that The Dublin Airport Authority in conjunction with the Irish Aviation Authority should review taxiway designation at Dublin in order to simplify taxi instructions. [IRLD2012005]. that The Dublin Airport Authority should consider aligning taxiways F1 and F2 in order to reduce complexity at their intersection. [IRLD2012006]. The Final Report was approved on 24 October 2012. It was concluded that in accordance with the ICAO Doc 7870 classification