An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Special Bulletins S9/2013 and S2/2014 were published on 29 November 2013 and on 14 February 2014 respectively to advise on progress in the Investigation. It was noted that the accident flight had taken place under a Police AOC and the accident flight had therefore been made using a 'State' aircraft. In respect of oversight by Safety Regulators, the effect of this was to make the operation subject to UK National rather than EASA Regulation. Operator Bond Air Services was noted to be a major provider of helicopters and pilots for both Police and Air Ambulance (HEMS) operational use in the UK, deploying a fleet of in excess of 26 aircraft including 23 EC135s. Two of these EC135s were based at the Glasgow City Heliport, one for Police Scotland (the accident aircraft) and the other for the Scottish Ambulance Service. The 51 year old pilot was found to have been an experienced ex-military helicopter pilot who had joined Bond Air Services and completed his EC135 type rating some five years earlier after leaving the Royal Air Force. The helicopter was not fitted - nor was it required to be fitted - with either an FDR or a CVR. However relevant data was recovered from the Non Volatile Memory in some on-board equipment provided for engineering purposes and ATC radar and R/T recordings and CCTV recordings were available. The time-stamps on the radar recording were used to align the different data sources. Weather conditions throughout the flight were good with little or no cloud and excellent in flight visibility, although it was a moonless night. It was established that the aircraft had left its base at the Glasgow City Heliport with the pilot and two police observers on board and 400kg of fuel in tanks. Various surveillance tasks were undertaken and all ATC and tactical communications normal. Then, a little over 20 minutes prior to the fuel starvation which led to the loss of control, and a few minutes after it was estimated that both fuel transfer pumps in the main fuel tank, which transfer fuel to the supply tank which feeds the engines had been switched off, 'LOW FUEL' Warnings for both engines began to occur. All LOW FUEL Warnings were accompanied by an aural attention-getter, which was cancelled after each annunciation, indicating that the pilot would have been aware of all of them. These warnings, initially intermittent, became permanent and continued until the end of the flight. ATC were not advised of "any fault with the helicopter or any other concern". These indications meant that there would have been approximately 32 kg / 28 kg of fuel remaining respectively in the left and right supply tanks, respectively which is why the AFM instructed pilots to ‘LAND WITHIN 10 MINUTES on receipt of such warnings. Despite this, the helicopter had continued to complete three further 'routine surveillance tasks' over a period of 13 minutes before the pilot advised ATC that tasking was