fuel in the main tank, unusable". It was noted that these switches "were of the simple unguarded toggle type" and also in close proximity to the engine prime pump switches, which were also unguarded and found after the crash to be in the 'ON' position whereas they would normally be selected OFF and remain so following engine start. It was concluded that whilst it was not possible to determine how the prime pump switches came to be in the 'ON' position, "unintentional selection of the inappropriate switches was possible. It was found that the accident helicopter type had accumulated more than 3 million flying hours over about 20 years without any previously reported instances of fuel starvation. The Investigation "could not establish why a pilot with over 5,500 hours flying experience in military and civil helicopters, who had been a Qualified Helicopter Instructor and an Instrument Rating Examiner, with previous assessments as an above average pilot, did not complete the actions detailed in the Pilot’s Checklist Emergency and Malfunction Procedures for the LOW FUEL 1 and LOW FUEL 2 warnings". It was also considered that given that the applicable Final Reserve Fuel defined by the Operator was 85kg, "the pilot might have been expected to make a PAN call, upgrading it to a MAYDAY on reaching the Final Reserve Fuel IFR, if he was aware of the fuel state". However, as with other aspects of the Investigation, "due to the lack of evidence that might otherwise have been provided by cockpit voice and flight data recorders, the investigation was unable to determine the reasons for this apparent omission". During the course of the Investigation, a number of issues relevant to the accuracy of fuel quantity indications but not central to the issues raised were identified and corresponding safety action was taken. The ancillary function of the suitably trained front seat observer as a pilot assistant during operations conducted under a Police AOC was noted, in particular that such observers "do not operate helicopter related system switches, unless in an emergency situation and at the request of the pilot". It was noted that at the time the Investigation was being written up, 32 helicopters were being operated under UK-issued Police AOCs". Overall, the primary concern of the Investigation was the inability to establish with certainty an explanation of the sequence of events which had culminated in the accident. This was attributed to the lack of carriage of both an FDR and a CVR and the absence of any corresponding regulatory requirement. The potential value of Airborne Image Recorders (AIR) in the investigation of small aircraft accidents and the existence of a corresponding Technical Standards Document - EUROCAE ED-112A and the different arrangements in Europe for the safety regulation of HEMS and police helicopter operations using similar aircraft were highlighted. The Investigation formally identified the following Causal Factors: 1) 73 kg of usable fuel in the main tank became unusable as a result of the fuel transfer pumps being switched off for