unknown reasons. 2) It was calculated that the helicopter did not land within the 10-minute period specified in the Pilot’s Checklist Emergency and Malfunction Procedures, following continuous activation of the low fuel warnings, for unknown reasons. 3) Both engines flamed out sequentially while the helicopter was airborne, as a result of fuel starvation, due to depletion of the supply tank contents. 4) A successful autorotation and landing was not achieved, for unknown reasons. In addition, the Investigation also identified the following three Contributory Factors: 1) Incorrect management of the fuel system allowed useable fuel to remain in the main tank while the contents in the supply tank become depleted. 2) The RADALT and steerable landing light were unpowered after the second engine flamed out, leading to a loss of height information and reduced visual cues. 3) Both engines flamed out when the helicopter was flying over a built-up area. Seven Safety Recommendations, all but two relating to the need for flight recorders to be required on small helicopters such as the one involved in the accident, were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that, when the European Aviation Safety Agency requires a radio altimeter to be fitted to a helicopter operating under an Air Operator’s Certificate, it also stipulates that the equipment is capable of being powered in all phases of flight, including emergency situations, without intervention by the crew.. [2015-030] that, when the (UK) Civil Aviation Authority require a radio altimeter to be fitted to a helicopter operating under a Police Air Operator’s Certificate, it also stipulates that the equipment is capable of being powered in all phases of flight, including emergency situations, without intervention by the crew.. [2015-031] that the (UK) Civil Aviation Authority requires all helicopters operating under a Police Air Operators Certificate, and first issued with an individual Certificate of Airworthiness before 1 January 2018, to be equipped with a recording capability that captures data, audio and images in crash‑survivable memory. They should, as far as reasonably practicable, record at least the parameters specified in The (UK) Air Navigation Order, Schedule 4, Scale SS(1) or SS(3) as appropriate. They should be capable of recording at least the last two hours of (a) communications by the crew, including Police Observers carried in support of the helicopter’s operation, and (b) images of the cockpit environment. The image recordings should have sufficient coverage, quality and frame rate characteristics to include actions by the crew, control selections and instrument displays that are not captured by the data recorder. The audio and image recorders should be capable of operating for at least 10 minutes after the loss of the normal electrical supply.. [2015-032] that the (UK) Civil Aviation Authority requires all helicopters operating under a Police Air Operators Certificate, and first issued with an individual Certificate of Airworthiness on or after 1 January 2018, to be fitted with flight recorders that record data, audio and images in crash-survivable memory. These should record at least the parameters specified in