complete and the helicopter was returning to its base at Glasgow City Heliport. ATC responded by confirming the previously issued clearance to operate in the Glasgow CTZ not above 2000 feet QNH, at which point, the helicopter had been airborne for 93 minutes. There were no further radio transmissions to ATC from the pilot and the helicopter proceeded on an approximately westerly track towards the heliport at around 1000 feet QNH making a ground speed of approximately 100 knots. Then, about 40 seconds prior to the loss of control and approximately a mile before the accident site (and 2.7nm from the destination heliport), the right engine flamed out. The memory action to select the failed engine off was not taken and 32 seconds later, the left engine also flamed out and the rate of descent which had followed the initial engine failure began to increase. At this point, the helicopter was estimated to have been between 500 and 700 feet agl which would have left relatively little time to transition to a successful autorotation. Memory items to achieve such an autorotation were not actioned and rotor N1 decreased below the minimum recoverable rotor rpm in autorotation, which it was considered was "likely to have been the result of collective pitch being applied". It was noted that, in the absence of action to select the SHED BUS to the Emergency position, both the RADALT and steerable landing light would have been inoperative. Overall, the evidence available did not make it possible to establish "why a more successful autorotation and landing was not achieved, albeit in particularly demanding circumstances". Eye witnesses reported having heard "noises similar to a 'misfiring car' and a 'backfire', as well as numerous 'bangs' followed by silence as the helicopter descended very rapidly and in a level attitude before striking and penetrating the roof of a crowded single storey Public Bar. The roof of the building collapsed and the helicopter entered the space below with a calculated "decelerative force of 70g". There was no fire but as a result of the impact, the three occupants of the helicopter (the pilot and two police observers) were killed as were seven people in the bar. On the ground, a further 11 people sustained serious injuries and 20 others sustained minor injuries. A reconstruction of the flight path of the helicopter immediately prior to the accident is shown below. An extensive examination of the wreckage following its removal to AAIB facilities found no evidence of any airworthiness defects which might have had a bearing on what happened. A total of 76 kg of fuel was recovered from the undamaged main fuel tank but the engine supply tank was found to have been empty at the time of impact. Wreckage examination and testing showed that both of the fuel transfer pumps in the main tank which are normally on in order to achieve fuel transfer to the supply tank "had been selected off for a sustained period before the accident, leaving the