Mitigations for the major risks associated with a baulked landing must focus on both aircraft handling and missed approach obstacle clearance, as standard go around protocols have the potential to result in Loss of Control and, adherence to the published missed approach profile could result in loss of ground clearance. Flight crews should consider the actions and behaviour described below. As previously identified, in the context of a baulked landing, the simultaneous application of thrust, retraction of flap and rotation to the go around pitch attitude can result in loss of control due to the low energy state of the aircraft at the initiation of the go around. Whilst all three actions must still occur, the sequence and the triggers for the individual events must be more methodical and deliberate. In the event of a baulked landing decision, the pilot should follow the guidance provided by the AFM. In the lack of specific guidance, the following actions should be taken: apply maximum (TOGA) thrust and increase pitch sufficiently to reduce or, if within the capability of the aircraft, arrest the descent. Do NOT attempt to climb or retract flap until the engines are spooled and the speed trend is positive. Many operators have adopted a "TOGA Ten" mindset where TOGA thrust is selected and a 10 degree nose up attitude is targeted. Note that the appropriate pitch attitude may vary by aircraft type.. in the event that the aircraft touches down, maintain the attitude and thrust. As the speed increases through Vref, adjust the attitude as required to become airborne once again. Do NOT reverse the go around decision and attempt to salvage the landing as this could lead to a Runway Excursion. as the airspeed increases through Vref, increase pitch to commence climb. when approach speed is achieved (Vref plus 5 or plus 10, or as appropriate to the aircraft type and configuration), select the appropriate go around flap setting. continue with the normal go around profile. Note that some agencies advocate combining some of these steps by waiting until the airspeed is increasing through Vref plus 10 and then reverting to the normal go around profile. The critical premise of both methodologies is that climb must not be initiated and flaps must not be retracted until thrust is being generated and the airspeed is increasing. The risk associated with obstacle clearance after a baulked landing will depend upon a combination of factors inclusive of: aircraft performance. the actual presence of, and the height and location of any obstacles. time of day. meteorological conditions. As identified previously, the go around from a baulked landing is initiated from a point below and beyond the missed approach point and thus commences below the Obstacle Clearance Surface (OCS) that was utilised during the IAP design to ensure safe obstacle clearance. At typical landing weights and with all engines operating, most aircraft can easily outclimb the Required Obstacle Clearance (ROC) gradient. However, the aircraft will still be at significant CFIT risk for the