In Section 1.8 titled Aids to Navigation, the Report, states: "The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a Notice To Airmen regarding the runway 28 glideslope, stating, “due to the effects of snow on the glide slope minimums temporarily raised to localizer only for all category aircraft. Glide slope remains in service. However angle may be different than published.” This NOTAM was included in the flight crew’s preflight paperwork, but both pilots indicated that they had not read the NOTAM." The Report reconstructs the following events shortly prior the accident: "About 1502:01, the first officer stated that the glideslope had been captured. During a post-accident interview, the first officer stated that he and the captain did the “mental math” for a 3° glideslope and that, on the basis of this calculation, they assumed that the glideslope was functioning normally. Also, the captain stated that the cockpit instrumentation showed the airplane on the glideslope with no warning flags. Because the flight crewmembers assumed that the glideslope was working properly, they used the ILS decision height (DH), which was 227 ft above ground level (agl), instead of the localizer (glideslope out) minimum descent altitude (MDA), which was 429 ft agl. […] […]About 1504:58, the captain announced that the runway lights were in sight but then stated that he could not see the runway; this statement was immediately followed by “let’s go [around].” The first officer then stated, “I got the end of the runway.” About 1505:07, the CVR recorded the 50-foot agl electronic callout followed immediately by the captain’s statements, “you’ve got the runway?” and “yeah, there’s the runway, got it.” During a post-accident interview, the first officer stated that, when the airplane was 10 ft agl, he momentarily lost sight of the runway because a snow squall came through and he “could not see anything.” Flight data recorder (FDR) and CVR data showed that the airplane was about 1050 ft past the runway threshold when it descended to a height of 10 feet agl. The CVR recorded the sound of the airplane touching down about 1505:29. According to the aircraft performance study for this accident, the airplane touched down about 2900 ft down the 6017 ft runway." […]