Normal checklists enhance flight safety by providing an opportunity to confirm that the safety critical aspects of the systems and aircraft configuration are correctly set. By following normal checklists, any mistakes in settings will be identified and corrected before they can cause a safety problem. Normal checklist actions, as with all SOPs, are intended to check or verify actions that were accomplished from memory. A defined flow pattern should be employed for each cockpit panel. Safety-critical points (primarily items related to aircraft configuration) should be cross-checked through the use of normal checklists. Normal checklists are not read-and-do lists but, rather, are intended to be accomplished after performing the flow of actions defined in the SOPs. Their purpose is to verify that all required steps were performed from memory by the flight crew. The timely and effective completion of normal checklists is essential for safe operation during all flight phases, but particularly for takeoff and during approach and landing. In order to be used effectively, normal checklists must be initiated, conducted and completed in accordance with established crew coordination SOPs. The application of a normal checklist should be initiated (called for or requested) by the pilot flying (PF) and then read by the non-flying pilot. The non-flying pilot has a dual role as pilot not flying (PNF) and pilot monitoring (PM). Some manufacturers and operators use PNF to denote the pilot not flying, while others prefer to use PM. In either case, the meaning is the same (See the briefing note titled Adherence to Standard Operating Procedures for more information.) If the PF fails to initiate a normal checklist, good crew resource management (CRM) practice dictates that the PNF should compensate by suggesting the initiation of the checklist. Normal checklists should be called in a timely manner during low-workload periods (conditions permitting) to prevent any undue time pressure or possible interruption that could defeat the purpose of the checklist and potentially be detrimental to safety. Time and workload management, including the availability of the other pilot to participate, are key factors in the initiation and effective conduct of normal checklists. Normal checklists are based on the challenge-and-response concept. Critical items require a response by the PF. Some less-critical items may be both challenged and responded to by the PNF alone. To enhance communication and understanding between crewmembers, the following standard rules and phraseology should always be used when conducting normal checklists: Note: Some normal checklists include a line that defines a logical hold point to allow partial completion of the checklist. The crew can complete the checklist down to that line and then pause until further action is appropriate and the remaining checklist items can be meaningfully completed. Some aircraft models feature electronic displays of normal checklists that use color coding or other graphic treatments to provide a positive identification of items… If the flow of a normal checklist must be interrupted for any reason (including a built-in hold point), the PF should announce a formal and explicit hold such as,