of it had occurred until the final second prior to impact. It was noted that there was no provision in the Operations Manual for a handover of control at the point of go around and considered that confusion about system status would have been exacerbated by this sudden and unplanned / unanticipated handover. It was considered that the aircraft commander could reasonably have taken control at a much earlier stage of the approach and/or called an earlier go around. The Investigation also noted general non compliance with SOPs by the accident aircraft flight crew (although no conflict between them) as well as considerable deficiencies in practices of the aircraft operator. It was also found that both accident flight crew had exceeded various elements of the applicable flight time limitations scheme, although no hard evidence that either was fatigued as a consequence of this in a way that affected the accident outcome was presented by the Investigation. In respect of the Airport, the effective but non notified unserviceability of the LLWAS due to it being powered by solar cells which had run down after a period of cloudy weather was noted. Aspects of the emergency response were also considered unsatisfactory. The Commission determined the Probable Causes of the Accident to be as follows: The flight crew did not follow the SOPs (for) Stabilised Approach, Call Out, Go Around and Emergency Situations as specified in the airline’s FOM. The Take Off / Go Around (TO/GA) switch was not activated, resulting in the inability of the aircraft to increase in airspeed and altitude during the go around. Also, there was no monitoring of the change in engine power and movement of throttle levers, especially during the critical situation.. The flight crew co-ordination was insufficient and the flight crew had heavy workloads.. The weather condition changed suddenly over the airport vicinity. The flight crew had accumulated stress, insufficient rest and fatigue. The transfer of aircraft control took place at a critical moment during the go around. A total of 17 Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that One Two Go Airlines Company should establish (a) Cockpit Resource Management (Crew Resource Management) course, approved by the DCA, for all related personnel in every concerned section. The course should comprise of initial and recurrent training, having content according to ICAO requirements.. that One Two Go Airlines Company should strictly train flight crew according to the flight crew training course and flight procedures in SOP.. that One Two Go Airlines Company should amend the Operating Procedures on ‘Transfer of Control during Critical Phase of Flight’ in SOP to be most clear and definite.. that One Two Go Airlines Company should perform the pilot training check, as appointed by the DCA, to meet applicable standards, especially the pilot proficiency check.. that One Two Go Airlines Company should use a flight simulator that (can) simulate the systems, equipment and instruments of the aeroplane with the same configuration (that) the Airline operates.. that One