In addition, there are special cases where clouds may form or grow as a consequence of certain, often localized, generating factors. These may be either natural, or the result of human activity. Several cases of “special clouds” can be distinguished: Flammagenitus: Clouds may develop as a consequence of convection initiated by heat from forest fires, wildfires or volcanic eruption activity. Clouds that are clearly observed to have originated as a consequence of localized natural heat sources, such as forest fires, wildfires or volcanic activity and which, at least in part, consist of water drops, will be given the name relevant to the genus followed, if appropriate, by the species, variety and any supplementary features, and finally by the special cloud name “flammagenitus”, (for example, Cumulus congestus flammagenitus or Cumulonimbus calvus flammagenitus). (Note: Cumulus flammagenitus is also known by the unofficial, common name, 'Pyrocumulus').. Homogenitus: Clouds may also develop as a consequence of human activity. Examples are aircraft condensation trails (contrails), or clouds resulting from industrial processes, such as cumuliform clouds generated by rising thermals above power station cooling towers. Clouds that are clearly observed to have originated specifically as a consequence of human activity will be given the name of the appropriate genus, followed by the special cloud name “homogenitus”. For example, Cumulus cloud formed above industrial plants will be known as Cumulus (and, if appropriate, the species, variety and any supplementary features) followed by the special cloud name homogenitus; for example, Cumulus mediocris homogenitus.. Cataractagenitus: Clouds may develop locally in the vicinity of large waterfalls as a consequence of water broken up into spray by the falls. The downdraft caused by the falling water is compensated for by the locally ascending motion of air. These special clouds will be given the name of the appropriate genus, followed by any appropriate species, variety and supplementary feature, and followed by the special cloud name “cataractagenitus” (for example, Cumulus cataractagenitus or Stratus cataractagenitus).. Silvagenitus: Clouds may develop locally over forests as a result of increased humidity due to evaporation and evapotranspiration from the tree canopy. These special clouds will be given the name of the appropriate genus, followed by any appropriate species, variety and supplementary feature, and followed by the special cloud name “silvagenitus” (for example, Stratus silvagenitus).. Supercillium: Short-lived broken thin whips of cloud, irregularly distributed, appearing to tumble and break in a turbulent way in the airflow over, and to the immediate lee of, steep mountain peaks during periods of strong mountain summit level winds. Applies mainly to Altocumulus and Stratocumulus, possibly Cirrocumulus, sometimes coincident with the Duplicatus variety. (Editor's note: Supercillium is a cloud feature proposed by the Cloud Appreciation Society and is not yet recognised by the WMO)..