Cloud varieties are used to identify certain additional characteristics, such as a cloud's relative transparency, or a particular arrangement of its elements. Intortus: Cirrus, the filaments of which are very irregularly curved and often seemingly entangled in an erratic and unpredictable (known as capricious) manner.. Vertebratus: Clouds, the elements of which are arranged in a manner suggestive of vertebrae, ribs or a fish skeleton. This term applies mainly to Cirrus.. Undulatus: Clouds in patches, sheets or layers, showing undulations. These undulations may be observed in fairly uniform cloud layers or in clouds composed of elements, separate or merged. Sometimes a double system of undulations is in evidence. This term applies mainly to Cirrocumulus, Cirrostratus, Altocumulus, Altostratus, Stratocumulus and Stratus.. Radiatus: Clouds showing broad parallel bands or arranged in parallel bands, which, owing to the effect of perspective, seem to converge towards a point on the horizon or, when the bands cross the whole sky, towards two opposite points on the horizon, called “radiation point(s)”. This term applies mainly to Cirrus, Altocumulus, Altostratus, Stratocumulus and Cumulus.. Lacunosus: Cloud patches, sheets or layers, usually rather thin, marked by more or less regularly distributed round holes, many of them with fringed edges. Cloud elements and clear spaces are often arranged in a manner suggesting a net or a honeycomb. This term applies mainly to Cirrocumulus and Altocumulus; it may also apply, though very rarely, to Stratocumulus.. Duplicatus: Cloud patches, sheets or layers, at slightly different levels in two or more layers, sometimes partly merged. This term applies mainly to Cirrus, Cirrostratus, Altocumulus, Altostratus and Stratocumulus.. Translucidus: Clouds in an extensive patch, sheet or layer, the greater part of which is sufficiently translucent to reveal the position of the Sun or Moon. This term applies to Altocumulus, Altostratus, Stratocumulus and Stratus.. Perlucidus: An extensive cloud patch, sheet or layer, with distinct but sometimes very small spaces between the elements. The spaces allow the Sun, the Moon, the blue of the sky or overlying clouds to be seen. It may also be observed in combination with the varieties translucidus or opacus. This term applies to Altocumulus and Stratocumulus.. Opacus: An extensive cloud patch, sheet or layer, the greater part of which is sufficiently opaque to mask completely the Sun or Moon. This term applies to Altocumulus, Altostratus, Stratocumulus and Stratus..