below the various RA-activation thresholds which apply near the ground.. Not all the TCAS RA responses were in accordance with the pilots' training.. The necessary inhibition of TCAS II RAs when aircraft are close to terrain reduces the effectiveness of the system and without active ATC control requires pilots to make the most of the relative awareness information provided by TCAS Displays.. There was a complete failure to follow the prescribed procedures for TWR position handover and the procedures which apply to trainee supervision by an OJT Instructor.. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined to have been "the initial error made by Air Traffic Control in placing two aircraft in conflicting positions (so that) conflict then followed" and that "no advantage (was taken) of any of the opportunities that were subsequently available to block the consequences of the error. (With) the possibility of a machine-related failure ruled out, human error, to a varying extent, is attributable to all three work areas, ATC Tower and the Pilots in both aircraft". The following manifestations of Human Error were identified: The ATC TWR personnel the decision to hold an aircraft on the runway until wake vortex separations are met whilst allowing an approaching aircraft to continue. the inability to appreciate the potential implications of allowing the approaching aircraft to continue to a point where a very late go around would inevitably lead to a high risk of subsequent airborne conflict. the inability to exercise judgement and order the rejection of the A320 takeoff and eliminate the airborne conflict risk. the failure to exercise effective air traffic control using instructions to directly prevent airborne conflict or to facilitate awareness of the risk by transmitting relevant traffic information when TCAS Resolution Advisories were inhibited.. the further failure in allowing both aircraft to continue on similar flight paths after the first conflict and thereby allowing a second conflict to develop and require resolution by coordinated TCAS RA responses.. the failure to operate with a clear understanding of relative responsibility during normal /non normal / emergency situations with more than one controller on position.. the complete failure to follow the established procedure for handover of the TWR control position which was in progress at the time. the failure of the most experienced of the three controllers (the Instructor) who were assumed to be available at the TWR position in the absence of any formal handover to contribute to resolution of the emergency situation.. The A320 Flight Crew the failure of the A320 crew to reject their take off having become aware at a speed of just over 80 knots that the 737 was going around. the failure to use the TCAS display or other means to monitor the progress of the 737 and thus prevent flight path conflict.. The B737 Flight Crew the failure to pre-empt a developing situation when at 6nm final, another aircraft on the landing runway is going to take approximately 2 more minutes before it begins is take off roll