which will then last another 45 seconds before the runway is clear.. the continuation without a landing clearance below DA as far as the runway threshold.. the failure, having reached 1600 feet, to continue the expected go around flight path followed thus far and descending for a time before re-establishing a climb which was neither incompliance with the go around flight path nor attributable to response to TCAS RAs.. the failure to use the TCAS display or other means to monitor the progress of the A320 and thus prevent flight path conflict.. However it is acknowledged that only the manoeuvre of right banking the aircraft after visually sighting the intruder aircraft (the A320) in close proximity saved this serious situation from a possible mid air collision accident. Six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that An Unspecified Recipient should ensure that the ILS Decision Height (DH) / Decision Altitude (DA) is the latest point at which a go around is initiated when a landing clearance has not been issued to an aircraft which has been cleared to make an approach.. that the Airports Authority India (AAI) as ANSP should ensure that when more than one controller is present at an active position, including situations where OJT is involved, a clearly defined command hierarchy is necessary to ensure appropriate transfer of controls and responsibilities in both Normal and Non-normal situations.. that the Airports Authority India (AAI) should ensure that the laid down Standard Procedures for ATC position hand over / takeover are always followed.. that the Airports Authority India (AAI) as ANSP should ensure that the thresholds for an OJT Instructor to take over from a trainee controller being given on-job practical operational experience prior to validation are clearly laid down so that this occurs before an error is manifested in consequences. These guiding threshold limits must be inculcated in the Instructor's training and standardisation checks.. that the Appropriate and Competent Authority should ensure that the professional and judgemental controller errors which created the conditions for the investigated traffic conflict to occur are addressed and corrective measures taken to ensure no future replication. Also, it should be ensured that Air Traffic Services review the non-reporting of an incident of such magnitude.. that An Unspecified Recipient should ensure that the limitations of the TCAS system in addressing conflicts of this nature are included in the crew training curriculum.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 4 February 2014 but not published until 1 December 2015.