An Investigation was carried out in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 procedures by a Committee of Inquiry appointed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation on 11 November 2013. It was noted that this significant event was not reported by the controllers involved using the applicable procedures. Data from both aircraft FDRs were successfully downloaded as was that from the 737 Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) but relevant data from the CVR of the A320 were overwritten. ATC TWR voice recordings and the APP Radar and TWR A-SMGCS recordings were also available. It was established that at the time the situation which led to the conflicts began to develop, a handover of the TWR position was in progress with the single controller in position (Junior Executive) being replaced by an OJT Instructor (Senior Manager ATC) who was supervising a licensed and experienced controller with previous experience at Cochin who had the status of a trainee undergoing validation training. It was also evident that Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) prevailed and although Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System was in use, no mention was made of any real time access to an airborne radar display at the TWR controller position. The total flying experience of the 55 year-old A320 Training Captain was 10,533 hours which included 5967 hours on type, almost all of it in command. The total flying experience of the 33 year-old A320 First Officer undergoing line training prior to anticipated promotion to Captain on completion was 3645 hours, including 1427 hours on type. The total flying experience of the 29 year-old 737 Captain was omitted but they were recorded as having 1620 hours as Captain on the 737 after being promoted to the rank of Captain 19 months previously. The total flying experience of the 26 year-old 737 First Officer was also omitted but they had flown 398 hours on type in the previous 180 days. It was established that shortly before the conflict situation began to develop, an Instructor had arrived at the TWR position with a trainee who he then permitted to plug in and take over transmissions despite himself not also having plugged in (the area speaker was on) or recorded his arrival. Just over two minutes later, the controller previously in position signed off, still with no acceptance entry having been made by the Instructor. The trainee remained as controller for 5 minutes - until, shortly after the 737 go around had commenced, at which point the trainee ceased controlling with "the instructor who was still offline...also not in control". For a few seconds the position was "unattended" until the qualified controller who had earlier handed over the channel took over again on seeing the situation and began to pass instructions. He then remained in position until the conflict was over before "handing over to the instructor again". When the 737 was at 8nm final, the A320 had been permitted by the student controller working the TWR position to line up and wait on runway 28