to 15 knots.. The absence of a landing brief was highlighted as not only a procedural non compliance but also as a missed opportunity in the light of the unavoidably limited CRM practice when the First Officer was so inexperienced in that role on any aircraft type, not just the ATR72.. It was noted that the METAR/ATIS wind velocity reports for the airport were derived from a main meteorological site located at approximately the midpoint of runway 07/25, but that reading from five other anemometer sites were also available to controllers which were located close to five of the runway TDZs including 16L. The readings from the latter (see the illustration below) were found to show that the recorded wind velocity at the runway 16L threshold around the time of the accident landing was indicative of crosswind components which were well within those recorded as “maximum demonstrated” by ATR and included as limits in the Carpatair OM. These recordings also showed that the 16L threshold site had significantly and consistently lower crosswind components than those recorded at the airport “reference site” used for METAR/ATIS broadcasts. This suggested that the existence of a crosswind did not appear to have been a directly relevant factor in the mishandled landing.. The recorded wind velocity on runway 16L. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was concluded on examination of all the available data that it was “unlikely” that any windshear (as included on the ATIS) had been encountered during final approach.. The failure of the airport RFFS to arrive at the accident site for over 10 minutes after the aircraft came to a stop was of very considerable concern even though, by good fortune alone, this made no difference to the survival of the occupants, who simply had an unduly long wait. The Investigation found that although the Airport Emergency Guide - the ‘Red Book’ was found to recommend that a “grid reference” based on the grid map contained in the Guide should be used to unambiguously communicate the location of an incident or accident site to all parties, this was not part of the mandatory procedures and was not followed in this case. It appeared that ATC did not appreciate that the designation of aircraft taxiways and runways was not understood by others working airside and so had not established and communicated the appropriate reference:102-G3. The Investigation noted that similar issues in relation to the timely location of a disabled aircraft after a landing accident had arisen before after an Airbus A320 undershoot at Palermo in 2010.. It was concluded that the Cause of the accident was “improper control of the aircraft by the Captain during the landing phase which was contrary to the relevant provisions of the Operations Manual and occurred in the absence of effective flight crew CRM”. Four possible Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The failure to carry out a landing briefing, which, in addition to being a required SOP would have been an important opportunity to ensure