An Investigation was carried out by the Italian National Agency for the Safety of Flight (ANSV). The FDR and CVR were removed from the aircraft and their data successfully downloaded. Other relevant data including meteorological records and statements from all those involved were also available. The 58 year-old Training Captain, who was acting as PF for the accident flight, was a Romanian national who had a total of 18,552 hours flying experience of which 9,607 hours were on type (3,351 of those hours being on the ATR72). He was also current as a TRI on the ATR42/72. He had begun flying for Carpatair on 14 December 2012 and had since flown 64 round trip flights exclusively on the Pisa-Rome Fiumicino route which the company was operating on behalf of Alitalia using an Alitalia liveried aircraft under a long term wet lease contract. He was accompanied by a 25 year old First Officer, also a Romanian national, who had a total of 624 hours flying of which 14 hours were on type. She had begun flying for Carpatair as a newly qualified ATR 72 pilot four days prior to the accident and the accident flight was the first sector of what would have been her 13th round trip on the Pisa-Rome Fiumicino route. It was noted that she was in her first job as a First Officer on a multi crew aircraft and that "she had gained much of her experience flying gliders and ultra light aircraft, experience which represented 350 hours out of her total of 624 hours” with much of the remainder accounted for by training for her CPL and Instrument Rating. The practical part of qualification for an ATR 42/72 type rating was recorded as primarily achieved through “approximately 36 hours” simulator time and therefore had required only a small amount of flight time. CVR data confirmed that the Descent Checks were run as prescribed and thereafter, the CVR and FDR data showed that the flight had continued to proceed uneventfully and in accordance with applicable SOPs apart from the omission of a ‘Landing Briefing’. The VAPP applicable to the ELW for runway 16L at the intended flap 30 landing was found to have been 103 KIAS plus an increment of up to 15 knots to take account of wind gusts meaning a maximum of 118 KIAS. However, given the reference on the ATIS received by the crew to reports of windshear on final approach as well as a gusting crosswind, the Captain decided that he wanted to use 130 KIAS as his approach speed and having asked the First Officer if she was happy with that, he received an affirmative response. It was noted that whilst the ATIS-reported wind velocity the crew heard during their approach was 240°/22-38 knots, both these and METAR wind velocities were taken from a site close to the centre of the airport complex on the basis that this data would be ‘generally representative’ of airport conditions rather than specific to a particular