runway, all of which had anemometers close to their thresholds. Passing 1,000 feet on what was a stabilised approach throughout, the Captain then reminded the First Officer of his intention to maintain 130KIAS and again sought her confirmation that she was content with this which followed without hesitation. Soon after this exchange, landing clearance was given accompanied by a wind check of 250°/22-37 knots. (Editors Note: Wind velocity data included in the Investigation Report confirmed that this wind check was given from the airport central reference anemometer (see ‘Discussion’ below) rather than the more appropriate one close to the runway 16L TDZ) which was 2½ nm distant and recording much lower wind speeds.] As touchdown neared, the Captain suggested that the First Officer should “follow through” on his control column inputs during the landing by resting her hands lightly on the control column. Just over half a minute later, the aircraft touched down 560 metres beyond the runway threshold within the TDZ and close to the centreline but with the nose wheels making first contact - FDR data recorded a pitch attitude of -2.6° and an airspeed of 126 knots at this point. This contact was followed by a further bounced touchdown at approximately 740 metres beyond the threshold, again with the nose gear making first contact but this time with sufficient downward force to detach the nose landing gear leg. During this second touchdown, FDR data showed a sudden decrease of the propeller rpm and of the EGT which indicated that both engines had flamed out. The explanation for this was damage to the mechanical linkage of the power levers by the collapsing of the nose landing gear (see the diagram below). During the interval between the first and second bounces, FDR data showed that opposing pitch inputs began to be made from both control columns, indicating that whether intentionally or not, the First Officer, having been instructed to “follow through” on her control column began making inputs opposite to the PF Captain which continued as two more bounces occurred. During the third bounce, at approximately 950 metres beyond the threshold, the left main gear collapsed and during the fourth and final bounce, at approximately 1,120 metres beyond the threshold, the right main gear collapsed. During this bounce sequence, the pitch disconnect mechanism was triggered (by design) so that the final control column inputs were made independently. The risk to the integrity of the power (A) and propeller control (B) cables when the nose leg was forced upwards. [Reproduced from the Official Report] After the final bounce, the collapse of all gear legs meant the fuselage was in contact with the runway and until it veered off the right hand edge of the runway after a further 400 metres, a continuous witness mark was left. This veer off appeared to have been a consequence of the right main gear collapse having been slightly more forceful so that after it occurred, the fuselage was tilted slightly to the right so