that the right propeller was in contact with the ground causing friction which favoured rotation. Once on the grass in the vicinity RET ‘DE’ (see the illustration below) the turn continued as the ground speed reduced and, by the time the aircraft came to a stop, it was on a heading of 330°M, almost directly opposite to the approach direction. Witness marks left on the runway by the collapsed nose landing gear. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As soon as the aircraft stopped, exactly 30 seconds after the first touchdown, the two cabin crew, with assistance from some positioning aircrew employed by another operator immediately began an evacuation and once off the aircraft, they waited for the first airport RFFS vehicles to arrive. All radio and intercom communication from the flight deck was found to have been disabled by the damage caused to the aircraft and so the First Officer was sent into the passenger cabin to assist with the evacuation. The TWR controller initially ordered aircraft on approach to runway 16L to make a go around in sequence and then, having not heard from the aircraft for almost a minute after it had come to a stop, activated the emergency alarm. The first emergency service response - fire fighters, medical personnel and airport security staff did not arrive on the scene until 10 minutes after the activation of the emergency alarm because they were unfamiliar with airport terminology and had no idea where taxiway ‘DE’, given by ATC based on surface movement radar as the location near to where the disabled aircraft had stopped, was. This was considered surprising as the fire station was only 400 metres away on the opposite side of the runway almost directly opposite the aircraft and surface visibility was not limited. It was found that the Airport Fire Service had no idea where the aircraft was in relation to runway 16L and had simply driven up and down the runway and part of an adjacent parallel taxiway until they finally found it. Whilst it was difficult for the Investigation to explain why what should have been a normal landing turned into an accident except in respect of detail within the 30 second sequence which began with the first bounced touchdown, analysis of the assembled evidence highlighted a number of points. Some of these are briefly summarised below in no intentionally significant order: The decision of the Captain to continue to a landing was “reasonable” on the basis that the approach was stabilised and in the light of his considerable experience on the ATR 72 since “he was probably convinced that he would be able to conduct a safe landing regardless of the windy conditions”. It was considered that his decision would have been influenced by the fact that all previous aircraft had made successful landings.. The selected 130 KIAS VAPP was 12 knots above the maximum allowed by the requirements of the Carpatair OM which limited the gust addition to the calculated ‘basic’ speed