9 controls the speaker and the switch arrows indicate ‘normal’ volume when the arrow points forward. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Captain stated that his second period of controlled rest had been approximately 35 minutes long and that on waking, he had taken a briefing from the First Officer but “didn’t remember” whether she had told him about the ATC frequency in use at that time. He further stated that having woke up, he had then “gone to the washroom” and only after return to the flight deck (which was some 20 minutes after the time he reported having woken) had he “noticed a fighter aircraft through the right side window sunshades”. He had then “put on his headset and noticed that both the speakers were switched off with the volume at 12 o’clock” and had turned them back on. He had then made contact with the fighter pilot on 121.5 MHz and was instructed to call Budapest Control. When he did so, he was asked why the flight had not made contact earlier, and had stated that “he might have missed a frequency change” and apologised. The flight was then immediately transferred to Bratislava Radar as it was about to leave Hungarian airspace after a 15minute transit. The Hungarian Air Force fighter alongside went away but, after a nine minute transit of Slovak airspace, the flight crossed into Czech airspace and another fighter appeared alongside over the ‘LALES’ waypoint. Similar escort continued until the flight commenced its descent to destination from FL 400. The Investigation noted that the Air India SOP for controlled rest replicates the regulatory conditions for the use of it issued by the Indian Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGCA). These allow controlled rest to be taken during low workload periods for a maximum of 40 minutes in a flight of more than 3 hours duration. A crew member is permitted to have more than one controlled rest period depending on the duration of a flight. During any controlled rest, the non-resting pilot must wear a headset with the flight deck audio speaker set to normal volume. It was noted that according to the respective crew statements: the Captain had complied with the maximum duration for a period of controlled rest.. The First Officer had complied with the requirement to wear a headset and have both speakers on and selected to normal volume.. In respect of the First Officer’s claim to have worn her headset throughout the Captain’s second period of controlled rest, it was not possible to provide any explanation for the prolonged period out of contact with ATC which had included a mandatory border crossing clearance to be obtained before entering Hungarian airspace. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as “the inadvertent operation of speaker volume control switches, probably by the First Officer which resulted in the loss of communication between the aircraft and ATC”'. The Final Report was completed in September 2020 and released online on 26 October 2020. No Safety