An Investigation was carried out by the Indian DGCA Office of the Director of Air Safety (Western Region) in accordance with the Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules 2017. Relevant data from DFDR were successfully downloaded and relevant transcripts of ATC communications obtained. In the absence of relevant CVR data the two crew statements were taken into account. It was noted that the 47 year-old Captain, who had joined Air India in 2003, had a total of 8,460 hours flying experience which included 350 hours on type in command since obtaining his 787 type rating about six months prior to the investigated event after 4½ years of command on the Boeing 737. The 29 year-old First Officer, who had joined Air India in 2007 as an A320 First Officer, had a total of 5,462 hours flying experience of which 2,662 hours were on type after gaining her 787 type rating a little over three years prior to the investigated event. Both crew members had been off duty for over 30 hours prior to beginning the flight to London which had taken off in daylight. After approximately 7 hours into the flight, which by then was level at FL 380, the Captain reported having been woken by his First Officer after 35 minutes of controlled rest when Turkish ATC had instructed the flight to climb to FL 400. He had completed this climb and stated that about 25 minutes after it had been completed, and after entering Romanian airspace, he had commenced a second period of controlled rest. DFDR data showed that no radio or intercom transmissions were made from either flight deck position during the 1 hour and 9 minutes which followed the aircraft reaching FL 400. The First Officer stated that she agreed with the Captain’s statement that both speakers were on prior to him commencing his second period of controlled rest. She also stated that during the time she was acting as PF whilst the Captain took this second period of controlled rest, she: Had not touched either of the speaker on/off switches and was unaware both speakers were switched off and had no idea how it had happened.. Had constantly worn her headset and had heard R/T transmissions from other aircraft and ATC.. Was in touch with ATC throughout and had kept changing frequencies as required by ATC.. Had failed to note any frequency changes on the operational flight plan as required by the applicable SOP.. Did not miss any radio calls directed at the flight.. Had only removed her headset some time after the Captain woke up from his second controlled rest period but at that time had not noticed that both speakers were switched off.. An FCOM illustration of the individual audio control panels which each pilot has on the flight deck central pedestal and which each have a speaker switch which neither pilot recalled switching off is shown below. The layout of the left and right side 787 Audio Control Panels - button