safety management system was overly dependent on its internal reactive safety and irregularity reporting system (as a means) to develop full awareness of the airline’s safety risks. It did not take advantage of the instructive material from external safety information sources. That limited the capability of the system to identify and assess safety risks.. The TransAsia Airways’ flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) settings and analysis capabilities were unable to readily identify those events involving standard operating procedure (SOP) non-compliance during approach and likely other stages of flight. FOQA events were not analyzed sufficiently or effectively, leaving some safety issues in flight operations unidentified and uncorrected. Some problems with crew performance and reductions in safety (that were) indicated in the FOQA trend analyses were not investigated further. Clearly, the airline’s FOQA program was not used to facilitate proactive operational safety risk assessments.. Civil Aeronautics Administration The Civil Aeronautics Administration’s oversight of TransAsia Airways did not identify and/or correct some crucial operational safety deficiencies, including crew non-compliance with procedures, non-standard training practices, and unsatisfactory safety management practices.. The development and maintenance of a safety management system (SMS) implementation plan at TransAsia Airways was not enforced by the Civil Aeronautics Administration. That deprived the Regulator of an opportunity to assess and ensure that the airline had the capability to implement a resilient SMS.. Issues regarding TransAsia Airways’ crew non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) and deficiencies with pilot check and training had previously been identified in Aviation Safety Council investigation reports. However, the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) did not monitor whether the operator had implemented the recommended corrective actions; correlatively, the CAA failed to ensure the proper measures for risk reduction had been adopted.. The Civil Aeronautics Administration provided limited guidance to its Inspectors to enable them to effectively and consistently evaluate the key aspects of operators’ management systems. These aspects included evaluating organisational structure and staff resources, the suitability of key personnel, organisational change and risk management processes.. The Civil Aeronautics Administration did not have a systematic process for determining the relative risk levels of airline operators.. Air Traffic Service and Military The Runway Visual Range (RVR) reported in the Magong aerodrome routine meteorological reports (METAR) and the aerodrome special meteorological reports (SPECI) was not in accordance with the requirements documented in the Air Force Meteorological Observation Manual.. The discrepancies between the reported runway visual range (RVR) and Automated Weather Observation System (AWOS) RVR confused TWR controllers about the reliability of the AWOS RVR data.. During the final approach, the runway 20 runway visual range (RVR) values decreased from 1,600 meters to 800 meters and then to a low of about 500 meters. This RVR information was not communicated to the occurrence flight crew by ATC. Such information might have influenced the crew’s decision regarding the continuation of the approach.. Finally, it documented a series of 9 Other Findings as follows: The flight crew were properly certificated and qualified in accordance with the Civil Aeronautics Administration and company requirements. No evidence indicated