Airways should implement a more advanced flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) program with adequate training and technical support for the FOQA staff to ensure that they can exploit the analytical capabilities of the program. As such, the FOQA staff can more effectively identify and manage the operational safety risks confronting flight operations. [ASC-ASR-16-01-018]. that TransAsia Airways should implement an effective standard operating procedures (SOPs) compliance monitoring system, such as the line operations safety audit (LOSA) program, to help identifying threats to operational safety and to minimize the associated risks. The system should adopt a data-driven method to assess the level of organizational resilience to systemic threats and can detect issues such as habitual non-compliance with SOPs. [ASC-ASR-16-01-019]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should strengthen surveillance on TransAsia Airways to assess crew’s discipline and compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs). [ASC-ASR-16-01-020]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should implement a more robust process to identify safety-related shortcomings in operators’ operations, within an appropriate timescale, to ensure that the operators meet and maintain the required standards. [ASC-ASR-16-01-021]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should provide inspectors with detailed guidance on how to evaluate the effectiveness of an operator’s safety management system (SMS), including: Risk assessment and management practices; Change management practices; Flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) system and associated data analytics; and Safety performance monitoring. [ASC-ASR-16-01-022]. Risk assessment and management practices;. Change management practices;. Flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) system and associated data analytics; and. Safety performance monitoring. [ASC-ASR-16-01-022]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should provide inspectors with comprehensive training and development to ensure that they can conduct risk-based surveillance and operational oversight activities effectively. [ASC-ASR-16-01-023]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should enhance inspector supervision and performance evaluation to ensure all inspectors conduct surveillance activities effectively and are able to identify and communicate critical safety issues to their supervisors. [ASC-ASR-16-01-024]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should enhance the oversight of operators transitioning from traditional safety management to safety management systems. [ASC-ASR-16-01-025]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should develop a systematic process for determining the relative risk levels of airline operators. [ASC-ASR-16-01-026]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should review the current regulatory oversight surveillance program with a view to implementing a more targeted risk-based approach for operator safety evaluations. [ASC-ASR-16-01-027]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should ensure (that) all safety recommendations issued by the occurrence investigation agency are implemented by the operators. [ASC-ASR-16-01-028]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should develop detailed guidance for operators to implement effective fatigue risk management processes and training. [ASC-ASR-16-01-029]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should review runway approach lighting systems in accordance with their existing radio navigation and landing aids to ensure that adequate guidance is available for pilots to identify the visual references to the runway environment, particularly in poor visibility condition or at night. [ASC-ASR-16-01-030]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should review the design procedures for determining the location of missed approach point with the intention of increasing the likelihood of pilots to locate the runway without compromising