the required obstacle clearance altitude. [ASC-ASR-16-01-031]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should request TWR controllers to advise the flight crews of aircraft on final approach of the updated information in accordance with the provisions of the air traffic management procedures (ATMP). [ASC-ASR-16-01-032]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration should coordinate with Air Force Command Headquarters to review and improve the weather information exchange and runway availability coordination between civil air traffic control and military personnel at Magong Airport. [ASC-ASR-16-01-033]. that ATR-GIE Avions de Transport Régional should evaluate the feasibility of a modification to allow the (latest version) of the Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning system (EGPWS) to be fitted on all ATR72-500 aircraft. [ASC-ASR-16-01-034]. that ATR-GIE Avions de Transport Régional should review the flight data recorder (FDR) readout document for any erroneous information and provide timely revisions of the manual to assist airline operators and aviation occurrence investigation agencies. [ASC-ASR-16-01-035]. that Air Force Command Headquarters, Ministry of National Defence should coordinate with the Civil Aeronautics Administration to ensure the reliability and validity of automated weather observation system (AWOS) runway visual range (RVR) sensors and their data. [ASC-ASR-16-01-036]. that Air Force Command Headquarters, Ministry of National Defence should conduct the runway visual range (RVR) reporting operations and requirements in accordance with the provisions of the Air Force Meteorological Observation Manual. [ASC-ASR-16-01-037]. that Air Force Command Headquarters, Ministry of National Defence should coordinate with the Civil Aeronautics Administration to review and improve the weather information exchange and runway availability coordination between civil air traffic control and military personnel at Magong Airport. [ASC-ASR-16-01-038]. The Final Report was published on 29 January 2016. It noted that a number of Safety Actions had been reported as taken in response to the investigated accident by both the CAA and TransAsia Airways but at the time of publication, these had not been "verified by the Aviation Safety Council".