crew recognised the need for a missed approach until the aircraft reached the point (72 feet altitude and 0.5 nautical miles beyond the missed approach point) where collision with the terrain became unavoidable.. The aircraft was under the control of the flight crew when it collided with foliage 850 meters northeast of the runway 20 threshold, two seconds after the go around decision had been made. The aircraft sustained significant damage and subsequently collided with buildings in a residential area. Due to the high impact forces and post-impact fire, the crew and most passengers perished.. According to flight recorder data, non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) was a repeated practice during the occurrence flight. The crew’s recurring non-compliance with SOPs constituted an operating culture in which high risk practices were routine and considered normal.. The non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) breached the obstacle clearances of the published procedure, bypassed the safety criteria and risk controls considered in the design of the published procedures, and increased the risk of a controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) event.. Weather Magong Airport was affected by the outer rainbands of Typhoon Matmo at the time of the occurrence. The meteorological conditions included thunderstorm activities of heavy rain, significant changes in visibility, and changes in wind direction and speed.. It further documented a series of 27 Findings Related to Risk as follows: Flight Operations The Captain did not conduct a descent and approach briefing as required by standard operating procedures (SOPs). The first officer did not question the omission of that required briefing. That deprived the crew of an opportunity to assess and manage the operational risks associated with the approach and landing.. The Captain was likely overconfident in his flying skills. That might lead to his decision to continue the approach below the minimum descent altitude (MDA) without an appreciation of the safety risks associated with that decision.. The results of the fatigue analysis indicated that, at the time of the occurrence, the Captain’s performance was probably degraded by his fatigue accumulated from the multiple sectors/day flown and flight and duty times during the months preceding the occurrence.. The TransAsia Airways observation flights conducted by the Investigation Team and the interviews with members of the airline’s flight operations division showed prevalent tolerance for non-compliance with procedures within the airline’s ATR fleet.. The non-compliances with standard operating procedures (SOPs) during the TransAsia Airways’ ATR simulator training sessions observed by the Investigation Team were not corrected by the Instructors. The tolerance for or normalisation of SOPs non-compliance behaviours was symptomatic of an ineffective check and training system with inadequate supervision by the airline’s flight operations management.. The non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) was not restricted to the occurrence flight but was recurring, as identified by previous TransAsia Airways ATR occurrence investigations, line observations, simulator observations, internal and external audits or inspections and interviews with TransAsia Airways flight operations personnel, including managers. The non-compliant behaviours were an enduring, systemic problem and formed a poor safety culture