An Investigation was carried out by the Taiwan Aviation Safety Council (ASC). Both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered and data from them was successfully downloaded. It was established that after a cruise at 7000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings, the aircraft had arrived in the vicinity of the destination but after being informed of low visibility, the crew requested clearance to take up a holding pattern. Then, after almost 20 minutes holding, ATC advised that the visibility had improved to 800 metres and the crew requested an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 02. Twelve minutes later, whilst still awaiting that clearance, ATC advised that although visibility for runway 20 had increased to 1600 metres, there was now a thunderstorm overhead and asked what the intentions of the crew were. They again requested an ILS approach to runway 02, but on almost immediately hearing a UNI Airways ATR 72 aircraft requesting and receiving clearance for a VOR approach to runway 20, they also requested such an approach. Fifteen minutes later (and about 50 minutes after taking up a holding pattern) FDR data showed that descent on the VOR procedure had begun. Three minutes later, TWR issued a landing clearance and advised the crew that the surface wind velocity was 250° at 19 knots. The aircraft was flown through the 330 feet MDA and at a range of around 1.5nm was leveled at approximately 2000 feet. The AP was then disengaged and soon afterwards, "the aircraft began to deviate from the approach course to the left and continued to decrease in altitude". Twenty seconds after the AP was disconnected, the crew decided to initiate a missed approach and advised the TWR of this. A few seconds later after contact with some treetops, the aircraft crashed into buildings in the village of Xixi, located some 750 metres to the northeast of the threshold of Runway 20. The Investigation sought to establish why no Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) activations were recorded on either the CVR and in the EGPWS Non Volatile Memory. It was concluded during simulations of the flightpath flown by the accident aircraft that "the aircraft did not penetrate the terrain envelopes including the TCF envelope, runway field clearance floor (RFCF) envelope and Terrain Awareness “Look-Ahead” envelope for Software Version -011", which was the one installed in the accident aircraft, but that a later version of the software (-022) would have led to activation(s). It was noted that all METARs issued for Magong throughout the period during which the aircraft was airborne and just after the time of the crash gave a thunderstorm stationary overhead the airport. They also all reported rain, heavy at times, with the reported cloud cover remained unchanged - SCT/200 feet, BKN/600 feet, FEW CB/1200 feet, OVC/1600 feet. The METAR 6 minutes before the time of the crash gave the wind velocity as 220° 11-21 knots and the visibility as 1600 metres. The METAR 4 minutes after the