within the airline’s ATR fleet.. Airline Safety Management TransAsia Airways’ inadequate risk management processes and assessments, ineffective safety meetings, unreliable and invalid safety risk indices, questionable senior management commitment to safety, inadequate safety promotion activities, underdeveloped flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) system, and inadequate safety and security office and flight operations resources and capabilities constituted an ineffective safety management system (SMS).. The safety risks associated with change within the TransAsia Airways were not assessed and mitigated. For example, the company did not assess or mitigate the safety risks associated with the increase in ATR operational tempo as a result of the recent increase in ATR fleet size and crew shortage that, in turn, elevated crew flying activities and the potential safety risks associated with crew fatigue.. Findings regarding non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) during operations by the TransAsia Airways’ ATR crews had been identified by previous Aviation Safety Council occurrence investigations. The proposed corrective safety actions were not implemented by the airline.. TransAsia Airways self-audits were mostly spot checks rather than system audits or system self-evaluations. The self-audits failed to assess and address those safety deficiencies, including standard operating procedures, non-compliance behaviours, lack of standardization in pilot check and training activities and high crew flying activities on the ATR fleet. Such deficiencies had been pointed out in previous occurrences and audits and were considered by senior flight operations managers as problems.. The TransAsia Airways annual audit plan did not include an evaluation of the implementation and/or effectiveness of corrective actions in response to the safety issues identified in previous audits, regulatory inspection findings, or safety occurrence investigation recommendations. The airline’s self-audit program was not consistent with the guidance contained in (the applicable Advisory Circular). The TransAsia Airways had not developed a safety management system (SMS) implementation plan. This led to a disorganized, non-systematic, incomplete and ineffective implementation, which made it difficult to establish robust and resilient safety management capabilities and functions.. The Civil Aeronautics Administration’s (CAA) safety management system (SMS) assessment team had identified TransAsia Airways’ SMS deficiencies, but TransAsia Airways failed to respond to the CAA’s corrective actions request. That deprived the airline of an opportunity to improve the level of safety assurance in its operations.. TransAsia Airways had not implemented a data-driven fatigue risk management system (FRMS) or alternative measures to manage the operational safety risks associated with crew fatigue due to fleet expansion and other operational factors.. The ATR flight operation did not include in its team a standards pilot to oversee Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) compliance, SOP-related flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) events handling and standard operations audit (SOA) monitoring before the GE222 accident.. Due to resource and capability limitations, the safety and security office was unable to effectively accomplish the duties they were required to undertake.. The safety and security office staff was not included in the Flight Safety Action Group. That deprived the airline of an opportunity to identify, analyse and mitigate flight safety risks in flight operations more effectively.. The TransAsia Airways’