any pre-existing medical conditions that might have adversely affected the flight crew’s performance during the occurrence flight.. The airworthiness and maintenance of the occurrence aircraft were in compliance with the extant civil aviation regulations. There were no aircraft, engine, or system malfunctions that would have prevented normal operation of the aircraft.. All available evidence, including extensive simulations, indicated that the enhanced ground proximity warning system (EGPWS) functioned as designed.. The enhanced ground proximity warning system (EGPWS) manufacturer’s latest generation EGPWS equipment would have provided flight crews with an additional warning if an aircraft encountered similar circumstances to the occurrence flight. Installing the latest EGPWS equipment on the occurrence aircraft would have required approved modifications.. According to the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) regulations, a 420 metre simple approach lighting system should have been installed to help pilots visually identify runway #The CAA advised that the Runway End Identification Lights, a flashing white light system, was installed at the runway’s threshold as an alternative visual aid to replace the simple approach lighting system.. From the perspective of flight operations, the runway 20 VOR missed approach point (MAPt) was not located in an optimal position. With the same Obstacle Clearance Altitude, if the MAPt had been set closer to the runway threshold, it would have increased the likelihood that flight crews (would be able) to visually locate the runway.. During holding, the occurrence flight crew requested the runway 02 instrument landing system (ILS) approach after receiving the weather information that the average wind speed for runway 02 had decreased to below the tailwind landing limit. While the decision for the use of the reciprocal runway was still under consideration by the Magong Air Force Base duty officer, the weather report indicated that the visibility had improved to 1,600 meters, which met the landing visibility minimal requirement for an approach to runway 20. The flight crew subsequently amended their request and elected to use runway 20.. At the time of the occurrence, the weather information exchange and runway availability coordination between civil and military personnel at Magong’s joint-use airport could have been more efficient.. ATR’s flight data recorder (FDR) readout document contained unclear information. That affected the efficiency of the occurrence investigation.. A total of 29 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that TransAsia Airways should implement effective safety actions to rectify the multiple safety deficiencies previously identified by the Aviation Safety Council investigations, internal and external Civil Aeronautics Administration audit and inspection findings, and deficiencies noted in this report to reduce the imminent safety risks confronting the airline. [ASC-ASR-16-01-010]. that TransAsia Airways should conduct a thorough review of the airline’s safety management system and flight crew training programs, including crew resource management and threat and error management, internal auditor training, safety management system (SMS) training and devise systematic measures to ensure: Flight crew check and training are standardized; All flight crews comply with standard operating procedures (SOPs); Staff who conduct audits receive appropriate professional auditor training; All