operational and senior management staff receive SMS training, including thorough risk assessment and management training; and Proportional and consistent rules, in accordance with a “Just Culture”, are implemented to prevent flight crew from violating the well-designed SOPs and/or being engaged in unsafe behavior. [ASC-ASR-16-01-011]. Flight crew check and training are standardized;. All flight crews comply with standard operating procedures (SOPs);. Staff who conduct audits receive appropriate professional auditor training;. All operational and senior management staff receive SMS training, including thorough risk assessment and management training; and. Proportional and consistent rules, in accordance with a “Just Culture”, are implemented to prevent flight crew from violating the well-designed SOPs and/or being engaged in unsafe behavior. [ASC-ASR-16-01-011]. that TransAsia Airways should conduct a rigorous review of the safety management system (SMS) to rectify the significant deficiencies in: Planning; Organizational structure, capability and resources; Risk management processes and outputs; Flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) limitations and operations, including inadequate data analysis capabilities Safety meetings; Self-audits; Safety performance monitoring, including risk indices; Safety education; and Senior management commitment to safety. [ASC-ASR-16-01-012]. Planning;. Organizational structure, capability and resources;. Risk management processes and outputs;. Flight operations quality assurance (FOQA) limitations and operations, including inadequate data analysis capabilities. Safety meetings;. Self-audits;. Safety performance monitoring, including risk indices;. Safety education; and. Senior management commitment to safety. [ASC-ASR-16-01-012]. that TransAsia Airways should rectify the human resources deficits in the flight operations division and the safety and security office, including: Crew shortages; Inadequate support staff in the Flight Standards and Training Department, including insufficient standards pilots and crew to conduct operational safety risk assessments; and Safety management staff with the required expertise in flight operations, safety and flight data analytics, safety risk assessment and management, human factors, and safety investigations. [ASC-ASR-16-01-013]. Crew shortages;. Inadequate support staff in the Flight Standards and Training Department, including insufficient standards pilots and crew to conduct operational safety risk assessments; and. Safety management staff with the required expertise in flight operations, safety and flight data analytics, safety risk assessment and management, human factors, and safety investigations. [ASC-ASR-16-01-013]. that TransAsia Airways should review and improve the airline’s internal compliance oversight and auditing system and implement an effective corporate compliance and quality assurance system to ensure that oversight activities provide the required level of safety assurance and accountability. [ASC-ASR-16-01-014]. that TransAsia Airways should implement an effective safety management process, such as a data-driven fatigue risk management system (FRMS), to manage the flight safety risks associated with crew fatigue]. [ASC-ASR-16-01-015]. that TransAsia Airways should provide flight crew with adequate fatigue management education and training, including the provision of effective strategies to manage fatigue and performance during operations. [ASC-ASR-16-01-016]. that TransAsia Airways should implement an effective change management system as a part of the airline’s safety management system (SMS) to ensure that risk assessment and mitigation activities are formally conducted and documented before significant operational changes are implemented, such as the introduction of new aircraft types or variants, increased operational tempo, opening new ports, and so on. [ASC-ASR-16-01-017]. that TransAsia