time of the crash gave the wind velocity as 250° 18-28 knots and both the visibility and Runway Visual Range (RVR) for runway 20 as 800 metres. It was concluded that the crew had been unlikely to gain visual contact with the runway environment despite the violation of MDA which had directly led to Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT). Some issues relating to the provision of present weather information to the crews of approaching aircraft, in particular RVR, were attributed to the joint civil /military status of the airport. The Jeppesen Chart used for the approach is shown below: The scope of the Investigation was not confined to the specifics of the accident under investigation but sought to examine its wider context in terms of the TransAsia Airways operation and the oversight of it by the State Safety Regulator, the Civil Aeronautics Administration. The Investigation formally documented a series of 10 'Findings related to Probable Causes' as follows: Flight Operations The flight crew did not comply with the published runway 20 VOR non-precision instrument approach procedures at Magong Airport with respect to the minimum descent altitude (MDA). The Captain, as the pilot flying, intentionally descended the aircraft below the published MDA of 330 feet in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) without obtaining the required visual references.. The aircraft maintained an altitude between 168 and 192 feet before and just after overflying the missed approach point (MAPt). Both pilots spent about 13 seconds attempting to visually locate the runway environment, rather than commencing a missed approach at or prior to the MAPt as required by the published procedures.. As the aircraft descended below the minimum descent altitude (MDA), it diverted to the left of the inbound instrument approach track and its rate of descent increased as a result of the flying pilot’s control inputs and meteorological conditions. The aircraft’s hazardous flight path was not detected and corrected by the crew in due time to avoid the collision with the terrain, suggesting that the crew lost situational awareness about the aircraft’s position during the latter stages of the approach.. During the final approach, the heavy rain and associated thunderstorm activity intensified producing a maximum rainfall of 1.8 mm per minute. The runway visual range (RVR) subsequently reduced to approximately 500 meters. The degraded visibility significantly reduced the likelihood that the flight crew could have acquired the visual references to the runway environment during the approach.. Flight crew coordination, communication, and threat and error management were less than effective. That compromised the safety of the flight. The First Officer did not comment about or challenge the fact that the captain had intentionally descended the aircraft below the published minimum descent altitude (MDA). Rather, the first officer collaborated with the captain’s intentional descent below the MDA. In addition, the First Officer did not detect the aircraft had deviated from the published inbound instrument approach track or identify that those factors increased the risk of a controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) event.. Neither of the flight