This Regulation applies within the zones designated as U-space airspace to: operators of UAS;. U-space service providers;. providers of common information services.. Some UAS operation are not subject to this Regulation, e.g. those of model aircraft clubs and associations that have received an appropriate authorisation or privately built UAS with MTOM of 250 g or less and speed of 19 m/s or less. U-space airspace is designated by EU member states following a risk assessment. For each such airspace, requirements to UAS, U-space services and operational conditions are defined. All UAS operations in the U-space airspace are subject to at least the following services: Network identification service. It allows the continuous processing of the remote identification of the UAS throughout the duration of the flight.. Geo-awareness service. It provides geo-awareness information (e.g. operational conditions and airspace constraints) to UAS operators.. UAS flight authorisation service. It provides UAS operators with the UAS flight authorisation for each individual flight.. Traffic information service. It is provided to UAS operators and contains information on any other conspicuous air traffic, that may be in proximity to the position or intended route of the UAS flight.. Additional services may be provided in the designated U-space airspace. This is decided by the individual EU member state based on the risk assessment. These services are: Weather information service. It provides UAS operators with weather forecasts and actual weather information.. Conformance monitoring service. It enables the UAS operators to verify whether they comply with the requirements of this Regulation and the terms of the UAS flight authorisation.. If U-space airspace is designated within controlled airspace, dynamic reconfiguration of the airspace must be ensured, i.e. manned aircraft provided with ATC service and UAS remain segregated. The common information services are the means to disseminate static and dynamic data that enables the provision of U-space services. This data is provided by information service provider(s), designated by the EU member states and includes: geographical data, e.g. horizontal and vertical limits, adjacent U-space airspaces, etc.. specific requirements applicable to the airspace, e.g. UAS capabilities and U-space services performance requirements. a list of certified U-space service providers as well as pertinent information about their services. static and dynamic airspace restrictions. traffic information regarding manned aircraft and data related to dynamic reconfiguration of the airspace. terms and conditions of U-space service providers. The common information services must: be provided on a non-discriminative basis. be available to relevant authorities, air traffic service providers, U-space service providers and UAS operators. comply with the applicable data quality, data latency and data protection requirements. The Regulation defines general requirements applicable to UAS operators. These include provisions for: compliance with UAS capability requirements, airspace constraints, etc.. requesting and adherence to UAS flight authorisation. contingency measures and procedures. An UAS operator may provide U-space service to themselves. The Regulation defines general requirements applicable to U-space service providers. They must: be certified as such. provide the applicable services to UAS operators on a non-discriminative basis. exchange information related to flight safety with