The following types of civil air operations are within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 and its subsequent amendments: Specialised and non-specialised;. Commercial and non-commercial;. With complex motor-powered aircraft and with other-than-complex motor-powered aircraft;. The term ‘specialised operations’ refers to activities meeting the following criteria: the aircraft is flown close to the surface to fulfil the mission;. abnormal manoeuvres are performed;. special equipment is necessary to fulfil the mission and which affects the manoeuvrability of the aircraft;. substances are released from the aircraft during the flight where these substances are either harmful or affect the manoeuvrability of the aircraft;. external loads or goods are lifted or towed; or. persons enter or leave the aircraft during flight.. Operations not meeting the above criteria are ‘non-specialised’. The term ‘commercial’ refers to aircraft operations involving the transport of passengers, cargo or mail for remuneration or hire. Operations involving the transport of passengers, cargo or mail not for remuneration or hire are ‘non-commercial’. The term ‘complex motor-powered aircraft’ refers to: an aeroplane: with a maximum certificated take-off mass exceeding 5,700 kg; or certificated for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nineteen; or certificated for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots; or equipped with (a) turbojet engine(s) or more than one turboprop engine; or. with a maximum certificated take-off mass exceeding 5,700 kg; or. certificated for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nineteen; or. certificated for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots; or. equipped with (a) turbojet engine(s) or more than one turboprop engine; or. a helicopter certificated: for a maximum take-off mass exceeding 3,175 kg; or for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nine; or for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots; or. for a maximum take-off mass exceeding 3,175 kg; or. for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nine; or. for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots; or. a tilt rotor aircraft.. An aircraft not meeting the above criteria is an ‘other-than-complex motor-powered aircraft’.