This Regulation applies to: the design, production, maintenance and operation of aircraft and their parts including remotely controlled aircraft;. the operation of aircraft into, within, or out of the EU territory;. the design, production, maintenance and operation of safety-related aerodrome equipment and the provision of groundhandling services and AMS at the aerodromes;. the design, maintenance and operation of aerodromes;. the safeguarding of surroundings of the aerodromes;. the provision of ATM/ANS in the SES airspace, and the design, production, maintenance and operation of systems and constituents used in the provision of ATM/ANS;. the design of airspace structures in the SES airspace.. This Regulation does not apply to: aircraft and their parts for carrying out military, customs, police, search and rescue, firefighting, border control, coastguard or similar activities or services;. aerodromes controlled and operated by the military;. ATM/ANS provided or made available by the military;. the design, production, maintenance and operation of aircraft the operation of which involves low risk for aviation safety.. This part of the Regulation defines the basic principles and lays down requirements for: Airworthiness and environmental protection. Aircrew. Air operations. Aerodromes. ATM/ANS. Air traffic controllers. Unmanned aircraft. Aircraft used by a third-country operator into, within or out of the Union. This part of the Regulation defines: General provisions for certification, oversight and enforcement. Establishment and maintenance of a shared pool of European aviation inspectors. Provisions for the reallocation of responsibility upon request of Member States or organisations operating in more than one Member State. The oversight support mechanism. Provisions for the validity and recognition of certificates and declarations. Provisions for the acceptance of third-country certification. Provisions for allocating certain tasks to qualified entities. Safeguard provisions for situations where an immediate reaction to a problem relating to civil aviation safety is necessary. Flexibility provisions for granting exemptions from the applicable requirements under this Regulations. Provisions for information gathering, exchange and analysis. Provisions for the protection of the source of information. Provisions for the establishment and maintenance of a repository of information. This part of the Regulation defines: the tasks that are performed by EASA; these are mostly related to: issuing certificates to aircratft, organizations, aircrew, air traffic controllers, etc. oversight and monitoring, including investigations, fines and penalties development and provision of guidance material and best practicies in various fields implementation of SES. issuing certificates to aircratft, organizations, aircrew, air traffic controllers, etc.. oversight and monitoring, including investigations, fines and penalties. development and provision of guidance material and best practicies in various fields. implementation of SES. the internal structure of EASA. the working methods of EASA. financial and evaluation provisions regarding EASA. The final provisions of the Regulation define: The Committee that is set up to assist the European Commission. Exercise of the delegation of power to the European Commission. The participation of European third countries. Provisions concerning the accommodation to be provided for certain Agency staff in the host Member State. The principles regarding penalties for infringing this Regulation. The penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.. Provisions for