Your four-engine airplane is scheduled for a midday departure for a long-haul flight from a major airport. Your crew receives a forecast of severe turbulence during climb-out as well as a notice that severe turbulence has been reported by the crews of other large airplanes. You brief your crew on the possible turbulence and tell them to be prepared for a rough ride. After takeoff, at about 2,000 ft, the airplane experiences an uncommanded left roll of approximately 50 degrees. While the target airspeed is 183 kt, the airspeed fluctuates by about 75 kt, from a high of 245 kt to a low of 170 kt. Just after that, you experience significant yaw, the no. 2 throttle lever slams to its aft stop, the no. 2 reverser indication shows thrust reverser deployment, and the no. 2 engine electrical bus fails. In fact, unknown to you, the no. 2 engine has actually separated from the airplane. Witnesses on the ground report later that the airplane experienced several severe pitch and roll oscillations before the engine separated. Detailed investigation after the event indicates that there is no reason for you to have suspected that the airplane would be damaged during climb-out as the level of turbulence encountered is within the design limits of the airplane, and previous departures encountered the same conditions without any problems. Shortly after the engine separates from the airplane, your crew carries out the emergency checklist memory items for an engine failure. You decide to make an in-flight turn-back (IFTB) and instruct the first officer (FO) to declare an emergency. Air traffic control (ATC) accepts the emergency and offers any of the airport’s runways for the return. You instruct the flight engineer (FE) to lock down the leading edge devices using the manual extension method and to begin dumping fuel. Immediately after deciding to declare an emergency and executing an IFTB, you begin delegating important duties. You choose to concentrate entirely on flight path control and to delegate communications to the FO. The FE is assigned systems management, including the engine shutdown procedure, fuel dumping and handling the subsequent failures of a generator and hydraulic system. The FE is later assisted by two positioning FEs aboard as passengers in making calculations on the fuel dumping procedure and landing weights. You are initially unable to maintain altitude. You use emergency/maximum power on the no. 1 engine, full rudder authority and almost full right aileron to maintain control. The stick shaker and bank angle warnings activate intermittently throughout the remainder of the flight. Once you re-establish a reasonable degree of control, you initiate a wide-radius turn to the left to return and land on the departure runway. While on the downwind portion of the landing pattern, bank angles alternate between wings level and momentary excursions that exceed 40 degrees. The FO maintains ATC communications while surrounded by high background noise from multiple alarms and alerts. Poor sound quality on the intercom also limits the potential use of ground resources such