Literature review on concepts of “weak signals” in different branches led to the decision of the project team to choose the following definition by Schoemaker & Day (2009)[3] as the working definition for the first edition of a framework: A weak signal is seen as: A seemingly random or disconnected piece of information that at first appears to be background noise but can be recognized as part of a significant pattern by viewing it through a different frame or connecting it with other pieces of information. Furthermore, the characteristics of these pieces of information have been described e.g. as vague with little or no familiarity, low palatability or low reliability. It is also mentioned that "weak signals" usually have a substantial lag time before they become strong signals. Besides these characteristics inherent in these signals, the signals are also influenced by outside factors such as filters and blocking factors like blindness. These influences can weaken the signal. According to the above mentioned working definition it is important that the single information coming from the signals are connected and that a pattern can be derived. In order to identify these patterns a different perspective on safety is necessary. Generic patterns provide insights into organisational change. The analysis of these generic patterns is seen as a possible lesson for the transformation of future operations. The pattern of seeing details but being unable to recognise the big picture is a common factor in accidents. The decoding of weak signals allows the identification of significant generic patterns early enough because weak signals endure on a long term scale.In the context of weak signals framework, within the information processing a decoder is required that is able to assign a meaning to the identified signals. However, the search for patterns can create a WYLFIWYF (What-You-Look-For-Is-What-You-Find) mindset and information expected is seen rather than the unexpected information. This could create the paradox that the weak signals approach is weakening the signal. The presentation “Weak Signals in ANSP´s Safety Performance” echoes the theoretical approach and displays the process of building up a framework for a weak signals approach in ANSP´s safety performance.