and may not be capable of controlling all aspects of the engine.. ‘ENG FUEL SPLIT VALVE R’ indicated that the Fuel Split Valve spools had failed open or had closed or that either of the valve position sensors had failed in both channels.. Recorded data showed that engine rpm oscillation of both engines had occurred three months earlier during the first flight after a routine biocide treatment and then again during engine starting and during the cruise on the investigated flight but had not been sufficiently significant to be noticed by the flight crew or sufficient to record the triggering of related EICAS messages. The oscillation only became sufficient to be noticeable when the ‘ENG FAIL L’ and ‘ENG FAIL R’ messages appeared in quick succession during the descent. A detailed examination of all engine fuel system components was undertaken and residue with a composition equivalent to that which would be derived from Kathon FP1.5 biocide was found in the fuel filters of both engines, although it was noted that some such residue is a likely consequence of normal biocide treatments. More exceptional was the finding that the FSV and VBV spools of both engines could not be moved due to deposits of the same residue (magnesium salts). Under normal conditions, an FSV spool can be moved on a test stand by a force of 0.5 lbs but in this case they could not be moved even when a force of 160 lbs was applied. The same residues were found on the FMV, HPT, ACC and VSV spools of the left engine only. The biocide treatment carried out in March had taken place in Auckland, New Zealand which had required the aircraft to be ferried there and then returned to Cairns after it had been completed. The AMM current at the time specified that either Kathon FP1.5 or Biobor JF could be used for the treatment and that a biocide treatment cart should be inserted into the fuel supply line to achieve a concentration of 100 ppm by volume. It was found that whilst there were maintenance records related to this biocide treatment work, these did not include either the calculation of the biocide concentration ratio for each tank or the quantity of biocide used. It was noted that the magnesium salts contained in Kathon FP 1.5 are insoluble in fuel but will dissolve in any water present in the fuel. Once so dissolved, they can then be precipitated or otherwise accumulate in spools within the engine fuel system. It was confirmed that the quantity of Magnesium salts deposited in the fuel system would be directly proportional to the biocide concentration ratio. Although fuel remained in all the aircraft tanks after the serious incident, when it was drained and multiple locations inside each tank were wiped with cotton swabs for testing, no microbial or biocide residue was found in either the tanks or the drained fuel. The Investigation found that there had been a number of other reported incidents attributable