to excessive concentrations of Kathon FP1.5 biocide being used during routine anti-microbial treatment, all having used a concentration of 1000 ppm instead of the prescribed 100 ppm. The consequences in six of these cases had been that both engines could not be started on a twin-engined aircraft and in another that none of the engines could be started on a four-engined aircraft. However, Boeing provided data from operators which showed that in excess of 65 GEnx-powered aircraft had been subject to routine biocide treatment during the last five years without any related engine malfunction being reported. It was concluded that it was likely that fuel with a higher than specified concentration of biocide had not mixed evenly inside the fuel tanks before being delivered to the engines. This failure of the biocide and fuel to mix evenly inside the fuel tanks was considered to have been attributable to both the temperature and density of the fuel and the inner structure of the fuel tanks. The Probable Cause of the investigated engine malfunctions was determined as: “An oscillation in the engine rpm of each engine causing both engines to temporarily fall below idle at separate times because residue primarily composed of magnesium salts had accumulated in spools involved in fuel metering to both engines and impeded their normal function. The origin of the magnesium salts was a biocide at higher than normal concentration in the fuel following a routine biocide treatment two days earlier during which the biocide had not been mixed evenly with the fuel”. Safety Action taken as a result of this event and known to the Investigation was noted as having included but not been limited to the following: Jetstar Airways suspended biocide treatment using Kathon FP1.5 inside fuel tanks of its 787 aircraft and is reviewing maintenance procedures that occur infrequently to identify task- specific training opportunities for maintenance personnel based on the corresponding AMM procedures.. General Electric issued SB 73-0086 R00 which recommended suspension of the use of biocide treatment using Kathon FP1.5 in aircraft fitted with GEnx engines.. Boeing amended the 787 AMM to delete procedures for Kathon FP1.5 biocide treatment of aircraft fitted with GEnx engines and updated the AMM for all other aircraft types to explicitly describe the maximum allowable biocide concentration ratio and require the recording of the biocide amount calculated and the amount actually used.. the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued Special Airworthiness Information Bulletin (SAIB) NE-20-04 on 25 March 2020 on ‘Engine Fuel - Jet Fuel Biocide Additive’. the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) issued Safety Information Bulletin (SIB) 2020-06 on 20 March 2020 on ‘Use of DuPont Kathon FP 1.5 Biocide’. the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) issued AWB 28-018 on 26 March 2020 strongly recommending the suspension of Kathon Biocide use for treatment of micro-biological growth in aviation fuel.. The Final Report was adopted by the JTSB on 5 June 2020 and published on 25 June 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.