The event was classified as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board (JTSB). The Investigation was confined to the airworthiness issues which had led both engines to malfunction and relevant data were downloaded from the Enhanced Airborne Flight Recorders (EAFR) and Airplane Condition Monitoring Function (ACMF) provided by the CPL (Continuous Parameter Logging) process. Flight crew statements were obtained to assist but the response of the flight crew to the situation they had been faced with was not considered. The 41year-old Captain was noted to have a total of 12,491 hours flying experience of which 2,102 hours were on type. It was clear from the outset that adverse environmental conditions had not been contributory to the engine malfunctions which occurred. It was established that, with a little over half an hour to go until the expected arrival of the flight at Kansai, the aircraft was descending through approximately 16,000 feet when the right engine instrument display became unstable and the EICAS caution message ‘ENG THRUST R’ and the EICAS status message ‘ENG CONTROL R’ were annuciated. These were followed one minute later by another EICAS status message - ‘ENG FUEL SPLIT VALVE R’. Four minutes after the first indications of an abnormal condition in the right engine, and with the aircraft passing approximately 12,000 feet, an ‘ENG FAIL L’ EICAS caution message briefly appeared and at a time which was subsequently found to have corresponded to an eight-second period during which the ACMF recorded a value below idle. The Captain reported that he had not noticed abnormal left engine parameters at this time. Then, almost immediately, an ‘ENG FAIL R’ EICAS message was annunciated but “disappeared after a while”. The time of this message was subsequently found to have been concurrent with that engine being at a value below idle for a period of 81 seconds. The Captain disengaged the right A/T and set the right engine thrust lever to idle in accordance with the applicable check list because he had observed indications of unstable parameters for the right engine. These right engine parameters continued to indicate an unstable condition until landing. Ten minutes after the ‘ENG FAIL R’ EICAS message had first appeared, an ‘ENG CONTROL L’ EICAS message was annunciated and after a further 11 minutes, a landing was made at Kansai. An annotated representation of the aircraft flight path during the engine malfunctions. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The EICAS messages which appeared in association with the engine malfunctions were all related to fuel flow: ‘ENG FAIL L’ and ‘ENG FAIL R’ indicated that the engine concerned had run below idle speed and auto ignition had been activated to prevent flameout.. ‘ENG THRUST R’ indicated either that the engine was not producing the commanded thrust (N1) or was not responding normally to changes in the commanded thrust.. ‘ENG CONTROL L’ and ‘ENG CONTROL R’ indicated that the EEC may be operating with a limited set of engine control parameters