Stimulation happens from all angles 24/7 where information hits the senses before it passes to the brain, the memory process then filters information to avoid over stimulation. Some information is just glanced at, some is used for a short action and some is stored: Step one - Sensory memory All external stimuli that are picked up by the five senses are caught by the sensory memory. Information is screened for up to half a second to decide which stimuli are relevant to pass on and which are deemed irrelevant to be deleted. For example, pilots will take in the changing weather during a flight but not every detail of the landscape when approaching to land. Step two - Short-term memory (also known as working memory) The passed-on stimuli are consciously assigned meaning here. There is some time to reflect and group information, as it can float around for up to 30 seconds. Information that is considered interesting/useful is sent to the final memory stage. Step three - Long-term memory Here, information is stored and can be retrieved without being lost. It can hold infinite information for a very long time. To be able to store information it needs to be prioritised, repeated and made sense of to create real understanding. There are two types of long-term memory: Declarative/explicit = to know what something is: learning facts and events that have to be consciously recalled. Non-declarative/procedural = to know how to do something: manual skills that become second nature, like riding a bike, which are stored unconsciously after initial learning through repetition. If a student takes time to learn and understand information it may reach the long-term memory, but there are numerous factors that influence this process, such as time pressures, stress, emotion, a person's mood and needs. In aviation there are so many protocols and actions to memorise that learning to remember is important, but the influencing factors can make this process a challenge. The challenges need to be understood and effective learning techniques should be found.