An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Relevant data was successfully recovered from both the 2 hour CVR and the DFDR. The latter was linked to recorded ADSE data and subsequently the FDR data were synchronised with the CVR data, ATC communication recordings and measurements of marks on and immediately adjacent to the runway. However, contrary to regulatory requirements and the guidelines of the airport operator, Aeroports de Montréal (ADM), their personnel "cleaned the runway and repaired the damaged lights without first consulting TSB investigators". It was noted that "cleaning the runway using jets of water and mechanical brooms erased marks on the runway, thereby depriving investigators of information about the runway excursion (and that) since the quality and quantity of clues lost or altered could not be determined, it was not possible to assess the significance of this (lost) information". It was found that the Captain had accumulated 17,259 total flying hours which included 427 hours on type and a total of 8,524 hours on "Airbus-type aircraft". The First Officer, who was PF for the investigated flight, had accumulated 8,262 flying hours which included 628 hours on type with no other previous experience on "Airbus type aircraft". They were operating on a single sector duty and the Investigation found no evidence that either pilot was fatigued, although each had taken controlled rest on the flight deck for periods of up to 45 minutes en route. It was established that during the initial stages of the descent to destination a little under an hour out, the ATIS, which gave VMC and made no mention of convective weather, had been copied. At about 30 nm out in VMC, the crew advised ATC that they had copied the updated ATIS which gave 24R as the only runway in use and did include reference to the presence of Cb whilst also reporting good visibility, light surface winds and no low cloud with no precipitation. When 18 nm north of the airport at approximately 5,000 feet QNH, the crew noted "rather dark conditions north of the airport" which they reported corresponded to the position of strong returns on the aircraft weather radar, although the airport including the landing runway was still clearly visible. As briefed earlier, a Category 1 ILS approach was made to runway 24R and a landing in VMC was "anticipated" with just a very light crosswind from the left. The progress of the obviously poor weather conditions now to the north of the landing runway were visually monitored and the possibility that precipitation and wind shear might be encountered was considered, although not the possibility of a consequent go-around. It was decided that the approach speed would be slightly increased and FLAPS 3 was confirmed as the intended landing configuration. As the aircraft passed approximately 1,900 feet QNH, ATC gave the spot wind as 280° at 13-18 knots and cleared the aircraft to land, reminding the crew a few seconds later that the runway lighting was out of service