had decided not to reactivate the rain repellent system on their A330 fleet using the modified repellent introduced in 1998 and had also decided not to take up the available alternative of applying an Airbus-approved hydrophobic windshield coating which provides a similarly-enhanced visibility in heavy rain. It was concluded that it was "not possible to establish with certainty whether the combined use of the rain repellent system and windshield wipers would have enabled the PF to maintain acceptable visibility through the windshield and keep the aircraft on the runway centreline" but it was known that rain both repellent systems and the alternative hydrophobic windshield coatings are effective in reducing the effects of heavy rain on forward visibility. The risk of a lateral runway excursion during landing because of a loss of visual reference, especially on a runway without any runway lighting, was considered to be heightened. The Investigation noted that the applicable regulations require that runway lighting is on when IMC prevails or during the hours of darkness. Once the content of the SPECI issued four minutes before the flight under investigation touched down indicated that IMC prevailed at the airport, runway 24R should have been withdrawn from use because of the absence of such lighting. The Aerodrome Operator, Aeroports de Montréal (ADM), was responsible for any decision to close a runway or the whole aerodrome but it was found that the agreement with ATC defining the conditions for closure of a runway in the event of inoperative runway lighting did not specify any conditions for daytime closure and so this did not occur. It was concluded by the Investigation that "ADM appeared not to have realised that runway lighting was required both day and night for operation of a runway in IMC". However, from a flight crew perspective, it was noted that there were no regulations stipulating any requirements for pilots to have runway lighting available in the prevailing conditions and it had been reasonable for the crew to believe that receipt of their landing clearance meant inter alia that "the runway complied with the airport certification standard and that all risk mitigation measures were in place". In respect of aircraft manual handling immediately prior to the deviation, DFDR data showed that the oscillation in roll as the aircraft crossed the runway threshold had been a consequence of side stick inputs which could be identified as Pilot Induced Oscillations (PIO). Although these had ceased when the aircraft had been 40 feet above the runway, it was still banked 6° to the left and subsequent side stick commands to the right from then on had been insufficient to return the wings to level. It was concluded that the continued left bank combined in the presence of a crosswind component from the right and the effect of a downburst from the nearby thunderstorm cell had resulted in a continued drift to the left with the aircraft very close to the ground. The question of whether a go around from a very