as NOTAMed. This latter status required a 50 feet addition to DH and a 400 metres addition to the minimum RVR which had been done but neither addition subsequently prevented the approach continuing to DH or the acquisition of the required visual reference to continue to a landing. The First Officer disconnected the AP passing approximately 900 feet agl and the approach remained stabilised. Passing 600 feet agl, a DHC-8 that had just landed reported experiencing "light wind shear below 400 feet" and in response to a request for a wind check, ATC advised that it was now 300° at 18-24 knots. Still flying with full visual reference, the crew reported having observed a rain shower approaching the middle of the landing runway but still being able to clearly see the entire length of it. Then at approximately 130 feet agl, the aircraft entered heavy rain and the PF asked for the windshield wipers to be turned on at maximum speed which was done. FDR data showed that the aircraft then oscillated in roll as it crossed the runway threshold at 50 feet agl on centreline and close to the intended approach speed. Idle thrust was selected a 30 feet agl with the aircraft now left of centreline, banked to the left and drifting quickly toward the left edge of the runway as the rain reached its maximum intensity and visual references were degraded. A corrective roll to the right accompanied the initiation of the flare and the right MLG touched down just before the left 400 metres past the threshold and approximately 17 metres left of the centre of the 61 metre-wide runway. The left MLG "followed with a left wheel touchdown 30 metres left of centreline with the aircraft longitudinal axis 8° right of the centreline and drifting left at 2° and one second later, just before touching down, the rear inboard wheel of the left MLG clipped a runway edge light and its left outboard wheel landed on the grass (just as) the Captain ordered a correction to the right". The aircraft then struck two more runway edge lights before the left MLG returned to the runway. The landing roll was completed and the aircraft was taxied to its assigned gate where the crew, who stated that they had been unaware of the excursion, were informed of it. It was concluded that the strong precipitation just north of the runway, a temporary drop in ground temperature and a change in wind direction and strength all tended to confirm the presence of a downburst from the thunderstorm cell just to the north of the runway at the time the aircraft was landing. However, no reactive or predictive wind shear warnings, which are inactive below 50 feet agl, were generated and the airport did not have a LLWAS. Both the following two aircraft making the same approach successively discontinued their approaches and flew a go around due to the deterioration in weather conditions. It was noted that Air Canada