low level would have been a safe option was considered. It was concluded that even in good visibility, commencing a go around would not have been easy whilst returning the aircraft to the centre of the runway very close to the ground in crosswind conditions and that as a result such a manoeuvre would have been "not advisable" under the prevailing conditions. The possibility that the Captain could have taken control was also considered but it was concluded that "even though he had been closely monitoring the progress of the flight", once the aircraft began to deviate left, it would not have been possible for him to "intervene and take the controls in time to make a correction to avoid the runway excursion". Finally, the Investigation completed its analysis of aircraft operational factors by reviewing the general subject of continuing an approach in the presence of thunderstorms. It was noted that like many other airlines, "Air Canada […] has not developed clear procedures for circumnavigating thunderstorms during approach or landing" nor is this a requirement. Whilst en-route thunderstorm avoidance guidelines are explicit, pilots making an approach to land are expected to use their experience to determine the trajectory of their flight and as a result, "the margin of safety varies from flight to flight depending on the crew". It was considered that the excursion investigated here "shows that despite specialized training, having a detailed landing plan in place and threat management performed in accordance with existing concepts, an experienced crew was unable to counter the factors that suddenly combined at a critical moment in the flight in order to prevent the runway excursion". It was therefore concluded that the occurrence was a demonstration that "landings in the presence of thunderstorms near the runway present an ongoing risk to aviation safety". The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: During an approach in the presence of a thunderstorm, pilot-induced oscillation led to the aircraft being in a left bank as it crossed the runway threshold which, combined with a strong right crosswind, resulted in a rapid drift to the left very close to the ground.. Once the aircraft crossed the runway threshold, the intensity of the precipitation increased suddenly, such that the pilot flying (PF) had reduced visual references. Under these conditions, the PF did not detect the lateral movement of the aircraft in time to correct the drift before the outboard tires of the left bogie landed in the grass.. Given the absence of runway lighting in reduced visibility conditions, it was difficult for the pilot flying to detect the lateral movement of the aircraft over the runway and therefore to prevent the runway excursion.. A lateral wind shear generated by a downburst to the north of the runway suddenly increased the aircraft’s drift to the left during the landing flare.. Runway 24R was not closed in Instrument Meteorological Conditions, even though the runway lighting was not working. As a result, the runway was not equipped