with the lights required to enable crews to clearly distinguish the lateral confines of the runway.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If airports are not equipped with a low-level wind shear alert system, crews landing there may not be aware of the presence of downbursts or microbursts, and therefore may be exposed to the risk of approach-and-landing accidents.. If a crew is unable to verify landing performance in heavy rain conditions involving a risk of hydroplaning, there is an increased risk of runway excursion.. If the “landing” response to the “minimum” calls reinforces the notion that landing is assured, there is a possibility that preparation for, and the decision to, go-around could be affected, increasing the risk of a landing incident or accident.. If the rain repellent system is unavailable or not used, there is an increased risk, in heavy rain conditions, that crews will lose the visual references necessary to avoid a runway excursion.. If a crew does not consider the consequences of multiple threats, there is a risk that pilots will continue a landing under conditions that are not favourable.. If the aircraft is drifting near the ground and pilots place the aircraft in low-energy landing regime, there is an increased risk of runway excursion.. If crews are not trained to retake the controls at very low altitudes or during the low energy landing regime, there is a risk that, in the event of a problem, the pilot monitoring will not have time to identify the problem and take the appropriate measures.. If Transport Canada does not take action to develop the clear standards on avoiding thunderstorms during approach and landing called for in Recommendation A07-01, approaches in the presence of convective weather will continue, exposing aircraft to the multiple, unpredictable hazards associated with thunderstorms.. If occurrence sites are not preserved, there is a risk that evidence essential to identifying factors that contributed to an occurrence will be lost.. If dispatch is not aware of an Aircraft Communications, Addressing and Reporting System transmission failure, there is an increased risk that critical flight information is not received by the crew.. Two Other Findings were also identified: Although the wind information at Montréal/Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport was transmitted to the flight by air traffic control in a timely manner, the information provided did not enable the crew to be fully aware of the rapidly changing weather conditions in the area of the runway.. The runway excursion was not the result of a premature crab angle reduction manoeuvre, which is often associated with landing incidents in crosswind conditions.. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was noted as having included the introduction of new Flight Operations Manual guidance by Air Canada to: ensure clarity on the requirement to go around if a landing is not assured in the touchdown zone, both longitudinally and laterally. require pilots to commence a go around if the required visual reference is lost after descending below DH, DA,