When notified of the occurrence by the AAIU, the GPIAA decided to delegate the Investigation to Ireland as State of Registry and State of the Operator. The aircraft DFDR was downloaded by the Operator and a copy of the data was provided to the Investigation. The CB of the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was tripped by the aircraft commander approximately 55 minutes after landing and was successfully downloaded. Good data was available from approximately 40 minutes prior to take-off. It was established that the aircraft had been parked overnight on the ramp at Faro with a number of other Ryanair aircraft of the same type. At around 0400 hrs, a particularly violent storm affected the airport during which it was subsequently established that wind speeds up to 85 knots were recorded at one of the airport automatic weather stations. The incident aircraft was found afterwards to have jumped its chocks and pivoted nose left such that the nose landing gear had moved approximately 5 metres from its original position. The engineer responsible for checking the aircraft signed off the required Check about an hour later. No Technical Log entry was made about the exposure to extreme winds or to the fact that the aircraft had jumped its chocks and moved. The first flight of the day was not scheduled until the afternoon. The aircraft commander told the Investigation that he had been aware of the overnight storm and that during his pre-departure external inspection, he had looked carefully for any signs of damage. He advised that he had found "sand and grit in the bottom of (both) engines and some fibreglass insulation material that had blown into the back of the No. 1 engine and was located to the rear of the N1 fan". He had requested an engineer to attend the aircraft and they had agreed that he would wait for the passengers to board before removing the material. It was subsequently confirmed that this had been done. It was established that the First Officer had been designated as PF and nothing abnormal was detected during engine start and taxi out. The initial part of the take-off roll was normal but as the aircraft rotated from runway 28, the commander saw that the aircraft was drifting slightly right of the centreline (and) at the same time we had almost full left aileron deflection. The First Officer had said that the aircraft "didn’t feel right". Given the prevailing light wind (310° /15 knots had been given by TWR with the take off clearance), the commander reported that although his first thought was they had suffered an engine failure, all engine indications were normal. During the climb out, the First Officer demonstrated how the aircraft wanted to roll to the right. Some left rudder trim was set, but it was not enough to be able to engage the AP. After take off actions were completed as the initial straight-ahead part of the SID was flown. At 6nm, the required