overload protection afforded by the maximum design gust damping provided by the Main PCU" and that this had been the result of "extreme gusts impacting the rudder from the left". Although both rudder PCUs were found to be undamaged by exposure to the loads on the system during the severe weather episode, "there was physical displacement of one of the Main PCU support brackets, where the attachment bolts had all sheared". In addition, permanent deformation and gaps were found where the other support bracket was attached to the aircraft structure and these were attributed to "overload and over stress" as were "fractures of the flanges attached to the Standby PCU support bracket and the deformation of the two brackets". It was considered that the physical movement of one of the PCU mounting brackets and the damage sustained by the others are likely to have resulted in the PCUs themselves being displaced with the consequence that the rudder “neutral” position was itself shifted, trailing edge to the right as shown in the photograph below. It was noted that at the time of the occurrence, the AMM did not contain any requirement for a specific check to be carried out following an extreme high wind event such as the one which occurred. It was also noted that type certification under FAR 25.415 Amendment 25-91 dated 20 August 1990 had required that “the control system must be designed…for control surface loads due to ground gusts”. The Investigation was informed by the FAA that the effect of Grandfather Rights in respect of the 737NG design, was that the regulatory maximum design wind speed was 52 knots, although Boeing confirmed that, in fact, the type actually met the slightly higher requirement of 65 knots set in 1997. When asked by the Investigation whether consideration had been given to an increase in the FAR 25.415 wind speed above 65 knots, the FAA responded that the relevant ARAC had recommended the application of additional dynamic factors for those portions of the flight control system and surfaces that could be affected by dynamic effects rather than a blanket increase in the wind speed requirement because it was considered that the most significant contributor to damage due to ground gust was the dynamic load effect. The nature of the extreme weather event which had occurred was reviewed with the aid of a copy of a report in Portuguese provided by the GPIAA which had been prepared by the Portuguese Government Institute of Meteorology. Based on a translation of this document into English, it was found that they had concluded that: "In the early morning of October 24, 2011, Faro Airport and the adjoining built-up area, located east and northeast of same, were struck by a phenomenon called a microburst, in direct association with a supercell whose path was established over the mentioned area, advancing from southwest to northeast. The microburst must have affected the levels close to the ground more significantly, during the period between 04.01 hrs and 04.03