right turn onto north was made. Once the aircraft had completed the right turn, the addition of about eight units of left rudder trim made it possible to centralise the control column and engage the AP. Although ATC had cleared the aircraft to FL240, the crew decided to level off at FL 120 and remain in the vicinity of Faro and ATC were so advised. It was apparent that there was no applicable Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) Checklist. In the knowledge that it was at least possible that the overnight storm might have caused undetected damage and aware that aircraft control in the event of any right engine failure would require more rudder trim for directional control than remained after correcting for whatever the existing problem was, it was decided to return to Faro. This was accomplished uneventfully after a 28 minute flight and an appropriate defect entry made in the aircraft Technical Log after engine shutdown. In order to examine the aircraft rudder, engineering staff removed panels from the vertical stabiliser to gain access to the Main and Standby rudder PCUs and it was found that the support brackets for both PCUs had sustained damage with visible evidence of cracking, fracturing and displacement. Arrangements were therefore made for a more comprehensive inspection of this area to be independently supervised. This inspection found no additional damage to the rudder system hardware and no obvious external damage to either of the PCUs. They also "inspected the elevator and aileron systems and in both cases reported that they found no collateral damage or anomalies" and found no defect in the control column and rudder pedal forward stops, the stabiliser jack screw, the rudder pulleys and elevator pulleys or any of their associated control cables. The principal effect of the damage that was found was that "the overall movement of the rudder remained approximately symmetrical around the neutral point, but now displaced by about 8°, trailing edge right". This effect would have created the handling abnormality experienced by the pilots. The Inspection team also examined the nose landing gear and found that its actuators were leaking hydraulic fluid. The Operator advised that there had been no leaks prior to the extreme wind event. It was reported that several other aircraft owned by the Operator and parked on the apron overnight had jumped their chocks and moved during the storm but no associated damage was subsequently reported on any of those aircraft. It was noted that, as is usual in the case of powered flying controls, the 737 rudder system does not incorporate a gust-lock. Instead, a gust damping function is provided by the bypass valves for the main PCU which have flats machined into the valve spools so that a metered flow of hydraulic fluid can ensure gust damping is available when the aircraft is parked and the engine driven hydraulic pumps are not working. In respect of the rudder, it was concluded that "the control surface loads (had probably) significantly exceeded the