hrs UTC, and its path of destruction must have covered an approximate distance of 3 km, between the western area of Faro Airport to the city, with a variable width not exceeding 500 m…. It is evident that the supercell….core passed slightly to the northeast of the EMA (automatic weather station located on the apron) at around 1 km from it." The annotated photograph below taken from that report, shows the location of the four automatic weather stations on or in the vicinity of the apron. The blue arrowed lines represent the maximum wind vectors at the four stations annotated with UTC times. The highest maximum instantaneous wind speed recorded during the microburst was 85 knots from 219°which occurred just after 0400 Z. The vector marked 45 m/s (87.5 knots) in the upper left of the photograph is provided for scaling purposes. The location of Stand 18 where the aircraft was parked nose in to the terminal building overnight is also shown. It was apparent that the layout of the airport had meant that the apron was exposed to the weather which occurred and it was concluded that "the severe wind gusts probably impacted on the left hand side and rear of the aircraft and, as a consequence, the rudder control surface moved rapidly, trailing edge to the right." The recorded wind speeds meant that it was extremely likely that the parked aircraft "and specifically the rudder surface and control system was subjected to excessive loads due to ground wind speeds considerably greater than 65 knots". It was noted that the extreme weather had not been forecast. The wind speed in the twelve hour TAF for the airport valid from 1800Z the previous day included gusts to a maximum of 50 knots with a 30% probability and the TAF valid from 0000z included gusts to a maximum of 45 knots, again with a probability of 30%. It was determined that the Probable Cause of the incident was “undetected structural damage caused to the rudder system of EI-DPA by violent wind gusts associated with a microburst, while the aircraft was parked”. It was further determined that there were two Contributory Causes: The speed of the wind gusts (to which the aircraft was exposed whilst parked out of service) at Faro considerably exceeded the figure of 65 knots specified in FAR 25.415 Amendment 25-91.. The absence of a requirement in the AMM to comprehensively check the flight control systems of an aircraft which has been subjected to an extreme meteorological event.. Safety Action taken by Boeing subsequent to the event was noted to have consisted of the issue in October 2012 of an amendment to the Boeing 737NG AMM establishing a requirement for a specific inspection if a parked aircraft has been subjected to an “Extreme High Wind Event”. The amended text was noted to state that “examples of such events are tornadoes and microbursts” and to list as examples of evidence of such an event “situations where an aircraft has moved