When an ATS provider starts the preparation for conducting Normal Operations Safety Survey (NOSS), one of the first steps towards advancing the survey is that the management should seek and receive support from the controllers’ workforce and their representing associations and unions. Consideration should be given to the establishment of a project steering committee to oversee the preparation, implementation and follow-up of a NOSS in the organisation. The steering committee is typically comprised of the NOSS project manager, a representative from the controllers' association, a management representative and a representative from the operational environment (e.g. a supervisor). One of the tasks of the steering committee could be to plan and design the NOSS promotion campaign as part of the project management plan. The project steering committee is also the logical platform to address whether or not the organisation needs the services of an external NOSS facilitator and/or a data analyst for the NOSS project. If it is the first time that a NOSS is being conducted in the organisation, chances are that external services will be required. However for an ATS provider that has prior experience conducting a NOSS, this expertise may already be available in the organisation. The project manager is the person to elicit the support for the NOSS project from both management and the controllers' association. The project manager organises briefings for different levels of management as required, to assist in setting the organisational expectations for the NOSS project. The project manager organises the resources for the NOSS project, promotes the project within the organisation and in general acts as a troubleshooter for the duration of the project. In the data collection stage the project manager may also be responsible for rostering the observers. The project manager should be responsive to observer needs and act quickly to resolve any issues that may arise. International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) recommends that, prior to conducting NOSS, a careful designed promotion campaign will facilitate the controllers' understanding of the purpose of the survey. The NOSS project should be communicated and made transparent to the workforce.