Once the NOSS target has been selected, the next item to decide on is how many observations will be required in order to obtain a representative view of the normal operations in the target area. If too few observations are conducted, it will be difficult to be sure that the data collected are representative of operations. Important trends may be overlooked and, as a result, the information in the final report will be diluted. On the other hand, if too many observations are conducted, this can affect the motivation of the observers and the observed alike, and it will take longer for the NOSS report to be completed. In order to determine how many observations are appropriate, it is necessary to consider the scope of the NOSS. The number of working positions in the towers, approach and/or area sectors to be included in the NOSS should dictate the number of observations conducted. For example, if a NOSS is scheduled in a tower environment with one ground control position and two runway control (or air control) positions, a representative sample could be obtained by conducting 30 observations on the ground control position, and a total of another 30 observations on the two runway control positions. (Assuming that the two runway control positions are of equal complexity and workload, the observations can be divided 30-0, 15-15, or 0-30, just to give some examples, as long as the required total number is reached.) In a smaller tower with only one controller plus an assistant, a representative sample could probably be obtained by conducting 40 to 50 observations of the controller position. If a NOSS is being conducted in an ACC with five groups of sectors, 25 to 30 observations would be conducted on each group, equally distributed amongst the sectors in that group. It is to be expected that during the data collection period some observations will have to be terminated as a result of operational developments at the working position or, for other reasons, will not result in a usable observation report. Therefore the total number of scheduled observations should be 5 to 10 per cent higher than the minimum number of observations required to produce a valid NOSS project report.