During the data collection period, which to the operational staff in an ATS provider is the most visible part of a NOSS, the role of the observers is more than just that of collecting the data. Because of their proximity to the staff at the operational positions, the observers also become the “face of NOSS” in that period. Even though observers are not expected to interact with the controllers they observe, it is inevitable that some questions will be asked by the operational staff before the observation is conducted, or immediately after. Those interchanges are usually about the purpose of the observations, or the NOSS methodology in general, and may contribute significantly to the understanding and acceptance of the observation process by the workforce. It is therefore prudent to keep that aspect in mind when selecting the candidate observers for a NOSS. Attributes of suitable candidates to be selected as NOSS observers include: Professional credibility and trust;. Analytical quality;. Open-mindedness;. Motivation;. Sound judgement.. Observers who are not rated at the working position they observe usually produce better reports than observers who are rated at that position. An explanation for this may be that rated observers tend to become absorbed in the technical details at the working position more than non-rated observers do. Non-rated observers, in contrast, tend to focus more on the situation as a whole at the working position, which in essence is what a NOSS is looking for. Observers’ “Code of Conduct” There are generic guidelines that must be kept in mind when formulating rules of conducting the NOSS: The observers must be as unobtrusive as possible during observations.. The observers are not there to assess the performance of individual controllers.. The observers should not interfere with the ongoing operations unless safety is clearly about to be compromised. (This situation may be compared to an on-the-job-training situation, where the instructor has to decide to what stage a situation can develop before an intervention is necessary.) An observer should not permit a traffic situation to degrade to the point where safety is compromised. The observer should give the controller(s) a reasonable opportunity to manage and resolve the situation. If it appears however that the situation will not be resolved in time, the observer is expected to bring the situation to the attention of the controller. This action will show that NOSS observers will not let safety be jeopardized and that they will provide an additional defence for the controller while present.. If an incident should occur during a NOSS observation, conventional incident reporting mechanisms are expected to prevail. The observation will cease and the data will not be used for NOSS purposes.. If a controller declines to be observed, the observer should simply withdraw. The observer should inform the project manager at the earliest convenient point about this and, if known, provide any rationale as to why the controller may have refused. While it is not necessary for the project manager to know the identity of the controller who