exercise based on similar conditions to the investigated event found that "most of the pilots could not achieve a normal landing on the runway". It was considered that "at low altitude prior to touch....a decision to go around....has to be made by the pilot in a very short time" and is in effect an "intuitive decision". Such a decision must be made either on the basis of long term memory based on experience, procedural awareness and training or short term memory based on inclusion of the situation encountered in the approach briefing - which did not occur in this case. It was concluded that the PF decision to continue landing was most likely an indication of an absence of relevant long term memory. The observing and reporting of visibility was reviewed. It was clear that the weather experienced during touchdown was not expected by the pilots and it was not expected in the context of the weather reports issued for the airport. The weather report issued for exactly the same time as the landing being investigated gave the surface wind as 270º / 10 knots with a visibility of 4000 metres in Moderate Rain with an unspecified cloud cover of CB base 2000 feet aal and 'No Significant Weather'. The next report was issued 45 minutes later. These reports were the responsibility of the Badan Meteorologi Klimatologi dan Geofisika (BMKG), the Indonesian Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics which makes observations "every 30 minutes or if any significant change of weather occurs" which is then broadcast on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). The Conclusion of the Investigation was that "during the hand flying at approximately 90 feet agl, the aircraft bank angle was an average of 2° to the right for approximately 12 seconds which resulted in aircraft deviation to the right, after the PF lost visual reference and prolonged the flare prior to touchdown". Contributing Factors were determined as: The loss of visual reference was an indication for go around which was not executed, this might have been the result of insufficient pilot intuitive decision making to cope with such a situation.. The absence of any indication of significant weather in the weather report given to the crew might have influenced the pilot's judgment and reduced the expectation of any weather change which would require pilot decisions especially when at very low altitude.. Eight Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Garuda Indonesia should evaluate the flight crew ability when changing control the aircraft from automatic flight to hand flying especially when this occurs at the same time as one or more condition changes such as wind speeds and directions and visibility at a critical point in the flight.. that Garuda Indonesia should reinforce pilot discipline in respect of the current operations manuals in respect to the procedure that contributed to this serious incident as discussed in the chapter 2 analysis section of this report.. that Garuda Indonesia should enrich long term