An Investigation was carried out by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC). The FDR and 2-hour CVR were successfully downloaded and a detailed analysis of the final part of the flight was therefore possible. It was noted that the 63 year-old Captain had accumulated approximately one third of his 25,594 flying hours on the aircraft type involved and that the 24 year-old First Officer similarly had accumulated almost a third of his 2671 flying hours on the type. It was established that after commencing an auto-ILS approach to Runway 25L at Jakarta, the Commander, as PF, had made an ATC-approved deviation to the right between 3000 feet and 2000 feet in order to avoid Cumulonimbus (Cb) (CB) cloud after which the aircraft was re-established normally on the ILS. Recorded data showed that at an altitude of 184 feet (equivalent to 150 feet aal), the wind direction had changed from westerly to southerly and the wind speed had then begun to increase from 4 knots to reach 24 knots by the time the aircraft touched down. The AP was disengaged at 124 feet agl with the aircraft on the ILS LOC but soon afterwards, both pilots reported that the aircraft had suddenly entered heavy rain. This had mainly affected forward visibility through the left windshield and had resulted in the PF losing visual reference. FDR data showed that the aircraft had begun to drift to the right from 90 feet agl. The First Officer stated that "he was able to see the runway all the time and observed that the aircraft was slightly on the right of the runway". This awareness of the relative position of the runway surface had prompted him to make two "fly left" calls round about the time of the automated FWC callout of "TWENTY". Having completely lost forward visibility, the PF reported having felt that the aircraft had floated slightly and this was confirmed by FDR data. The aircraft touched down with the right main landing gear on the grass, travelled for 500 metres then regained the runway before entering an exit and stopping. Damage sustained to the right side hydraulics meant it was not possible to taxi safely so a tow-in to the parking gate was arranged. Damage caused to the aircraft by the excursion was subsequently found to be limited to a hydraulic leak on the right landing gear actuator and cuts to one of the tyres on the right main landing gear. It was noted that the 3600 metre-long Runway 25L was 60 metres wide. The decision of the Commander to continue to land rather than go around when visibility was suddenly lost and the absence of a go around call at that point from the First Officer, were considered. It was concluded that the situation encountered - the de-stabilisation of the approach with touchdown imminent - was within the requirements for a go around in both the Garuda 'Basic Operation Manual' (BOM) and the A330 FCOM. Inclusion of a recurrent training