An Investigation in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 was initially commenced by the Zimbabwe Civil Aviation Authority (CAAZ) but on 21 February 2020, responsibility for completing the Investigation was delegated by the CAAZ to the Dutch Safety Board. Relevant QAR data was available. The Fowler Flaps failure was found by examination of the recovered inboard section to show that detachment had followed failure of the outer foreflap fitting lug and that the failed component was showing signs of fatigue and overload failure - see the first illustration below. However, when the broken fitting lug was subjected to a metallurgical failure analysis, it was found that the two fracture surfaces differed in that one was the initial fatigue fracture and the other was the consequential overload fracture - see the second illustration below. Whilst it was the second (overload) fracture which had then led to part of the flap assembly departing the wing, it was not possible to deduce the interval between the two failures. The damaged parts of the right wing inboard foreflap. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The broken flap fitting lug showing the two fracture surfaces. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Examination of the inner surface of the failed lug found evidence of a highly pitted surface area from which the fatigue fracture would have originated by reducing its functional area and thus tensile strength. In the opinion of the organisation which carried out this metallurgical analysis, the pitting on the inside surface of the outboard fitting lug was of corrosive origin and probably caused by moisture accumulating in the space between the lug inner surface and the outer surface of the bearing around which it had been installed. Since this type of corrosion takes a long time to develop, it was highly likely that it had already been present well before the failure occurred. Maintenance documentation showed that as the fitting had been in service for 16 years, it would have had plenty of time to degrade. Unfortunately when, during a ‘D’ Check carried out by an MRO one year prior to the failure, the bearing contained by subsequently failed lug was found migrated, it was replaced without any evidence that an attempt had been made to find the cause of the bearing migration nor to confirm that the fitting lug was still within technical specifications. The maintenance worksheet raised by the MRO involved quoted the applicable Standard Overhaul Practice Manual procedure as having been used to replace the bearing but made no reference to compliance with instructions to “visually inspect parts of the foreflap fitting and bearing for defects and if needed, to use additional inspection methods to further investigate anomalies provided in the CMM". It was also found that there was an applicable SB 747-27-2366 (Rev 3) which required a periodic inspection (recommended every six months although carried out by KLM Engineering every 7/8 months) of the inboard foreflap outboard fitting lug (the one which failed) for bearing migration. However, since the lug internal surface