procedures correctly regarding the following: inform the flight crew beforehand when radar vectors can be expected for the approach; intercepting an ILS glide path should be executed from below in accordance with published procedures; active monitoring of the aircraft flight path during vectoring; transfer of aircraft from Arrival Control to Tower Control without confirmation that the aircraft is established on the ILS or without coordination.. inform the flight crew beforehand when radar vectors can be expected for the approach;. intercepting an ILS glide path should be executed from below in accordance with published procedures;. active monitoring of the aircraft flight path during vectoring;. transfer of aircraft from Arrival Control to Tower Control without confirmation that the aircraft is established on the ILS or without coordination.. The Flight Crew did not take into account the influence of the upper winds. In combination with the aircraft’s high vertical profile and high speed in relation to the runway distance, a landing in accordance with standard operating procedures became impossible. The flight crew did not challenge air traffic control and postponed the decision to make a go-around. It is likely that the crew’s high level of confidence in the very reliable automation in the cockpit contributed to this.. The Flight Crew did not have proper guidance procedures to avoid false glide slope capture in relation to the distance to the runway threshold (during an autopilot coupled ILS glide slope approach from above, under instrument meteorological conditions).. The Flight Crew initiated the actions for the stall recovery manoeuvre according to the Boeing FCTM. A second stick shaker warning occurred after the control column was relaxed and the crew again correctly initiated the stall recovery manoeuvre.. During an autopilot coupled ILS approach the aircraft, flying at an altitude above the normal 3 degree glide slope followed the fly-up signal after crossing the 9 degrees false glide slope. This resulted in a nose high position of the aircraft causing the stick shaker warning to occur.. The Boeing 737NG Flight Crew Training Manual did not warn of possible false glide slope capture with a pitch-up upset during an autopilot coupled ILS approach. This resulted in an ‘automation surprise’ for the flight crew.. The Eindhoven occurrence was initially reported (to) and assessed by Ryanair as a minor event which did not warrant CVR and FDR retention.. Safety Action taken or notified as intended as a result of the investigated event was noted as including the following: The Dutch Safety Board decided to concurrently conduct a more general review of pitch up upsets due to ILS false glideslope and published a separate report on the subject on the same date as the Report on the investigated Serious Incident at Eindhoven.. Ryanair has introduced a new horizontal landing gate for ILS interception from above which is specified as "the earliest of the following: the FAF, 5 DME, and 4nm in VMC operations / 5nm in IMC". Ryanair has also advised that it intends to implement the VSD modification on its 737