stabilised approach gate in IMC was 1000 feet aal which if not met required that a go around be flown anyway. As the aircraft reached 1000 feet aal, approximately 1nm from the runway and around 600 feet above the ILS GS, configured for a flap 40 landing, the GS indicator was observed by the crew to 'come alive' and go to full 'fly up'. The Captain advised the First Officer that "it was probably a false glideslope and called for a go around" but the AP remained engaged. Two seconds later, after the aircraft pitch had changed rapidly from 0.5ยบ down to 24ยบ up and the A/T increased thrust from 30% to 90% in order to maintain the selected airspeed - 135 KIAS - the stick shaker activated. At almost the same time, the First Officer pushed the TOGA button once and the AP was disconnected. As the pitch reached 26.5 degrees nose up, the crew intervened. Airspeed had already rapidly reduced and reached a minimum of 97.5 KCAS two seconds later with the aircraft at 1267 feet QNH and 0.65 nm from the runway threshold. The First Officer continued with the stall recovery manoeuvre and after a further two seconds, stick shaker stopped for one second before restarting. At this point "the Captain helped the First Officer to reduce the AoA in order to regain airspeed resulting in the warning ceasing after (a further) three seconds". The speed was 103 KCAS and increasing and "the crew finished the stall recovery procedure and initiated a climb to 2000 feet to make a second attempt for landing". The aircraft was cleaned up and TWR were informed that a go around was being flown. Radar vectors to a second uneventful approach and landing followed. It was noted that whilst the crew was aware as they commenced base leg that they were above the vertical profile and aware of "the need to increase the descent rate in order to capture the 3 degree glide slope signal, their predictions (flight path management) about where the 3 degree glide slope signal would be intercepted were incorrect and unrealistic". Crew action to achieve the necessary descent were wholly ineffective. It was concluded that "only a different routing or extensive additional use of speed brakes during the intermediate and base leg of the approach would have significantly improved the descent profile at the start of the final approach". The Investigation noted that both prior to and following ILS LOC capture, the following indications were available to the crew to support situational awareness: The glide scope scale and pointer had been showing full scale fly down deflection throughout the approach until approximately 1.5 nm DME.. The glide scope scale and pointer was not moving down from full scale fly up as it normally would when approaching the 3 degree glide slope from below.. The altitude versus DME distance relationship was significantly different to that which would be seen on a normal ILS approach.. It was concluded that once