the aircraft was on final approach, the crew should have been immediately able to appreciate that "a safe landing was impossible from their position" based on altitude versus distance to the runway and "a go around should have been initiated". It was specifically observed that the FCTM provides explicit guidance on how to intercept an ILS GS from above if this becomes necessary and concluded that "if the crew had better performed the crosschecks recommended in the Boeing FCTM, it would have been clear to them that a safe landing was impossible from their position". The Investigation considered that the upset, which had subsequently occurred, could be described as a case of "automation surprise". It was concluded that "the high level of reliable automation in the cockpit can degrade pilot’s basic flying skills for flight path management". It was noted that the Full Flight Simulators (FFS) available for pilot training were not programmed to pitch up to a false glideslope in the way that the aircraft had (predictably) done. It was also noted that although none of the Operator's aircraft had been fitted with a Vertical Situation Display (VSD) at the time of the investigated event, such a display was available as a retrofit and would have been likely to enhance situational awareness. In respect of ATC, the Investigation found that TWR had no information or awareness of winds aloft and concluded that, given the surface crosswind affecting the only runway at Eindhoven, "the controller did not take into account the influence of the upper wind when deciding on the runway in use" It also found in respect of the APP radar service provided on the 'Arrival Control' control frequency that: the use of radar vectors to guide aircraft to Eindhoven Airport which did not follow the standard published approach was common practice at the time of the occurrence.. the controller did not inform the flight crew that the impending radar vectoring would take the aircraft off the previously assigned route.. the controller had no information regarding the winds at altitude and when the aircraft deviated from the planned track, the controller did not make any heading corrections and persisted in conducting the approach as planned.. the aircraft was handed over to TWR without coordination despite the fact the aircraft was not fully established on the approach.. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: Eindhoven Tower Control, when deciding on the runway in use, did not have information available regarding the upper winds and thus did not take into consideration these winds in the IFR traffic pattern. The choice of landing runway resulted in the aircraft drifting on base leg and encountering a tailwind on final that influenced the rate of descent.. Eindhoven Arrival Control had no information about the upper winds. The controller did not take into account the influence of these winds when giving radar guided approaches. This resulted in a line-up too short for the final approach.. Eindhoven Arrival Control did not follow the