An Investigation was carried out by the Dutch Safety Board. The event was not correctly reported by ATC or by the crew to their Operator and this delayed commencement of the Investigation, until Ryanair reported it after becoming aware as the result of a routine review of QAR data 4 days later. The relevant FDR and 2 hour CVR data from the incident aircraft were both overwritten but the full QAR data was still available and was provided by the Operator upon request. It was noted that both pilots were Spanish nationals whose main experience had been gained on the 737. The Captain had 4260 hours total flying experience which included 3700 hours on the 737 and the First Officer had 670 hours total flying experience which included 410 hours on the 737. A trainee pilot undergoing initial type rating training was occupying the supernumerary flight deck seat in order to observe the flight as 'air experience' but he performed no functions in connection with the operation of the aircraft. Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) prevailed during the incident approach with a reported cloud base of 300 feet aal and the surface wind was a light north westerly. The upper wind between 2000 and 3000 feet agl, which would have been displayed to the crew, was subsequently estimated to have been from 010ยบ at 30 knots. It was established that the First Officer had been PF and that military control which provides ATS at Eindhoven had issued their normal left hand base leg radar heading towards the runway 21 ILS LOC and issued a standard descent clearance to achieve a 6 nm capture at 2000 feet. However they had no information about the upper wind and all the earlier arrivals had self-positioned to the ILS so they had been unable to deduce its effect and make allowance for it. At the beginning of this base leg (annotated [1] on the recreated vertical profile and track shown in the two diagrams below), the aircraft was descending at 500 fpm but was above the vertical profile which would allow a 3ยบ descent. The crew failed to correct this as speed was reduced and, coupled with the wind (010ยบ /30 knots effect), remained high as the likely LOC closure range reduced. The aircraft was given a closing heading of 250ยบ at point [2] on the diagram before becoming established on the ILS LOC at approximately 4nm DME - point [3] on the diagram - still well above the ILS GS - and about 2nm closer to the runway than the no wind condition assumed by ATC would have produced. Once on final, with the AP and A/T still engaged and APP mode selected and with a tailwind component present, TWR cleared the aircraft to land. At that point, the Captain "informed the First Officer that it was very unlikely (that) a successful landing would be possible and they should prepare to make a go around". It was noted by the Investigation that the Operator's