Where turns are carried out in order to make good the chosen landing area, the aim should always be for the helicopter to be lined up with the landing area by no later than 300 ft agl in steady autorotation, at the recommended IAS (which will normally be a few knots higher than the minimum rate of descent IAS in order to maximize the benefits of the flare, discussed below). At a suitable height (typically between 40 and 100 ft depending on helicopter type) airspeed is reduced to a comfortable speed for a run-on landing using a decelerative, nose-up flare attitude. The flare has the benefit both of reducing forward speed and increasing RRPM during the flare, which will increase the stored energy in the rotor: necessary to cushion the touchdown. The additional lift created during the flare reduces the rate of descent. The speed at touchdown and the resulting ground run depends on the rate and amount of flare. The greater the degree of flare and the longer it is held, the slower the touchdown speed and the shorter the ground run. The slower the speed desired at touchdown, the more accurate the timing and speed of the flare must be, especially in helicopters with low inertia rotor systems. Since the flare will normally increase RRPM, the pilot may (except in helicopters with low-inertia rotor systems) raise the collective lever slightly at the end of the flare. (The small increase in collective pitch is often known as a ‘check’.) This will have the effect of using some of the additional RRPM to give some extra rotor thrust, which will both decrease rate of descent and provide more deceleration, since the rotor thrust is acting opposite to the direction of forward movement. The flared attitude cannot be held until touchdown, otherwise the tail of the helicopter will strike the ground first. Thus once the flare has been completed, the pilot must re-select a level pitch attitude using the cyclic stick prior to touchdown. In the latter stages of the EOL, the helicopter is in the level attitude, with a relatively low forward airspeed, and with only the remaining inertia in the rotor to assist the pilot in making a gentle touchdown. The pilot will have to raise the collective lever to use some or all of the remaining lift energy in the rotor system to cushion the touchdown. It is essential that the cyclic and pedals are co-ordinated throughout the flare and touchdown, so that the helicopter touches down running straight. After touch-down the cyclic and collective lever should not be moved until the landing run is complete and the helicopter comes to a stop. However, the yaw pedals should be used, if necessary, to ensure the ground-roll remains straight.