The European Union’s initial drone-identification regulations, which began to take effect in April 2019, introduced Direct Remote Identification requirements. If a UAS falls under these requirements and already has the specified built-in Direct Remote Identification broadcast function, that satisfies EASA. Otherwise, the operator must provide an equivalent add-on module that: “Allows the upload of the UAS operator registration number in accordance with Article 14 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/947 and any additional number provided by the registration system. The system shall perform a consistency check verifying the integrity of the full [data] string provided to the UAS operator at the time of registration. In case of inconsistency, the system shall emit an error message to the UAS operator;. Ensures, in real time during the whole duration of the flight, the direct periodic broadcast from the UA using an open and documented transmission protocol, of the following message elements, in a way that it can be received directly by existing mobile devices within the broadcasting range of at least the following data: the UAS operator registration number and the verification code provided by the Member State of registration during the registration process unless the consistency check [noted above] is not passed; the unique serial number of the add-on module compliant with standard ANSI/CTA-2063-A-2019, “Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Serial Numbers, 2019,” affixed to the add-on and its packaging or its manufacturer’s instructions in a legible manner; the time stamp, the geographical position of the UA and its height above the surface or take-off point; the route course measured clockwise from true north and ground speed of the UA; and, the geographical position of the remote pilot or, if not available, the take-off point.. the UAS operator registration number and the verification code provided by the Member State of registration during the registration process unless the consistency check [noted above] is not passed;. the unique serial number of the add-on module compliant with standard ANSI/CTA-2063-A-2019, “Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Serial Numbers, 2019,” affixed to the add-on and its packaging or its manufacturer’s instructions in a legible manner;. the time stamp, the geographical position of the UA and its height above the surface or take-off point;. the route course measured clockwise from true north and ground speed of the UA; and,. the geographical position of the remote pilot or, if not available, the take-off point.. Reduces the UA operator’s ability to tamper with the functionality of the direct remote identification system; and,. The add-on module will be placed on the market with manufacturer’s instructions providing the reference of the transmission protocol used for the direct remote identification emission and providing instructions to install the module on the UA and to upload the UAS operator’s registration number.”.