Following the events of 11 September 2001 (now commonly referred to as “9-11”), when terrorists seized control of 4 airborne aircraft over the United States and demonstrated a new potential consequence of aircraft hijacking, the air transport industry, regulators and airlines in particular have instituted a range of physical and procedural defences to deter and prevent such acts. For larger aeroplanes, regulatory changes followed. With effect from 1 November 2003, ICAO Annex 6 was amended so that under Chapter 13.2.2 “all passenger-carrying aeroplanes of a maximum certificated take-off mass in excess of 45 500 kg or with a passenger seating capacity greater than 60 shall be equipped with an approved flight crew compartment door that is designed to resist penetration by small arms fire and grenade shrapnel, and to resist forcible intrusions by unauthorised persons. This door shall be capable of being locked and unlocked from either pilot’s station”. Whereas the armoured and locked flight deck door was extremely successful in mitigating the risk of hijack and preventing a repeat of a 9/11-type event, the accident of the Germanwings flight 4U9525 highlighted the potential for a pilot to exclude other crew members from the flight deck and interfere with the safe progress of the flight. Therefore, on 27 March 2015, based on the information that was available at the time and pending the outcome of the technical investigation conducted by the French Bureau d’Enquetes et d’Analyses (BEA), EASA issued a Safety Information Bulletin (SIB 2015-04) for airlines to: “re-assess the safety and security risks associated with flight crew members leaving the flight crew compartment due to operational or physiological needs during non-critical phases of flight. Based on this assessment, operators are recommended to implement procedures requiring at least two persons authorised in accordance with CAT.GEN.MPA.135 to be in the flight crew compartment at all times, or other equivalent mitigating measures to address risks identified by the operator’s revised assessment. Any additional risks stemming from the introduction of such procedures or measures should be assessed and mitigated.” Prior to the Gernmanwings 4U9525 accident, some states had required at least two crew members should remain on the flight deck at all times during the operation of the flight, principally to ensure flight deck access would be possible if a lone pilot became incapacitated; after the Germanwings 4U9525 the requirement became generally accepted internationally to additionally mitigate the risk of a lone pilot taking sole charge of the flight. Subsequently, there have been proposals to always have two pilots on the flight deck but most airlines/regulators have not adopted this practice. Design solutions incorporating rest and relief facilities forward of the secure door would also allow all flight deck crew to remain within the flight deck area. Editor's Note: This article is intended to specifically highlight the operational flight safety issues associated with flight deck security and does not cover specific procedures, protocols and operational aspects of the overall security system.