Communications protocols. Cabin crew should avoid routinely contacting the flight deck during times when they are likely to be occupied with a high workload. Most airlines use a signalling system for the flight crew to indicate to their cabin crew that it is safe to commence cabin service after take off. In some airlines, subject to this call being received, the cabin crew make no intercom calls to the flight deck until top of climb, when they will make a courtesy call to confirm that the pilots are not incapacitated. More commonly, a maximum time interval is set between intercom calls from the cabin crew to the flight deck which applies throughout the en route phase of the flight and is typically 20 to 30 minutes. In the event of an emergency, the senior cabin crew member will normally take personal responsibilty for liaison with the flight crew who may be especially in need of intercom reports of conditions in the passenger cabin in order to decide on the appropriate crew response.. Emergency Flight Deck Access from the Cabin. Most flight deck doors can be unlocked from the cabin in an emergency. Such systems usually have safeguards built in to allow those on the flight deck to prevent such access, for example by building in delays between selection of external unlock and actual door lock release to allow flight crew, if not incapacitated, to override the selected lock release.. Double Door system. A few aircraft types have an "air lock" type door system, with 2 doors and a toilet in between. The airlock system ensures that there is never an open door to the flight deck. However, such systems take up space and normally are only found on some larger aircraft.. Door Construction. Strong, lightweight, composite materials often provide the required security with minimal increase in weight, which makes the door no more difficult to operate once unlocked than a non-security door.. CRM. The ‘locked flight deck door’ presents a physical barrier to crew communication and coordination between flight deck and cabin crewmembers. This makes a crew briefing for at least the Senior Cabin Crew Member at the start of duty even more important; where arrangements permit, this should occur at the crew briefing facility. Crew should also make the most of any incidental time, such as on a shared crew bus, as a means to get to know each other. While there will be no requirement for pilots to carry out a pre flight cabin inspection on a passenger aircraft in service unless the aircraft is so small as not to require cabin crew to be carried, if circumstances make it practicable, it can be beneficial for one of the pilots to make a point of walking down to the back of the aircraft to briefly re-establish personal contact with all the cabin crew team before passengers board.. The Germanwings flight 4U9525 accident indicated the need to ensure that 2 members of the operating crew are present on the