Previous studies performed in the area of ramp handling reveal that the target group considers personal factors (time pressure, stress, fatigue, peer pressure and motivation) and communication important factors in accident and incident causation during the aircraft turnaround. To address these issues in such a way that GSP and individual workers gain the maximum benefit, the syllabus has been designed in modules; each module covering a different subject: Module 1: Turnaround process Turnaround processes Type and role of actors Dependencies Risk awareness Pressures on the process. Turnaround processes. Type and role of actors. Dependencies. Risk awareness. Pressures on the process. Module 2: Safety regulations Airlines/Airports Security Ground Service Providers. Airlines/Airports. Security. Ground Service Providers. Module 3: Teamwork Team Dynamics Leadership Communication Cultural, ethnic and educational difference Team situational awareness. Team Dynamics. Leadership. Communication. Cultural, ethnic and educational difference. Team situational awareness. Module 4: Threat and Error Management Threat identification Threat management Error Error management. Threat identification. Threat management. Error. Error management. Module 5: Human performance and limitations Time pressure Stress Fatigue Alcohol, medicines and drugs. Time pressure. Stress. Fatigue. Alcohol, medicines and drugs. The modules can be used separately. However, because all subjects are related and sometimes overlap it is recommended to use the syllabus completely. Also, RRM training aims at providing trainees with insight and changing attitudes towards safety. It is very difficult to achieve this through, for example, a one-hour course. Therefore it is recommended to provide at least four-hours training, which is the designed duration of the RRM syllabus. Of course, content can be changed or added where local situations require this. The RRM training syllabus provides guidance material only and can be adapted to the users’ needs, dependent on the organisation’s size, needs, local circumstances and resources available. To make the RRM training accessible and comprehensible to all personnel, the training contents should be translated to the local language. Following the introduction of the concept of RRM training, the following prerequisites were indicated by GSP. The RRM training has to be: Closely related to the operational environment;. As much as possible integrated in current (human factors) training;. Scheduled outside peak hours;. Highly practical and realistic..