The release procedure is used to authorize the controller of the receiving (downstream) unit (or sector) to control an aircraft that is not within their area of responsibility (AoR). Note that normally, even if communication is transferred before the transfer of control point and therefore the receiving controller is able to issue instructions to the aircraft, they are prohibited by procedure to do so. Release is used in a variety of situations, e.g.: A flight crew makes a request but the aircraft position is 2-3 minutes before the boundary. If upstream controllers consider that accommodating the request would not cause problems in their sector they may prefer to transfer the aircraft to the next sector (or unit) and release it instead of coordinating a last minute change. The use of the release procedure saves time for the sending controller and provides the receiving controller the option to expedite accommodating the request.. A flight crew makes a request shortly after checking in on the frequency while still outside of the controller's AoR. The receiving controller can either wait for the aircraft to cross the boundary or initiate a release procedure. The release procedure enables the controllers to expedite the accommodation of the request.. There is a conflict in the receiving controller's airspace shortly after the boundary. The receiving controller can either ask the sending controller to issue appropriate instructions to the aircraft before crossing the boundary or they can ask for the aircraft to be transferred earlier and released. The benefit of using the release procedure is that the total workload is less (only clearance is given as opposed to coordination between units/sectors and then a clearance) and it is distributed "better", i.e. the clearance is given by the controller, responsible for solving the conflict. Also, the possibility for misunderstanding is reduced. Last but not least, all potentially conflicting aircraft are on the same frequency which is generally a safer situation..