freezing after taxing/take-off/landing with frozen deposits present on the surface. Flight Crew compliance with procedures. The weather conditions at Pamplona corresponded to those covered in both the aircraft manufacturer’s and aircraft operator’s procedures for cold weather and contaminated runway operations but the crew were apparently unfamiliar with them. Had they been familiar with them, they would have realised that they were unable to depart because of restrictions at the airport (short taxi distance and mountainous terrain). Adequate aerodrome response to winter operations. The Pamplona Airport Winter Operations Plan was not properly followed. There were deficiencies in the application of its procedures as well as in the training provided to RFFS personnel required to measure movement area contaminants and clear accumulations of frozen deposits. The Investigation was not made aware of a satisfactory resolution to this situation. The primary Cause of the event was formally stated as follows: "Part of the slush encountered while taxiing and during the subsequent take-off run is thought to have made its way into the landing gear bays, adhering to the components there. When the gear was retracted, wheels number 1 and 4 were in a lower position and thus more exposed to low temperatures during the ﬂight. As a result, the slush deposited on the gear could have fallen due to gravity to the brake assemblies before freezing in place." Two Contributory Factors were also identified: Improper snow clearing operations at Pamplona Airport, which resulted in the presence of slush on the apron and cordons of snow both on the taxiway and on the runway.. The improper conduct of the crew if taking off from a contaminated runway, namely: heat the brakes; delay gear retraction to facilitate the detachment of the contaminant; make a positive landing at the destination to detach any remaining frozen contaminant.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Bombardier should explicitly state in its procedures the drawbacks posed by the porosity of carbon brakes, their ability to absorb moisture and the potential for brake assemblies to freeze so as to make this information known to affected personnel. [73-16]. that Air Nostrum should explicitly include in its training material the drawbacks posed by the porosity of carbon brakes, their ability to absorb moisture and the potential for brake assemblies to freeze so as to make this information known to affected personnel. [74-16]. that Air Nostrum should evaluate the characteristics of Pamplona Airport to ensure it complies with its procedural requirements (Cold Weather Operations and/or Contaminated Runway Operations) and consider whether there is a need to write a special procedure for this airport. [75-16]. that Pamplona Airport should take the measures necessary to provide the speciﬁc training needed by RFFS personnel that are involved in both measuring contaminant depth and the coefficient of friction and in clearing the movement area. [76-16]. that Pamplona Airport should revise the procedures in its Winter Operations Plan to specify the tasks involved in measuring contaminants and removing them from the