An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the DFDR but relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that the 53 year-old Captain, who had been PF was a Spanish national who had accumulated a total of 12,916 flying hours which included 8,263 hours on the Challenger 650 Business Jet from which the CRJ series is derived. The 35 year-old First Officer was also a Spanish national and had accumulated a total of 6,636 flying hours which included 5,253 hours on the Challenger 650 Business Jet. It was established that when the aircraft had arrived at Pamplona the previous evening for a nightstop, a considerable amount of snow had been observed on the main landing gear. It was reported that most of this had been removed manually and any that remained in difficult to reach areas "melted over the course of the night" during which it continued to snow. The next morning, it was still snowing. The flight crew stated that when they arrived at the airport, it was still closed and the only weather information they had received pre flight was a "TAFOR" which included the likelihood of showers or longer periods of sleet or rain with the possibility of thunderstorms throughout the morning and METAR timed 2 hours prior to their ETD. The Meteorological Office at the airport reported that at about the time that the airport opened it had started snowing again and records showed that between then and the time the flight had taken off 45 minutes later, moderate snow had prevailed for much of the time. The manoeuvring area was reported by the crew to have been covered with "snow mixed with ice pellets" with airport snow-clearing vehicles "working to clear the runway, but not the apron". The runway could be seen through the build-up of slush, although there was enough of it present for vehicles to leave tracks in it. They "did not see any build-up of snow on the aircraft" but it was de-iced with Type 1 fluid (the only type available at Pamplona) once the snow ceased temporarily. The route from the apron to the runway was approximately 300 metres and once the aircraft had been de-iced, the aircraft started taxiing slowly to the runway 33 threshold. This took about ﬁve minutes in a surface temperature of +1°C. After take-off, icing conditions were present and at 1,500 feet aal, the aircraft entered cloud. The crew reported that "they had not delayed retracting the gear because they were penetrating the clouds and they thought it dangerous due to the terrain around the airport". It was noted that Air Nostrum did not have a speciﬁc procedure for operating at Pamplona in contaminated runway conditions and that there were also "operational limits on delaying gear retraction". The flight to Madrid was uneventful but on touchdown on runway 32L at Madrid, the