Regulation (EC) 965/2012 of the European Commission lays down detailed rules for commercial air transport operations with aeroplanes and helicopters, including ramp inspections of aircraft of operators under the safety oversight of another State when landed at aerodromes located in the territory subject to the provisions of the Treaty. This new regulation, which is generally known as IR-OPS (Implementing Rules – Operations), replaces EU-OPS (Regulation (EC) 859/2008). IR-OPS came in to force on 28 October 2012.The deadline for establishing compliance with annexes I-V of the Regulation was 28 October 2014. The deadlines for establishing compliance with annexes VI to VII of commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012, as later amended by commission Regulation (EU) No 800/2013 of 14 August 2013, are 25 August 2016 (non-commercial operations) and 21 April 2017 (specialised operations). IR-OPS covers all ‘Air Operations’ and has four sub parts as follows: Part OPS.ARO - Authority Requirements for Air Operations - establishes requirements for the administration and management systems to be fulfilled by the Agency and Member States for the implementation and enforcement of IR-OPS.. Part OPS.ORO - Organisation Requirements for Air Operations - establishes requirements to be followed by an air operator conducting commercial air transport operations. Part OPS.CAT - Commercial Air Transport Operations - contains general requirements for commercial air transport operations, including Operating Procedures, Aircraft Performance, Mass and Balance, instruments and equipment requirements, etc.. Part OPS.SPA - Specific Approvals - contains requirements for specific approvals, such as Performance-based Navigation, Minimum Navigation Performance (MNPS), Reduced Vertical Separation Minima (RVSM), Low Visibility Operations (LVO), Extended Range Twin Engine Operations (ETOPS), Transport of Dangerous Goods (DG), and certain specified helicopter operations.. Part OPS.NCC - Non-Commercial Air Operations with Complex Motor-Powered Aircraft - establishes operational requirements for air operators conducting non-specialised non-commercial air operations with complex motor-powered aircraft, including general requirements (GEN), operational procedures (OP), aircraft performance and operating limitations (POL), instruments, data and equipment (IDE).. Part OPS.NCO - Non-Commercial Air Operations with Other-Than-Complex Motor-Powered Aircraft - establishes operational requirements for operators conducting non-commercial air operations with other-than-complex motor-powered aircraft (specialised and non-specialised). These include general requirements (GEN), operational procedures (OP), aircraft performance and operating limitations (POL), instruments, data and equipment (IDE); and specific requirements (SPEC) such as helicopter external sling load operations (HESLO), human external cargo operations (HEC), parachute operations (PAR), aerobatic flights (ABF).. Part OPS.SPO - Specialised Operations - establishes operational requirements for air operators conducting specialised operations (excluding specialised non-commercial operations with other-than-complex motor-powered aircraft) including general requirements (GEN), operational procedures (OP), aircraft performance and operating limitations (POL), instruments, data and equipment (IDE), including requirements for sailplanes and balloons; and specific requirements (SPEC) such as helicopter external sling load operations (HESLO), human external cargo operations (HEC), parachute operations (PAR), aerobatic flights (ABF)..