An Investigation has been commenced by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB). The Combined Voice and Flight Data Recorder (CVFDR) installed in the helicopter has been recovered and the wreckage has been transported to AAIB facilities in preparation for detailed examination. It was established that three minutes after engine start, the helicopter had lifted off from the centre of the football pitch, yawed 15° left and then moved forward a few metres before beginning to climb on a planned rearward flight path whilst maintaining a northerly heading. Gear retraction began as the helicopter passed approximately 320 feet agl, but the climb then paused. Heading changes, which were initially consistent with the direction of pedal movements, occurred but the helicopter then entered an increasing yaw to the right which was contrary to a left pedal input made by the pilot. After reaching approximately 430 feet agl, the helicopter began to descend with a high rotation rate and struck open ground in an essentially upright position, with the landing gear fully retracted, before rolling onto its left side and rapidly becoming engulfed in an intense post-impact fire. Bystanders and emergency services personnel reached the scene quickly, but were unable to gain access to the helicopter because of the intensity of the fire. The fire caused substantial damage to the predominantly composite structure of the helicopter, with several sections of the airframe being almost completely consumed by the fire and large parts of the remaining fuselage suffering a “significant loss of structural integrity”. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions included good visibility and the flight path was clear of cloud. A generally north-westerly wind of 10 to 12 knots was present at the surface and the 1000-foot wind was estimated to have been around 25 to 30 knots from a similar direction. A preliminary inspection of the tail rotor control mechanism at the crash site identified that the tail rotor actuator control shaft was not connected to the lever in the tail rotor servo actuator which transmits the commands from the yaw pedals used by the pilot to the tail rotor. It was noted that correct assembly of the tail rotor control system involves the actuator being attached to the hydraulic servo control shaft of the tail rotor by a connecting pin and pin carrier, the latter being secured to the shaft by a castellated locking nut which screws into a threaded section of the shaft. The locking nut is tightened to a specified torque and a split pin is then fitted between the castellations of the nut and through a hole in the shaft and wire locked in place. This is illustrated below. A subsequent examination of the assembly in the wreckage found that the split pin, spacers and one of the locating bearings were missing from the input lever. The locking nut and pin carrier were found loose in the tail rotor fairing and were bonded together when they should have been separate components. The castellated nut threads