appeared to be undamaged, but there was no sign of the split pin and the control shaft threaded section had moved inside the outer shaft and was no longer visible. The control shaft, locking nut and pin carrier and adjacent parts of the assembly were then removed from the wreckage to permit a detailed inspection. It was found that the locking nut on the bearing end of the control shaft had been torque loaded to a significantly greater extent than that specified. The inner races of the bearing could only be rotated by hand a few degrees in either direction and (see the illustration below) there was a build-up of black grease inside the slider unit around the inboard face of the duplex bearing with the part of the control shaft adjacent to this bearing face showing signs of burnt-on grease and discolouration along its length. CT scanning of the removed parts of the assembly showed that: the nut and pin carrier were friction welded together. the threaded portion of the control shaft at the actuator end was inside the outer shaft and contained the remains of the split pin.. the top and bottom of the split pin had been sheared off during rotation of the shaft. Fractures to the bearing cages and significant damage to the surface of the inner bearing races was also visible on the scan, with the damage being worse on the inboard bearing race where there was also evidence of sub-surface damage. There was also evidence of debris accumulation in the bearing raceways. The effect of the disconnection was to prevent the feedback mechanism for the tail rotor servo actuator from operating so that movement of the actuator stopped when the yaw control input made by the pilot has been satisfied. This rendered the yaw stops ineffective and allowed the tail rotor actuator to continue changing the pitch of the tail rotor blades until they reached the physical limit of their travel thereby creating an uncontrollable right yaw. It was concluded that “sufficient force and torque had been applied to the castellated nut on the actuator end of the control shaft to friction weld it to the pin carrier and to shear the installed split pin”. It was further concluded that the observed condition of the duplex bearing and the increased torque load on the castellated nut that remained on the end of the shaft was consistent with rotation of the tail rotor actuator control shaft, which when a yaw control input occurred whilst rotation was taking place led to the shaft ‘unscrewing’ from the nut. This action disconnected the shaft from the actuator lever mechanism and caused the nut to become welded to the pin carrier. The ongoing Investigation is seeking to identify what initiated the failure that resulted in the loss of tail rotor control and the exact sequence of it as a priority. Work is also continuing to determine what caused the damage found to the duplex bearing and establish the extent