An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the aircraft Flight Data Recorder (FDR) but data on the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been overwritten when the CB was not tripped and the aircraft departed on the intended flight shortly after the rejected take off. The R/T and ATC ground telephone recordings were also available. It was found that at the time of the occurrence, runway 30 was being reported as having a cleared for width of 55 metres of which 80% was "bare and wet", 10% "wet snow trace" and 10% "ice" with "turning bays and runway intersections…described as slippery". It was established that the TWR/GND Controller, working alone whilst the other controller on duty was taking a break with all transmissions on GND and TWR frequencies audible on both frequencies had, despite the annunciation on his strip display that the runway was occupied (see the illustration below), issued a take off clearance to the B727 whilst it was backtracking runway 30. However, immediately after doing so, he had realised his error and, after a short pause without releasing his PTT switch, had followed this pause with "actually standby ah". The B727 First Officer acting as PM had begun to acknowledge the clearance as soon as the controller had finished giving it and as a result, only the very end of the readback - the aircraft callsign - was heard by the controller who assumed that the intended "cancellation" of the take of clearance had been understood. He issued an instruction for the snow clearance vehicles to clear the runway and then looked away from it (see diagram showing the aerodrome layout and TWR VCR position below) whilst giving taxi instructions to another departing B727 still on the ramp and, by the time he returned his attention to the runway, was surprised to see the first B727 on the take off roll. This take off roll "went unnoticed (by the controller) for 22 seconds". Upon seeing the aircraft approximately 350 metres down the runway and accelerating, he transmitted "Flightcraft 273 abort take off". The aircraft was just passing 80 knots and the required check was being called and acknowledged. There was no immediate response or acknowledgement from the crew, who at that time were unable to see any obstruction ahead due to still being on an upslope towards the centre section of the runway, However, shortly afterwards, as the aircraft approached the higher mid-section of the runway at 122 KCAS, they saw the lights of the snow clearance vehicles ahead and immediately initiated a rejected take off with the aircraft reaching a maximum recorded speed of 130 KCAS - the applicable V1 for the take off - before being brought to a stop at approximately the halfway point of 3230 metre-long runway, separated from the snow sweepers by approximately 365 metres. By this time, the vehicles had moved to the side of the runway in case the aircraft was