unable to stop in time. Maximum braking of the aircraft was used initially, but brake pressure was reduced once it became clear that the aircraft would stop before reaching the vehicles. The Investigation noted that recommended brake cooling times were ignored and the aircraft subsequently departed "less than 5 minutes after the RTO". It was also noted that the flight crew had, as usual given the absence of a more practical method on the aircraft type involved, been facilitating communication between each other, keeping one ear cup off the ear so that the ear closest to the other crew members was uncovered. It was found that "this was the controller's first operational posting (following) initial issuance of an ATC licence". The applicable ANSP Operations Manual required that any cancellation of a take off clearance issued before an aircraft has started to roll should take the form "TAKE-OFF CLEARANCE CANCELLED" and any such cancellation issued after the aircraft has started to roll should take the form "ABORT TAKEOFF". It was found that "the controller had never been required to use either of these phrases" since qualifying. In respect of the overlooked 'Blocked Runway' annunciation on the controllers display, a review by the Investigation of 4 hours of recording around the time of the occurrence showed "that aircraft departed on runways that had a 'blocked runway' depiction at least three other times, although in all three cases, the runway was not in fact physically occupied". The potential for de-sensitisation of controllers to such an alert when routinely ignored was noted. It was found that "on the controller's first scheduled day off….an unscheduled overtime shift" had arisen but when he had been called six hours before commencement and offered the shift, he had initially declined. Later "in response to a second phone call (and) once informed that no one else had volunteered", he had accepted. It was noted that "the controller reported feeling fatigued at the time of the occurrence" and had advised that he "occasionally had difficulty getting adequate sleep during this type of shift rotation". The Investigation made a detailed review of his work schedule and concluded that "a qualitative analysis of the pattern of work/rest during this period identified the same risk factors and likely impact on performance". However, it was concluded that on the evidence available "the existence of fatigue at the time of the occurrence could not be confirmed". In respect of the flight crew's non response to the instruction to abort the take off when the aircraft was already at high speed, the Investigation noted "a similar occurrence, albeit under different circumstances" Vehicle / E190, Toronto Canada, 2013 which had occurred in 2013 when ATC at Toronto had issued an instruction to an aircraft on approach to go around when (similarly) there had been no apparent awareness of a reason to do so. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation as to Causes and Contributory Factors were as follows: The blocked-runway indicator on the controller's extended computer