There are two methods for preventing hypoxia. One method involves increasing barometric pressure to a minimal value such that the concentration of oxygen is sufficient to prevent hypoxia from occurring. This is generally done by pressurising the aircraft cabin. The other method is to increase the breathable oxygen in a system through the use of an O2 device. This is usually accomplished by having a pilot wear an oxygen mask. It is also possible to combine the methods to provide greater assurance that hypoxia is prevented. Pressurisation keeps the cabin barometric pressure (PBc) at a value higher than the barometric pressure (PBz) corresponding to the flight level. The inner-outer pressure difference is generated by the difference between the incoming and outgoing air flows. What is controlled is either the cabin pressure or the inner-outer pressure difference. Figure 3 demonstrates the relationship between barometric pressure and altitude and how pressurisation affects this relationship. In the initial part of the ascent, the cabin pressure equals the outer pressure, meaning that pressurisation is not triggered. In the second part of the ascent, the pressurisation device works to keep a constant cabin pressure. In the last part of the ascent, the pressurisation device works to keep a constant pressure difference, allowing pressure to decrease so long as a constant difference between the cabin pressure and outside pressure is maintained. Because aircraft pressurisation is effectively controlled by on-board systems, crew and passengers can travel at high altitudes safely and in comfort. Supplemental oxygen devices are usually not required, and everyone is free to move about the cabin unhampered by oxygen masks or other equipment. As required in FAR and JAR 25, §841 concerning civilian transport aircraft, hypoxia is prevented by maintaining a cabin altitude below 8,000 feet (2,500 meters) in normal flight conditions and below 15,000 feet (4,500 meters) in case of “reasonably” likely conditions of failure; the main components of the pressurisation device must be at least redundant. Supplemental oxygen is required only when cabin pressurisation fails. O2 devices are used in emergencies involving pressurisation failure or the presence of smoke or fumes. In normal night flying conditions, it can also be advantageous for a pilot to use supplemental oxygen, especially in final approach in order to overcome the impairment of nocturnal vision normally experienced at 2,500 meters (8,000 feet) of cabin pressure altitude. FAR 121 prescribes the use of O2 devices as a function of altitude (§327 to 337). Its key points are as follows: So far, there is no corresponding JAR requirement. Above 12,200 m (40,000 ft), 100 percent oxygen must be breathed with additional pressure to achieve adequate oxygenation to prevent hypoxia. This is termed Positive Pressure Breathing (PPB). The level of positive pressure is generated by the O2 device as a function of the altitude level required to maintain PAO2 at the minimal value that will allow a pilot to perform flight-saving procedures within a few minutes. In other words, positive pressure is equal to the difference between the environmental