to a particular altitude before the onset of a disturbance. Experiences may differ for the same pilot on different days. Thus, it is nearly impossible for a pilot to know exactly how his or her body will respond under certain conditions. Mood disturbances are generally extreme and can include deep sorrow, uncontrollable laughing, nervous exhaustion, attacks of aggressiveness and antisocial actions. Sometimes a crew may appear to be drunk, and fighting between crew members may occur. In most instances, only breathing more oxygen will resolve the situation. Sometimes a crew will enter a deep depressive state and will experience a complete lack of will to conduct a task. The crew may still be able to analyse the situation, but they are unable to mount any practical response to it. “Nothing can be done” is a frequent comment by a pilot who is unable to act appropriately. Other times, a crew may react with a behaviour that is the exact opposite of the behaviour that should be implemented. For example, there have been cases of crews intentionally depressurising the cabin when there was a failure of the oxygen system. The end of a hypoxia-involved crisis is usually very evident. It often ends with a euphoric phase. This is often reported in debriefings of military pilots who will sometimes submit themselves to hypoxia intentionally. Some cases of addiction to hypoxia and the euphoric state it can induce have been reported among military pilots. Vision is the first of the senses to be affected by a lack of oxygen. This is especially true of night vision, which may be affected as low as 1,500 m (5,000 ft) of altitude. Color vision starts to deteriorate between 1,500-3,000 m (5,000 - 10,000 ft). At higher altitudes, the ocular muscles become weakened and uncoordinated. The range of accommodation is decreased which causes blurring of near vision and subsequently difficulty in carrying out near-vision-related tasks. Above 5,000 m (10,000 ft) of altitude, the visual disturbances are more severe as reaction time and responses to visual stimuli becoming sluggish. Accommodation and convergence are weakened and cause double vision. All problems, however, can usually be reversed by the use of oxygen or a return to sea level.. Hearing is particularly resistant to hypoxia which is one reason many crew members have been saved from near tragedy. Radio is the best way to communicate with a pilot suffering from acute hypoxia. Simple orders from pilots in other planes, controllers, or flight engineers have been used to guide pilots to safety.. Above this altitude, complete incapacitation can occur with little or no warning. All senses fail, and a pilot will become unconscious within a very short period of time. No stimuli such as the radio will be able to help a pilot suffering from hypoxia, especially fulminant hypoxia, above 5,500 meters (18,000 feet). Time of Useful Consciousness is defined as the amount of time an individual is able to perform proper corrective or protective actions under hypoxia in flight. This definition