this time. It was considered that when the Captain intended to select the right wing fuel tank switch from the ‘ENGINE’ to the ‘OFF’ position to enable the engine to be fed from the forward main fuel tank, he probably went through the ‘OFF’ position to the ‘REFUEL’ position which “rather than feeding the right engine...would have transferred fuel from the forward main tank to the right wing tank” which would be consistent with the 7 U.S. gallons of fuel found in the right tank after the forced landing. Correctly configured, the fuel system could have transferred the remaining 6 U.S. gallons from the main fuel tank to the right wing tank in the 4 minutes before the right engine flamed out. It was also noted that with the fuel selector inadvertently in the ‘REFUEL’ position, fuel left in the tank when the engine was shutdown was not available to the remaining operating engine. Finally, it was noted that there is no flight deck indication when ‘REFUEL’ has been selected (although the AFM explicitly prohibits refuelling in flight). As regards the failure to properly perform normal checklists which would have identified the lack of intended fuel loading prior to departure, it was found during the Investigation that some of the junior First Officers at Air Tindi including the accident First Officer “were aware and had discussed amongst themselves that when flying with some of the senior Captains, these Captains had adopted the practice of performing some of the verbal challenge and response checklists silently, by memory only and by themselves, i.e., without necessarily the input or challenge from their First Officer”. It was noted that some of these senior Captains had been First Officers with the airline prior to promotion to command. The accident First Officer and others had “accommodated this practice without any safety reports being submitted to the company (although) they had informally discussed this checklist practice with some of the DHC6 Training Captains”. Company management claimed to be “not fully aware of the issue” but First Officers stated that they were “aware that the company was passing these senior Captains during Check Flights and permitting them to continue flying”. The Investigation “determined that DHC6 captains were performing in accordance with SOPs during their Check flights”. Given the finding that no SMS reports had ever been filed in respect of checklist usage or fuel for the DHC6 fleet, it was impossible not to conclude that whilst the Air Tindi SMS was approved, in practice it was dysfunctional. Seven Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally recorded as follows: When the Captain saw the pink fuel slip in the door of the aircraft, it reinforced his belief that the aircraft had been fuelled for the last flight of the day, when, in actuality, it had not been refuelled.. While conducting the ‘Before Start’ checks from memory, the Captain interrupted his routine by conversing with a passenger. Consequently, the fuel quantity check was missed and the preparation for