the company of the situation via SATCOM upon which a message from the Chief Pilot was relayed with the suggestion to shut one engine down to conserve fuel which the Captain decided to do. Five minutes after beginning the diversion, the Captain began to draw fuel from the auxiliary wing tanks and the First Officer briefed the passengers about the diversion. Shortly afterwards, the Captain completed intentional shutdown of the left engine and feathered the left propeller. Power on the right engine was then reduced to conserve fuel and a slow descent was commenced using fuel drawn from the right wing auxiliary and forward fuel tanks. It was estimated that at that time, approximately 31 kg of fuel remained in the forward tank and it was therefore likely that the low fuel caution light for the forward tank had also illuminated. Fourteen minutes after beginning the diversion, the Captain was recorded noticing that the ‘PUMP FAIL R TANK’ light had illuminated, which indicated that the right wing auxiliary tank was nearly empty. The switch was then placed in the REFUEL position. The wing fuel tank panel after the accident. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Four minutes after this, with the flight approximately 11 nm from Fort Providence and descending through 3,300 feet QNH, the right engine began to surge and it was shut down and the propeller feathered as the Captain began to reduce to the optimal glide speed for maximum range of 86 KAIS. The First Officer briefed the passengers for a forced off-airport landing and despite the darkness, the Captain was able to identify an area free of trees and continued to a landing after 25 minutes airborne. The aircraft came to a stop in a partially frozen bog (known locally as ‘muskeg’) in an upright position which contributed to the main damage being limited to the nose landing gear and bulk and wrinkling of the forward fuselage skin. An ELT signal on 406 MHz was automatically transmitted and rescue services reached the location after four hours and recovered all occupants from the aircraft. It was confirmed that there had been no abnormalities in the aircraft airframe or malfunctions in the engine fuel supply systems. It was noted that whilst the quantity of remaining fuel meant that reaching Fort Providence was possible, this possibility no longer existed once the management of the remaining fuel was not been optimal. It was noted that when the left engine had been shut down, fuel was being drawn from the left-wing tank and that after this shutdown, 5 U.S. gallons of fuel had remained in this tank. With the left engine shut down and its associated fuel pump off, this fuel would only have been available to the right engine if the fuel system had been appropriately reconfigured. When, five minutes after the left engine shutdown, the ‘PUMP FAIL R TANK’ indication had illuminated, it was calculated that only around 1 U.S. gallon of fuel would have remained in that tank at