flight continued without the Captain being aware that the aircraft did not have sufficient fuel for the flight on board.. Over time, the Captain (had) developed an adaptation of not conducting the challenge and response checklists where required by the standard operating procedures. The absence of negative consequences reinforced the Captain’s practice until it became routine.. On the day of the occurrence, the First Officer’s adaptation regarding checklist usage was influenced by the seniority of the Captain, the Captain’s non-standard use of checklists, and the absence of negative repercussions from this adaptation.. While taxiing to the runway, the Captain conducted the Taxi Checks alone, silently and from memory. Consequently, the fuel check on the checklist was missed and the aircraft departed with insufficient fuel for the flight.. The First Officer completed the Cruise Checks silently and without reference to a Checklist. As a result, the fuel state of the aircraft was not identified by either pilot.. As a result of fuel starvation, the flight crew conducted a forced landing into muskeg, which resulted in significant aircraft damage.. Five Findings as to Risk were also formally recorded as follows: If flight crews do not maintain a scan of the flight instrument panel and alerting systems, there is a risk that they will not identify an abnormal aircraft state that escalates to an unsafe situation.. If flight crews do not refer to performance charts when attempting to fly for maximum range, an inappropriate power setting and aircraft configuration may be selected and maximum range may not be achieved.. The DHC-6 wing fuel tank switch is designed such that it can be moved to the ‘REFUEL’ position in flight, increasing the risk of inadvertent transfer of fuel from the main fuel tank to the respective wing fuel tank.. If flight crews descend rather than maintain altitude in fuel-critical situations where a possibility of fuel exhaustion is likely, the aircraft’s gliding distance will be reduced, increasing the risk of landing on unsuitable terrain.. If flight crews do not use the company reporting procedures to communicate safety concerns related to operational deviations, there is a risk that company management will be unaware of unsafe practices and unable to take corrective action.. Two Other Findings were also formally recorded: The aircraft fuel quantity indication and alerting systems were functional and performed as designed. There were no leaks or abnormalities in the aircraft airframe or engine fuel systems.. The aircraft landed with a total of 36 kg of usable fuel, 6.7 nautical miles from Fort Providence Airport. This amount of fuel was sufficient for approximately 8 minutes of flight at cruise speed, or a range of about 20 nautical miles.. Safety Action taken by Air Tindi was noted as including revision of their ‘challenge – response’ requirement for checklists to become a ‘challenge - response – verification’ requirement. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 19 October 2022 and it was officially released on 24 November 2022. No Safety Recommendations were made.