inspection and the Captain getting into the flight deck via the direct access left hand door. Whilst doing so, he reported having seen a fuel receipt in the door map pocket which he did not read and “assumed it was for the fuel he thought he had ordered” for the imminent flight. In fact it was from a flight which had taken place three days earlier. No fuel bowser had arrived at the aircraft during the turnround and consequently no fuel was uplifted. According to the OFP, the fuel on arrival from the previous flight was likely to have been around 180 kg and the OFP for the final sector showed that it was intended to depart with 1135 kg in tanks which was a standard figure for the sector concerned. The Captain began the Before Start Checks whilst the three passengers were boarding and briefly interrupted the checks to speak with one of them he knew. Once loading of cargo and passengers was complete, the First Officer, having completed his external inspection, then presented the passenger safety brief before returning to the flight deck and asking the Captain if he would like to run the Before Start checks but the offer was declined and the Captain started the engines. In apparent contrast to some of the earlier flights, subsequent After Start, Taxi, and Line Up checks were all completed by the Captain from memory and three minutes after starting the engines, the flight departed. Three minutes after this, the Yellowknife fuel company called the Air Tindi flight coordinator to ask if the aircraft needed fuel to which the latter replied that the aircraft was already airborne and on the way to Fort Simpson. After becoming airborne, the aircraft climbed to the planned cruise altitude of 6500 feet QNH. The First Officer completed the After Takeoff and Cruise Checks without use of the corresponding checklists. It was noted that “by this time in a typical flight”, the pilots would have been directed on three separate occasions by the Checklist to check the fuel quantity. It was estimated by the Investigation that the fuel low caution light for the aft fuel tank had illuminated 26 minutes after departure with around 180 kg of fuel left on board the aircraft including 24 kg in the left wing auxiliary tank and 27 kg in the right wing auxiliary tank. It was estimated that this would have given the aircraft about 40 minutes of flying time at cruise power before complete fuel exhaustion. However, it appeared that this caution annunciation went unnoticed by the crew until 12 minutes later when the fight was approximately halfway to Fort Simpson. At this point, the pilots reported immediately realising that they had departed with insufficient fuel and began the process of determining where to divert to, deciding that the nearest runway was at Fort Providence, to which course was altered three minutes later. The Captain decide to climb the aircraft to 7000 feet QNH and then advised