An Investigation was carried out by the Transportation Safety Board (TSB) of Canada. The 30 minute CVR was recovered and its data were successfully downloaded. However, its limited duration meant that only the period from the realisation of low fuel to the resulting forced landing was available. In this respect, the ICAO requirement announced in 2010 for CVRs “to retain the information recorded during at least the last 2 hours of their operation” with effect from 1 January 2016 had been deferred by Transport Canada until May 2023. It was noted that whilst the ICAO requirement in Annex 6 Part 1 was directly applicable only to international flights, Transport Canada’s significant deferral had resulted in Canadian operators continuing to conduct international flights using aircraft equipped with only 30-minute CVRs. It was also noted that since 01 January 2016, TSB Investigations have involved the downloading and analysis of data from 12 CVRs with only a 30-minute recording capacity with three of these investigations leading to a finding that they had been “hampered by insufficient data due to the 30-minute length of the CVR recording and a more complete understanding of the safety issues was not possible”. The Training Captain in command of the accident flight had been PF and had a total of 6,396 hours flying experience of which 2,945 hours were on type. He had joined the operator 13 years previously initially as a ramp assistant and then as a flight coordinator. After almost three years in these roles, he “was trained and began to work as a First Officer on the deHavilland DHC6", transferring to the deHavilland DHC7 after two years and serving as a First Officer for a further four years before promotion to Captain on the company’s single engine, single pilot-operated nine passenger Cessna 208. After just over two years on the Cessna 208, he was upgraded to Captain on the DHC6 and after two years as a line pilot, he was approved by Air Tindi as a Line Training Captain on the type. The First Officer had been employed by Air Tindi six months prior to the accident and had been released to fly as a First Officer on the DHC6 two months prior to the accident. He had a total of 434 hours flying experience of which 84 hours were on type. On the day of the accident, the aircraft and crew involved were rostered to operate three return flights from Yellowknife to nearby destinations in the North West Territories followed by a final flight to Fort Simpson for a night stop. It was the first time these two pilots had flown together. During an inbound flight, a crew would normally radio the duty flight coordinator to advise how much fuel was required for the next flight but it appears that this may not have happened. During a brief (just over 15 minute) turnround during which both pilots briefly went into the terminal, they returned with the First Officer carrying out the external pre flight