on his PM duties so more likely to have noticed the failure of the armed speed brakes to deploy. The Investigation identified a number of ‘Safety Issues’ as a result of the its findings including the following: Inadequate pilot training for recognition of a situation in which the speed brakes do not automatically deploy as expected after landing.. Lack of an alert to warn pilots when speed brakes have not automatically deployed during the landing roll.. Lack of guidance for pilots of certain Boeing airplanes to follow when an unintended thrust reverser lockout occurs.. Lack of pilot training for multiple emergency and abnormal situations.. Lack of pilot training emphasizing monitoring skills and workload management.. The Investigation noted that readout of the incident aircraft FDR had disclosed that several parameters including a mandatory one were not functioning properly. More generally, issues had also been identified with American Airlines’ FDR maintenance and related documentation and the effectiveness of the corresponding FAA regulatory oversight. Specifically, it was noted that American Airlines’ personnel could not provide appropriate documentation and/or wiring diagrams for the downloaded FDR, had improperly performed the two tests which are intended to validate correct operation of the FDR system and had allowed numerous FDR discrepancies to go undetected, all of which “hampered FDR data collection and evaluation during this Investigation”. It was observed that although not directly related to the causes of the investigated event, these issues had, as in many previous Investigations, affected the ability of the Board to evaluate the available data. The Probable Cause of the event determined by the NTSB as: A manufacturing defect in a clutch mechanism that prevented the speed brakes from automatically deploying after touchdown and the Captain’s failure to monitor and extend the speed brakes manually. Also causal was the failure of the thrust reversers to deploy when initially commanded. Contributing to the incident was the Captain’s failure to confirm speed brake extension before announcing their deployment and his distraction caused by the thrust reversers’ failure to initially deploy after landing. Three New Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation: that the Federal Aviation Administration require all operators of existing speed brake-equipped transport-category airplanes to develop and incorporate training to specifically address recognition of a situation in which the speed brakes do not deploy as expected after landing.. (A-12-44) that the Federal Aviation Administration require all newly type-certificated 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 25 airplanes to have a clearly distinguishable and intelligible alert that warns pilots when the speed brakes have not deployed during the landing roll.. (A-12-45) that the Federal Aviation Administration require Boeing to establish guidance for pilots of all relevant airplanes to follow when an unintended thrust reverser lockout occurs and to provide that guidance to all operators of those airplanes.. (A-12-46) In addition, three Safety Recommendations previously made were reiterated: that the Federal Aviation Administration establish best practices for conducting both single and multiple emergency and abnormal situations training.. (A-09-24) that once the best practices