the thrust reversers immediately after touchdown. Because of the precise timing of these events, it was concluded that “a rare mechanical/hydraulic interaction occurred in the thrust reverser system, and the thrust reversers were locked in transit instead of continuing to deploy”. It was noted that although the pilots reported multiple movements of the reverse thrust levers after the air/ground sensing system had not initially been effective, this was because it was necessary to move the reverse thrust levers forward of their interlock position before reselection in order to overcome the locked-in-transit status, an action that was recorded on the FDR about 10 seconds after touchdown. During interviews, both pilots indicated that they were unaware of a circumstance in which the thrust reversers could be locked in transit and were unaware of the actions needed to correct the situation. It was noted that “American Airlines’ personnel in general, including the Company’s 757/767 Fleet Manager, were unaware of this rare event or its resolution”. In respect of the speed brakes, it was noted that American Airlines‘ procedures require that the PM called out the position of the speed brake lever after landing and that, in the event that the speed brakes do not automatically deploy, the Captain should manually deploy them regardless of which pilot is [PM]. The type Operations Manual was noted to specifically state that “pilot awareness of the speed brake lever during the landing phase is important in the prevention of overrun” and that “without speed brakes deployed after touchdown, braking effectiveness may be reduced initially by as much as 60%” In respect of the failure of the speed brakes to deploy even though they had been correctly armed, removal and careful examination of the system and its components initially revealed no evidence of a malfunction. Only after the same aircraft experienced another automatic speed brake system non-deployment on 31 March 2011 was a further examination made which disclosed “a latent assembly defect” in the no-back clutch mechanism which intermittently prevented the speed brake actuator from automatically driving the speed brake lever beyond its armed detent to extend the speed brakes. This defect was the improper securing of one of the four speed brake lever braking pins which had allowed it to intermittently rotate within its assembly and prevent the no-back clutch from transmitting torque from the automatic speed brake actuator to the speed brake lever. Additional testing showed that this condition would only occur when the actuator was attempting to drive the speed brake lever towards the speed brakes extended position. It was also noted that this defect only affected automatic deployment - manual deployment would always have been successful. In respect of the importance of adhering to pilot monitoring responsibilities, it was considered that their more effective inclusion in pilot training might have meant that the PM would have been less likely to assume control of the reverse thrust levers (which is a PF responsibility) when problems arose with their deployment and, as a consequence, remained focused