An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). FDR and CVR data was available for the Investigation. It was noted the aircraft commander, who was acting as PM for the flight, had considerable experience of winter operations into Jackson Hole and its relatively short (1920 metre) runway and both pilots were familiar with it and in compliance with American Airlines special category airport requirements for operations into it. Evidence available to the Investigation showed that the preparation made by the flight crew for the arrival was thorough and had considered all the relevant issues. The most up to date measured runway friction reports were obtained and gave ‘good’ for the first two thirds of the runway and then very slightly less for the final third. The speed brakes were armed and auto brakes set to ‘MAX’. The approach to the runway was normal and the touchdown was as intended firm and occurred about 600 feet beyond the runway threshold. The PF reported that when he tried to deploy the thrust reversers promptly after touchdown, they did not properly deploy and after several more attempts, the aircraft commander took over and eventually succeeded in deploying them 18 seconds after touchdown with about 640 metres of runway remaining. It was noted that the PM had erroneously made the callout ‘speed brakes deployed’ at touchdown and considered that this was “likely made in anticipation (not in confirmation) of speed brake deployment after he observed the speed brake handle‘s initial movement”. Since both pilots stated that they had been unaware until after the aircraft came to a stop that the speed brakes, which they had armed for automatic deployment, had not automatically deployed, it can be presumed that once the erroneous callout had been made, both pilots had assumed that the normally reliable automatic speed brakes were functioning correctly and focused attention on the (relatively less important) thrust reverser problem. The Investigation noted that had they recognised the failure to deploy, the pilots could have manually extended the speed brakes at any time during the landing roll. The Investigation found that if the speed brakes and spoilers had been deployed as armed/selected, the aircraft would have stopped in the runway distance available following touchdown. It was also calculated that if the speed brakes had been deployed normally and the thrust reversers had not deployed until the time they eventually did, the aircraft would also have stopped on the runway. Attention was therefore focussed on reasons why the two unrelated malfunctions occurred and the response of the crew to the circumstances they faced. FDR data indicated that the signal from the air/ground sensing system transitioned from ‘air’ to ‘ground’ at touchdown but then about 1 second later reverted momentarily to ‘air’ before returning to and remaining in ‘ground’. It was considered that such a brief cycling of the air/ground signal during a touchdown was ‘not uncommon’. However, in this case, it coincided with the First Officer‘s attempt to promptly deploy