Flight planning. Operators of CPDLC capable aircraft shall insert the letter J and a corresponding number (1 for ATN VDL mode 2, 2-7 for different FANS implementations) in Item 10 and COM/CPDLC in Item 18 of the ICAO flight plan form. More than one of these can be inserted depending on the aircraft equipment (e.g. J1J2 means the aircraft is equipped with both ATN VDL mode 2 and FANS 1/A HFDL). Transfer of CPDLC. If an aircraft is transferred from an ATS unit where CPDLC is not available to an ATS unit where CPDLC is available, the aircraft uses DLIC to log on to the unit that is CPDLC equipped. The procedures and timings are detailed in the respective AIP. If both adjacent ATS units are using CPDLC the transfer of voice communications and CPDLC commences concurrently. The transferring unit being the Current data authority (CDA) designates the receiving unit as Next data authority (NDA). The purpose of this designation is to reduce the possibility of logging on to an improper data authority (which is equivalent to switching to the wrong radio frequency in voice communications). If an aircraft is transferred from an ATS unit where CPDLC is available to an ATS unit where CPDLC is not available, CPDLC termination commences concurrent with the transfer of voice communications. Use of CPDLC. The extent to which CPDLC can replace voice communications is largely subject to local implementation choices. Although the technology allows a wide array of complex messages the most commonly used are: CPDLC message composition.The messages are composed in standard format, in plain language or in abbreviations and codes, as prescribed in Annex 10, paragraph 3.7. Plain language should be avoided when the length of the text can be reduced by using appropriate abbreviations and codes. Nonessential words and phrases, such as expressions of politeness, are not to be used. Sets of mandatory and optional uplink (ground-to-air) and downlink (air-to-ground) messages have been developed for each data link service. It is therefore possible that either the airborne or the ground system supports a larger array of messages. Proper handling of unsupported messages (e.g. responding with appropriate error messages) is an essential part of CPDLC system development and implementation. CPDLC messages can be single element or multi-element. A maximum of 7 elements in one message is allowed according to ICAO ATN SARPs and the EUROCAE-Document ED-110B. Systems compliant to the EUROCONTROL Specification [1] should allow downlink messages, containing maximum 2 elements. Example of a single element message: CLIMB TO [level]. Example of a multi-element message: CLIMB TO [level], CLIMB AT [vertical rate] MINIMUM.' A single element message response to a multi-element message applies to all message elements. If any part of a multi-element message cannot be complied with, the pilot shall send an “UNABLE” response for the whole message (which means that the pilot will not comply with any of the message elements). This could result in an unnecessarily prolonged communication exchange. Therefore the use of messages with multiple elements should