The Data Link Services Implementing Rule (DLS-IR) was adopted on 16 January 2009 by the European Commission and published as Regulation 29/2009 - Data link services for the Single European Sky. The DLS-IR is legally binding and applies directly to Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) and to Aircraft Operators. Air navigation service providers and operators have reported technical issues when implementing Regulation (EC) No 29/2009, particularly disconnections, known as Provider Aborts (‘PAs’), of existing air-ground data communications enabling the operations of data link services (‘DLS’) and which are beyond acceptable performance levels. For that reason certain air navigation service providers took mitigation measures, consisting of the restriction of DLS operations to aircraft equipped with specific avionics through so-called ‘white lists’, so as to address potential safety impacts of those PAs in the operations of data link service. At the request of the Commission, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) conducted an investigation to identify the root cause or causes of those technical issues and to recommend measures to address them. The investigation revealed that the random PA occurrences could not be attributed to a single, predictable cause but rather to a combination of factors related to the radio frequency environment and to the current single frequency implementation of the data link infrastructure. It was found that this excessive rate of random PAs causes a degradation in the network performance potentially presenting aviation safety risks by increasing the pilots and controllers' workload and creating confusion leading to a loss of situational awareness. EASA concluded in its investigation report that acceptable data link performance levels can only be established by deploying a multi-frequency infrastructure, which is also to be optimised for radio frequency interference prevention. It recommended establishing and implementing a plan of actions to further investigate the identified technical issues and to validate the necessary technical solutions. However, these measures require time and EASA therefore recommended to reconsider the date of application of Regulation (EC) No 29/2009 and the timeframes of that Regulation. Therefore, particularly due to the observed technical difficulties and shortcomings in the performance of the deployed DLS infrastructure and their potential impact on aviation safety and given that the necessary studies and actions to identify and remedy them are expected to be completed during the course of 2018, the date of application of Regulation (EC) No 29/2009 has been deferred to 5 February 2018 as stated in Regulation 310/2015 amending Regulation No 29/2009 on data link services for the SES.