to counter) risk factors as necessary.. that the CAAN should encourage the professionals like pilots, engineers, ATC Officers and the general public to report the unsafe practices and establish a database of such (reports) from concerned people and the airline(s) to (be analysed for) identified and (the results used) to take risk mitigation and remedial measures as necessary.. that the CAAN should strengthen its regulatory capacity by ensuring that ATS and AFIS personnel working at airports should receive customised training which includes STOL airfields, aircraft operating limitations and the relevant provisions of safety regulations applicable at airports.. that the CAAN should, considering the typical geographical location and nature of wind velocity at Jomson airport, make arrangements to prohibit tail wind landings in the case of a wind speed which exceeds 5 knots.. that the Nepal Airlines Corporation (NAC) should strengthen training on Crew Resource Management (CRM) focusing attention on the critical phases of flight (take-off, landing and missed approach phases) as identified in the analysis and findings of this report.. that the NAC should further strengthen its existing mechanism to monitor, investigate and mitigate the risk associated with repetitive defects of particular aircraft at expert level to strengthen flight safety.. that the NAC should, considering the specific points mentioned in the analysis and findings of this report, develop and maintain procedures for STOL operation which (ensure that) pilots know and apply the rules, regulations and standards and (are capable of) analysing the risk and enhancing safety performance.. that the NAC should review and update its SOPs to make them compatible with the available facilities and include recommended guidelines for its pilots (particularly in respect of) the take-off, landing and missed approach phases.. that the NAC should develop qualified professionals as trainers on Safety Management System (SMS) and impart such knowledge to all key personnel, pilots, engineers and relevant ground staff, setting a target date for the full implementation of SMS including an applicable database.. The Final Report was completed on 18 February 2014 and subsequently published.