the 70+/- 5 knots prescribed - in excess of 100 knots.. The DHC6 AFM contained a limitation of a 10 knots tail wind component for landing but the reported wind speed exceeded that limit.. Poor CRM had prevailed during the accident sequence.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was "the inappropriate conduct of the STOL procedure and landing technique carried out by the PIC during landing phase and the attempt to carry out a take off again with insufficient airspeed, no required lifting force and non-availability of required runway length to roll". In addition, Contributory Factors were determined as "the absence of proper CRM in terms of communication, coordination and briefing between crew members on the intentions and action being taken by the PIC during the pre and post landing phase". Three Interim Safety Recommendations were issued to the Government of Nepal Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation (MoCTCA) on 24 May 2013 as follows: Considering the typical geographical location and nature of wind, arrangements should be made to stop tail-wind landings and take offs whenever the wind speed at Jomsom airport exceeds 5 knots.. Arrangement should be made to restore the damaged fencing to the east side of the (touchdown) end of runway 24 (at Jomsom airport) as soon as possible.. Special surveillance should apply to any pilots (who have been) involved in one or more serious incidents or accidents with regard to any corresponding action taken thereon by the CAA of Nepal.. All three of these Recommendations were reported to have been appropriately actioned prior to the completion of the Final Report on the Investigation. A total of 12 further Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Government of Nepal, Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation (MoCTCA) should establish an independent and effective aircraft accident investigation mechanism with the provision of adequate resources and functional autonomy to effectively conduct accident investigations and continuously monitor the implementation and compliance-status of remedial safety measures.. that the MoCTCA should encourage the Nepal CAA and airline operators to take initiatives towards promoting safety culture and best practices as well as producing credible outcomes in the formulation of rules, regulations, requirements and standards and their proper implementation.. that the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN) should further strengthen its surveillance and monitoring function focusing on critical safety areas including violation of SOP, proper application of CRM, Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT), runway incursions/excursions, approach and landing accident reduction etc. and ensuring (that there is an) effective enforcement mechanism (in place).. that the CAAN should, in order to undertake proactive safety measures, establish a dedicated committee of relevant professional experts to undertake an in-depth review of the existing STOL field (at Jomson), taking into account the major factors – particularly the runway length and slope, runway layout, runway condition, runway marking, regulated weight, approach, prevailing wind velocities and the presence of obstructions etc. – and ensure( that) corrective action (is taken