An Investigation was carried out by the Sudan CAA Air Accident Investigation Central Directorate. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data was successfully downloaded to assist the Investigation - although it was found that some recordings for left and right systems were reversed. It was noted that type-experienced aircraft commander had been PF and that the First Officer had very low total and aircraft type experience. It was noted that a second pilot experienced on the aircraft type and holding the rank of Captain was ‘observing’ from the supernumerary crew seat in the fight deck but no comment was made as to his operational duties and/or role, if any. After an uneventful non precision approach to runway 31 at Juba with the reported air temperature at 31° Celsius and the surface wind reported as 180° / 3 knots, the aircraft had touched down with 40° flap and minimum autobrake selected with a speed of 130 knots and at a position approximately 750 metres beyond the runway threshold. Auto deployment of ground spoilers had occurred and reverse thrust had been immediately selected. However, a few seconds after touch down, the left wing ground spoilers had suddenly returned to their stowed position and directional control was compromised as a result. The PF had managed to keep the aircraft on the runway whilst achieving deceleration to a ground speed of 48 knots, with the reversers having been stowed (but not locked) after 27 seconds deployment when at a ground speed of around 80 knots. However, from this minimum and with 300 metres of runway remaining, the speed had then begun to gradually increase and since the aircraft commander then considered that the aircraft might not come to a full stop without departing the runway, he had again selected reverse. Following this action, ground speed continued to slowly increase on the downsloping runway and the aircraft deviated slightly to the right before overrunning the end of the runway and its 60 metres paved clearway onto muddy ground and reaching a maximum speed of around 70 knots before coming to complete stop about 360 meters beyond the end of the runway resting on its left wing and the right main gear, the nose and left landing gear having been forced into retraction by ground impact during the excursion. Landing Performance for the aircraft as loaded to an ELW of 54 tonnes and in the prevailing conditions was reviewed and it was found that the LDR with touchdown at 130 knots on a dry runway was 1500 metres - or 1700 metres on a wet runway. The Investigation was not able to ascertain the extent of any water on the runway surface at the time of the landing but noted that “as it was the rainy season the runway might (have been) contaminated due to rainfall” but noted that FDR data showed that there had been no activation of the landing gear anti skid units during the landing roll. The Investigation noted that