An Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). The helicopter was eventually recovered “fairly intact” but minus its access doors and overall in a “substantially damaged” condition after being submerged in salt water. It was transported to the AIB after earlier removal of its submerged Multi Purpose Flight Recorder (MPFR) and Flight Anomalous Event Recorder (FAERITO). The latter was noted as supporting “audio, video and flight data recording” but was not installed to meet any regulatory requirement. Voice data from the MFPR were successfully downloaded but when its flight data were downloaded, it was found that a partial malfunction had resulted in only four parameters being recorded - (Pressure Altitude, Indicated Airspeed, Master Caution activation and AP1 / AP2 status). The NVM from various units which were not subject to crash protection including the EGPWS, Air Data Display, Flight Control Computers, HUMS was also downloaded but as a result of prolonged immersion in salt water prior to recovery no useful data could be recovered. It was found that the 35 year-old Captain had a total of 3,174 hours flying experience of which 2,497 hours were on type. She was a Nigerian national who had obtained an FAA CPL(H) in 2008 and an FAA ATPL(H) in 2013 both of which were converted to the Nigerian equivalents in the year following initial issue. She had undergone type training with the aircraft operator in 2012 and completed her first Operator's Proficiency Check (OPC) 2 years and nine months prior to the accident. The duty period during which the accident flight occurred was her first after a month’s leave. The 31 year-old First Officer was also of Nigerian nationality and had a total of 1,088 hours flying experience of which 852 hours were on type. His initial CPL(H) had also been initially issued by the FAA and subsequently converted to the Nigerian equivalent. He had two years’ experience as a pilot employed by the aircraft operator. It was established that the first flight of the day for the accident helicopter and its flight crew had been the sector from Lagos to the helideck on the Erha Floating Production Offshore Storage Offloading (FPSO) platform which had been conducted in IMC and for which the Captain had been PF. The takeoff and climb for the 50 minute flight were normal but a few minutes into it, the Captain was recorded remarking to the First Officer about an “unusual vibration” and about fifteen minutes later, the crew subsequently stated that the Digital Auto Flight Control System (DAFCS) and TRIM FAIL lights had illuminated twice and been reset with an uncommanded disconnect of the number one AP on both occasions. The Captain’s first approach to the destination platform was discontinued and after a go around, the second was completed to touchdown. Once on the deck, the Captain was recorded as remarking to the First Officer “After a month [local slang word used in as an exclamation] I need an OPC” (Operator Proficiency Check). The