Investigation found that her most recent OPC prior to the accident had been completed one month prior to her just-completed month on leave. After disembarking the 9 inbound passengers and embarking 9 new ones, the flight back to Lagos departed with a fuel endurance of 01:35 hours and the First Officer as PF. The climb to 3000 feet as a cruising level placed the aircraft in IMC. The Captain subsequently stated that fifteen minutes into the flight, there had again been “repeated illuminations” of ‘TRIM FAIL’ and ‘DAFCS’ (Digital Automatic Flight Control System) following which the applicable ‘Emergency Operating Procedure’ recommending flying the helicopter with hands and feet on the controls was adopted. Initial contact with Lagos APP was made soon afterwards at which point the First Officer “complained of the collective being heavy and auto-pilot decoupling (which) resulted in loss of power, a high rate of descent and decreasing altitude”. Recorded flight data confirmed that at this time, the helicopter had descended from 3000 feet to 1000 feet at 2100 fpm whilst forward speed reduced from 148 KCAS to 64 KCAS. The Captain also observed a slight turn to the right and on asking the First Officer to “check heading” received the response and that there was a problem with the compass. A few miles further on, the crew were recorded “complaining of a high rate of descent and instrument readings being inconsistent and inaccurate” and the Captain decided to declare a MAYDAY. By this time, the aircraft had been stabilised at 1,500 feet QNH on a northeast to easterly heading and the Captain then “briefed the passengers on the situation" and “her intention if need be for ditching”. The First Officer repeated his concern about the inaccuracy of the compass and “thereafter, the Captain declared the intention to ditch the aircraft”. She also subsequently advised having also noticed that the cyclic control was not responding as it should to lateral inputs. A few minutes after this, which was about half an hour after takeoff, a controlled ditching was successfully completed with the First Officer as PF. It was reported that the life raft on the left hand side did not fully deploy which resulted in most passengers and crew using the one on the right side from where they were soon rescued by a nearby vessel. After all passengers and crew had exited, this caused the helicopter to tilt and eventually overturn. The Investigation found no evidence of any loss of airworthiness which might have been relevant to what happened. However, there was also no evidence that the aircraft operator had carried out the requirement for an annual validation of the correct recording function of all flight recorders installed to meet regulatory requirements. It was considered that the repeated ‘TRIM FAIL’ and ‘DAFCS’ system indications and repeated ‘DE-COUPLE’ failure annunciations which began to occur 15 minutes into the accident flight “should have been a source of concern to the crew” whereas they had responded merely by resetting the