system as many times as the warning came on. These warnings were indications of AP and FD malfunctions arising in the (dual channel) DAFCS system which needs a synchronised heading input from the compass control system. It was noted that the subsequently reported heaviness of and lack of responsiveness from the collective and cyclic controls could also be attributed to FD malfunction. From this point on, there was a recognition by both pilots that there were also compass problems but their analysis of these was superficial and they continued with the flight. During the field examination of the Compass Control Panel, it was found that both the Captain’s and First Officer’s compass switches were selected to ‘FREE DG’ mode. The Normal Operations ‘After Takeoff’ Checklist includes selecting both compasses to ‘SLAVE’ mode after takeoff but when this was not done they remained in ‘FREE DG’ mode. Had the position of the compass control switch been returned to ‘SLAVE’ mode and the heading synchronised appropriately, this would have resolved the FD malfunction and the flight would have been able to continue normally. The Cause of the Accident was determined as “the crew switched the Compass to ‘FREE DG’ mode for Landing on the helideck at Erha FPSO and did not return it to the ‘SLAVE’ mode after takeoff which caused the trim fail to cut off consistently and which in turn then disengaged the autopilot as a result of the unsynchronised heading inputs”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Non-adherence to Company Operations Manual (Part B checklist) as it relates to after take-off checks.. The crew did not disengage the autopilot and fly the aircraft manually.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Bristow Helicopters (Nigeria) should ensure that an annual flight recorder readout is carried out for every aircraft in their fleet in accordance with NCAA Order 001 2014 and ICAO Annex 6 Part III. [2019-020]. that Bristow Helicopters (Nigeria) should ensure that the annual flight recorder readouts records obtained should be preserved with appropriate current data frame layout. [2019-021]. that Bristow Helicopters (Nigeria) should ensure that Flight Crew follow approved checklist items and procedures at all times. [2019-022]. that Bristow Helicopters (Nigeria) should consider reviewing their procedure for returning crew back to flight duties after staying out of flight duty for any period up to thirty days. [2019-023]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 25 April 2019.