Pilots: Always use standard phraseology; Listen in on the new frequency before transmitting; Call ‘blocked’ when you detect a blocked transmission; Use English language, to assist other pilots to determine when communication with ATC is finished. Check that the PTT (Press to Transmit) switch releases freely at the end of each transmission and if any functional fault is identified, alternative transmit options are used.. Always use standard phraseology;. Listen in on the new frequency before transmitting;. Call ‘blocked’ when you detect a blocked transmission;. Use English language, to assist other pilots to determine when communication with ATC is finished.. Check that the PTT (Press to Transmit) switch releases freely at the end of each transmission and if any functional fault is identified, alternative transmit options are used.. ATCOs: Always use standard phraseology; Use short and concise messages; Use English language, to assist other pilots to determine when communication with ATC is finished. Do not talk continuously but give pilots the opportunity to check in on the frequency by building in rest blocks; In practical terms, it may be best to transfer several aircraft to their next sectors before checking in new aircraft - this is a matter of judgement for the ATCO. Reduce the number of aircraft on a frequency or extend the number of controllers, so that the workload per frequency is lower.. Always use standard phraseology;. Use short and concise messages;. Use English language, to assist other pilots to determine when communication with ATC is finished.. Do not talk continuously but give pilots the opportunity to check in on the frequency by building in rest blocks; In practical terms, it may be best to transfer several aircraft to their next sectors before checking in new aircraft - this is a matter of judgement for the ATCO.. Reduce the number of aircraft on a frequency or extend the number of controllers, so that the workload per frequency is lower.. Technology Blocked transmissions can be partly overcome by anti-blocking devices. Design a warning if the mike is pressed too long, for instance by a beep indicting the microphone is still transmitting. (Some aircraft already have such a feature).. Blocked transmissions can be partly overcome by anti-blocking devices.. Design a warning if the mike is pressed too long, for instance by a beep indicting the microphone is still transmitting. (Some aircraft already have such a feature)..