Most airlines and other aviation organisations specify minimum acceptable criteria for the continuation of an approach to land. These vary in detail but the following summary published by the Flight Safety Foundation is one view of the important considerations. Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that "all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC. An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met: The aircraft is on the correct flight path. Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path. The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF. The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration. Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted. Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual. All briefings and checklists have been conducted. Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfil the following: ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation; and,. ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer. a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band. during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation; and,. Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing.. An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around." Other applications of the Stabilised Approach principle used outside North America do not necessarily distinguish between VMC and IMC approaches, which makes it possible to track compliance using OFDM. Some Operators also specify aircraft status at a 'should' gate ahead of the 'must' gate envisaged by the FSF system. This is typically 500 feet above the 'must' gate, for example a 'should' gate at 1000ft agl followed by a 'must' gate at 500ft agl. Failure to satisfy the former requires that corrective action is feasible and taken whereas failure to satisfy the latter requires a go around.