The failure of an engine whilst in cruise has numerous potential ramifications. These can include, but are not limited to: Loss of thrust - most modern commercial aircraft incorporate two engines in their design. Loss of an engine therefore results in the loss of 50% of the available thrust. This loss of thrust will most often result in: Inability to maintain planned altitude - descent will usually be necessary. In areas of particularly high terrain, escape routes could be an operational necessity Inability to maintain planned airspeed Reduced climb capability, most critically during a go around. Inability to maintain planned altitude - descent will usually be necessary. In areas of particularly high terrain, escape routes could be an operational necessity. Inability to maintain planned airspeed. Reduced climb capability, most critically during a go around. Loss of electrical generation capability - loss of an engine will result in the associated loss of a fitted engine driven generator. Alternate electrical generation capability, such as an Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) may be available and should be used as appropriate. Loss of hydraulics - The loss of an engine will result in the loss of any hydraulic pump fitted to that engine. Depending upon the hydraulic system architecture for the aircraft type, the loss of a pump could result in the loss of one of the (multiple) hydraulic systems incorporated into the design. That loss could result in any of: Degradation of flight control capability or effectiveness Loss of normal landing gear extension Loss of normal brake system or system enhancements such as anti-skid or autobrakes Loss of nose wheel steering capability. Degradation of flight control capability or effectiveness. Loss of normal landing gear extension. Loss of normal brake system or system enhancements such as anti-skid or autobrakes. Loss of nose wheel steering capability. Loss of pneumatics - Bleed air is normally drawn from the engine compressor to supply the pneumatic system. Loss of an engine can lead to the degradation of the following: Aircraft pressurisation capability Ice protection capability. Aircraft pressurisation capability. Ice protection capability.