A diversion decision should be a fundamental component of the flight crew thought process following an engine failure in cruise. Many manufacturers will include some associated direction in their checklists, be they ECAM or QRH based. For example, the statement "LAND ASAP" (colour coded in some cases) might be included as part of the checklist. If colour coded, red would indicate as soon as possible and amber as soon as practical. Many Operators also provide diversion guidance within their Operations Manual. Whilst some latitude might be provided in the case of aircraft with more than two engines, twin engine aircraft will normally be expected to divert unless the planned destination is in close proximity. Diversion is, fundamentally, a Safety of Flight decision and should be treated with the priority it deserves. Once the initial actions, as outlined in the preceding section, have been completed, the flight crew focus should be the diversion decision. In the case of Extended Range Operations or a mountainous terrain escape route, the diversion airports and profiles are preplanned. In all other cases, it will be a crew decision to identify the most suitable diversion aerodrome. Within reason, "most suitable" is not synonymous with "closest". Factors such as weather, runway length, approach capability, RFFS, passenger handling capability, and operational impact should all be given due consideration whilst keeping in mind that the primary focus must remain the safe recovery of the aircraft. In unfamiliar airspace, ATS can provide a wealth of information to the crew. Once the decision has been made, and the diversion initiated, the In-Charge flight attendant should be briefed, using the Company approved format, so they, in turn, can brief the cabin crew and prepare the cabin for the ensuing landing. The briefing should include items such as: Type of emergency. Evacuation expectation. Signals. Time to landing. Special instructions. The Company should also be advised so they can coordinate services at the diversion airport. If appropriate and the capability exists, consideration should be given to dumping excess fuel. You will note that, to this point, nothing has been written about trouble shooting the failure or attempting to relight the engine. Modern engines rarely, if ever, fail without cause and, unless the failure was somehow crew induced or as a result of a clearly identifiable problem or external phenomena, a relight attempt is unlikely to be successful. Whilst it is well within the prerogative of the crew to attempt a relight if deemed prudent, in most cases, this process should be delayed until after the diversion decision has been taken and the diversion initiated.