Whilst an engine failure in cruise is an uncommon occurrence, it can, and does, happen. The event, in itself, is unlikely to lead to loss of control unless the emergency is mishandled by the flight crew. Pilot prioritisation should follow the mantra Aviate, Navigate, Communicate. Aviate - First and foremost, fly the aircraft! Maintain attitude and speed control. If unable to maintain altitude, commence a descent using either drift down or emergency descent procedures as appropriate to the location and situation. Action appropriate memory drills and then complete the EICAS, ECAM or QRH procedures as appropriate to the aircraft type.. Navigate - If appropriate, follow the applicable escape route to avoid high terrain. ICAO Doc 7030 directs the following actions in the event that an aircraft experiences a sudden malfunction rendering it unable to maintain the cleared altitude: Initiate a turn away from the assigned route or track before initiating the descent (note that in very congested airspace, this may not be advisable (see article Emergency Descent in High Traffic Density Situations) and that in some regions, such as the North Atlantic, there are specific contingency procedures to be followed. Certain regions of Europe have, in their AIPs, denoted that an emergency descent should be conducted on their cleared track unless an immediate conflict exists) Advise the appropriate air traffic control unit as soon as possible of the emergency descent Set the transponder code to 7700 and select Emergency Mode on the Automatic Dependent Surveillance (ADS) / Controller Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC) equipment as appropriate Turn on all exterior lights Watch for traffic both visually and with reference to ACAS/TCAS (if equipped) Coordinate further intentions with the appropriate ATC unit. Initiate a turn away from the assigned route or track before initiating the descent (note that in very congested airspace, this may not be advisable (see article Emergency Descent in High Traffic Density Situations) and that in some regions, such as the North Atlantic, there are specific contingency procedures to be followed. Certain regions of Europe have, in their AIPs, denoted that an emergency descent should be conducted on their cleared track unless an immediate conflict exists). Advise the appropriate air traffic control unit as soon as possible of the emergency descent. Set the transponder code to 7700 and select Emergency Mode on the Automatic Dependent Surveillance (ADS) / Controller Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC) equipment as appropriate. Turn on all exterior lights. Watch for traffic both visually and with reference to ACAS/TCAS (if equipped). Coordinate further intentions with the appropriate ATC unit. Communicate - Declare the emergency using the appropriate Emergency Communications protocols - "MAYDAY, MAYDAY, MAYDAY” or “PAN PAN, PAN PAN, PAN PAN” - as appropriate. Note that, although "communicate" is third on the priority list", declaration of the emergency should occur before, or as soon as possible after, leaving an assigned altitude without clearance. In this circumstance, phraseology such as "MAYDAY, MAYDAY, MAYDAY, (callsign) engine failure, descending out of FLxxx, Standby" could be used to forewarn