A National Commission of Inquiry set up by the Benin Government to investigate the Accident delegated the Technical Investigation to the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA), who conducted their work in accordance with Annex 13 principles. The accident site is shown on the map below reproduced from the official report: Using calculations based on Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data, key points in the take off sequence were established as: A standing start with bleeds off was used. At 80 knots, it was about 480 metres since brake release.. At the V1 / Vr call, it was about 1,620 metres since brake release and speed was about 137 knots; the co-pilot made an abnormally sharp pitch up to +10° in only two seconds but the aircraft angle of attack remained constant.. Speed continued to increase and at 140 knots, the roll distance was about 1,780 m.. At 145 knots elevator angle reached +16° but the angle of attack was only 0.5°.. Lift off occurred approximately 100 metres before the end of the runway at a speed of 148 knots. As speed reached 155 knots, the first impact occurred.. The Investigation concluded that the aircraft operator was generally disorganised and lacked sufficient documentation, employees and procedures. In particular, operational records appeared to be largely absent and the operator was unable to provide the Investigation with copies of the load and trim sheets either into or out of Cotonou, or any of the other general documentations on aircraft weight. Passengers joining the flight, which had originated at Conakry, Guinea, at Cotonou had been permitted free seating. Problems with excessive cabin baggage were reported by the Senior Cabin Crew Member to the aircraft commander during boarding. After detailed review, it was concluded that the aircraft had attempted take off at a higher weight than the crew believed was the case and that they had assumed a more aft centre of gravity for the elevator trim setting than was actually the case.