Avoiding Level Busts a focus by both flight crew and ATCOs on effective Air-Ground Communication especially in terms of radio discipline and the particular importance of the Cross-checking Process and the read-back/hear-back process. For flight crew, the overall principles of effective Crew Resource Management (CRM) are particular relevant as is the rigourous application of SOPs related to altimeter subscale setting and to the receipt and pre-selection of altitude re-clearances. For ATCOs, the principles of Team resource management are important.. a focus by both flight crew and ATCOs on effective Air-Ground Communication especially in terms of radio discipline and the particular importance of the Cross-checking Process and the read-back/hear-back process. For flight crew, the overall principles of effective Crew Resource Management (CRM) are particular relevant as is the rigourous application of SOPs related to altimeter subscale setting and to the receipt and pre-selection of altitude re-clearances. For ATCOs, the principles of Team resource management are important.. Mitigating the consequences of Level Busts is achieved by maximising the effective use of both flight crew and ATM Safety Nets. For Flight crew, Situational Awareness in respect of other traffic in the vicinity can be enhanced by passive monitoring of other aircraft on the COM frequency in use and by passive monitoring of the TCAS display and active monitoring of it if a TCAS TA or preventive TCAS RA occurs. If a corrective TCAS RA occurs then, it is essential that it is actioned as required, that ATC are advised of any deviation from clearance as soon as practicable and that any deviation is limited to the requirements of the RA. For ATCOs, Situational Awareness can be enhanced by actively assessing the most critical separation margins implied by the clearances given and by maximising the use of Mode S data if displayed. These actions may allow a likely level bust to be identified. If one or more TCAS RAs occur then a constant awareness of the general disposition of traffic may enable ATCOs to prevent secondary effects of RA deviation(s) following a level bust.. For Flight crew, Situational Awareness in respect of other traffic in the vicinity can be enhanced by passive monitoring of other aircraft on the COM frequency in use and by passive monitoring of the TCAS display and active monitoring of it if a TCAS TA or preventive TCAS RA occurs. If a corrective TCAS RA occurs then, it is essential that it is actioned as required, that ATC are advised of any deviation from clearance as soon as practicable and that any deviation is limited to the requirements of the RA.. For ATCOs, Situational Awareness can be enhanced by actively assessing the most critical separation margins implied by the clearances given and by maximising the use of Mode S data if displayed. These actions may allow a likely level bust to be identified. If one or more TCAS RAs occur then a constant awareness of the general disposition of traffic may enable ATCOs to prevent secondary effects of RA deviation(s)