Optimum use of automation requires strict adherence to the aircraft design and operating philosophies and to the following general rules of operation. On highly automated and integrated aircraft, several levels of automation are available to perform a given task: FMS-managed modes and guidance; or,. Non-FMS modes and guidance. The correct level of automation depends on: The task to be performed, either: Short-term — tactical choice, short and head-up action on the flight guidance control panel with immediate aircraft response); or, Long-term — strategic choice, longer and head-down action on the FMS CDU with longer-term aircraft response. Short-term — tactical choice, short and head-up action on the flight guidance control panel with immediate aircraft response); or,. Long-term — strategic choice, longer and head-down action on the FMS CDU with longer-term aircraft response. The flight phase: Departure En route climb, cruise or descent Terminal area Approach. Departure. En route climb, cruise or descent. Terminal area. Approach. The time available: Normal selection or entry; or, Last-minute change. Normal selection or entry; or,. Last-minute change. The correct level of automation often is the one the pilot feels comfortable with for the task or prevailing conditions, depending on his or her knowledge and experience of the aircraft and systems. Reversion to hand flying and manual thrust control actually may be the correct level of automation, depending on the prevailing conditions. FMS or non-FMS guidance can be used in succession or in combination (e.g., FMS lateral guidance together with non-FMS vertical guidance) as best suited for the flight phase and prevailing conditions. The pilot flying (PF) always retains the authority and capability to select the most appropriate level of automation and guidance for the task, including: Adopting a more direct level of automation by reverting from FMS-managed guidance to non-FMS guidance such as using the AP/FD-A/THR control panel for mode selection and target entry. Selecting a more appropriate lateral or vertical mode; or,. Reverting to hand flying with or without FD guidance and with or without A/THR for direct control of the aircraft. The flight guidance control panel and the FMS CDU are the prime interfaces for the flight crew to communicate with the aircraft systems (i.e., to set targets and arm or engage modes). The PFD and ND are the prime interfaces for the aircraft to communicate with the flight crew to confirm that the aircraft systems have correctly accepted the mode selections and target entries: PFD (FMA, speed scale and altitude scale) — guidance modes, speed and altitude targets; and,. ND — lateral guidance (heading, track or FMS flight plan). Any action on the flight guidance control panel or on the FMS keyboard and line-select keys should be confirmed by cross-checking the corresponding annunciation or data on the PFD or ND and on the FMS CDU. At all times, the PF and pilot not flying (PNF) should be aware of the status of the guidance modes being armed or engaged and of any mode changeover throughout mode transitions and reversions. The use and operation