allow the correct sequencing of the FMS flight plan. Under radar vectors, when intercepting the final approach course in a selected heading or track mode (not in “NAV” mode), the crew should ensure that the FMS flight plan sequences normally by checking that the “TO” waypoint is correct (on ND and FMS CDU). Ensuring that FMS flight plan sequences correctly with a correct “TO” waypoint is essential in readiness for re-engaging the “NAV” mode, in case of a go-around If the FMS flight plan does not sequence correctly, fly raw navaid data until workload conditions allow reprogramming a correct “TO” waypoint (as described above) If a correct “TO” waypoint cannot be restored, the “NAV” mode should not be used for the rest of the approach or for go-around Before arming the “APPR” mode, ensure that the instrument landing system (Instrument Landing System (ILS)) has been correctly tuned and identified, that the aircraft is within the ILS capture envelope with localizer and glideslope deviation symbols correctly displayed and is on a “LOC” intercept heading, and you have been cleared for the approach. Supervising automation is simply flying with your eyes, observing cockpit displays and indications to ensure that the aircraft response matches your mode selections and guidance target entries, and that the aircraft attitude, speed and trajectory match your expectations. During capture phases, observe the progressive centering of FD bars and the progressive centering of deviation symbols during localizer and glideslope capture. Enhancing the supervision of automation during capture phases — and cross-checking with raw data, as applicable — enable the early detection of a false capture or of the capture of an incorrect navigation signal (e.g., ILS in maintenance mode emitting a permanent on-glideslope signal) Do not attempt to analyze or rectify an anomaly by reprogramming the AFS or FMS until the desired flight path and airspeed are restored. In case of uncommanded AP disconnection, engage the second AP immediately to reduce the PF’s workload because only dual or multiple failures may affect both APs simultaneously; fly the aircraft manually until it is maintained and re-established on the correct flight path and time allows for troubleshooting and reprogramming. At any time, if the aircraft does not follow the desired flight path or airspeed, do not hesitate to revert to a more direct level of automation: Revert from FMS-managed modes to non-FMS modes, or Disconnect the AP and follow the FD guidance (if correct), or Disengage the FD, select flight path vector (“FPV”) if available, and hand fly the aircraft using raw data or visually, or Disengage the A/THR and control the thrust manually. Revert from FMS-managed modes to non-FMS modes, or. Disconnect the AP and follow the FD guidance (if correct), or. Disengage the FD, select flight path vector (“FPV”) if available, and hand fly the aircraft using raw data or visually, or. Disengage the A/THR and control the thrust manually.