before it passed over the ILS LOC antenna just beyond the end of the paved surface and continued for a further 8 seconds. The 737 passed over the LOC antenna at 307 feet agl. The effects of this signal interference were not detected by the A318 crew until just after touchdown some 260 metres beyond the runway threshold when the AP had commanded a rudder deflection of 6° left. In response, the PF had disconnected the AP at 90 KIAS instead of the Company SOP of disconnection only after touchdown and “once it has been verified that the landing track has been maintained”. The signal interference ceased when the A318 was at taxi speed and the 737 was 720 metres beyond the LOC antenna. The Investigation noted that EU-OPS requires that CAT 2 approaches require LVP, which were still in force and that Air France procedures require that any CAT 2 approach must be followed by an automatic landing. In respect of ATS at Nantes, it was found that: Nantes ATS procedures state that “Clearance to land is not normally given to an aircraft on approach until the ILS hot spots (such as the one at Holding Point ‘A’) are clear; the said aircraft must also be more than 2 NM away from the runway threshold” but that “clearance may be delayed until the aircraft in approach is 1 NM from the runway threshold, provided that the hot spot is clear, the crew has been given advance warning that clearance would be late and the position of the aircraft in approach may be monitored via radar”.. In respect of separation between aircraft landing and aircraft taking off from the same runway, Nantes ATS procedures state that “it is essential that aircraft taking off have passed over the emitting antenna of the ILS localizer before any landing aircraft reach the point in their approach where the interference caused by the over-flight may have a critical effect” and that the “objective is for the aircraft taking off to have passed over the localiser antenna before the aircraft on approach reaches 2nm from the runway threshold”. They further state that “to achieve this result, the departing aircraft must start taxiing for take-off before the aircraft on approach reaches 6 nm from the runway threshold”.. It became apparent during the Investigation that controllers at Nantes had various degrees of understanding about how the lit stop bar at the full length holding point ‘A’ where the 737 entered the runway for take off could be controlled and the effect of the sensing circuits ahead of and after it. Some “were in the habit of waiting for the aircraft to be detected by the first circuit in order to avoid setting off the intrusion alarm or reactivating the lit stop bar at an inappropriate time” whilst others “believed that the system logic required an aircraft to be detected before the lit stop bar can be turned off”. The TWR controller in position at the time of