An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). The annotated aerial view of the runway below, prepared by the BEA during the Investigation, includes various key timings and positions in respect of the relative progress of the two aircraft involved in the incident. It was established that LVP had been implemented at Nantes because of the prevailing cloud base (BKN at 200 feet) and that the arriving A318 was aware of this and as a result, preparations for an ILS CAT 2 approach were made which required the aircraft commander to become PF. ATC were not informed of this intention - but this is not an ATC requirement at Nantes. Subsequently, the Nantes APP controller cleared them to intercept the runway 03 ILS and “reduce speed at their convenience”. As the aircraft became established on the ILS at a range of 6 nm with a speed of 180 KIAS, the crew advised APP that they were showing a significant tailwind. Meanwhile, the TWR controller was clearing the departing 737, which was approaching the full length runway holding point, to line up and take off. Almost immediately, TWR received the first call from the A318 and asked it to reduce to “minimum approach speed”. Shortly after this, having observed that the 737 had not yet lined up, the TWR controller was told by the crew that the lit stop bar at the holding point had not been extinguished. After it had been switched off, the 737 entered the runway and was in position on the runway and powering up for the take off when the inbound A318 was 2nm from touchdown. The latter was advised of the departing traffic but the Captain of the A318 subsequently stated to the Investigation that information provided by the controller “was not assimilated in a way which would have increased his vigilance or initiated a particular reaction” and the First Officer had “assumed that (the departing aircraft) was more advanced in its take-off sequence”. The lack of any explicit “reaction” in the response of the A318 crew to information about the departing aircraft “led the controller to believe that (the inbound aircraft) was making a CAT 1 ILS approach, reinforcing his decision not to order a go around”. On becoming visual, both crew “were surprised to see (the 737) on the runway”. The Captain “thought that if the approach were interrupted there would be the risk of a collision with (the other aircraft) in its initial climb, in the absence of any external visual references” and “he therefore decided to continue with the approach”. Nine seconds after the 737 became airborne, the TWR controller issued a landing clearance to the A318, which by then was at 90 feet aal had already descended through the applicable DH of 118 feet. Interference to the ILS LOC signals detected by the A318 began 4 seconds before touchdown when the departing 737 was passing 58 feet agl, with some 720 metres still to run