An Accident Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) but its scope was hampered by the discovery following recovery of both the SSFDR and the CVR from the aircraft that the former had not recorded any relevant data for over 2 years and that the latter had also not been recording any data for a prolonged period previously. The last flight correctly recorded by the SSFDR was found to been a flight to the USA in June 2016 for a Certificate of Airworthiness Renewal Inspection during which deficiencies were found. In August 2017 when the Nigerian CAA requested the required FDR readout and sensor analysis for the aircraft, it was not submitted and an alleviation from this requirement was subsequently requested and granted until the next C of A renewal which was due two weeks after the accident occurred. When download of the CVR was attempted, it was found that it was inoperative because the bulk erase coil had melted, probably during an attempt to accomplish a bulk erase and possibly because it was faulty. The 61-year-old Captain, a Nigerian national who was PF for the accident flight, had a total of 8,436 hours flying experience of which 1,418 hours were on type. The 31 year-old First Officer, a Namibian national, had a total of 4,607 hours flying experience of which 42 hours were on type. It was established that the accident flight had been the second of two flights the crew had operated that day, the first being a charter flight from Abuja to Lagos. The return flight was provided with radar vectors to an ILS 22 approach during which the A/T was reported to have been disengaged at approximately 500 feet aal and the AP at approximately 200 feet aal. The flight crew reported having tested the air ground proximity system, armed the ground spoilers and completed the applicable checklists. The VREF used was reported to have been 140 KIAS. After touchdown, which the Captain and the TWR Controller both stated had been made “within the first third of the runway”, it was stated that reverse thrust was selected normally but the rate of deceleration was considered to have been “slower than expected” and "neither the ground spoilers and thrust reversers had deployed”. The crew response to this situation appeared to have been slow and as the end of the runway was approached, the Captain called “no spoilers” and then manually deployed them as well as (successfully this time) the thrust reversers whilst continuing to brake. The aircraft remained on the runway extended centreline as it exited the end of the runway onto grass and eventually came to a stop in mud. The reported wind around the time of the landing was light and variable and the un-grooved runway surface was wet. The Captain subsequently stated that the touchdown had not been the firm one which he had intended given the wet, un-grooved surface. In the absence of any findings which would explain the