initial failure of the air/ground status system to transition to ground, it was observed by the Investigation that a delay in thrust reverser deployment would have occurred if the thrust levers had not been placed in the fully-aft (idle) position. It was suggested that “having realised that the thrust reversers and the ground spoilers would not deploy, the crew might have (then) closed the throttle to idle detent”. This corrective action appeared to have been unduly delayed with inevitable consequences despite the long runway. The Investigation did not find any documented SOP in the Flight Operations Manual ( FOM) which required either pilot to call out correct automatic spoiler deployment or any failure to deploy. It merely stated that if automatic deployment did not occur, the Captain was then responsible for their manual extension regardless of which pilot was PF. Some significant irregularities in relation to the operational control of the accident aircraft’s flights were found. In order for the aircraft to be used for commercial charter operations, its owner had signed an Aircraft Management Agreement (AMA) with AOC holder SkyBird Air under which the owner paid for aircrew, fuel and aircraft maintenance whilst SkyBird Air made its call sign available for such operations. However, it was found that the Nigerian CAA as regulator had issued Ops Specs in relation to SkyBird Air’s AOC which assigned Operational Control of the aircraft’s commercial flights to the aircraft owner so that applicable regulatory requirements were not satisfied. Quite separately, a number of irregularities were also found in the 2017 renewal of SkyBird Air’s AOC by the Nigerian CAA. Although the accident flight was made for non-revenue positioning purposes, the same aircrew had operated the aircraft’s previous revenue sector from Abuja to Nigeria. The Investigation found irregularities with the Senior Cabin Crew Member’s (SCCM) authority to work on both flights - they were not type rated on G-IV and despite being neither trained nor otherwise authorised to act as a Cabin Crew Instructor, they were training another member of the operator’s cabin crew who was also not aircraft type rated. The Cause of the runway overrun was formally documented as “the delayed response of the crew in recognising that the ground spoilers and thrust reversers were locked out”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as “the delayed deployment of ground spoilers which led to the flight crew’s problems in stopping the aircraft within the remaining available runway length”. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should ensure that disabled aircraft are promptly removed from the incident site in accordance with Disabled Aircraft Recovery Manual for Abuja (Chapter 3 removal instructions). [2020-004]. that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should ensure the roles and responsibilities of stakeholders as stipulated in the Airport Emergency Plan (AEP) are strictly adhered to in case of any occurrence. [2020-005]. that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should ensure that airport RFFS units