A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). The 59 year-old Captain had accumulated 19,000 hours total flying experience of which 7,000 hours were on type and the 32 year-old First Officer had 3,000 hours total flying experience of which 2,800 hours were on type. It was noted that the exit from the gate involved - 29 - was marked in such a way that after removal of the airbridge, the aircraft moves forward 3 metres and then starts a 180º turn such that the closest part of the aircraft to any object such as the airbridge, terminal buildings or parked vehicles/equipment is - for a Cat ‘C’ aircraft like the A319 - at least 4.5 metres away. The Stand 29 chart (see below) shows the tracks to be taken by the various aircraft types that are permitted to self manoeuvre off the stand, which include most aircraft up to the size of the Boeing 737-800 and the Airbus A321. The A319 is expected to be able to follow the tighter of the two turns shown with broken lines on this chart. It was found that the aircraft “was unable to turn at the required rate” with the nose wheels being at one point 6 metres to the right of the guidance line marked on the ground. Airport personnel stated that the aircraft had been observed to move “in a series of small turns with the nose wheels being straightened in between each one” and that “from the start it did not follow the exit line painted on the apron for this type of aircraft, and instead widened the turn to the right” so that it ended up facing Stand 28 and “encroaching on much of the hatched no parking area between the two stands” affecting the departure of another aircraft that was to be pushed back from stand 28. It was found that as the turn progressed, the supervising ground crew lost sight of the Captain and, although they could see the First Officer, were unable to gain his attention because (in accordance with Company procedures), he was focussed on watching the right wingtip. Whether for this or other reasons, no ‘emergency stop’ was signalled. By the time the aircraft hit the airbridge, it had only turned through about 90° when by then it should have turned through about 130° - see the illustration below. It seems that the observed alternation between turning and taxiing ahead was a consequence of attempting the left turn without using both engines (or applying the Operator’s fuel saving ‘One Engine Taxi Departure’ (OETD) procedure to the right engine) and the crew subsequently accepted that the use of both engines “would have increased their ability to turn”. The EasyJet Operations Manual content on single engine taxiing was found to include the use of Captain’s discretion in deciding whether it was appropriate and, whilst stating that the left engine would “normally be started first”,