The investigation sought to establish the cause of the initial symptoms of engine malfunction which had been observed and confirm which engine(s) had been involved. It was found, after reference to FDR data and the completion of a comprehensive examination of the engine, that the No.2 engine had functioned normally throughout and that all indications available to the crew had indicated this. The No. 1 engine was found to be the only source of the excessive vibration which had followed the detachment due to fatigue of the outer panel of one of its fan blades. This was found to have led to a 22 second period of compressor stalls which had continued until the A/T was disconnected. It was found that “the severe mechanical imbalance which arose because of the outer panel separation led to blade-tip rubbing”, particularly on the abradable seals of the fan and booster sections, and that this had led to smoke and the smell of burning to be passed into the aircraft air conditioning system. FDR data showed that, although the No. 1 engine began to stabilise almost as soon as the A/T was disconnected, a maximum vibration indication had continued “for at least 3 minutes until this engine was throttled back for the descent”. It was concluded that “the evidence indicated that the timing of the sudden recovery of the No 1 engine from the compressor stalling was related to the autothrottle disengagement at a point when it had demanded a lower throttle lever angle than that required for rated climb, thereby allowing this engine to achieve stabilised running at a slightly lower speed”. In respect of the loss of thrust and the activation of the fire warning when the final approach to land was attempted using the malfunctioning No.1 engine, FDR data also showed that “fifty three seconds before ground impact, the No.1 engine abruptly lost thrust as a result of extensive secondary fan damage” which was accompanied by compressor stalls, heavy buffeting and the emission of pulsating flames. It was considered that this damage “was probably initiated by fan ingestion of the blade section released by the initial failure, which was considered to have partially penetrated, and temporarily lodged within, the acoustic lining panels of the intake casing before having been shaken free during the period of high vibration following the increase in power on the final approach.” Pieces of fan blade found on the ground at this point included two small fragments which were determined to be remnants of the initially detached blade section. It was concluded that the attempt to restart No 2 engine at this point probably failed “because there was insufficient bleed air pressure from the No 1 engine, pressure air from the APU was not connected and the bleed air crossfeed valve was closed”. It was in any case also concluded that even if air pressure had been available, it was unlikely that useful thrust could have been obtained before the aircraft hit the ground. It was found