The Investigation considered the nature of the flight crew response to the initial failure at some length. It was found that both pilots had only very limited experience on the Boeing 737 after gaining the overwhelming amount of it on other aircraft types, in the case of the First Officer, the 737 being his first jet type. At the time of the accident, the Commander had accumulated 763 total hours on the 737, nearly all on the -300 variant fitted with electro-mechanical instruments and only 23 hours on the -400 variant which had an EFIS installation. The First Officer had initially qualified on the 737 type less than six months previously and had accumulated 192 hours on type including 53 on the -400 variant. The lack of experience of EFIS and the very short differences course required in order to operate on the -400 variant after initial type conversion on the -300 variant was considered to be of potential significance in respect of the crew response to engine vibration. The Investigation considered that EFIS engine indications provide “reduced conspicuity, particularly in respect of the engine vibration indicators” and noted that “no additional vibration alerting system was fitted that could have highlighted to the pilots which of the two engines was vibrating excessively”. Nevertheless, it was noted that whilst the particular combination of symptoms which followed the initial fan blade failure had not been covered in training and was outside the previous experience of both pilots, that training had been in accordance with CAA requirements. It was note that training had not included FFS training on the recognition of engine failure on the (EFIS) instrumentation fitted “or on decision-making techniques in the event of failures not covered by standard procedures.” However, despite this context, it was considered that “the speed with which the pilots acted was contrary to both their training and the instructions in the Operations Manual” and “if they had taken more time to study the engine instruments it should have been apparent that the No. 2 engine indications were normal and that the No. 1 engine was behaving erratically”. Having failed to “assimilate the readings on the engine instruments before they decided to throttle-back the No. 2 engine” they then “did not assimilate the (continuing) maximum vibration indication apparent on the No 1 engine before they shut down the No 2. engine.” Their response occurred when there were applicable QRH drills for both high engine vibration and for smoke, although it was observed that there was no drill which acknowledged the possibility of both occurring simultaneously. It was noted that the Commander had “stated that he had judged the No. 2 engine to be at fault from his knowledge of the aircraft air conditioning system”. He had apparently had “thought the smoke and fumes were coming forward from the passenger cabin” and since he had assumed that the air for the passenger cabin came mostly from the No. 2 engine, that the problem was associated with that engine.