The Investigation noted that whilst such thinking might have been applicable to aircraft types he had had more experience on, “it was flawed in this case because some of the conditioning air for the passenger cabin of the Boeing 737-400 comes from the No. 1 engine”. It was in any case noted that his “assessment” was not supported by the evidence, as it was not until much later that he had sought to confirm from the FSM that there had also been smoke in the passenger cabin. It was therefore concluded that it was “unlikely that in the short time before he took action, his thoughts about the air conditioning system could have had much influence on his decision” and that it was much more likely that he had accepted the First Officer’s initial and erroneous identification of a No. 2 engine malfunction without any attempt at verifying its validity. It was considered that “whilst the commander's decision to divert… with the minimum of delay was correct, he thereby incurred a high cockpit workload which precluded any effective review of the emergency or the actions he had taken”. The fact that the crew had “remained unaware of the blue flashes and flames which had issued from the No. 1 engine during the period of heavy vibration and which had been observed by many passengers, in addition to the three aft cabin crew” was considered significant in respect of any subsequent review of the initial response. It was found that the six-member Cabin Crew were all relatively recent recruits to the operator with less than three years service and all under the age of 30. Their experience on the 737 ranged from 14 months in the case of the FSM to less than one month in the case of three junior crew members. The Investigation considered that it was “extremely unfortunate” but not surprising that the observations of many of the passengers of fire associated with the left engine “did not find (their) way to the flight deck” even when the PA made by the commander stated that he had shut down the 'right' engine. On the other hand, with similar awareness of signs of left engine distress to many of the passengers, it was considered that the three cabin crew in the rear of the aircraft might have been expected to have at least the same awareness as some of the passengers of possible error when they heard the commander's reference to the right engine. It was concluded that inaction on their part may have been because they had not assimilated any more than the general sense of the content of the PA. It was also noted that “cabin crew are generally aware that any intrusion into the flight deck during busy phases of flight may be distracting and (that) this is particularly true if the flight crew are known to be dealing with an emergency”. Despite such a firm division between flight deck and cabin in an emergency situation,