minimum track miles required to achieve descent, a landing at East Midlands was still about 20 minutes flying time from the point where engine shutdown had occurred but crew workload nevertheless remained high. The First Officer attempted to re-programme the FMS for the diversion airport and, some 7.5 minutes after the initial problem, the Commander attempted to review the initial engine symptoms, but this process was interrupted by ATC instructions and not completed thereafter. With the No. 2 engine shut down, the Commander advised the Flight Service Manager (FSM, the senior cabin crew member) of the intended diversion and instructed them to secure the cabin. In response to a closed question from the Commander, the FSM confirmed that there had been smoke in the cabin. About a minute after this, the FSM called to say the “passengers are very very panicky” and the Commander then made a PA stating that the right (i.e. the No. 2) engine had been shut down due to a malfunction and that the aircraft would be diverting to East Midlands and landing in abut 10 minutes time. Three of the cabin crew who had seen signs of fire on the left engine later stated that they had not heard the Commander's reference to the right engine in this PA but “many of the passengers who saw fire from the No 1 engine heard and were puzzled by the Commander's reference to the right engine, but none brought the discrepancy to the attention of the cabin crew, even though several were aware of continuing vibration”. Fifteen minutes after the engine problem had occurred and descending through 3000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings just under five minutes prior to ground impact, the Commander had increased thrust on the engine in use (No. 1) as the aircraft was establishing on the Instrument Landing System (ILS) LOC for runway 27. This action was followed immediately by the vibration indication for the engine again rising to its maximum 5-unit reading, but this was not noticed by either pilot. Then, just under a minute before ground impact, with the aircraft at 900 feet agl and 2.4 nm from the runway with the landing gear down and 15° flap selected, there was an abrupt loss of thrust from the No. 1 engine and a concurrent engine fire warning. The commander had immediately instructed the First Officer to attempt to restart the No. 2 engine but the attempt was not successful. It became clear that it would not be possible to reach the runway and ten seconds before impact, the Commander broadcast “Prepare for Crash Landing” on the PA. As the airspeed fell below 125 knots, the stick shaker activated and continued to do so until the aircraft struck level ground in a nose high attitude just to the east of the M1 motorway, which at this point was in a cutting below the general level of the terrain and running perpendicular to the extended runway centreline. The aircraft then passed through some trees