before a second and major impact 70 metres to the west and 10 metres below the first one on the opposite (i.e. western/northbound) carriageway of the motorway on the lower part of its western embankment. It then slid up this embankment, through more trees breaking into three main sections and coming to a final stop approximately 900 metres from the threshold of runway 27 some 50 metres to the north of the extended runway centreline (see the illustration below). There was no significant post crash fire and what remained of the No. 1 engine fire was quickly extinguished by the emergency services. In the final stages of flight the aircraft was found to have demolished fencing and a motorway lighting column and a detached landing gear assembly had struck and deformed a motorway crash barrier. Witnesses on the ground who had observed the aircraft shortly before the crash reported having seen definite evidence of fire in the left engine with the intake appearing to be on fire and flames being emitted intermittently from the jet pipe in unison with “thumping noises”. Others reported hearing “metallic rattling” and seeing flaming debris falling from the aircraft. It was found that after the aircraft had crashed, a Company Engineer who had been positioning on the flight had entered the flight deck and switched off the main battery switch and the standby power switch, later returning to switch off the engine start/ignition switches and fuel booster pumps. The engine start levers (fuel valves) were subsequently found in the cut-off position by investigators but it could not be established who had moved them to that position or when this had occurred. Following the impact the majority of the survivors were unable to evacuate the aircraft because of the extent of their injuries and/or because they were trapped or due seat failure or the effects of debris falling from overhead. “Only 14 of the passengers were able to make a significant contribution to effecting their own escape” and both pilots and one of the two forward-stationed cabin crew were trapped. The arrival of the emergency services was assisted by the declaration of a full emergency by ATC at East Midlands Airport some 17 minutes prior to the crash occurring so that the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services and supporting civil emergency services were already standing by. RFFS crews in the vehicles waiting near the runway saw the approaching aircraft descend below the motorway embankment and immediately drove to the crash site. They were able to broadcast the exact location of the aircraft six minutes after impact and had begun extinguishing the engine fire soon afterwards. Emergency services personnel, initially assisted by passing motorists, began to recover the survivors from the aircraft to waiting ambulances and military helicopters which had been deployed. The recovery of the survivors was a complex operation and it took almost 8 hours for all of them to be removed from the aircraft.