An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). Data from the 25 hour Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were successfully recovered and the absence of any post crash fire in the fuselage permitted an unusually comprehensive and valuable examination of the wreckage. A Special Bulletin S2/89 was issued on 20 March1989 to summarise factual information then available and to list the 7 Safety Recommendations which had been made to the UK CAA up to and including 23 February 1989. It was established that as the aircraft was climbing through FL283 with the First Officer as PF, a series of compressor stalls had occurred in the No 1 engine. These resulted in airframe shuddering, ingress of smoke and fumes to the flight deck and fluctuation of the corresponding engine indications. The aircraft commander had almost immediately disengaged the AP and “although no words were said, it was apparent to the First Officer that the Commander had taken control of the aircraft”. The crew responded rapidly and instinctively by disconnecting the A/T and reducing thrust on the No. 2 engine without any apparent assessment of the appropriate or otherwise available actions and without noting the indications on flight deck engine instrumentation. ATC were advised of an emergency involving an engine malfunction and possible fire. The aircraft commander had immediately begun communications with Company Operations on the second radio whilst the First Officer was following a critical Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedure during which confirmation was required at various points. Shortly after the No 2 engine had been shut down some 5nm away from East Midlands, where the Company Head Office and engineering base was located, the Commander had agreed to a request from Company Operations to divert there and ATC had been advised accordingly. Once the A/T was disconnected and the No 2 engine was being shut down, the No 1 engine vibration level slowly began to reduce from the maximum level achieved during the compressor stalls. Since the thrust now required was relatively low in order to accomplish a descent before turning back towards East Midlands, the No.1 engine appeared to be functioning normally, albeit at a slightly lower N1 speed than before. This had the effect of reducing the shuddering apparent on the flight deck which helped to convince the aircraft commander that the No. 2 engine had been correctly identified as the source of the symptoms previously evident. With the APU started and shutdown of the No. 2 engine complete, the smoke and fumes which had been present in the flight deck since the onset of the engine malfunction symptoms also disappeared. The Vibration Indicator for the No 1 engine continued to reduce as thrust was reduced until it reached and remained at 2 units, still a little above normal. Despite an indication of a higher than normal fuel flow, it was concluded by the crew that the No 1 engine was running normally. Even with the