It was concluded that occupant survivability in the accident had been materially increased by the absence of any post crash fire affecting the fuselage. The effects of the fire which began in the No. 1 engine and its nacelle whilst the aircraft was still airborne remained confined to that location after impact and this small fire had been rapidly extinguished by fire fighters. It was considered that, although there had been very little fuel spillage from the aircraft, “had it been a significantly longer time before fire fighting was possible, it is probable that a much greater loss of life would have resulted”. The severe damage to the fuselage left many occupants who survived the impact with serious injuries and a significant number of them trapped. It was found that “the incidence of passenger fatality was highest where the floor had collapsed in the forward section of the passenger cabin and in the area just aft of the wing” and much less where the cabin floor and passenger seating had remained almost entirely intact in the over wing and tail sections. It was considered that survivability had been significantly enhanced because the passenger seats fitted were designed to withstand an impact force considerably greater than the extant regulatory requirements. In respect of the failure of the cabin floor, it was noted that certification of the -400 variant had occurred in accordance with the same airworthiness requirements as had been applied to the certification of the 737-100 in 1967 (a common process in certification of new aircraft type variants often referred to as “Grandfather Rights”. It was considered that the main reason why there had been no major post crash fire was because both landing gear assemblies and both engines had separated from the wing without rupturing the wing fuel tanks. It was noted that whilst the separation of the landing gear was in accordance with design, the engine separations had occurred because of pylon fracture and the fuse-pin bolts had remained intact. Other findings in respect of survivability included: Injuries sustained by a mother and child highlighted the advantages of infants being placed in car-type child seats rather than being restrained in an adapted loop-type seat belt.. Although the overhead stowage bins met the appropriate airworthiness requirements for static loading, all but one of them separated from their attachments, despite the fact that it was concluded that their contents had been well within the permitted maximum weight.. Some of the overhead stowage bins had also opened during the last seconds of flight which it was considered had demonstrated the need for some form of improved latching of the doors.. It was formally concluded that the Cause of the accident was that “the operating crew shut down the No.2 engine after a fan blade had fractured in the No.1 engine. This engine subsequently suffered major thrust loss due to secondary fan damage as power was increased during the final approach to land”. It was further concluded that five Contributory Factors had