all UK public transport aircraft to be so equipped.. that the Manufacturers of existing Flight Data Recorders which use buffering techniques should give consideration to making the buffers non-volatile and hence recoverable after loss of power and EUROCAE and the CAA should reconsider the concept of allowing volatile memory buffering in flight data recorders.. that where engine vibration is an available parameter for flight data recording, the CAA should consider making a requirement for it to be recorded at a sampling rate of once every second.. that the CAA should actively seek further improvement in the standards of JAR 25.561/.562 and the level of such standards should not be constrained by the current FAA requirements.. that the CAA should require that, for aircraft passenger seats, the current loading and dynamic testing requirements of JAR 35.561 and .562 be applied to newly manufactured aircraft coming onto the UK register and, with the minimum of delay, to aircraft already on the UK register.. that, in addition to the dynamic test requirements, the CAA should seek to modify the JARs associated with detailed seat design to ensure that such seats are safety-engineered to minimise occupant injury in an impact.. that the CAA should initiate and expedite a structured programme of research, in conjunction with the European airworthiness authorities, into passenger seat design, with particular emphasis on: Effective upper torso restraint. Aft-facing passenger seats.. Effective upper torso restraint.. Aft-facing passenger seats.. The Certification Requirements for cabin floors of new aircraft types should be modified to require that dynamic impulse and distortion be taken into account and these criteria should be applied to future production of existing designs.. that the CAA should initiate research, in conjunction with the European airworthiness authorities, into the feasibility of a significant increase in cabin floor toughness beyond the level of the current JAR/FAR seat requirements.. that the CAA (should) implement a programme to require that all infants and young children, who would not be safely restrained by supplementary or standard lap belts, be placed in child-seats for take-off, landing and flight in turbulence. (subsequently amended on 8 August 1990). that the CAA (should) expedite the publication of a specification for child seat designs.. that the Certification Requirements for cabin stowage bins, and other cabin items of mass, should be modified to ensure the retention of these items to fuselage structure when subjected to dynamic crash pulses substantially beyond the static load factors currently required.. that the CAA consider improving the airworthiness requirements for public transport aircraft to require some form of improved latching to be fitted to overhead stowage bins and this should also apply to new stowage bins fitted to existing aircraft.. The Final Report of the Investigation and the Appendices to the Report was submitted to the Secretary of State for Transport on 25 August 1990 and published later the same month.