load instruction to carry less cargo. This instruction was not actioned and led to a heavier freight pallet remaining on board the aircraft, instead of being exchanged for a lighter unit. The aircraft subsequently departed Sydney 875 kg above the weight listed in the revised load sheet and 494 kg above the aircraft's maximum take-off weight.. The required cargo variation was not actioned by the loading supervisor as electronic messages associated with the revised loading instruction were acknowledged without being correctly interpreted. That action was probably influenced by the supervisor’s experience that load changes were accompanied by verbal advice, and that did not occur on this occasion.. One Factor that Increased Risk was also identified as: The loading irregularity was not immediately reported, which was not in accordance with the operator’s procedures for international airports, therefore delaying any assessment of the hazard presented by the exceedance of the aircraft’s maximum take-off weight.. Safety Action taken by Qantas as a result of the event to address the Safety Issues identified by them and known to the Investigation prior to its completion was noted as having included the following: A project to review freight discrepancies and loading errors was carried out and as a result loading supervisors’ iPads were replaced with handheld scanning devices which provide an automated freight confirmation and mobile communication process which uses printed barcode and scanning technology. This new system has been introduced at “the vast majority of domestic and international airports served”.. All Qantas’ international airports now use a modified occurrence notification form on which completion of the ‘Loading Related Incident’ field is now mandatory.. To reduce the potential for communication errors between load controllers, ramp staff and loading supervisors, the Company Weight and Balance Manual has been amended to more comprehensively specify how to communicate with a Loading Supervisor in respect of any changes to Loading Instruction Reports or other urgent messages.. The Final Report was released on 18 June 2020. No Safety Recommendations were made.