to (reference for the 1,130kg ULD). Cargo Weight: 2005 to 1130.. They then contacted the Ground Services Coordinator in the ramp office to confirm the new requirement for the heavier ULD to be exchanged with the lighter unit in accordance with edition 2 of the LIR just released. However, it transpired that “just prior to the freight management system lock out, the Loading Supervisor at the aircraft had accessed the system and both loaded ULDs were ‘ramp cleared’, indicating they had been loaded and secured into their respective positions” before logging off from the system and directing that the 1130kg ULD should be taken back to the freight terminal. He had then locked the forward hold door of the aircraft which provided access to position 24P. Soon after the Load Control Officer had issued the new LIR, “the Loading Supervisor at the aircraft logged back into his iPad and resumed using the freight management software” which displayed the new LIR and the accompanying messages. He then proceeded to acknowledge these electronic messages by entering ‘OK’ which cleared them from the system but did not then change the already loaded 2,005 kg ULD for the 1,130kg one as directed. When subsequently presented to the operating flight crew and accepted by the Captain, the final loadsheet corresponded to edition 2 of the LIR. With the heavier ULD still loaded, the actual TOW was 233,494 kg, which was 875 kg higher than the loadsheet indicated and 494 kg above the aircraft MTOW. No handling or control issues were reported to have been encountered during the takeoff and there were no relevant abnormal indications. The Investigation noted that the Qantas Ramp Operations Manual current at the time had stated that if an LIR was re-issued, “the Load Control Office would make contact with the Loading Supervisor or ramp staff” and also required that “If a subsequent edition of the LIR is received during the loading process the Loading Supervisor must instruct the team to cease loading until the next edition LIR has been received and distributed to ALL relevant operational team members”. In addition, the Qantas Weight and Balance Manual specified that “load control (are) to make contact with and notify Ramp in the event that an LIR needs to be re-issued”. It was established that during the event under investigation, when edition 2 of the LIR was issued by the Load Control Office, a copy of it was automatically printed in the ramp office and the Load Control Officer assigned to the flight stated that they had contacted the ramp office by telephone and spoken to the assigned Ground Services Coordinator to inform them of the new version of the LIR. Qantas were unable to establish who had received this call “nor could they establish why the message that a new LIR had been released was not conveyed directly to the Loading Supervisor and his team at the aircraft”. It was found that the Loading Supervisor had considerable experience of aircraft freight operations.