In relation to this loading occurrence, they advised the ATSB that they had “no clear recollection” of either the loading concerned or that there had been an edition 2 of the LIR. They also “indicated that in his experience, ramp staff were always verbally contacted whenever the Load Control Office released a new edition LIR” by ramp office personnel or a radio or telephone call from the Load Control Office. They “advised that messages were often received on the iPad that were not necessarily directly related to the current task” and that “he had always been verbally contacted by the Load Control Officer […] if an aircraft load plan had changed while they were on the ramp and that they had never previously simply been issued [with] a change via iPad with no accompanying verbal notification”. The assigned Load Control Officer, who also had considerable experience of aircraft freight operations, stated that any new edition of an LIR must be acknowledged by a Loading Supervisor on their iPad. They also stated that the issue of the new LIR would have resulted in the freight management system changing the colour of the loading position for which the allocated ULD had been changed from ‘green’ to ‘white’ and that this colour change “would have been displayed on the Loading Supervisor’s iPad when they logged back into the system (and) would have also required them to “ramp clear” this loading position again despite having already completed that task minutes earlier”. They added that “their understanding was that the Ground Services Coordinator within the ramp office would deliver a printed copy of the new edition LIR to the Loading Supervisor once it had been released”. The Investigation reviewed all aircraft loading-related occurrences notified to the ATSB over the period 2010-2019 and noted that 25 of those had potential consequences for aircraft performance involving centre of gravity and/or maximum takeoff weight. Finally, the Investigation identified three overall issues of safety concern arising from the event as: The Exceedance of MTOW.. The fact that the heavier-than-notified freight was positioned in the underfloor hold close to the aircraft centre of gravity had limited the potential for control of the aircraft to be affected. While the outcome was benign in the case investigated, continued operation of an aircraft that has exceeded its certificated weight may lead to unaccounted structural damage and pose a safety risk. The Failure to action the LIR.. The lack of accompanying verbal advice from load control or ramp office personnel was a variation from normal practice which probably influenced the actions of the loading supervisor on this occasion. The Delay on Reporting.. Although there was no consequence associated with this occurrence, reporting delays can lead to an increased safety risk with regard to continued operation of an overstressed aircraft and/or identification of deficiencies in the loading process. Two Contributory Factors which led to the event were formally documented as follows: An operational requirement for additional holding fuel resulted in the issuing of a revised