After a three-week delay in Qantas’ identification of the significance of the event report they had received from their Beijing freight agent and therefore their recognition that the event needed to be reported to the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), a report was submitted and an Investigation was then carried out. Having determined that on this occasion, there had been no actual compromise to the operational safety of the flight involved, the scope of the Investigation was thereafter confined to a detailed examination of the loading process prior to the flight. It was established that the origin of the discrepancy had been the incorrect specification of one of the three ULD pallets containing freight which had been carried on the flight. These were initially listed as having weights of 2,175kg, 2,005kg and 1,130kg and had been towed to a holding bay near the aircraft in preparation for loading. The Qantas Load Control Office then determined that the aircraft MTOW would be exceeded if all three ULDs were loaded and that therefore only two of the three could travel with the 1,130kg pallet to be left behind. Edition 1 of the load instruction report (LIR) was sent from the load control office to the ramp staff allocated to undertake the loading task and the Loading Supervisor accessed this LIR using his iPad. At about the same time, a corresponding record of the revised loading intention was sent to the operating flight crew for review and they responded with a request to remove some of the freight because of their need to carry additional fuel. To meet this requirement, load control decided to substitute one of the two heavier pallets with the lighter one which it had initially been intended not to load which required the issue of edition 2 of the LIR which specified that only the 2175kg and 1130 kg pallets should now be loaded. The assigned Load Control Officer then contacted the ground services coordinator to advise that a change had been made to the ULD loading requirement and that ULD loading should be delayed “pending release of edition 2 of the LIR”. At about this time, all three ULDs were moved from the holding bay to the aircraft and within the next 10 minutes, the 2,175 kg and 2,005 kg were loaded and secured into their designated positions in accordance with edition 1 of the LIR. Subsequently, the operating flight crew contacted the load control office to confirm the final fuel upload and confirm that a change to a lighter ULD would be required to offset the weight of the additional fuel. On receipt of this communication, the Load Control Officer ‘locked out’ the flight within the freight management system. Edition 2 of the LIR was then entered into the freight management system with three accompanying electronic messages from the load control office: Flight Locked by Load Control. Please contact Load Control.. Edition has changed.. The ULD for (position 24P) has changed (reference for the 2,005 kg ULD)