The investigation process is triggered by a notification (report) submitted in accordance with the established safety occurrence reporting arrangements. Several basic phases of an investigation can be distinguished: Set up of the investigation team with the required skills and expertise. The size of the team and the expert profile of its members depend on the nature and severity of the occurrence being investigated. The investigating team may require the assistance of other specialists. Often, a single person is assigned to carry out internal (to the concerned organisation) investigation of an incident considered to have limited potential to cause harm.. Gathering of factual information that is pertinent to the understanding of the circumstances and the events leading to the occurrence. A variety of information sources will be used to collect the necessary data for the reconstruction of the event. To ensure the continued availability of such data for the purpose of aviation safety improvement, information sources need to be protected. Guidance on the protection of safety information sources used for investigations is provided by ICAO Doc 9859 - Safety management manual, Third Edition 2012.. Event reconstruction in order to establish the exact sequence of events leading to the safety occurrence with its causal and contributory factors. The output of the reconstruction phase should be a set of events that agrees with recorded information and which unifies the views of the various persons who were involved in these events immediately before and after the occurrence.. Analysis of the information to assess the risk and provide explanation of the technical and operational factors, and underlying (including organisational) factors and issues. The analysis shall provide argumentation about why the occurrence happened and enable the drawing of conclusions and identification of safety actions to eliminate or mitigate the risk.. Drawing conclusions on the basis of collected and analysed information, generally presented by the following categories: Main (direct) cause(s) and contributing factors leading to the occurrence; Findings that identify additional hazards which have risk potential but have not played direct role in the occurrence; Other findings that have potential to improve the safety of operations or to resolve ambiguity or controversy issues contributed to the circumstances surrounding the occurrence.. Main (direct) cause(s) and contributing factors leading to the occurrence;. Findings that identify additional hazards which have risk potential but have not played direct role in the occurrence;. Other findings that have potential to improve the safety of operations or to resolve ambiguity or controversy issues contributed to the circumstances surrounding the occurrence.. Identifying the lessons to be learned from a safety occurrence requires an understanding of not just what happened, but why it happened. Therefore, the investigation should look beyond the obvious causes and aim to identify all the contributory factors, some of which may be related to weaknesses in the system’s defences or other organisational issues. Identification of safety recommendations and actions to be taken in order to eliminate or mitigate the safety deficiencies identified by the investigation. The safety recommendations are the main product