According to best practices described in 2017 for RPAS missions inspecting infrastructure of U.S. electric utility companies, RPICs prepare and conduct crew briefings for complex missions based on: A safety checklist covering identified hazard details and mitigation actions such as “overall mission profile hazards, crew status check, no careless or reckless operations, no carriage of hazardous materials, populated area, vegetation, [tall] structures, traffic along roadways, birds and wildlife on the ground, manned and unmanned aircraft, and emergency situations;”. A contingency plan checklist covering “RPA battery depletion, ditching procedures, fuel deletions, hazardous weather, hostile environment [e.g., air traffic or public activity causes a hazard], loss of communications, loss of RPA control signal, loss of direct visual observation of RPA, loss of global positioning system signal, loss of situational awareness, privacy impacts [public complaint], and RPAS failure;”. An emergency contact checklist for normal missions and contingencies that reasonably can be envisioned, comprising: An administrative checklist incorporating a brief mission profile, safety plan and equipment target review with imagery and maps/charts; Risk mitigation rules for crewmembers, bystanders and crowds in the vicinity of the RPAS; An environment and hazards checklist covering flight operating area, local weather conditions, clouds, precipitation, sun effect on visibility of RPA, temperature and local wind data; An RPA preflight inspection checklist (including airframe, batteries, fuel, payload and gross weight; and, A control systems checklist (including communications, navigation and accessories).. An administrative checklist incorporating a brief mission profile, safety plan and equipment target review with imagery and maps/charts;. Risk mitigation rules for crewmembers, bystanders and crowds in the vicinity of the RPAS;. An environment and hazards checklist covering flight operating area, local weather conditions, clouds, precipitation, sun effect on visibility of RPA, temperature and local wind data;. An RPA preflight inspection checklist (including airframe, batteries, fuel, payload and gross weight; and,. A control systems checklist (including communications, navigation and accessories).. A flight operations–execution checklist with the following subsections: Mission profile; Route check for obstructions; RPAS final launch preparations; Final crew briefing for launch; Software loading; Power on to RPA, lights, datalink and control link; Memory aids for flight path and instrument/sensor monitoring, mission termination with manual or automated return to base; and, A mission-conclusion checklist for post-flight tasks, including securing data/imagery, flight logbook entries and RPA maintenance log entries.. Mission profile;. Route check for obstructions;. RPAS final launch preparations;. Final crew briefing for launch;. Software loading;. Power on to RPA, lights, datalink and control link;. Memory aids for flight path and instrument/sensor monitoring, mission termination with manual or automated return to base; and,. A mission-conclusion checklist for post-flight tasks, including securing data/imagery, flight logbook entries and RPA maintenance log entries..