the aerodrome by (RFFS) personnel during their runway and taxiway inspections over the period of 12 to 16 July 2010. However, no corrective measures were taken by the aerodrome licence holder to address this shortcoming (i.e., setting traps to catch these animals or bring in professional wildlife capturing teams to catch and relocate these animals).. The open areas between the runways and taxiways were found to consist mainly of savanna-type grassland. The grass was found to be approximately 0.5 m in height, which acted as a good camouflage for several species of animals, making it difficult to observe and track these animals, especially at night.. the fact that aerodrome maintenance personnel members were not on duty over weekends to ensure that the integrity of the perimeter fence had not been jeopardised and if so, to take corrective actions by closing all possible holes/trenches dug underneath the perimeter fence, was considered to be a significant contributory factor to this accident.. As a result of the Investigation, the following Safety Recommendations were recommended to the Director of Civil Aviation for implementation: that the SACAA Aerodrome Safety Department, as well as the Aviation Security Division, institute an immediate corrective action plan to address the aerodrome perimeter. that the SACAA Aerodrome Safety Department, as well as the Aviation Security Division, institute an immediate corrective action plan to address the aerodrome perimeter fence at (Kimberley). The investigation revealed that the aerodrome lacked adequate safety oversight in this regard.. that the following be considered in order to minimize the risk of wild animals (and possible perpetrators) entering the aerodrome boundary. The regulating authority to inspect the aerodrome perimeter fence and give guidance to the license holder whereby the fence should be upgraded to an acceptable risk level. That the grass on the aerodrome be cut short and maintained accordingly in order for (RFSS) personnel to conduct proper aerodrome inspections, with special reference to animals/wild life roaming on the aerodrome. Should it be required, the appropriate action can then be taken to minimise the risk for landing aircraft. Proper grass maintenance will also reduce bird activity at the aerodrome, as grass is common vegetation on an aerodrome.. The regulating authority to inspect the aerodrome perimeter fence and give guidance to the license holder whereby the fence should be upgraded to an acceptable risk level.. That the grass on the aerodrome be cut short and maintained accordingly in order for (RFSS) personnel to conduct proper aerodrome inspections, with special reference to animals/wild life roaming on the aerodrome. Should it be required, the appropriate action can then be taken to minimise the risk for landing aircraft. Proper grass maintenance will also reduce bird activity at the aerodrome, as grass is common vegetation on an aerodrome.. that the aerodrome licence holder, in collaboration with Nature Conservation and the Endangered Wildlife Trust, engage on a proactive programme to manage the termite problem at (Kimberley). that night operations at the aerodrome are restricted until the aerodrome licence holder has implemented a corrective