An Investigation was carried out by the South African CAA AIID. It was noted that the aircraft had sustained substantial damage to the nose landing gear and lower nose fuselage structure as a result of the impact, which had killed the animal, subsequently identified as an aardvark. The collision was found to have occurred 470 metres from the landing threshold of the 3000 metre long runway when the nose landing gear was still off the ground with the aircraft finally coming to a stop nearly two thirds of the way along the runway. In respect of the exclusion of hazardous wildlife from an aerodrome, the requirement in ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 that “a fence or other suitable barrier shall be provided on an aerodrome to prevent the entrance to the movement area of animals large enough to be a hazard to aircraft” was not being met in respect of maintaining the ongoing integrity of the installed fence. The Investigation found widespread evidence of wildlife access to the airfield perimeter and regular reports of wildlife sightings within it including aardvark and antelope. It was noted that the aerodrome provided all three needs of wildlife - the availability of food, water and shelter proving a good incentive for animals to burrow under the fence. In particular, hundreds of termite mounds containing the insects which are the staple diet of the aardvark were found just below grass height within the enclosed area. It was found also that “neither the Civil Aviation Regulations (CARs) Part 139 nor the relevant Technical Standard (SA-CATS-AH) provides proper guidance material on the issue of wildlife management". It was concluded that although appropriate mechanisms appeared to be in place and the “aerodrome licence holder was fully aware of the threat posed by the wild life "they had failed to ensure that there were adequate measures in place to contain the risk posed by larger animals. It was noted that “ICAO Doc 9137 Part 3 (lacked) content and guidance material on the subject of wildlife management” and that “(this) document contains a substantial amount of information on bird-life management, but very little to none on wildlife management as a holistic programme”. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was determined by the Investigation to be that “during landing the nose landing gear of the aircraft collapsed backwards after it had collided with a wild animal on the runway”. The following Contributory Factors were also identified: The aerodrome fence had been constructed without a proper foundation, which allowed animals to dig holes and trenches underneath the fence in order to gain access to the aerodrome property, thereby easily migrating from one side of the fence to the other.. The fact that a section of the perimeter fence that used to be electrified was disabled due to theft of the solar panel powering the fence, was considered to be a significant contributory factor in the migration of animals along the fence.. An aardvark and other types of animals were spotted on