action plan in accordance with the wildlife animal management programme.. that an updated/amended copy of the Aerodrome Operations Manual be placed on record with the regulating authority.. that the airport manual on record under the heading Wildlife Hazard Management (WHM) (…..should be revised) to clearly indicate what the role and responsibilities are of each and every person (listed in it) as well as the external role players involved in such a programme with their up to date contact details.. that the aerodrome licence holder should amend the form “ACSA Logbook for Daily Perimeter Fence Patrol” with immediate effect (to include appropriate missing information including action taken to restore perimeter fence integrity.. that the aerodrome licence holder should have a designated wildlife control officer who should head the wildlife control committee. This person should be schooled in the field to deal with issues from an environmental perspective.. that the regulating authority establish a designated office (desk/person) to manage and ensure compliance with regard to a wildlife management programme at all licensed aerodromes in South Africa. Such office / desk / person(s) should also ensure that a wildlife reporting database is developed and kept up to date by engaging with all industry stakeholders/role players. The primary function of such a data base should be to identify trends at aerodromes, and to implement corrective actions in order to minimize the risk associated with wildlife activity at such aerodromes.. that the regulating authority draft an official letter to the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) with reference to the guidance material contained in ICAO Doc 9137 Part 3 read in conjunction with Doc 9332, with regard to wildlife management, recommending that ICAO Doc 9137 Part 3 be amended to incorporate such guidance material as a holistic approach towards aerodrome/aviation safety.. that the Division of Air Safety Infrastructure at SACAA increases its ad hoc surveillance inspections at aerodromes known to be prone to wildlife activity and ensures that all the required measures are being taken to eliminate the risk of wildlife posing a threat towards landing, departing and manoeuvring aircraft.. that the SACAA Division of Aviation Security increases its ad hoc / surveillance inspections at aerodromes known to be prone to wildlife activity.. The Final Report of the Investigation CA18/2/3/8805 was reviewed and amended by the Advisory Safety Panel on 16 November 2010 and subsequently published.