Findings from the Serious Incident investigation led by The New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC) identify the following safety issues: […] “An information processing error by the pilots led them to believe the full runway length was available for departure when it had been reduced, so they began their take-off with less thrust than required for the available length of runway. The pilots’ error stemmed from a mindset they had developed from their landing a few hours earlier that the runway length restrictions had been removed, and their insufficiently thorough pre-flight checking process. The captain’s prompt application of full thrust after the pilots saw the obstruction on the end of the runway ensured a safe outcome to the take-off. The pilots’ error compromised their ability to reject the take-off or maintain obstacle clearance safely in the event of a loss of engine thrust, and exposed the flight and ground personnel to unnecessary risk. The current Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast did not properly fulfill its intended purpose of conveying essential but routine information to the pilots because: it was about twice as long as that recommended by International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). it contained permanent information. its words “normal operations” contradicted the reference later in the ATIS that advised “reduced runway length”.. Although the ATIS broadcast contained the correct information about the runway length restrictions, its word choice helped reinforce the pilots’ mindset that the runway length was normal when it was not, and its construction was not robust enough to break that mindset. The Auckland AIP arrival and departure information inadvertently restricted ATS’s word choice for ATIS broadcasts so that it implied that operations were normal when a non-normal runway restriction was in effect. The format of the printed version of the ATIS broadcast made it confusing to read, and some interpretation was required to determine the length and content of each sentence. This format contributed to the pilots’ information-processing error. ATIS broadcasts were the only normal means used to alert pilots to critical runway information, such as when length restrictions were in effect. Had another defensive layer been established that required controllers to use standardised, unambiguous phraseology to warn pilots whenever runway restrictions were in effect, the pilots’ mindset would likely have been broken.”