en-route chart which applied beyond that to any flight operating off designated airways, which the accident aircraft was, indicated an Area Minimum Altitude (AMA) of 13200 feet. The Investigation noted that MSAW was available to ATC and was equipped with both a Terrain Conflict Alert (TR), triggered if any aircraft altitude reached or went below the applicable MSA and a Predicted Terrain Conflict Alert (PTR) triggered if an aircraft began to approach the applicable MSA. The PTR Alert activated a flashing yellow label ‘PTR’ and the TR Alert was able to activate a flashing red label ‘TR’ and an aural alarm, however the latter had been deactivated. In any case, although the system was found to be set up to activate in respect of obstacles such as the tops of some mountains in the area, the terrain information for the area of Mount Salak had not been inserted into the system and minimum radar vectoring altitudes had not been comprehensively established. The Investigation found the radar controller involved had checked his ‘Flight Data Edit Display’ and understood from it that the aircraft on the flight was a Su-30, a military fighter aircraft, and thereby assumed that it was a test flight to the area filed on the flight plan and might be expected to then make use of the designated military exercise area at that location between GND and 6000 feet. It was noted that the workload of this controller involved had been high with almost continuous transmissions with up to 14 aircraft without the benefit of an assistant or a supervisory presence. The FDR data was used to reproduce the accident flight using test pilots in a Sukhoi aircraft type simulator. This concluded that if prompt and prescribed recovery action had been initiated within 24 seconds of the first TAWS warning, terrain impact could have been avoided. The Investigation formally identified the following Causal Factors in respect of the Accident: The flight crew was not aware of the mountainous area in the vicinity of the flight path due to various factors such as available charts, insufficient briefing and statements of the potential customer that resulted in inappropriate response to the TAWS warning. The impact could have been avoided by appropriate action of the pilot up to 24 seconds after the first TAWS warning.. The Jakarta Radar service had not established the minimum vectoring altitudes and the Jakarta Radar system was not equipped with functioning Minimum Safe Altitude Warning (MSAW) for the particular area around Mount Salak.. Distraction of the flight crew from prolonged conversation not related to the progress of the flight, resulted in the pilot flying not constantly changing the aircraft heading while in orbit. Consequently, the aircraft unintentionally exited the orbit.. A series of Safety Actions arising from the accident and undertaken by the DGCA, the ANSP and the aircraft operator during the course of the Investigation were noted. Fourteen Safety Recommendations were made as a result if the Investigation as follows: that the Indonesian Directorate General