of Civil Aviation review its oversight and to ensure flight crew actions to respond properly the aircraft system warning through adequate training. that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation ensure that all aircraft operated under IFR should be conducted with respect to a published minimum safe flight altitude. that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation review its oversight and to ensure that all ATS provider comply with the requirement of MSAW and the minimum vectoring altitude being integral part of radar service. that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation review its oversight and to ensure that all ATS provider follow with the requirement of Advisory Circular (AC) 170-02 regarding Capacity Management. that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation review its oversight and to ensure that all approved Ground Handling comply with regulatory documentation keeping in regard to crew and passenger manifest.. that the Jakarta International Airport ensure that the ATC units and airspace structure provide acceptable workload for the ATC as on Advisory Circular (AC) 170-02 regarding Capacity Management. that the Jakarta International Airport ensure its radar warning system functions properly and to review that all radar controllers are fully conversant with the system and comply with procedures that they operate. that the Jakarta International Airport ensure that the correct aircraft type data to be entered to the Flight Data Edit Display (FDED). that the Department of Aviation Industry of the Russian Ministry of Trade and Industry review its oversight and ensure flight crew actions to respond properly (to) the aircraft system warning through adequate training. that the Department of Aviation Industry of the Russian Ministry of Trade and Industry ensure that all aircraft operated under IFR should be conducted with respect to a published minimum safe flight altitude. that the 'Department of Aviation Industry of the Russian Ministry of Trade and Industry review the current procedures for the preparation and conduct of a demonstration flight and, if needed, introduce appropriate amendments. that the Department of Aviation Industry of the Russian Ministry of Trade and Industry provide the crews with sufficient aeronautical information. that the Sukhoi Civil Aircraft Company provide the crews with sufficient aeronautical and other necessary information to the crew member prior to perform(ing) flight outside published airway(s) including obstacle and terrain information. that the Sukhoi Civil Aircraft Company review its current demonstration flight practices and ensures the compliance to the flight procedures during demonstration flight. The Final Report of the Investigation KNKT.12.05.09.04 was released on 18 December 2012.