An Investigation was carried out by the NTSC aided by location, recovery and successful replay of both the two hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR). It was noted that the accident flight was the second of two that day using a flight crew consisting of two pilots with a navigator, flight test engineer and engine manufacturer’s representative on board. The flight path of both flights is shown on the diagram below taken from the Investigation Report. The aircraft commander had been acting as PF for the accident flight and a representative of a potential customer had been occupying the flight deck observer seat. It was found that the charts carried on board the aircraft did not appear to include ones which would have contained information on the terrain in the area where the descent prior to impact was made. Four minutes after take off, ATC had been advised that the aircraft had reached 10000 feet and two minutes after that, a request for descent to 6,000 feet was passively acknowledged by ATC. Two minutes after that, the crew requested a right hand orbit at 6000 feet which was approved by ATC. Just over three minutes later, a succession of GPWS/TAWS activations had occurred over a period of 18 seconds. First had been a single “TERRAIN AHEAD, PULL UP” Warning which was almost immediately followed by a rapid succession of six “AVOID TERRAIN” Alerts immediately after which the aircraft commander had “inhibited the TAWS system assuming that the warning was a problem on the database”. Shortly after this and seven seconds before impact, which occurred twelve minutes after take off in IMC in level flight at an altitude of approximately 6000 feet, a ‘Flight Warning System’ audio alert “LANDING GEAR NOT DOWN” had also activated. The evidence suggested that although the TAWS terrain map display had been briefly demonstrated only a few minutes earlier, it had only been selected on for that demonstration, which had taken place with the aircraft heading away from high terrain, before being selected off again. The crash site was 28 DME from Jakarta Airport. FDR data showed that the orbit had been conducted as a means to lose height in preparation for the return to land and had been accomplished with the AP engaged using progressive movement of the heading selector with the aim of bringing the aircraft through 360º onto the starting heading prior to setting course to begin the approach. However, FDR and CVR data showed that whilst the attention of the PF “was distracted with conversation not related to the progress of the flight”, the aircraft had exited the orbit with 26° to go and possibly without either pilot appreciating this. Soon after rolling wings level, the aircraft exceeded a 25 DME from the airport and continued on the same heading until shortly before impact. The applicable AIP-published Minimum Sector Altitude (Minimum Sector Altitude) which applied within 25nm of the airport was found to be 6900 feet but the