The greater the object’s size, ambient illumination, contrast, viewing time and atmospheric clarity, the better its visibility. During the day, objects can be identified at a great distance with good detail resolution. At night, the identification range of dim objects is limited, with poor detail resolution. Surface references or the horizon may become obscured by smoke, fog, smog, haze, dust, ice particles or other phenomena, although visibility may be above Visual Flight Rule (VFR) minimums. This is especially true at airports located adjacent to large bodies of water or sparsely populated areas where few, if any, surface references are available. Lack of horizon or surface reference is common on overwater flights, at night and in low-visibility conditions. Excessive ambient illumination, especially from light reflected off the canopy, surfaces inside the aircraft, clouds, water, snow or desert terrain can produce glare that may cause uncomfortable squinting, eye tearing, temporary blindness and reduced visual acuity. Sunglasses or visors can provide protection against external glare and facilitate the view of flight instruments. Sunglasses should have a luminous transmittance of the order of 15 percent (within ISO standards) and a field of view as wide as possible. Refractive eye disorders include as myopia (nearsightedness — impaired focusing of distant objects), hyperopia (farsightedness — impaired focusing of near objects), astigmatism (impaired focusing of objects in different meridians), or presbyopia (age-related impaired focusing of near objects). Self-imposed stresses such as self-medication, alcohol consumption (including hangover effects), tobacco use (including withdrawal), hypoglycemia and sleep deprivation/fatigue can seriously impair vision. Inflight exposure to low barometric pressure without the use of supplemental oxygen (above 10,000 ft during the day and above 5,000 ft at night) can result in hypoxia, which impairs visual performance. Other factors that may adversely affect visual performance include: windscreen haze,. improper illumination of the cockpit and/or instruments,. scratched and/or dirty instrumentation, which reduces the luminance contrast. use of cockpit red lighting,. inadequate cockpit environmental control (temperature and humidity),. inappropriate sunglasses and/or prescription glasses/contact lenses, and. sustained visual workload during flight.. 7 Visual Illusions during Approach and Landing The previous chapters have provide the necessay background (mechanisms and limitations) to understand the origin of the visual illusions that can be encountered in approach and landing. The Visual Illusion Awareness briefing note provides an overview of typical visual illusions during approach and landing and proposes prevention strategies to reduce their effects. 8 Key points Although all parts of the eye are important for obtaining a good image, the most vital layer for vision is the retina. The retina is essentially a piece of brain tissue that gets direct stimulation from the outside world's lights and images. Depth perception gives the pilot an accurate sense of where objects are in relation to one another and his or her position in relation to those same objects. The brain has to combine various cues given by the eyes to recover the depth, distance and three-dimensional shape of objects There are two types of sensory receptors in the retina -- rods