QNH, the flight was re-cleared to FL 200, the flight planned cruise altitude. The acknowledgment of this was the aircraft’s last radio transmission and 1 minute and 20 seconds later (and approximately 7 minutes after takeoff) whilst passing 8,700 feet QNH on a radar heading of 350°, the aircraft returns on the ACC secondary surveillance radar displays disappeared. The flight’s radar track showed a normal climb rate of 1,500 fpm with the groundspeed increasing gradually to a maximum of approximately 185 knots and a maximum transmitted altitude of 8,700 feet QNH. The next return then showed an abrupt change to a steep descent and was followed by two more, one at 7,600 feet and the last one at 5,000 feet without any change in the direction of flight. During the initial part of this descent, the aircraft pitched down at about 6° per second with its vertical acceleration reaching -0.6g. The descent to 5,000 feet altitude was estimated to have taken 10 to 14 seconds at a rate of descent exceeding 30,000 fpm with aerodynamic forces causing structural disintegration of the aircraft. The first impact occurred at approximately 3,400 feet amsl. The aircraft was destroyed by the impact and the wreckage showed extensive damage caused by a fuel-fed fire that had eventually self-extinguished. Examination of the wreckage confirmed that there was no in-flight fire. Despite poor weather conditions, the accident site was found later the same day and it was confirmed that both pilots had been killed. The aircraft’s 406 MHz ELT was activated but its damaged antenna meant that no signal was received by the COSPAS-SARSAT system. Based on available meteorological information, it was concluded that the flight would have been very likely to have been climbing in cloud and in icing conditions once above about 5,000 feet QNH. Pilot reports from a number of aircraft which transited the area of the accident aircraft’s last radar return described experiencing “smooth flying conditions with light turbulence […] light rime icing conditions in cloud (and) cloud tops at 14,000 feet”. Satellite coverage at the time showed no significant cumulus or other convective cloud in the area and sensors had not detected any lightning discharges in the area. The aircraft was equipped with manually selected pitot tube and angle of attack vane electrical heating with switching for both only accessible to the Captain and in a position outside the First Officer’s normal field of view. However, the warning light and annunciator panel on the central combing readily visible to both pilots included a green light which illuminated when both these independently selectable heaters were on but there was no alert if only one or the other heater was on apart from the absence of the green light. A number of other potentially relevant factors or context were considered: The loading of the aircraft was considered and although it was within the permitted flight envelope, it was determined that at 180 KTAS, the prevailing centre of gravity would have required that the horizontal