of memory and comprehension, decreased sensory response, and mild lack of muscular coordination”. In respect of the specific task of piloting, it was noted that “alcohol impairs almost all forms of cognitive functioning, including attention, information processing, decision making, and reasoning” and also that “because alcohol impairs new-information processing, problem solving, and abstract thinking, performance suffers most when an unexpected or unanticipated event occurs”. The potential for alcohol to increase the risk of spatial disorientation in pilots was particularly noted. It was noted that a 2006 Australian review aimed at informing the possible introduction of drug and alcohol testing in the aviation industry had “estimated that alcohol abuse and dependence affects approximately 5%-8% of all pilots, similar to the proportions in other professional occupations such as law and medicine”. Finally, it was also noted that whilst there was no supporting evidence to indicate that the Captain may have been suicidal, there was also no evidence that could readily discount this possibility. The formally stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: For unknown reasons, the aircraft descended in the direction of flight at high speed until it exceeded its structural limits, leading to an in-flight breakup.. Based on the Captain’s blood alcohol content, alcohol intoxication almost certainly played a role in the events leading up to the accident.. The formally stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If cockpit or data recordings are not available to an investigation, the identification and communication of safety deficiencies to advance transportation safety may be precluded.. If Canadian Aviation Regulations Subpart 703 operators are not required to have a Transport Canada–approved safety management system, which is assessed on a regular basis, there is a risk that those companies will not have the necessary processes in place to manage safety effectively.. If safety issues, such as concerns related to drug or alcohol abuse, are not reported formally through a company’s safety reporting system, there is a risk that hazards will not be managed effectively.. Transport Canada’s Handbook for Civil Aviation Medical Examiners (TP 13312) does not address the complete range of conditions that may be affected by drug or alcohol dependence. As a result, there is an increased risk that undisclosed cases of drug or alcohol dependence in commercial aviation will go undetected, placing the travelling public at risk.. If there is no regulated drug and alcohol testing requirement in place to reduce the risk of impairment of persons while engaged in safety-sensitive functions, employees may undertake these duties while impaired, posing a risk to public safety.. Safety Action' taken by Carson Air as a result of the accident and known to the Investigation included: the introduction of a Company drug and alcohol awareness campaign and implementation of policies for dealing with suspected substance abuse.. the amendment of Company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to increase the period during which all company employees must abstain from alcohol from the regulatory minimum of 8 hours to 12 hours.. the implementation of an improved