stabilizer trim was in a position close to the nose-down limit.. It was determined that both pilots were wearing their shoulder harnesses and noted that this would have had the effect of preventing either pilot from exerting a significant forward force on their control column had they fallen on it while incapacitated or unconscious. It was concluded that such a force as would have been exerted in such circumstances would have been quite capable of being overcome by the other pilot using his own control column.. The accident aircraft was not equipped with an autopilot, nor was there any regulatory requirement for this.. No evidence was found that could suggest that the performance of either pilot was affected by fatigue.. Carson Air was not required to provide CRM training or have an SMS. It did voluntarily provide CRM training for new hire pilots and had voluntarily implemented an SMS but neither had been evaluated by the regulator nor was this required.. Operational Control of flights at Carson Air involved “authority over the formulation, execution and amendment of an operational flight plan being delegated by the company Operations Manager to the pilot-in-command” with the effect that “flights are self-dispatched and released by each flight’s Captain”.. Post-mortem examinations and toxicological screening were conducted on both pilots. These did not yield anything relevant in respect of the First Officer but did do so in respect of the Captain. His post-mortem toxicological screening revealed the presence of ethyl alcohol in his system at a Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) of 0.24%, a level which, in conjunction with other measurements, indicated that he had “likely consumed alcohol over a period of several hours, until shortly before the flight’s departure”. The autopsy found signs of “severe coronary artery atherosclerosis” and evidence of both steatosis and hepatitis in his liver. It was considered that the collective finding of these conditions in a person of the Captain’s age “suggested excessive alcohol consumption over a significant period”. However, none of his routine periodic medical examinations - the most recent was 10 months prior to the accident - had identified any issues related to alcohol abuse. Enquiries then found that “a number of company employees had suspicions, and some had voiced concerns with colleagues, that the Captain had a drinking problem”. On at least one occasion, it was stated that a Carson Air employee had told a supervisor that he had smelled alcohol on the captain’s breath but since the supervisor concerned did not also detect such a smell, the matter was not pursued further and instead, it was decided to “monitor the situation”. The Investigation noted that physical dependence on alcohol involves functional tolerance to its effects which results in chronic heavy drinkers often showing few obvious signs of intoxication, even at a much higher BAC than the 0.24% found. However, the effects on performance at the 0.24% BAC detected would still include, to a greater or lesser degree in an individual case “emotional instability, loss of critical judgment, impairment