An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The aircraft was not equipped with a CVR or an FDR and neither was a regulatory requirement. Having expressed concern after conducting previous investigations at the difficulties which the lack of these devices presents and having made a corresponding Safety Recommendation to the Canadian Regulator in 2013, it was noted that after 5 years it was still “unclear when or how the safety deficiency identified […] will be addressed”. Note: Subsequent to the publication of this Report, the TSB completed their investigation into a 2016 fatal accident to a Cessna 500 during which they were unable to determine why it crashed for similar reasons, namely the absence of any crash-protected flight recorder. The lack of any corresponding requirement for them in some classes of both commercially and privately operated aircraft led to Safety Recommendation (A18-01) that they should be required being made. It was found that both pilots held CPLs. The 34 year-old Captain, who the available evidence indicated had been PF for the accident flight, had a total of 2,885 flying hours which included 1,890 hours on type. He had been employed by Carson Air as a First Officer two years prior to the accident and in December 2014 had been promoted to Captain, although with less than a week in this role, it was found that “another company pilot reported an incident in which he had had to take control from the Captain” and a performance review was instigated. This had included a day of operational flying with Check/Training Captain and had been closed off after an assessment that he was “effective, competent, or highly effective in most evaluated categories (with) no areas of concern with his performance identified”. The recently employed First Officer had completed his type conversion training three weeks prior to the accident and his 1,430 total flying hours included just 57 hours on type. It was noted that both the Captain and First Officer were observed on report for their duty at Vancouver, their operating base, to have respectively “appeared to be in a positive state of mind” and “be in good spirits”. In particular, no abnormal behaviour by the Captain was observed by anyone with whom he had contact. After a weekend off, the crew’s Monday morning duty involved operating a cargo flight from Vancouver to Fort St. John, with stops at Prince George and Dawson Creek, a total distance of approximately 360 nm. The First Officer had arrived about 15 minutes prior to the Captain. After the crew had boarded the aircraft, carried out pre-flight checks and loaded the cargo themselves, the engines were started half an hour after the Captain had arrived at crew report and a little over 15 minutes later, ATC observed a normal takeoff. After contacting Vancouver Terminal Departure Control, the flight was cleared to climb to 9,000 feet QNH on a northerly heading. A frequency change to Vancouver ACC followed and as the aircraft climbed through 7,500 feet