the upper ECAM display.. Aircraft equipped with an electromechanical standby horizon and not provisioned with the ISIS wiring configuration have a single power supply to the standby horizon, from the DC ESS bus. If this incident had occurred to such an aircraft, the standby horizon would have been unpowered and become unusable after approximately five minutes.. The A318/A319/A320/A321 MMEL allows the aircraft to be dispatched with the lower ECAM display inoperative. In this case, it was the only display available and presented the list of actions, which enabled the crew to recover most of the failed systems.. Trials showed that in night conditions, there may be insufficient light available to see the standby instruments following the loss of the left electrical network, particularly if the cockpit dome light is off.. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation in respect of the response to the occurrence and the organisational context of that response included: The flight crew had not received any formal training on how to operate A320-family aircraft by sole reference to the standby instruments.. The commander did not record the full details of the incident in the aircraft technical log, however he did record this information on the Air Safety Report which he filed.. The information contained in the ASR raised by the commander should also have been reflected in the aircraft technical log. The technical log did not contain important details of the incident; as a result it reflected only minor defects which were rectified without appreciation of the importance of the serious incident which had occurred.. The faxed copies of the Air Safety Report raised by the commander were not received by the airline’s Flight Operations Safety Department, or the department responsible for entering the incident data on to the electronic safety management database. As a result of this and of the minimal information contained in the Technical Log, the significance of the incident was not fully understood until the original copy of the ASR arrived in the post at London Heathrow.. The engineer in Budapest (who was not an employee of the airline), did not investigate the symptoms of the incident which were reported to him verbally by the commander and which were also recorded in the Air Safety Report.. Conclusions drawn after analysis of the recorded flight data were as follows: Airbus found a failure mode by which the co-pilot’s ND and PFD could have been switched from the functional DMC2 to the failed DMC3 whilst leaving the lower ECAM linked to DMC2, however, no link has been found between this failure mode and the failure of power on the aircraft.. Because the mechanism by which the power failure on the Captain’s side resulted in the additional loss of the Co-pilot’s instruments is not known, it cannot have been considered when analysing failure modes for compliance with requirements.. The system BITE designs have been improved to better capture this type of failure. BITE is not recorded by the FDR. Detailed evidence may be lost in the