should the AC ESS bus, and therefore all DUs be lost”] that the aircraft manufacturer, Airbus, should identify those aircraft with the single power supply to the standby artificial horizon and advise the operators of the potential implications of this configuration. [2006-053]. [It was noted that Airbus had since advised operators that “for aircraft without the ISIS wiring configuration to the standby instruments, the standby horizon may be unusable after five minutes if the DC ESS bus is lost”] that the aircraft manufacturer, Airbus, revises the information about the power sources for the standby artificial horizon provided in Flight Crew Operating Manuals for the A320-series aircraft to reflect the actual status of the aircraft to which they apply. [2006-054]. [It was noted that Airbus had since updated the A320 series FCOM to reflect the different power supply configurations for the standby horizon.] Upon completion of the Investigation, nine further Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Authority should, in consultation with other National Airworthiness Authorities outside Europe, consider requiring training for flight by sole reference to standby instruments for pilots during initial and recurrent training courses. [2007-062]. that Airbus should introduce a modification for A320 family of aircraft which have the pre-ISIS wiring configuration for the standby instruments, in order to provide a back-up power supply which is independent of the aircraft’s normal electrical power generation systems. [2007-063]. [In publishing this Recommendation, it was noted that since the issue of Special Bulletin 3/2006, “Airbus has advised that a modification which provides an automatic reconfiguration of the power supply to the AC ESS bus in the event of AC 1 bus failure had been issued which “largely satisfies the intent of” this Recommendation.] that the European Aviation Safety Agency should mandate either Airbus Service Bulletin SB A320-24-1120 or the provision of a back-up power supply for the standby horizon which is independent of the aircraft’s normal electrical power generation systems, on A320 family aircraft. [2007-064]. that in order to ensure that the standby instruments on A320 family aircraft remain adequately illuminated following the loss of the left electrical network, Airbus should introduce a modification to provide a power supply for the standby instrument integral lighting which is independent of the aircraft’s normal electrical power generating systems. [2007-065]. [In publishing this Recommendation, it was noted that in response to an earlier draft of it Airbus had issued modifications which would ensure provision of a backup supply to the cockpit floodlight above the standby instruments]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency should mandate the provision of a power supply for the standby instrument integral lighting which is independent of the aircraft’s normal electrical power generating systems, on A320 family aircraft. [2007-066]. that Airbus should conduct a study into the feasibility of automating the reconfiguration of the power supply to the AC Essential bus, in order to reduce the time taken to recover important aircraft systems on A320 family aircraft following the loss of the left electrical network. [2007-067]. [In