The Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB) only became aware of the event six days after it had occurred through the UK CAA MOR Scheme. Once the significance of the occurrence had been recognised, an Inspector’s Investigation had been commenced. It was established that the major electrical failure had occurred without prior warning and with AP and A/T engaged and with the aircraft commander acting as PF. It resulted in the loss or degradation of a number of important aircraft systems including, according to the crew, the blanking of the PFDs and NDs at both pilot positions and the upper Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) display. Uncommanded disconnect of the AP and A/T occurred and it was reported that the No 1 VHF radio and the crew intercom became inoperative and most of the flight deck lighting went out. It was reported that the passenger cabin lighting had gone out “momentarily” and that the emergency lights had come on. There were several other concurrent but more minor failures. The PF had maintained control of the aircraft by reference to the visible night horizon and the standby instruments, although the latter were reported to have been difficult to see in the poor light. The First Officer had actioned the abnormal checklist actions which appeared on the remaining (lower) ECAM display, which was the only Electronic Flight Instrument System display still functioning. It was reported that most of the affected systems had been restored after approximately 90 seconds, following the selection by the First Officer of the AC Essential Feed switch to ‘Alternate’. Two Special Bulletins S2/2005 and S3/2006 were published during the course of the Investigation in November 2005 and April 2006 respectively. After an in depth Investigation of the electrical systems on the aircraft type, the formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation in respect of the loss of airworthiness were that: The aircraft suffered the loss of the left electrical network, for reasons which could not be established. A possible explanation is the detection of a false DP2 condition by the No 1 Generator Control Unit, but this could not be confirmed.. The loss of the left electrical network caused various systems powered by the left network to either cease operating, or become degraded. These systems included, most notably, the autopilot, the autothrust system, the Captain’s and Co-pilot’s Primary Flight and Navigation Displays, the upper ECAM display, most of the cockpit lighting, including the integral lighting to the instruments and standby instruments, the VHF 1 and VHF 2 radios and the ATC 1 transponder.. The majority of the aircraft systems were recovered after approximately 90 seconds, after selection of the AC ESS FEED switch, in accordance with the ECAM procedure. AC BUS 1 was recovered after approximately 135 seconds, by cycling of the No 1 generator switch.. This and other similar incidents show that there is at least one unforeseen failure mode on A320 family aircraft, which can cause the simultaneous loss of the captain and co-pilots electronic flight instruments and