event of an accident caused by the failures involved in this incident.. The display behaviour was not apparent from the recorded data. Only the crew observations revealed the extent of the problem. This evidence may be lost in the event of an accident.. A crash-protected image recording of the instruments would have provided more detail to this investigation and provided crucial evidence that may otherwise have been missing had crew observations not been available.. It was not possible to determine the origin of the investigated Serious Incident due to a lack of available evidence but upon completion of the Investigation the following Causal Factors were identified: The aircraft suffered the loss of the left electrical network, resulting in loss of the captain’s PFD and ND, and the upper ECAM display, for reasons which could not be determined.. A co-incident failure caused the co-pilot’s Primary Flight Display and Navigation Display to blank or become severely degraded, at the same time as the loss of the left electrical network. The origin of the co-incident failure could not be identified.. The following four Safety Recommendations were made during the course of the Investigation and published in April 2006 in Special Bulletin 3/2006: that the aircraft manufacturer, Airbus, reviews the existing ECAM actions for the A320‑series aircraft, given the possibility of the simultaneous in-flight loss of the commander’s and co‑pilot’s primary flight and navigation displays. They should consider whether the priority of the items displayed on the ECAM should be altered, to enable the displays to be recovered as quickly as possible and subsequently issue operators with a revised procedure if necessary. [2006-051]. [It was noted that Airbus had concluded that it would not be acceptable to change the priority of the ECAM action items for a number of (stated) reasons.] that the aircraft manufacturer, Airbus, should review the A320-series aircraft Master Minimum Equipment List Chapter 31, INDICATING/RECORDING SYSTEMS and reconsider whether it is acceptable to allow the ECAM lower display unit to be unserviceable. They should amend the requirement, as necessary, to take account of the possibility of the simultaneous in-flight loss of both the commander’s and co-pilot’s primary flight and navigation displays and the ECAM upper display. [2006-052]. [It was noted that Airbus had subsequently reviewed the content of the A320 series MMEL in respect of dispatch with the lower ECAM display inoperative and updated it to include the condition that an operational test of the AC Essential bus transfer function and indication must be performed once per day if the lower ECAM is inoperative. However, the AAIB noted that the Recommendation had been made “to ensure that the operating crew would always have information presented on ECAM as to the actions required to recover the systems should a similar event occur” which had not been addressed by the Airbus response and were then advised that Airbus proposed to further amend the A320 series MMEL in respect of dispatch with the lower ECAM inoperative “to remind crews of the necessary recovery action