that the Cause of the accident was “an unexpected loss of both engines’ thrust during a go-around manoeuvre commenced after a massive bird strike which prevented the flight crew from performing a successful go around and led to the aircraft’s uncontrolled runway contact”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: the inadequate effectiveness of bird control and dispersal measures put in place by the airport operator at the time of the accident. the Captain’s decision to perform a go around when the aircraft was approximately 7 seconds from touchdown, which was significantly influenced by: the lack of instructions to flight crew concerning the most suitable procedures to adopt in the case of single or multiple bird strikes in the landing phase the absence of specific training in the management of “surprise” and “startle” effects in critical phases of the flight by the flight crew.. the lack of instructions to flight crew concerning the most suitable procedures to adopt in the case of single or multiple bird strikes in the landing phase. the absence of specific training in the management of “surprise” and “startle” effects in critical phases of the flight by the flight crew.. Safety Action taken in response to the accident and the safety issues it highlighted was noted as having included, but not been limited to, the following: Boeing have introduced a “recommended technique” referred to the case of bird strike, providing both prevention strategies and guidelines concerning the actions to be implemented by the flight crew in case of bird impact in take-off or landing phases.. Ryanair have developed specific training for bird encounters and bird strike events during take-off and landing.. Ciampino Airport have improved their Bird Strike Risk Management processes although they are still heavily reliant on scheduled inspections.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the EASA and the FAA should provide flight crews with guidelines and/or operational and training procedures based on a careful assessment of the risks associated with the conduct of the aircraft in approach in case of birds encounter or single/multiple bird strikes. These guidelines should include the following topics: a discussion of bird strike risks during take-off and approach briefings when operating at airports with known or expected bird activity in the case of single/multiple bird strikes in the final approach phase, if landing is assured, it is preferable to land maintaining the lowest engine power setting possible rather than carrying out a go-around procedure (in case of birds ingestion, especially a massive one, the engines damages can be greater at high engine rpm, the latter typical of a go-around manoeuvre) to consider that engine damage or malfunction might prevent a go-around manoeuvre from being completed safely and the consequent impossibility of landing on the runway. [ANSV-12/1525-08/1/A/8]. a discussion of bird strike risks during take-off and approach briefings when operating at airports with known or expected bird activity. in the case of single/multiple bird strikes in the final approach phase, if landing is