of the aircraft, there were “numerous and solid organic residues and bird feathers on both stator and rotor blades of the engine fans”, and about 120 bird carcasses were found amongst the approach lighting system about 100 metres prior to the runway 15 threshold. The sole bird species involved was confirmed as Starlings, of which there is a large resident local population. A routine inspection of the airport manoeuvring areas by the Bird Control Unit completed an hour prior to the accident was found to have recorded “no presence of birds”. A similar inspection around sunset the previous day was noted to have recorded the presence of about 1300 starlings which were dispersed using “35 gun salvoes” without the subsequent recovery of any bird carcasses. The Investigation undertook a comprehensive review of published generic guidance on the avoidance of and response to bird strikes, including a 2011 Boeing-authored review, a 2004 Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Note and a relevant SKYbrary Guidance article. The following summary conclusions were drawn by the Investigation from this review: the full extent of the damage to an aircraft, and particularly the engines, might not be apparent until it is decided to apply power;. after a missed approach manoeuvre, the pilot could be in a situation where the runway is disappearing beneath the aircraft’s nose and, at the same time, the aircraft is not in a condition to fly;. at an engine rpm typical of the approach phase, the damage can most probably be confined to engine fans and does not affect the cores;. the high engine rpm resulting from a missed approach manoeuvre while penetrating a flock of birds could increase the chances of engine damage and consequent loss of thrust.. The absence at the time of the accident of any EASA, aircraft manufacturer or aircraft operator guidance to pilots in the event of a significant bird strike on short final and the lack of sufficient time to conduct an unguided ad hoc evaluation of risk in such a situation were both noted, as was the contrast with the routine review of risk prior to any takeoff. However, it was also noted that the Captain’s initial audible response to his sudden sighting of an extensive and dense flock of birds had been a series of non-specific exclamations rather than the preferable call of birds sighted in a specific position relative to the aircraft, which would have been more helpful to the PF. The potential for some pilots to be vulnerable to startle effect in the event of the sudden onset of an unexpected and potentially hazardous situation was recognised, as was the conclusion drawn from other previously-completed investigations that current pilot training does not always promote and assess the capacity to react to the unexpected. It was found that at the time of the accident, there were no training aircraft manufacturer guidelines aimed at managing and mitigating the surprise /startle effects which it was considered had influenced the actions of the Captain. It was concluded