landing gear was not raised. Having corrected a slight loss of alignment with the runway, which it was suspected had resulted from a slight asymmetry in engine thrust as the go around attempt had been initiated, the Captain reported having recognised that it ought to be possible to get the aircraft onto the runway. However, with the lack of thrust and continued pitch up, two EGPWS SINK RATE calls in quick succession were followed after two seconds by stick shaker activation and entry into an aerodynamic stall with the AoA reaching 21° at 21 feet agl. One second later, the aircraft hit the ground partly on the runway and partly off it about halfway along its 2207 metre length with a recorded 2.66g vertical acceleration. Initial ground impact was made by the lower part of the fuselage tail and the left main landing gear on the paved surface followed by the right main landing gear contacting the grass adjacent to the right-hand edge of the runway. Initial contact occurred at a forward speed of 121 KCAS, a pitch attitude of about + 10° and a roll attitude of -6°. Almost immediately, the left main landing gear collapsed, and the left engine nacelle came into contact with the runway. The aircraft came to a stop 28 seconds after impact approximately 50 metres from the end of the runway having been aided by spoiler deployment, left engine reverse thrust and right-hand brakes and having fully regained the paved surface. A MAYDAY was declared by the First Officer and acknowledged by TWR soon after the aircraft stopped. After the Airport Fire Service had attended and discharged fire-retardant foam on those parts of the aircraft which were in contact with the runway, the Captain elected to disembark all occupants using a ladder truck positioned at the R1 door and use of the R2 (rearmost) door emergency slide. No injuries were recorded as sustained during this non-standard but non-emergency disembarkation. No prior ATC warning of bird activity in the vicinity of the airport had been given directly to the flight or otherwise included in the ATIS. The TWR controller subsequently stated that “whilst the aircraft was overflying the Airport Lighting System for RWY 15, a dense flock of birds took flight from the trees close to the flight path in particular from the east of it before colliding with the aircraft as it was on very short final approach”. He described the aircraft as then taking a nose-up attitude as if the pilot had decided to make a go around, at which time engine noise increased, with a quick succession of “dull knocks” and “bursts of flame” coming from both engines at the same time. He had then seen the aircraft gain height slightly but immediately afterward pitch down and yaw to the right as it continued to descend to the ground over the runway. Similar accounts were given by other qualified witnesses. A total of 86 bird impact points were identified on various parts