An Investigation was carried out by the Italian ANSV. The available evidence included data successfully downloaded from the FDR and CVR, recorded ATC data and relevant airport procedural documentation as well as interviews with the Captain and statements given by the First Officer, the pilots of two aircraft which witnessed the event and the TWR controller. It was found that the 44-year-old Captain was a Belgian National with 9883 total flying hours, which included 6045 hours on type, who had been employed by Ryanair as a Captain for “about 3 years”. It was noted that although he was qualified as a 737 type rating instructor, he was not employed in any training capacity at the airline. The 23-year-old First Officer was a Dutch National who had obtained his CPL (commercial pilot licence) seven months prior to the accident and had a total of 600 total flying hours of which 400 hours were on type. It was established from the available recorded evidence that, with the First Officer as PF, the crew had briefed for and flown an ILS approach to runway 15 at Ciampino in benign weather which included very light surface winds and CAVOK conditions. This approach was flown for the development and maintenance of pilot skills as permitted by the Operator and at the suggestion of the Captain that day in ‘raw data’ mode. This was initiated as the aircraft passed 16,800 feet in the descent to destination by disconnecting the AP, A/T and FD. The aircraft was established on the ILS localiser at 10 nm from touchdown and fully established at 8.5 nm and cleared to land. As it passed 500 feet agl, the approach was stabilised as required in accordance with the prevailing criteria. Twenty seconds after passing the ILS DH of 379 feet agl, and at a recorded height of between 136 feet and 112 feet agl with about 100 metres and one second to go until reaching the landing runway threshold, the Captain had responded with surprise to a sighting of the flock of birds ahead and on the flight path and had almost simultaneously called “Go around”, repeating this call three times until TO/GA was selected, at which exact point the bird impact was found to have occurred. Both engines stalled as the First Officer attempted to commence the go around by pitching up to 15° to meet the FD symbol which had appeared when the TO/GA switch was pressed, engine N1 dropped from 63% to around 40% instead of increasing. The aircraft reached 173 feet agl over the next 10 seconds and as it did so, the First Officer called for flaps to 15. The Captain actually selected 10° in error (the relevant procedure specifies 15°, a position protected by a detent in the selector guide which was inadvertently overridden) which was attributed by the Investigation to startle effect) and then immediately took over as PF without any corresponding communication taking place. In the absence of a positive rate of climb, the