From an aviation regulatory perspective, birds are divided into three categories; classified as large, medium and small birds. These bird categories are used to describe the various certification criteria for airframe and engines. Recently many researchers have raised their concern that past airworthiness standards have been outpaced by changes in bird population and species (avifauna). Climatological and other environmental changes affect bird populations and their biological behaviour. This change is not reflected throughout aircraft certification requirements. To this end, large bird certification requirements have recently been extended to include provision for large flocking bird tests, in order to take into account recent concerns about changes in the European avifauna. Bird strike certification requirements appear to have been reactive to past occurrences, however new occurrences have shown that there are particular areas of concern, such as: In several occurrences aircraft fuel tanks have been penetrated resulting in fuel leakage. Apart from the general 1.8 kg bird weight requirement, there are no particular certification requirements for fuel tanks and this issue needs to be assessed. There are no bird strike related certification requirements for light non-commuter aircraft and light helicopters although this category of aircraft is most likely to operate continuously under 8,000ft amsl where almost all bird strikes occur. The high proportion of accidents involving slow moving aircraft (turboprop aircraft and helicopters) resulting in damage to the windshield may also justify a review of the bird strike requirements for light aircraft. The EASA Final Report on 'Bird Strike Damage and Windshield Bird Strike (2009)', accessible under Further Reading, highlights that the "lack of any bird strike requirements for small rotorcraft has been identified from research and analysis of accidents as a safety issue. In particular, a lack of windshield bird strike protection capability was seen as the focal area for regulatory enhancement". Due to their high speed, certification requirements for Very Light Jets follow those of commuter light aircraft requiring the windshield to be able to withstand a strike with a bird of a mass at least 0.9 kg (2lb) at maximum approach flap speed. This requirement was insisted upon by EASA and the related Certification Review Item.