area and route forecasts, heights are AMSL or standard pressure altitudes. Selection of cloud layers reported is made as follows: The lowest Layer;. The next lowest layer of SCT or more;. The next higher layer of BKN or more;. Significant convective cloud (CB or TCU) if not already reported.. Sky obscured is given as VV followed by the vertical visibility in hundreds of feet. When the vertical visibility has not been measured, the group will be VV///. When there are no clouds of operational significance to report, no CB or TCU and CAVOK is not appropriate, the abbreviation NSC (No Significant Cloud) is used. CAVOK The Visibility, Cloud, and Weather groups are replaced by the term CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) when the following conditions exist simultaneously: Visibility is 10km or more.. No CB or TCU and no cloud below 5000 feet or Minimum Sector Altitude (MSA) (whichever is the greater).. No significant weather at or in the vicinity of the aerodrome.. Temperature Air temperature and dewpoint are reported in whole degrees Celsius, e.g. 10/07 = Temperature 10°C/ Dew point 7°C. QNH QNH is stated to the nearest whole hectopascal (equivalent to a millibar) rounded down and preceded by the letter Q e.g. Q1013 = QNH 1013 Hectopascals. Recent Weather Significant recent weather observed in the period since the last routine observation will be reported by using the code letters for weather preceded by the letters RE e.g. RETS = Recent Thunderstorm. Wind Shear In a METAR, civil aerodromes may include wind shear if reported along the take off or approach paths in the lowest 1600 ft with reference to the runway. WS is used to begin the group, e.g. WS TKOF RWY20. If the wind shear is affecting all runways, WS ALL RWY is reported. Aerodrome Colour State UK military and USAFE aerodromes will include the abbreviated colour state at the end of the message and ad the forecast colour state after the TREND. Runway State Group (RSG) NOTE: The RSG is omited from the METAR since the introduction of the new SNOWTAM format in 2021. However, this information is still included in some states (e.g. Russia). An 8-figure group which may be added to METAR from civil aerodromes. Runway designator (first two digits). Runway Deposits (third digit). Extent of runway contamination (fourth digit). Depth of Deposit. the quoted depth is the mean of a number of readings or, if operationally significant, the greatest depth measured. Friction Coefficient or Braking Action (seventh and eighth digits). The mean value is transmitted or, if operationally significant, the lowest value, e.g.: Note: If contamination conditions cease to exist, the abbreviation CLRD is used, e.g. TREND TREND forecasts are indicated by BECMG (Becoming) or TEMPO (temporary) which may be followed by a time group (hours and minutes UTC) preceded by one of the letter indicated FM (from), TL (until), AT (at) e.g. BECMG FM1030 TL1130 NOSIG replaces the TREND group when no significant changes are forecast to occur during the 2 hour forecast