After a delay, notification of the event was received by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) and an Investigation was carried out. The notification delay meant that no useful recorded flight data was available from the aircraft CVR or FDR. It was noted that the flight crew, the only persons on board, consisted of a 43 year-old Captain with a total of 7,920 hours flying experience of which all but 200 hours were on type and a 33 year-old First Officer with a total of 409 hours flying experience of which 176 hours had been on the ATR42/72 since joining Swiftair. The flight had originated in Ibiza and, after being on the ground at Palma for an hour during which cargo was loaded, departed for its final destination, Madrid, from runway 24R. On arrival, the crew stated that they had been unaware of problems at any time during the 90 minute flight including whilst taxiing in after landing on runway 32R half an hour before midnight. Whilst the main finding post flight was the missing tyre tread (see the illustration below), the wheel itself, a flexible hose from the main landing gear actuator, the wheel-speed transfer assembly, the left main landing gear folding door and an inspection panel had also been damaged. The failed tyre minus its tread. [Reproduced from the Official Report] When no evidence of any tyre debris was found during the search at Madrid, it was agreed with Swiftair that they would advise the authorities at Palma of the situation although this did not then happen which was a matter of concern for the Investigation. Between the departure of the flight from Palma and the departure of the next morning which reported debris, five flights departed from the same runway but none reported noticing any FOD on it. Two routine inspections of the 3,280 metres long runway 24R were carried out at Palma between the takeoff of the Swiftair ATR72 at 2215 LT and the takeoff of the flight which reported seeing debris the following morning at 0800 LT - between 2300L and 2315L by one technician and around sunrise the following morning between 0727 and 0735 by two technicians. No FOD was observed on either of them. The view was expressed by the Palma Wildlife Control Service that “similarity between the tyre colour and the asphalt runway surface made it difficult for the inspection to spot debris on the runway at night”. Following the report of debris seen by the 0800 departure, the TWR controller requested an unscheduled inspection of runway 24R which took place between 0815 and 0824 and found debris between N3 and N5. Between 30% and 40% of the detached tread was recovered but no non-wheel debris was found. The failure of both scheduled runway inspections to find any FOD was a further matter of concern. During the Investigation, the Palma airport authorities carried out trials to see whether their personnel were able to find various objects, but