despite knowing for sure that objects were there, not all were located. It was concluded that the visual inspection methods are not a reliable way to ensure small objects will be detected, even in daylight. However, although difficult to detect, the sort of small metallic objects most likely to be hazardous account for only a small percentage of all the FOD found on runways and in 80% of cases there are no consequences for aircraft safety. Once it was clear that tyre failure had occurred during departure, the Investigation sought to establish why this had happened. A detailed analysis of the fragments identified the presence of a cut in the tread “whose origin was compatible with the tyre having rolled over a foreign object, initially puncturing the tread and subsequently causing it to detach completely”. It was considered the failure to recover any such causal foreign object from the runway did not rule out the possibility that this may have caused the tyre to fail since tyres may not necessarily fail immediately after puncture due to the circumstances of the event such as impact energy, depth of perforation and the profile characteristics of the FOD since these are the factors which determine whether any internal damage is sustained and if so how long tyre integrity will be maintained. In some previous cases, it was noted that tyre failure may not occur until after several landings and takeoffs after damage is caused. Signs of a possible FOD origin for the tyre failure/ [Reproduced from the Official Report] The history of the wheel and tyre was reviewed. The failed tyre had undergone its first retread in November 2019 and the wheel-rim assembly had accumulated 309 flight cycles and 489 hours since installation. No evidence was found to suggest that the wheel and its tyre had not been fully serviceable prior to the taxi out and takeoff from Palma. The Probable Cause of the investigated event was formally documented as “the perforation of tyre number 2 on the left main gear by an external object (FOD), which caused the tread to detach”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: that AENA, as the provider of the Runway and Apron Service at Palma de Mallorca Airport, study the possibility of improving the detection of FOD on the runway. [REC08/21]. that Swiftair implement the measures necessary to ensure that all incidents are monitored through to closure. [REC09/21]. The Final Report of the Investigation was approved on 30 March 2022 and subsequently published simultaneously in both the definitive Spanish language version and in an English language translation on 13 June 2022.