An Investigation was commenced by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB) on 3 October after the handling of the Investigation had been delegated to the Board by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et Analyses (BEA). The SAIB was subsequently replaced by the new Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). Because of the delay in commencement of the Investigation both the DFDR and the CVR "had already been overwritten and were no longer available". Also, records available from the operator did not include data from the QAR. It was noted that the flight crew consisted of a Commander with 10,145 total flying hours including 4765 on the incident type and total of 418 in command (all types) accompanied by a First Officer with 1622 hours total flying experience most of it on the incident type. It was established that prior to departure from Zurich, the No.1 (left hand) pneumatic system had been de-activated and the aircraft released to service in accordance with the MEL. The flight crew had noted that the QRH stated that in the event of a fault subsequently also occurring in the No.2 pneumatic system, the applicable ECAM procedure should not be used and instead a procedure published in an Airbus OEB should be used. They concluded that they did not need to change either fuel load or cruise altitude and that the flight could therefore be undertaken as planned. Shortly after reaching the planned cruise level of FL370 and during a period of only four minutes on their first Marseille frequency before being instructed to change to a different one, both pilots reported having detected a pressure change in their ears and observed that cabin altitude was rising at approximately 1700 fpm and the engine 2 bleed air valve was indicating closed. The alert AIR ENG 2 BLEED FAULT appeared on the ECAM soon afterwards. The PM (the Captain) referred to the OEB procedure but found that it was not appropriate to the situation and decided to initiate a descent, which was requested (without any reason being given) immediately after checking in with the new frequency - Marseille sector M123. However, this request was ignored and a 'direct to' clearance given instead. After waiting for an exchange with another aircraft, a repeat of the request to descend was replied to with "Swiss 2140 descend level" which again followed by a transmission to another aircraft. As soon as the frequency cleared, the crew transmitted a 'PAN PAN' message requesting descent which received the response to descend FL350 initially. The crew then stated the reason for requesting descent but received only the response "Roger" which prompted the crew to ask the question "Did you copy the PAN Swiss 2140?" to which the controller responded promptly with "Swiss 2140, call you back". Not wanting to delay further decent, the crew tried again with "Did you copy my PAN PAN Miss, Swiss 2140?" but as the controller responded with "Say again your request", a further crew call "Swiss 2140 PAN PAN, PAN