impeded the investigation of it was noted to be expressly contrary to the guide in the OM Part A as to when these are to be submitted which was found to include the following two cases: Use of incorrect data or erroneous entries into equipment used for navigation or performance calculations which has or could have endangered the aeroplane, its occupants or any other person.. Inability to achieve required or expected performance during takeoff, go-around or landing.. The failure of the OFDM process to recognise that the data from the flight represented the occurrence of a potentially very serious (and externally reportable) event was attributed by the operator to an error during the initial screening of all OFDM data. This indicated that the procedure used was incapable of the timely detection of the use of incorrect takeoff performance data which had created significant operational safety risk. The haste with which the change of runway access was accepted and actioned, given the fact that the flight was a first line training sector overseen by a Training Captain new to the task assisted by a Safety Pilot who was on his first experience of the role was conducive to error. The fact that the Captain quickly confirmed to ATC that they could accept an intersection takeoff from N4 whilst taxiing continued and before obtaining the necessary new takeoff performance data had the effect of “precluding any risk evaluation by the crew”. It was noted that the operator’s procedures “did not require the aircraft to be stopped for checking and inserting revised takeoff data”. Overall, it was concluded that the Captain had prioritised the minimisation of delay over the “First Officer’s learning experience” in respect of how a crew should execute operational tasks in order to achieve the “safe and resilient operation of a flight”. The Investigation led to the discovery that the event disclosed was by no means an isolated one at the operator. Although other events around the same time had not involved line training sectors, they all had similar origins and although ASRs were submitted in three of the four cases, the operator did not notify the Dutch or State of Occurrence Safety Investigation Authority in two of the four cases. A 2013 takeoff from Oslo by a KLM Boeing 737-800 which only got airborne before the end of the runway because the crew increased the reduced thrust to maximum, made the V1 call 10 knots early and rotated below the bugged speed. Although an ASR was submitted, the operator did not the report the event to either the Norwegian or Dutch Safety Investigation Agencies.. A 2016 takeoff from Entebbe by a KLM Airbus A330-200 was commenced from an intersection using reduced thrust takeoff performance data for the full runway length. Full thrust was selected during the takeoff but the aircraft only became airborne near the end of the runway and the threshold was crossed below the required height. Although an ASR was submitted, the operator did not the report