the event to either the Ugandan or Dutch Safety Investigation Agencies.. A 2019 takeoff from Toulouse by a KLM Boeing 737-800 was commenced from a different intersection than the one providing more runway length but the crew forgot to recalculate the performance data for the new intersection. They then did not increased thrust sufficiently as the runway end neared and became airborne only just before the runway end. An ASR was filed and the event reported to the Dutch Safety Board who investigated it in conjunction with the main event being investigated here after the French Safety Investigation Agency delegated it to them.. A 2021 takeoff from Lisbon by a KLM Boeing 737-800 was commenced from an intersection using performance data for the full length of the runway and the aircraft only became airborne near the end of the runway. No ASR was filed and it was six weeks after the event before it was discovered during routine operational flight data review. The Dutch Safety Board were notified and in turn notified the Portuguese Safety Investigation Agency Authority who carried out an Investigation.. The Investigation noted other similar events and referred to a report on ‘Insufficient thrust setting for take-off’ published by the Dutch Safety Board in 2018. Some broad Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: As other cases involving KLM show, this was not an isolated event, nor a new phenomenon. Although the existence of operational pressure was already signalled in 2017, it still appears to exist.. Although mentioned in the KLM internal report, no actions have been taken to raise awareness of the importance of reporting and of securing flight recorders following a serious incident.. Many similar events have occurred amongst a range of operators but no technical solutions are yet available to prevent this so the solution must be sought in operational measures. Changing takeoff data during taxiing is a critical process and deserves the full and undivided attention of flight crews. Continuing taxiing precludes this, as this and the majority of related incidents have shown.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation as follows: * that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) recommend to operators and their flight crews to allow for a stationary moment when calculating, checking and entering takeoff performance data in case of last minute changes and implement this advice as recommended practice in guidance material, Safety Information Bulletin 2016-02R1 and other safety promotion material.. * that KLM Royal Dutch Airlines implement the following measures to prevent crews from taking off with incorrect takeoff data: Calculate, check and enter changed takeoff performance data only when the aircraft is stationary. Develop a procedure to have flight crews prepare an alternative plan in advance and encourage the use of full thrust for when last minute changes occur. Train flight crews to take action if they suspect that the takeoff roll does not develop as expected; make this training an element of the recurrent training program.. Calculate,