printout to the Captain who “entered the data into the FMC, without further checking the input variables used” which still specified a takeoff commenced from N5 - and consequently produced a reduced thrust setting. The process of obtaining, receiving and entering the new data into the FMC was not monitored by the First Officer. Having changed frequency from GND to TWR whilst taxiing, the flight was cleared to line up on runway 09 at N4 and subsequently to takeoff with an unchanged surface wind check given. The departure runway showing the actual route to N4 and that to the originally expected N5. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the aircraft accelerated, the Captain and the Safety Pilot both reported realising that “they were approaching the runway end very quickly without being airborne” but the Captain made no attempt to increase the thrust setting. Rotation was made at the input speed and QAR data showed that the aircraft became airborne 176 metres before the end of the runway and crossed the threshold at 28 feet agl. The relative positions of the actual V1 and VR to the position of the correct V1/VR and the position relative to the end of the runway where the aircraft became airborne are shown below. The positions of the correct V1/VR relative to the actual takeoff. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was observed that “the (reduced thrust) takeoff performance data used was based on an available runway length that was 1,034 metres longer than the length that was actually available”. This meant that: The aircraft would have been unable to stop on the runway if the takeoff had to be rejected at V1 and that even if the prescribed response had been precisely followed, a 247 metre overrun would have occurred.. In the event of an engine failure after V1, there would have been insufficient runway length remaining to accelerate the aircraft to the minimum V2 speeds.. Once airborne, the aircraft crossed the runway threshold below the minimum height required by safety regulations to prevent collision with terrain or obstacles during the initial climb.. Once safely climbing away, the Captain and the Safety Pilot reportedly “discussed the situation because both had noticed the abnormal takeoff characteristics (and) after checking the takeoff performance calculation, discovered that the performance was based on an Intersection N5 takeoff instead of Intersection N4”. The event was not subsequently reported on an ASR “because the aircraft took off without any problems”. The immediate cause of the event was the error made by the Safety Pilot when entering the ACARS request for takeoff performance data from intersection N4 but the breach of SOPs which led to the use of the incorrect data was the Training Captain’s failure to ensure that the First Officer verified that the new data was correct prior to its entry into the control display unit (CDU) - a specific FCOM requirement. The failure of the Training Captain to raise an ASR recording the event which both delayed and