After being informed of the event three months after it had occurred, the Dutch Safety Board determined that it had been a Serious Incident and opened an Investigation. Because of the failure to promptly report, relevant data on both the FDR and CVR had been overwritten. However, relevant data from the QAR was available. The flight was being used for line training of a new First Officer and was the first flight of the day for the crew. The Training Captain in command had a total of “around 14,000 hours” flying experience, the First Officer undergoing line training, who had been acting as PF for the investigated departure, had a total of “around 1,200 hours” flying experience and the First Officer acting as the observing Safety Pilot had a total of “around 8,000 hours” flying experience. It was noted that the trainee First Officer was on his first line training sector since qualifying on type, the Training Captain was performing his first line training flight and the First Officer acting as Safety Pilot, was acting in that role for the first time. The Training Captain gave a reportedly thorough pre flight briefing which included “explaining the role and duties of the safety pilot”, which in turn included “taking over some of the First Officers tasks if needed”. This turned out to have been essential since the Safety Pilot, who was a qualified instructor pilot on type, subsequently stated that he had initially been confused “because he was unaware whether he had been assigned as safety or buddy pilot (since) according to his roster, he had been shown simply as First Officer, together with another First Officer and the Captain and had initially understood that he should act as First Officer himself with the other First Officer as an observer”. It was noted that the operator’s “document” describing 737 First Officer Line Training procedures referred to the “extra First Officer” who would be rostered for initial line training as both a buddy pilot and a safety pilot for no apparent reason and that rostering practice was to simply show two First Officers for a duty where a ‘Safety Pilot’ was required. The Departure Clearance received specified runway 09 and in accordance with company practice, takeoff performance data was requested by ACARS, initially for intersection N4 but when this was notified as not allowable, this was resubmitted for intersection N5, received and programmed accordingly. Whilst taxing westwards along the runway 09 parallel taxiway towards the (full length) N5 runway access (see the illustration below), ATC asked if the flight could depart from N4 as the prevailing light wind was now more favourable and since the Captain knew from experience that this was possible, the option was accepted. As the Captain was “busy instructing the First Officer”, the Safety Pilot entered the wind velocity provided into the ACARS to obtain new takeoff performance data but did not also specify N4 instead of N5. As taxiing continued, the Safety Pilot passed the received ACARS