Horizontal and/or vertical Wind Shear on take off result in sudden loss of airspeed and/or reduction in climb rate, with potentially disastrous consequences. It is vital that such conditions should be quickly recognised if they are encountered, and that pilot response should be immediate and correct. Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction (ALAR) Briefing Note 5.4 recommends that whenever wind shear conditions are forecast or reported for take off, pilots "should include in their departure briefing the following wind shear awareness items: Assessment of the conditions for a safe takeoff based on: Most recent weather reports and forecasts; Visual observations; and, Crew experience with the airport environment and the prevailing weather conditions; and,. Most recent weather reports and forecasts;. Visual observations; and,. Crew experience with the airport environment and the prevailing weather conditions; and,. Consideration to delaying the takeoff until conditions improve.". "If wind shear conditions are expected," the Briefing Note continues, "the crew should: Select the most favorable runway, considering the location of the likely wind shear/downburst condition;. Select the minimum flaps configuration compatible with takeoff requirements, to maximize climb-gradient capability;. Use the weather radar (or the predictive wind shear system, if available) before beginning the takeoff to ensure that the flight path is clear of hazards;. Select maximum takeoff thrust;. After selecting the takeoff/go-around (TOGA) mode, select the flight-path-vector display for the monitoring pilot (PM/PNF), as available, to obtain a visual reference of the climb flight path angle; and,. Closely monitor the airspeed and airspeed trend during the takeoff roll to detect any evidence of impending wind shear.". The Briefing Note advises that "If wind shear is encountered during the takeoff roll or during initial climb, the following actions should be taken without delay: Before V1: The takeoff should be rejected if unacceptable airspeed variations occur (not exceeding the target V1) and if there is sufficient runway remaining to stop the airplane;. The takeoff should be rejected if unacceptable airspeed variations occur (not exceeding the target V1) and if there is sufficient runway remaining to stop the airplane;. After V1: Disconnect the autothrottles (A/THR), if available, and maintain or set the throttle levers to maximum takeoff thrust; Rotate normally at Vr; and, Follow the FD pitch command if the FD provides wind shear recovery guidance, or set the required pitch attitude (as recommended in the aircraft operating manual (AOM)/quick reference handbook (QRH));. Disconnect the autothrottles (A/THR), if available, and maintain or set the throttle levers to maximum takeoff thrust;. Rotate normally at Vr; and,. Follow the FD pitch command if the FD provides wind shear recovery guidance, or set the required pitch attitude (as recommended in the aircraft operating manual (AOM)/quick reference handbook (QRH));. During initial climb: Disconnect the A/THR, if available, and maintain or set the throttle levers to maximum takeoff thrust; If the autopilot (AP) is engaged and if the FD provides wind shear recovery guidance, keep the AP engaged; or, Follow the FD pitch command, if the FD provides wind shear recovery guidance; or,