The effects of airframe contamination and the potential consequences of failure to properly de-ice prior to takeoff are well documented and are generally well understood within the aviation community. However, the concepts and liabilities of jet engine contamination, inclusive of engine core and fan blade icing, have not had the same degree of exposure and are less well understood. Blowing snow, precipitation, freezing fog, slush and other ground contaminants or airport snow removal operations can all result in the contamination of jet engine intakes and components. The area of the engine that will be affected is dependent upon the origin and type of contaminant, and whether or not the engines are running at the time of exposure. The potential for damage due to ice ingestion is significant but the more subtle effects of airflow disruption due to ice accretion on compressor and fan blades can also result in loss of thrust, engine damage or flameout. The engine anti-ice system, as installed on most types, serves solely to prevent ice build up on the air intake opening of the engine nacelle. It does not prevent ice build up in the primary stages of the engine core (compressor) or on the fan blades. Jet engines are most susceptible to the build up of blade ice in conditions of freezing fog or freezing precipitation while the engine is at or near its minimum rotation speed (ground idle). Compressor and fan blades are aerofoils and, due to the affect that they have on the airflow across them, any ice accretion will normally be found on the back side of the blade. This makes the ice difficult to see during a preflight inspection and also inhibits its removal. Engines cannot be de-iced with glycol based fluids, as is the norm for airframe de-icing, primarily due to the damage that the fluid could cause to the engine and to the potential contamination of the bleed air system. The normal method of de-icing an engine is by using a brush or broom to remove any loose contamination and then warming the affected areas of the engine to melt any ice. This warming may be accomplished by putting the aircraft inside a hanger for a period of time but, more commonly, a directed flow of hot air from an external heat source such as a Herman Nelson unit is used. Applied heat from an external source is much more efficient if purpose made engine inlet and exhaust covers are put in place to retain the warm air within the engine and to keep cold ambient air out. One of the main problems when using external heat sources is the difficulty of controlling the temperature of the airstream and the potential for damaging some engine components. Emerging technologies such as tempered steam are being developed for engine core and fan deicing applications to address this issue. Most engine manufacturers also have a recommended "ice shedding" procedure to be carried out if ice buildup on the fan is suspected during