The following summary of best practices is based on experience and safety occurrences investigations. The suggested actions and measures are not intended to replace or take precedence over local regulations and procedures but could be used in conjunction to prevent runway incursions associated with the use of conditional clearances. The controller should issue a conditional clearance only when there is a reasonable amount of certainty that the flight crew will correctly identify the “conditional” aircraft before accepting the clearance. If the controller has any doubt about this, they should clarify the situation.. The controller should ensure the unique identification of the conflicting traffic. Only one aircraft in the vicinity should match the description. The controller should have visual contact with the “conditional” aircraft to avoid the risk of giving wrong information (e.g. in case a particular flight is being performed by a different operator or for some reason the aircraft livery does not correspond with the operator designator which is part of the conditional clearance).. The controller should exercise extra care when the visual conditions are not optimal (e.g. at night, sunrise, sunset, mist, etc.) as in these cases the correct identification of aircraft may be very difficult.. The conditional clearance should refer to the first aircraft that is supposed to pass in front of the aircraft being cleared. In case of multiple aircraft (e.g. two airplanes on short final) the controller should either wait for an unambiguous situation or make sure the flight crew has correctly understood the full picture to avoid misunderstanding.. Adherence to standard ICAO phraseology (e.g. repetition of the condition after the clearance) would reduce the risk of misinterpretation of the conditional clearance (e.g. considering it as a line-up clearance).. If necessary, amendment to the Manual of operations regarding the use of conditional clearances that takes into account the local aerodrome specifics should be considered.. The flight crew should identify the conflicting aircraft before accepting the conditional clearance. If there is any doubt clarification should be requested before clearance acknowledgment..