An Investigation was carried out by the German Bundesstelle für Flugunfalluntersuchung (Germany) (BFU). The accident aircraft was not fitted with flight recorders - nor it was required to be, but the military authorities made their secondary radar recording available to the Investigation. The private company operating the aircraft specialised in conducting aerial target and test flights for military purposes within Germany and did not - and was not required to - hold an Air Operator Certificate. It was found that the aircraft involved had been the trailing one in a 2-ship formation which had taken off from Neubrandenburg in order to transit to a military exercise area approximately 20 nm south east of the city of Rostock approximately 45 minutes prior to the crash. In accordance with normal practice, only the lead aircraft had been operating its transponder and communicating by R/T but its commander had confirmed to ATC that the aircraft would be remaining within half a mile of each other "most of the time". Both flight crew of the accident aircraft, the 57 year-old commander and a 59 year-old second pilot, were, in line with most of those employed by the Operator, former military pilots. They had 1393 and 2052 hours respectively on type and both had flown between 250 and 300 hours on the type since the beginning of 2012. After a 5 minute transit to the exercise area, the two aircraft began a series of approaches to the vicinity of the anti-aircraft forces on training. On the seventh of these, during the minute prior to the estimated time of the bird strike, the two aircraft were in the process of completing their seventh approach to the location of the personnel on training. The lead aircraft was recorded as having just descended to approximately 250 feet agl and then flying for 15 seconds at that height with a ground speed of approximately 270 knots before climbing to approximately 1800 feet agl in 36 seconds and then descending to 300 feet agl over 15 seconds before climbing away. Evidence from three military eye witnesses indicated that with both aircraft level, the trailing aircraft had turned to climb in the opposite direction to the leader but had then "pulled up briefly, rolled and then crashed". Another witness who had been in the forest area which the aircraft had been flying over had seen the trailing aircraft flying at a low altitude when "about five or six" ospreys, a species known to nest nearby, had flown into the path of the aircraft which hit one bird and then "fell toward the ground until it disappeared behind the forest". Radio conversations between ground stations began immediately and the aircraft controller informed the formation leader about the reports of a crash and asked "…confirm that's a fake?" The formation leader, unaware of anything untoward at that point, tried - unsuccessfully - to establish radio contact and began to search. Seven minutes later, he located the crash site in an open field and