communicated the location. The aircraft had been completely destroyed by impact forces. Subsequent examination of the wreckage and its disposition led to the conclusion that part of an osprey carcase found in the vicinity and weighing 1.26 kg may well have been from a bird which had impacted the left wing and led to part of it detaching in flight. Unusually for a civil registered aircraft, ejection seats were installed in both pilot positions but although they could be operated between 60 and 400 knots and between 0 and 40,000 feet, neither had been operated and it was concluded that there had been insufficient time - less than 4 seconds - in which to achieve this. The Investigation noted that the practice of contracting civil operators to fly in support of military target practice was well established, with the Joint Services Command being responsible for "the process management of the manned and unmanned aerial target demonstrations including planning, command, conduct, and supervision" of all such operations. The military authorities "stated that they had not issued any special certification for, or conducted any supervision, or analysis of the flight safety hazards" at the civil company which was operating the accident aircraft. It was noted that the accident site was located close to a designated Aircraft Relevant Bird Area (ARA) which was marked on the 1:500,000 topographical chart for the area. The Investigation drew a clear distinction between 'normal' VFR flight operations and the detail which the accident aircraft had been helping to fulfil, concluding that "the flight profile corresponded with that of military aircraft". At the time of the bird strike, it was noted that the aircraft had been at "a very low altitude and therefore in an altitude in which most bird strikes occur" and that "compared to other civil aircraft, the aircraft flew in this low altitude with a very high speed". Such a high speed in conjunction with the likely mass of the bird would have led to a correspondingly high energy impact - estimated as equivalent to at least 14,000 Joules and therefore conducive to a high degree of destruction. In this respect, it was noted that civil-registered aircraft certified in accordance with FAR/JAR/CS 23 "have a significant(ly) lower bird strike tolerance compared to fighter jets". The Causes of the Accident were formally stated as follows: Immediate Causes: The airplane's wing was severely damaged by a bird strike. This resulted in a faulty lift distribution and aileron control failure which subsequently led to loss of control.. Due to the low altitude and the rapid roll movement the time was not sufficient to activate the ejection seats.. Systemic Causes: Flight in an altitude with high bird concentration. Flight with high speeds. Use of CS-23 airplanes in military flight profiles. One Safety Recommendation was issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Luftfahrtamt der Bundeswehr (LufABw) (Military Aviation Authority) should ensure that companies acting as civil contracting partners for the Bundeswehr conducting aerial target demonstrations, meet