ICAO ICAO Doc 8168 (PANS-OPS), Chapter 3 contains procedures for the use of ACAS. For full information operators should refer to that document, and to the attachment, "ACAS Training Guidelines for Pilots". Within Europe, procedures for the use of ACAS should follow the complementary instructions contained in EU-OPS and the associated JAA ACJs, relevant extracts from which appear below. EU-OPS 1.398 - Use of Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) (See also ACJ EU-OPS 1.398) "An operator shall establish procedures to ensure that: (a) When ACAS is installed and serviceable, it shall be used in flight in a mode that enables Resolution Advisories (RA) to be produced unless to do so would not be appropriate for conditions existing at the time. (b) When undue proximity to another aircraft (RA) is detected by ACAS, the commander or the pilot to whom conduct of the flight has been delegated must ensure that any corrective action indicated by the RA is initiated immediately, unless doing so would jeopardize the safety of the aeroplane. The corrective action must: (i) Never be in a sense opposite to that indicated by the RA. (ii) Be in the correct sense indicated by the RA even if this is in conflict with the vertical element of an ATC instruction. (iii) Be the minimum possible to comply with the RA indication. (c) Prescribed ACAS ATC communications are specified. (d) When the conflict is resolved the aeroplane is promptly returned to the terms of the ATC instructions or clearance."[1] EU-OPS 1.420 (d) 2. - Occurrence Reporting "Airborne Collision Avoidance System Resolution Advisory. A commander shall notify the air traffic service unit concerned and submit an ACAS report to the Authority whenever an aircraft in flight has manoeuvred in response to an ACAS Resolution Advisory. [2], EU-OPS 1.668 - [Carriage of] Airborne Collision Avoidance System (see also IEM OPS 1.668) "An operator shall not operate a turbine powered aeroplane having a maximum certificated take-off mass in excess of 5700 kg or a maximum approved passenger seating configuration of more than 19 unless it is equipped with an airborne collision avoidance system with a minimum performance level of at least ACAS II."[3]