The event was notified to the Portuguese Accident Investigation Agency (the GPIAA) who eventually delegated the Investigation to the Irish AAIU as the State of aircraft registration and of the aircraft operator. Neither FDR nor CVR data were available by the time the Investigation was commenced but the Operator was able to provide QAR data equivalent to that which would have also been recorded on the FDR. It was noted that the 40 year-old female aircraft Captain had accumulated 7,166 total flying hours and the 21 year old male Co-Pilot 624 total flying hours. In both cases almost all of this experience had been accumulated on the aircraft type involved. The Co-Pilot had been PF for the flight. It was established that with the AP and A/T engaged, the aircraft was approaching the beginning of the final descent on the DVOR/DME approach procedure to runway 35 at Porto from an altitude of 3,000 feet when the Co-Pilot had noticed a brief instance of green laser activity from the ground. Since it was reported to be "common" to see laser activity around Porto, the Co-Pilot did not mention the initial detection of it to the PM. However, soon afterwards, a similar laser beam was then directed at the aircraft. Whilst the First Officer shielded his eyes in response and was not affected, the Captain, having observed that the Co-Pilot had lifted his left hand from the thrust levers and placed it in front of his eyes, looked up and was affected by flash blindness in both eyes. She reported that her vision had been "temporarily compromised" to the extent that she stated that she had been "unable to [assist] my pilot flying". The consequence of this temporary loss of crew coordination was that the commencement of the intended descent was slightly delayed and when it did begin, the aircraft was slightly high against the vertical profile and airspeed was allowed to increase as the delayed and slightly steeper than anticipated descent began. At approximately 900 feet aal, having quickly made complete recovery from the effects of the flash blindness episode and recognised that the approach had become unstable, the Captain called for a go around. This action was initiated and with light and variable surface winds, the aircraft was positioned for an ILS approach to runway 17 which was completed to a landing without further event. The Investigation reviewed extant regulatory guidance material on the potential effects of exposure to laser beams directed at aircraft and noted that it was generally considered that momentary exposure of the eyes to the light emitted by lasers is capable of causing both startle and transient visual impairment. This material also cautions that a visible laser beam which obliquely hits an aircraft windshield is likely to be scattered by its passage through the windscreen layers on emergence and may temporarily completely obliterate a pilot’s forward vision. However, the extent that this represents a hazard to the continued safe flight in a multi-crew aircraft is generally