Following a delay in notification, an Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) assisted by data downloaded from the FDR and the 30 minute CVR of the aircraft involved. It was noted that although the CVR had not been secured, the aircraft had been shut down immediately after completion of the flight and had remained electrically unpowered thereafter thus protecting the relevant data. Also, since the parameters recorded in the FDR did not include GPS position, the Investigation compared radio altimeter data with the topography of the approach terrain to establish an approximate approach flight path. It was noted that the Captain, who was acting as PM for the flight involved and had been working for the operator for 15 years, had a total of 10,186 hours flying experience which included 5,024 hours on type which was recorded as having been accumulated over 4½ years. The First Officer had joined the operator in 2017 and had a total of 1,055 hours flying experience which included 82 hours on type having gaining the type rating two months earlier. The aircraft and crew were rostered for a seven sector flight sequence which was all identified as flight AIE820 beginning from Montréal and ending at Salluit with the accident flight being the second sector of this sequence. After an uneventful first sector from Toronto and a half hour turnround, the flight took off from Québec for Schefferville with an expected time of just over 2 hours and with the First Officer acting as PF. As the cruise FL 230 continued, the crew began preparing for approach and landing at Schefferville and noted that the destination AWOS was indicating CAVOK and light winds making it likely that a visual approach to runway 35 would be straightforward and the First Officer then briefed for this. When the aircraft levelled at 5000 feet QNH during the subsequent descent, the First Officer asked the Captain to enter the circuit altitude of 2800 feet QNH. At that point, haze was reducing visibility and it was not possible to see the aerodrome. The Captain then activated the ARCAL (Aircraft Radio Control of Aerodrome Lighting) and the First Officer disconnected the AP and began a right turn onto a base leg to intercept the extended centreline of the still unseen runway 35 - which almost immediately then came into view. When around 2½ nm out on left base leg and about to turn onto final approach, the First Officer realised that the aircraft was too fast (162 KIAS) and too high (480 feet above a nominal 3° slope) so he reduced power and asked the Captain to set 1050 propeller rpm and this was achieved as the aircraft was turned left towards final approach at which point the landing gear was selected down. It passed through the final approach and the left turn was continued, peaking at 36° - which was enough to activate a brief EGPWS Bank Angle alert. Passing 750 feet agl, the aircraft