was still in the turn and still to the right of final approach and a second EGPWS alert occurred, this time by the rate of descent which, with the aircraft still at 162 KIAS, had momentarily reached 2500 fpm. The First Officer reduced the rate of descent to approximately 1000 fpm and finally completed the turn onto final approach and the Captain, having assessed that “the approach and landing were feasible, even though the aircraft was flying above the nominal 3° slope at a high speed” began advising how to manage the height and speed and performed the descent checklist. As the aircraft descended through 500 feet agl with the power at flight idle, flaps 5 and the speed reducing through 144 KCAS (the calculated Vref was 99 KIAS) it was still 150 feet above a nominal 3° slope. The First Officer then asked for flaps 15 and the landing checklist which the Captain did as well as “sounding a chime twice to notify the cabin crew that landing was imminent”. Passing 200 feet agl, with the speed at 120 KCAS and 1000 fpm rate of descent, the First Officer asked for flaps 35°, the propeller speed to be increased to 1200 rpm and the final checklist, the latter being quickly completed. The aircraft passed 100 feet agl with the speed now below Vref and rapidly decreasing but with the power still at flight idle. The PM called out the Vref speed and almost immediately, “Vref-5”. As the aircraft passed 50 feet agl descending at almost 900 fpm at 94 KCAS, the Captain told the First Officer to add power which he did to only a small extent whilst increasing the nose-up pitch attitude from 2° to 9° in less than two seconds. The result was touchdown close to the beginning of the 1525 metre-long dry and uncontaminated runway on the main gear and lower aft fuselage with a 2.37 g impact. During the taxi in, the crew stated that they had noted that the “Touched Runway” indicator was illuminated and so after engine shutdown had carried out an external inspection of the aircraft in accordance with the tail strike checklist. They then contacted the company maintenance department who advised that a level 1 hard landing inspection would be required. When this was subsequently carried out, the extent of the structural damage was such that it was necessary to arrange a ferry flight to a repair centre at Trois-Rivières. The flight was carried out under sub part 705 of the Transport Canada Civil Aviation Regulations (CARs) which is the highest level in a four part categorisation. As such, the operation was in theory covered by an SMS and SOPs which would be acceptable in a major airline. Despite this, checklist completion and stabilised approach requirements were comprehensively ignored throughout the approach which preceded the hard landing. Having recognised that the continuation of the clearly unstabilised approach could be attributed to confirmation bias leading to plan continuation bias, a number of