approach may be continued, increasing the risk of an approach-and-landing accident.. If Transport Canada Civil Aviation does not assess the quality, consistency, accuracy, conciseness, clarity, relevance, and content of standard operating procedures, the procedures may be ineffective, increasing risks to flight operations.. If required training elements are not included in recurrent training, there may be procedural deficiencies or deviations, increasing risks to flight operations.. If Transport Canada Civil Aviation’s surveillance plan does not verify the content of crew training, deviations may not be identified and procedural deficiencies or deviations may not be corrected, increasing risks to flight operations.. If information that is essential to flight operations for a particular aircraft type is not distributed directly to the operators of that aircraft type, there is a risk that those operators will not have all the resources needed to develop procedures and training that will prevent incidents or accidents.. One ‘Other Finding’ was made: Data from the cockpit voice recorder were not secured after the accident, and the accident was not reported to the TSB until the next day. Data from the cockpit voice recorder specific to the accident were nevertheless available to TSB investigators.. Safety Action taken by Air Inuit as a result of the investigated event prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: A previously issued aircraft manufacturer video entitled “Dash 8 Q400 Pitch Awareness” was added to all initial and recurrent pilot training details.. The review of pitch awareness during preparation briefings for simulator training was expanded.. DHC8 SOPs were revised to improve guidelines on several subjects, including visual approaches and the identification of stabilised approach gates.. The pilot training program was revised to ensure that all training elements are covered within the 2-year cycle for recurrent training.. Editor's Note: Schefferville had both RNAV(GNSS) and NDB approaches to its runway available so the visual approach chosen by the crew when poor in-flight visibility initially delayed their sighting of the runway was not inevitable. However, the existence of alternatives was not mentioned in the Investigation Report and it must be presumed that there was no evidence indicating that such an alternative had been considered by the crew. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 7 April 2020 and it was officially released on 4 May 2021. No Safety Recommendations were made.