observations arising from the factual evidence collected were made including, in summary, the following: Whilst the operator’s approach SOPs described IFR approaches in detail, they did not describe visual approaches and the only annotated visual flight profile was for a VFR circuit.. The SOPs in use, including a number applicable to stabilised approaches, were found to be not always consistent with the corresponding OM content.. An examination of pilot recurrent training delivery against regulatory requirements for the Captain found that there were significant failures to meet documented requirements.. The rushed and wholly unstabilised approach under investigation was not an isolated deviation. An examination of all 144 flights on the aircraft FDR found that 16% exceeded the operator’s stabilised approach speed limit below FL050.. There were serious inadequacies in the both the specified methods and practical conduct of the regulatory oversight of operational safety which were directly relevant to the aim of eliminating unstabilised approaches both at the operator involved and more generally. As a consequence, Transport Canada had not identified any issues with the operator’s stabilised approach guidelines as applied to frequently conducted visual approaches or recognised that unstable approaches were a systemic problem.. The seven formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The pilots forgot to perform the descent checklist and realised this at an inopportune time, when the pilot monitoring was providing a position report.. Given the ambiguities and contradictions in the stabilised approach guidelines, the Captain interpreted that he was allowed to continue the approach below 500 feet above aerodrome elevation although the flaps had not been set to 35° and the final checklist had not been completed.. Communicating with the flight attendant to confirm the cabin status and performing the descent checklist during final approach added to the pilots’ workload, which was already heavy.. The combination of the visual conditions and the plan continuation bias prompted the pilots to continue managing the height and speed deviations past the stabilised approach gate.. When the aircraft passed 500 feet above aerodrome elevation, the pilots, who were dealing with a heavy workload, passed the stabilised approach gate without noticing it and continued the approach, which was de facto unstable.. At the time of the flare, the aircraft no longer had enough energy to stop the rate of descent solely by increasing the pitch attitude.. The instinctive reaction to increase the pitch attitude, combined with the hard landing, resulted in the aft fuselage striking the runway, causing major damage to the aircraft structure.. Six formally-stated Findings as to Risk were also made as follows: If a procedure is interpreted in a way that limits communications concerning cabin safety, there is a risk that pilots will not be informed that the cabin has not been secured and that passengers will receive injuries on landing, particularly if there is an abnormal landing.. If there is no reminder of the altitude of the stabilized approach gate for each approach, this stabilised approach gate may be missed, and an unstabilised