respectively. The AMU SOPs require that pushback information must include considerably more detail than simply “pushback at your discretion” including (but not limited to) which lane the pushback is to be made into and which way the aircraft should face on completion.. The AMU SOPs were found to say, in respect of aircraft under tow, that the (aircraft) operator “shall ensure operational safety through the use of wing walkers or other industry accepted best practice”. Sunwing, the aircraft operator in this case, was found to have ground-handling procedures which required wing walkers for all pushbacks, whether or not the aircraft has passengers on board. It was noted that when Sunwing conducted a ground operations station audit at Toronto in 2016, it found that wing walkers were used for the observed aircraft’s arrival and pushback but whether passengers were on board was not recorded.. It was found during the Investigation that “the general practice at Swissport (the ground handling contractor involved) was to have wing walkers present for pushbacks only when aircraft have passengers on board”. Despite this, Swissport SOPs for pushbacks were found to state that “a minimum of two wingwalkers as applicable and a pushback operator is required to conduct an aircraft movement.”. The WestJet passenger safety briefing card was found to include a graphic illustration indicating that passengers must not take personal belongings with them in the event of an evacuation. The actual content of the pre-flight safety briefing given prior to the investigated flight “could not be determined” but it was noted that the “sample pre-flight safety briefings” included in WestJet’s Cabin Crew Manual did not include any reference to this subject. The passenger safety briefings on a randomly-selected small number of scheduled flights on different Canadian airlines were observed by TSB Investigators to see whether passengers were being provided with instructions to leave baggage behind in the event of an emergency evacuation. None of the briefings on these flights included any such instruction to the passengers. Transport Canada’s intentions in this matter were noted.. WestJet cabin crew procedures require that if any member has initiated an evacuation, the other cabin crew should also do so, not await instruction from the flight crew before doing so.. One of the bases for type certification of the Boeing 737-800 was the demonstration that an emergency evacuation of a fully loaded aircraft could be carried out within 90 seconds - much less than was achieved in the investigated event.. The Conclusions of the Investigation were summarised as follows: The pushback was conducted without the use of wing walkers, which is not in accordance with Swissport, Sunwing or Airport Authority requirements.. Wing walkers were normally used by Swissport only when pushing back aircraft with passengers on board.. The R/T phraseology used by the Apron Radio Officer was not consistent with the procedures of the Airport Authority Apron Management Unit (AMU).. WestJet’s pre-flight safety briefings do not inform passengers to leave behind carry-on baggage in the event of an evacuation and several