A “limited-scope, fact-gathering” Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). It was noted that the inbound WestJet aircraft had been waiting for marshalling onto its assigned gate B12 at Terminal 3 and had been stationary and facing north east on Taxi Lane 2 just short of the gate turn on. This placed it behind the Sunwing aircraft parked nose-in and out of service on gate B13. The Sunwing aircraft had a technician employed by the aircraft operator on the flight deck and its APU was running. Two Swissport employees were in the cab of a tug attached to the nose of the aircraft and preparations were being made to push the aircraft back prior to repositioning. The area where the collision occurred. [An extract reproduced from the Canada AIP Toronto Terminal 3 Parking Areas Chart] Sixteen minutes after the WestJet aircraft had stopped, it was still waiting for a marshaller when the other 737’s tug crew called ‘APRON NORTH’ for clearance to push and were told they could “push back at your discretion”. The push was then commenced without wing walkers and without awareness of the aircraft behind. Soon afterwards, the tail of the aircraft being pushed back hit the right wing of the WestJet 737 and the latter’s crew advised ‘APRON NORTH’ of the collision and they in turn instructed the tug crew to pull their aircraft back onto gate B13. Thirty seconds after the impact had occurred, “a large ball of fire erupted near the area of aircraft contact”. The WestJet flight crew were immediately aware of the fire and began the evacuation quick reference checklist, declared a MAYDAY and advised that an evacuation was commencing. The ARFF were notified accordingly. The Sunwing technician shut down the APU and discharged the APU fire extinguisher before exiting the flight deck via the left side window and the emergency rope, sustaining minor injuries as he did so. Once the Sunwing aircraft had been pulled clear, the fire on the wing of the WestJet aircraft self-extinguished, but the fire at the tail of the Sunwing aircraft continued, although with less intensity. Meanwhile, when the fire erupted, some of the WestJet passengers panicked and “three seconds after the fire erupted, and before any commands from the crew, passengers seated at the forward left over-wing emergency exit opened the exit and escaped onto the wing; other passengers followed". At this point, the engines were still running. Two members of cabin crew seated at the rear of the aircraft saw the fire and, having seen that some passengers were panicking, decided that an immediate evacuation should be commenced. They judged that it was not safe to use the rear right door and called the Captain and lead cabin crew by interphone to report the fire and advise that that they were evacuating via the rear left rear. The two members of cabin crew at the front of the aircraft did not immediately begin to evacuate because they were waiting for