a command to do so from the flight deck. The lead cabin crew also reported being aware that as the engine were still running, opening the front doors would put the passengers at risk. The flight crew ran the evacuation checklist but the engine and APU fire switches were not pulled because the First Officer “deemed this action not relevant to the current situation”. The unappreciated consequence of this was that neither the internal nor the external emergency lights were automatically activated. Forty-nine seconds after the fire had begun, the Captain made a PA ordering an emergency evacuation. Both front doors were opened and in accordance with Company SOP, the First Officer then left the aircraft to assist the passengers. It was reported that although cabin crew made calls with and without the assistance of a handheld megaphone instructing passengers to leave their carry-on baggage behind, many still brought it with them which slowed down the evacuation. Also, some passengers who used the two left over wing exits re-entered the aircraft after failing to see either a slide or the (in the absence of illuminated external emergency lights) the arrows showing the exit route to and down the extended trailing edge flaps. When the Captain emerged from the flight deck and noticed that the emergency lights were not illuminated, he went back into it, noticed that the APU was still running and shut it down after which the emergency lights activated. It was found that from the time the Captain ordered an evacuation, it took almost 2½ minutes to complete and from the time the left over wing exit was opened, almost 3½ minutes. Once outside, the evacuated passengers moved away from the aircraft towards A4 gate on the other side of the two Taxi Lanes. All occupants had left the aircraft by the time the ARFF arrived and the fire in the Sunwing aircraft’s tail and APU had subsided but was still smouldering. As the remnants of the fire were extinguished, one of the fire crew sustained “minor injuries from exposure to secondary spray of water that was mixed with fuel from the APU”. The Investigation looked at a number of aspects related to the event as follows: The APRON NORTH radio frequency is not manned by licensed air traffic controllers but by radio officers employed by the Airport Operator’s ‘Apron Management Unit’ (AMU). Their instructions therefore have the status of an “advisory traffic service”. They are located in a tower in Terminal 1 and have their own SOPs. They do not have a clear view of several parts of the manoeuvring area they look after, including that where the collision occurred but they do have access to multiple live video feeds and access to ASDE to make up for this. Recorded video camera and ASDE data for the time leading up to the collision were examined and these clearly showed the WestJet aircraft parked behind the Sunwing aircraft and a radar target displayed directly behind the Sunwing aircraft