An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). Data from the SSFDR and the two hour SSCVR were successfully downloaded. It was found that the pilot in command had announced the sudden loss of pressure within 2 seconds of a noise recorded on the CVR CAM which it was deduced would have been the sound of the hole opening up. Thereafter, the emergency descent to 11000 ft was achieved “within five minutes”. The response of the experienced flight crew to the sudden depressurisation was considered by the Investigation to have been “timely and effective”. In respect of the two injuries, it was established that “one of the cabin crew had attempted to make either an interphone call or a PA announcement to passengers before obtaining oxygen, leading to his loss of consciousness and fractured nose”. It was noted that his decision to act in this way “was inconsistent with Southwest Airlines’ training materials, which clearly indicated that flight attendants should first obtain oxygen and secure themselves in the event of a decompression”. In an interview for the Investigation, the person involved had stated that he thought he “could get a lot more done” before donning his oxygen mask. It was concluded that the actions of the injured member of cabin crew (and by implication the person attempting to assist him) had probably been attributable to “an incorrect assessment of (the) time of useful consciousness”. The majority of the Investigation centred on trying to establish the origin of the structural failure. It was established that the aircraft had been completed in May 1996, and delivered new to Southwest Airlines the following month. At the time of the accident, the aircraft had flown 48748 hours in 39786 cycles. Records showed that the fuselage involved had been manufactured by Boeing at its then facility in Wichita, Kansas from where it was then taken by rail in two pieces to the final assembly facility in Renton, Washington, where it was delivered on 8 April 1996. There, in accordance with normal processes, the forward and aft fuselage sections were joined at BS 727. It was found that work to install the accident aircraft crown skin panel above the hole was shared between Wichita and Renton site. The damage was found to be limited to a joint in the fuselage side skin (see diagram below showing a cross section of this assembly) between Body Stations (BS) 663 and 727 in the fore-aft direction and stringers S-4L and S-5L in the circumferential direction. It was found that S-4L was the location of a lap joint with three rows of rivets from where there was evidence of fatigue cracking. It was noted that: “The entire section of skin remained attached along the lower edge and was deformed outward. There were some abrasion marks on the fuselage skin below the forward edge of the hole that matched the shape of the forward edge of the attached section. The fracture along the upper edge was