through the lower rivet row of the lap joint. The forward edge was fractured about 1/2 inch aft of the edge of the bonded doubler at BS 663. The aft edge was fractured along the forward rivet row of the BS 727 butt joint. There was some deformation to the intercostal installed between the BS 663 and BS 685 frames. There was no visible damage to the surrounding frames, stringers, and stringer clips. Some insulation was missing from the location around the hole. During the post-accident skin repair, two cracked stringer clips were found along S-4L (at BS 685 and at BS 706).” Further detailed examination of the physical evidence, limited by the lack of detailed manufacturing records for both Wichita and Renton (which the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) did not require to be kept for the elapsed time involved), together with the fact that Southwest Airlines had not carried out any work in the fracture area, led to the conclusion that “the crown skin panel from BS 540 to BS 727 had been replaced during fuselage manufacture, although it was not possible to determined if this had occurred at Wichita or Renton.” The same absence of detailed manufacturing records meant that the Investigation “could not determine why the crown skin panel was replaced or how the poor repair was not identified in the QA process”. It was concluded that: “The pressurization loads on the fuselage skin initiated fatigue cracking at rivet hole 85 almost immediately after manufacture (with) fatigue cracking subsequently initiated in adjacent rivets along the skin panel (growing) over time with each application of pressurization loads.” Eventually, on the accident flight, “the cumulative amount of fatigue cracking reached a critical length, and the panel’s residual strength was not sufficient to carry the loads, which resulted in the hole flapping open and rapid depressurization of the airplane”. However, it was determined that the material properties involved had not contributed to the skin fracture. The Probable Cause of the event was determined as: “The improper installation of the fuselage crown skin panel at the S-4L lap joint during the manufacturing process, which resulted in multiple site damage fatigue cracking and eventual failure of the lower skin panel.” Contributing to the injuries was the incorrect assessment of the time of useful consciousness by one of the cabin crew which led to his failure to follow procedures requiring immediate donning of an oxygen mask when cabin pressure is lost. The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the Board on 24 September 2013. No new Safety Recommendations were made but it was noted that a previous Recommendation (A-00-109) which invited the FAA to “revise existing guidance and information about high-altitude operations to accurately reflect the time of useful consciousness and rate of performance degradation following decompression and to highlight the effect of hypoxia on an individual’s ability to perform complex tasks in a changing environment” had not resulted in AC 61-107 text, (see the corresponding AC 61-107B issued 29 March