The investigation determined that the dual engine flameout was caused by fuel exhaustion, caused by a fuel leak in the right engine due to the use of mismatched fuel and hydraulic lines during hydraulic pump installation. Aiding fuel exhaustion was the crew’s failure to carry out the “Fuel Leak” procedure, which was designed by the manufacturer to reduce any consequences of an in-flight fuel leak. Prior to the flight, two routine inspections of the aircraft revealed the unexplained presence of metal chips in the oil system of the right engine. The airline decided to replace the engine. As no spare engine was available, a loaned engine was used. The engine change was carried out at midnight one week before the flight and proceeded normally until it was discovered that the rear hydraulic pump, taken from the engine that had been removed, could not be fitted onto the replacement engine due to interference with the high-pressure fuel pump inlet tube. The spare engine was in fact in a previous configuration different than all those currently in use, and this difference was not identified during reception of the loaned engine and maintenance planning. Although it was recognized that the fuel tube from the replaced engine was different from the one being installed, the replacement was carried out without referring to the Illustrated Parts Catalogue, but sufficient clearance between the fuel and hydraulic lines reportedly was achieved. Both the lead technician and another technician inspected the engine upon completion and noted no discrepancies. The engine was successfully ground run and the aircraft released for flight. The event occurred several days after the first flight back after maintenance. Summarized, the following factors played a role: The engine replacement occurred on a Saturday at midnight.. Shift changes took place, and the installation problem was not detected.. Time pressure resulted from the need for the aircraft to be released for service on Monday.. The threat — engine replacement without service bulletin (SB) consultation — was not followed up.. The problem started to develop with the indication of unusual oil readings conflicting with normal engine readings. There were no system anomalies, and the MCC was not able to provide useful advice. The fuel problem remained unnoticed for about one hour, when the advisory message was generated and the crew addressed the fuel imbalance. Various cockpit indications of the fuel loss had remained unnoticed up to that moment: The fuel on board was decreasing at an unusual rate.. The flight management system showed that the estimated fuel on board was decreasing.. A full forward transfer of fuel from the trim tank was conducted prematurely and was unusually prolonged, feeding the fuel leak from the right engine and delaying the fuel advisory by approximately 15 minutes.. The pilots applied the “Fuel Imbalance” procedure from memory (nonadherence to procedures) because they had frequently been trained to monitor fuel imbalance and were familiar with the procedure. In doing so, they failed to pay attention to the caution note at the top