An Investigation was carried out by the Hellenic Air Accident Investigation and Aviation Safety Board (AAIASB). It was noted that the 38 year-old Captain had a total of over 5000 hours on type and held an ATPL (Airline Transport Pilot's Licence) issued in 2011 and that the First Officer had over 4000 hours on type and held an ATPL issued in 2014. It was established that when the fumes and smoke appeared, the latter appearing to emanate from the flight deck floor in the vicinity of the right side rudder pedals, the aircraft was level at FL360 and had already overflown Athens. Both pilots donned their oxygen masks and completed the corresponding QRH non normal procedure and then notified ATC of their wish to divert to Athens and declared an emergency which was completed without any further issues arising in flight or on the ground after landing. An inspection after landing found that the fumes and smoke had originated from the static inverter located on the right hand side of the avionics equipment bay located beneath the flight deck. This inverter supplies 115VAC/60Hz power to three outlets in the flight deck so that electronic devices such as EFBs can be charged and was noted to have been a standard fit to A320 family aircraft since 1999. It was also noted that the floor of the flight deck is, by design, not sealed so that any smoke or fumes generated in the avionics bay is liable, as in this case, to enter it. The inverter and the extractor fan which had also failed were removed and sent to the OEM for examination. This showed that the origin of the smoke and fumes was a capacitor in the inverter, shown in the illustration below in a ‘before’ and ‘after’ comparison. As a precaution, the associated blower fan and air filter were, although serviceable, also replaced. The Investigation found that the failed capacitor had been notified as within a batch recommended for removal for modification involving replacement of the failed capacitor by an alternative in SB 1830-25-37 published by the inverter OEM on 13 October 2016 in order to avoid an “operational impact due to possible failure”. Six days later, the existence of this SB was then notified to aircraft maintenance organisations by Airbus using an updated version of a ‘Technical Follow-Up’ (TFU) originally issued on 9 March 2016 which had advised that inverters in the same batch had been identified as containing a capacitor that was liable to overheat in flight and cause the inverter to fail but that no recommended remedial action was yet available. The identification of the problem with this batch of capacitors was triggered by a series of in-flight static inverter failures similar to the one investigated. Two of these had involved easy Jet A320 aircraft, the first on 28 August 2014 and the second on 27 January 2015. A before and after view of the capacitor which “overheated” [Reproduced from the Official Report] On 15 December 2016,