after a third EasyJet A320 had diverted due to smoke and fumes from an overheated inverter capacitor on 28 November 2016, Airbus issued an ‘Operators Information Transmission’ (OIT) to all A320 family operators to “highlight” that the reason for the multiple failures of the static inverter had been identified and that the OEM SB 1830-25-37 published on 13 October had addressed this problem. However, this SB did not provide a list of the affected aircraft by MSN, which was not made available until the OIT was revised and reissued on 6 October 2017, a week after easyJet’s fourth overheated inverter capacitor event, the one under investigation. It was found that the EasyJet system of overseeing continued airworthiness issues did not include monitoring of Airbus TFUs or ensuring that it registered with OEMs to receive notification of potentially relevant SB Alerts. The failure of EasyJet to ensure its awareness of some important safety-relevant technical communications from both Airbus and component OEMs such as the one supplying approved static inverters for the A320 aircraft family delayed their awareness of any published SB resolution aimed at addressing in-service problems. Their exposure to the static inverter problem had therefore not been fixed by the time their third similar diversion event occurred on 28 November 2016. This prompted the company to contact Airbus and led to the issue of the OIT (Operators Information Transmission) on 15 December 2016 and their prior awareness of its content. This should have prevented the fourth identical event to G-EZOC but it did not because the only published information initially made available was the time interval during which the static inverters supplied had been fitted with the suspect capacitor - between 10 September 2012 and 25 November 2014. The affected inverter S/N range was not included in the OIT and EasyJet did not seek this information from the OEM or seek the MSNs of the aircraft affected from Airbus. Instead, they carried out a fleet check using the aircraft manufacturing date as if it was the inverter manufacturing date which was self evidently unlikely. This meant that a number of aircraft in the fleet fitted with the ‘at risk’ inverters, including G-EZOC, continued in service. Only after the fourth easyJet inverter-diversion event occurred on 29 September 2017 and this Investigation by the Greek AAIASB did Airbus issue a revised version of the 15 December 2016 OIT a week later which included a list of affected aircraft. The Cause of the investigated event was formally documented as “the failure of the Static Inverter capacitor due to overheating". A Contributory Factor was identified as “Insufficient evaluation of the information available to the Continuous Airworthiness Management Organisation at EasyJet to identify the static inverters that needed to be removed and modified". Safety Action taken by EasyJet in response to the findings from the Investigated event was noted as having included: beginning to monitor Airbus’ TFUs in order to capture any operationally relevant safety information contained within them.. a new requirement for maintenance to