The primary effect of interruptions or distractions is to break the flow of ongoing cockpit activities which, in turn, can lead to errors and associated safety problems. An error may occur if the attention of the flight crew is diverted while crewmembers are engaged in safety-critical tasks such as: Following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Running normal checklists. Communications. Monitoring. Problem solving. An interruption/distraction often leaves the flight crew with a feeling of being rushed and faced with competing tasks of varying priority. This can result in an increase in workload even when the actual task load is reasonable and steady. As a result, a crew faced with concurrent task demands will typically focus on one or a few tasks while ignoring all others. This response is typical of most people when dealing with excessive workload. Unless mitigated by effective compensatory techniques, a disruption leading to a lapse of attention can result in: Failure to monitor the flight path, possibly leading to an altitude or course deviation or even Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT).. Missing or misinterpreting an ATC instruction leading to a traffic conflict or runway incursion.. Omitting an action and failing to detect and correct the resulting abnormal condition or configuration.. Being “behind the aircraft” because of a task overload due to the combination of flying duties and attention to the interruption or distraction.. The following are examples of unsafe situations resulting from interruptions and distractions: Taxiway or runway incursion. Incorrect aircraft configuration for takeoff. Late landing gear retraction. Premature or delayed slats/flaps retraction. Flaps placard-speed (VFE) exceedance. Late response to ATC instructions. Failure to select engine anti-ice when required. Altitude/flight level “bust” in climb or descent. Inadequate fuel management (e.g., late detection of fuel imbalance). Speed below minimum during descent. Failure to reset altimeter. Altitude deviation or stall during holding pattern. Late aircraft configuration for landing. Failure to capture (or monitor capture of) localizer or glide slope. Descent below MDA. Taxiway excursion. Failure to set parking brake on arrival at gate or parking stand..