below 10,000 ft). Plan PA announcements for low workload periods. Keep intracockpit communications brief, clear and concise. Pause or end conversations in advance of approaching the next defined target or the next altitude restriction/constraint.. Head-down activity Define an SOP for task sharing when programming or reprogramming the FMS depending on the level of automation being used and the flight phase Plan extended head-down tasks for low workload periods Announce when you are going “head down.”. Define an SOP for task sharing when programming or reprogramming the FMS depending on the level of automation being used and the flight phase. Plan extended head-down tasks for low workload periods. Announce when you are going “head down.”. Responding to an abnormal condition or to an unanticipated situation Keep the autopilot engaged to decrease workload unless otherwise required Adhere to PF/PNF task sharing for abnormal/emergency conditions (e.g., PNF should maintain situational awareness, monitor and back up the PF) Pay particular attention to the proper completion of normal checklists. Handling an abnormal condition has a tendency to disrupt the normal flow of actions as specified in SOPs. When there is an interruption or distraction, the “trigger” event for an SOP or checklist may go unnoticed, resulting in the omission of the associated actions or verifications.. Keep the autopilot engaged to decrease workload unless otherwise required. Adhere to PF/PNF task sharing for abnormal/emergency conditions (e.g., PNF should maintain situational awareness, monitor and back up the PF). Pay particular attention to the proper completion of normal checklists. Handling an abnormal condition has a tendency to disrupt the normal flow of actions as specified in SOPs. When there is an interruption or distraction, the “trigger” event for an SOP or checklist may go unnoticed, resulting in the omission of the associated actions or verifications.. Search for Traffic Express a clear and loud “I fly, you watch” call when required to search for traffic by a TCAS alert or a call from ATC.. Express a clear and loud “I fly, you watch” call when required to search for traffic by a TCAS alert or a call from ATC..