safety and there is no system monitoring if it happens to be incorrect.. The use of takeoff data cards, which had been considered but not implemented after a 767 event in 2012, may have prevented the investigated event.. Neither El Al’s procedures nor the State Air Safety Regulations make any reference to the mental fitness of pilots to continue operating after experiencing a serious safety event.. A total of ten Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that El Al and where applicable other Israeli Airlines should review changes in aircraft scheduling to prevent tight time constraints between aircraft arrival from a previous flight and its departure on the next flight mission, especially when such turnrounds occur near to airport closure times.. that El Al and where applicable other Israeli Airlines should review means to remove distractions to flight crews during preparations for departure. Such means may include but are not limited to early setting of final fuel quantity, eliminating the requirement to sign the fuelling form, automating the submittal and signing of the load sheet, improving the mechanism for handling service passengers, etc.. that El Al and where applicable other Israeli Airlines should consider means for cross checking weight and performance data versus an external source, such as receiving it from the dispatcher via data link.. that El Al and where applicable other Israeli Airlines should consider ways of conducting accurate crosschecking of trim data in Boeing 787 aircraft and, where applicable, for other aircraft types.. that El Al and where applicable other Israeli Airlines should formulate and include in company procedures a policy regarding continuation of flight following a serious safety event.. that El Al should conduct a new risk management process and formulate risk mitigation steps for inexperienced crew rostering when converting to the Boeing 787 fleet.. that El Al should mandate use of a takeoff data card, either hard copy or digital.. that the Boeing Company should consider adding a takeoff thrust check to the ‘Before Start’ Checklist. (Note: Until a decision by Boeing, it is further recommended that El Al should consider implementing this recommendation on its own.). that the Boeing Company should install a takeoff performance monitoring system in transport category aircraft, a system that should be able to alert the crew in a timely and reliable manner of exceeding the conditions required for a safe takeoff, and should support the crew in deciding whether to reject or continue a takeoff.. that the Boeing Company should install a self-weighing system in transport category aircraft that is able to provide the Flight Management Computer with the actual aircraft weight, or at least an estimate of it which will enable a substantial reduction of the acceptable weight range and will be able to alert the crew to any significant data entry error.. The Final Report was published on 26 November 2018.