clear that the takeoff had been made with speeds and thrust appropriate for a much lower weight than the actual weight. The Captain contacted the Company OCC and requested that senior flight operations managers be informed and the operating crew “conducted a preliminary debriefing” which included an assessment of their fitness to continue the flight in view of the “startling” event after which they concluded that they were. The relief crew returned to the flight deck about 4 hours later and were given a thorough debriefing. Prior to reaching the top of descent, the operating crew again discussed “their mental fitness to conduct the approach” and concluded that they were fit to do so. The flight was completed uneventfully and after engine shut down, the crew tripped the EAFR CB and made a report to download the recorded data for analysis. The Investigation compared the recorded flight data from the takeoff and climb with that corresponding to the actual gross weight. The formally-documented summary of these findings is as follows: The aircraft accelerated slowly and reaching the wrong Vr of 154 knots took the same time that on a normal takeoff would take to reach about 175 knots.. The point along the runway, where the aircraft reached V1 was slightly further than the correct point for the actual weight, but not to an extent that could be noticed by the crew.. The location of the decision point along the runway would have enabled rejecting the takeoff safely, either in an all-engines or an engine-out scenario, because the aircraft reached the decision point at a speed substantially slower than required.. The location of the decision speed along the runway, combined with the low Vr and V1, raise a doubt whether the aircraft could lift off in case of engine failure, unless the crew would have increased thrust on the operating engine.. Since rotation was initiated at a speed close to the stall speed, the aircraft initially did not raise the nose and did not lift off until gaining 13-14 knots above Vr.. After liftoff the aircraft had a low rate of climb and accelerated due to the ground effect, reaching a height of 35 feet in 13 seconds after rotation, which is twice the normal time.. The tail-strike protection feature of the flight control system activated for about 4 seconds to reduce the elevator angle until sufficient airspeed had been achieved. As a result, the tail clearance remained greater than the 29-inch minimum specified in the manuals and a tail strike did not occur.. Aircraft manoeuvre margin during climb did not decrease below the safe margin, because climb speeds were higher than V2 calculated for the actual gross weight.. Manoeuvre margin during flap retraction could have been substantially affected during retraction from flaps 1 to flaps UP, but in reality there was no hazardous proximity to a stall, apparently due to low load factor associated with acceleration in climb with level wings.. At its actual gross weight it was not possible