was raised and liftoff occurred despite the continued and even increased rearward pulling of the control column. Consequently, the actual tail clearance did not exceed the specified minimum. This automated intervention also contributed to aircraft gaining speed prior to climbing and thus prevented a stall or loss of control.. The late arrival of the aircraft from its previous flight and the imminent night curfew for takeoffs introduced pressure on the crew when preparing the aircraft for departure. When a final load sheet was provided to the crew for review immediately after they arrived at the aircraft, they entered these weights into the FMC rather than first entering the provisional weights as would normally be done. They consequently skipped checking and updating the provisional figures against the final ones as per the applicable FCOM SOP.. The First Officer failed to cross check the Captain’s data entries or act to clarify the apparent inconsistency he detected between the takeoff weight and the ZFW. Neither pilot noticed until well into the climb that the gross weight was substantially lower than both the planned weight and the typical takeoff weight for a long-range flight. Overall, communication between the pilots during performance computation was inadequate. There was a high probability that open communication and raising doubts could have led to error detection and correction.. It is probable that a lack of experience on the 787 in the case of both the operating and augmenting crew contributed to the fact that no one noticed that the computed performance data were unlikely to be correct.. Acceleration during the takeoff roll was significantly lower than usual. However, the aircraft reached the computed V1 speed, which was 15 knots lower than the speed appropriate to the actual weight, at a point only about 100 feet from what would have been the point derived from a correct calculation because the slow acceleration was offset by the low V1. Whilst none of the crew noticed the slow acceleration, it is recognised that it is difficult to perceive variations in rates of acceleration in darkness.. In the case of a rejected takeoff at V1, it would have been possible to stop the aircraft on the runway, because the decision point occurred at a similar position to the one which a correct performance computation would have determined, although with a substantially lower decision speed. In the case of engine failure above V1 and a continued takeoff, it is highly probable that the aircraft would not have safely lifted off the runway and that even if it had done so, the climb performance would have been insufficient to safely complete the takeoff, unless the crew had immediately set maximum thrust on the operating engine.. The rotation speed computed by the crew was lower than minimum unstick speed (Vmu) and was approximately equal to the aircraft stall speed. Because of this, the aircraft only lifted off after gaining additional speed. Upon reaching the calculated (incorrect) Vr, the First Officer had begun pulling the control column