A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Israeli Aviation Accidents and Investigation Office (AIAI) of the Ministry of Transport and Road Safety in accordance with the provisions of ICAO Annex 13. Data were downloaded from the EAFR after completion of the flight but relevant recorded voice data had been overwritten during the flight. It was noted that the airline had been operating the 787 in commercial service for a little over 6 months when the event under investigation occurred and had carried out a comprehensive risk mitigation exercise prior to the introduction to service. It was also noted that the 787 fleet is operated separately from the airline’s 777 fleet. The operating crew for takeoff and climb were the aircraft commander, a 52 year-old Check Captain with a total of 24,800 flying hours including 186 hours as a 787 Captain and a 33 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the departure, with a total of 4176 flying hours including 40 hours on the 787. They had been employed by El Al as pilots for 23 years and 3 years respectively and the flight was a Line Check for the First Officer to complete his type conversion from the 767 conducted by the Check Captain. The relief crew, who were occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seats for departure were a 58 year-old Captain with a total of 9,970 flying hours including 80 hours as a 787 Captain and a 47 year-old First Officer with a total of 10,112 flying hours including 40 hours on the 787.They had both been employed as pilots by El Al for 3 years. It was established that before going to the aircraft, the First Officer on check had conducted a pre-flight briefing based on provisional documentation provided by dispatch and the Captain had requested Company Operations Control Centre (OCC) to obtain approval for a takeoff after the normal night curfew because of the expected late arrival of their aircraft which was subsequently given. After boarding the aircraft as soon as was possible just 25 minutes prior to the delayed departure time, which was half an hour before the extended night curfew time, the operating crew carried out preparations on the flight deck whilst the augmenting crew members reviewed the aircraft Technical Log (the Captain) and carried out the external pre-flight check (the First Officer). It was noted that during this time, the operating Captain was “concurrently somewhat occupied with” accommodating a number of priority sub-load passengers who were family members of some of the crewmembers. These prospective passengers included family members of both First Officers and the Relief Captain. The operating First Officer partially prepared the takeoff data using the Onboard Performance Tool (OPT) on his iPad, an EFB Class 1 used by all El Al pilots, by using the provisional ZFW and TOW but the Captain did not. The final load sheet arrived prior to initiating FMC data input and a minor change to ZFW was noted by both operating