aft and the elevators had responded accordingly. Aircraft response was sluggish and pitch only increased once sufficient forward speed was reached after which the aircraft became airborne at a pitch attitude significantly higher than usual and climbed at a slow rate.. There was no hazardous increase in angle of attack as a result of flap retraction being commanded at lower speeds than required for the actual weight despite the reduced manoeuvre margin.. The First Officer undergoing his final line check felt confident about his success and the Check Captain inspired a comfortable atmosphere, but it can be reasonably assumed that being a check ride did contribute to increasing the mental workload on the First Officer on the one hand and on the Captain on the other, especially considering the latter’s low experience on the B787.. The inadequate flight crew teamwork manifested itself in a lack of coordination, a lack of cross checking and flawed internal communication. Although the flight crew felt good about it, it turned out that their perception of their cooperation was incorrect.. Night departure during hours in which physical and cognitive performance are impaired have the potential to introduce human error attributable to biological clock effects. Any pilot embarking on a night flight may be subject to such effects, but not necessarily aware of them. All crewmembers including the aircraft commander, who had operated a flight the previous night, had sufficient rest time in excess of the minimum required but the impact of regular or accumulated fatigue cannot be ruled out.. The discussion by the operating crew during the cruise, on their fitness to continue the flight was appropriate and the decision to continue was reasonable. The additional discussion regarding their ability to conduct the approach was also appropriate and again their decision to continue was reasonable, although it is possible that transferring command, cancellation of the Line Check and transferring the approach to the augmenting crew could have been a safer alternative.. El Al’s all fleets operating procedures had no SOP for cross checking aircraft weight data or for cross checking performance calculations against objective data from external sources. Performance computation on two iPad devices does not constitute effective cross checking because both pilots might be using identical parameters, yielding identical yet potentially incorrect results.. El Al’s communication between aircraft systems and ground systems did not support transmittal of weight and performance data to the aircraft via data link. Had such a network been in use and the Company’s operating procedures had mandated receipt of weight and performance data by datalink, it is highly probable that the ZFW input error at the root of the investigated occurrence would have been prevented.. All the pilots except the Check Captain were formally defined by the Company as “inexperienced” on type. The Check Captain was not so defined because he had transferred from the 777 which shares a common type rating with the 787. Pilots’ inexperience with the aircraft they are operating is capable of leading to increased workload,