for the aircraft to climb to the optimal cruise altitude calculated by the FMC based on the wrong weight.. The Investigation included a detailed analysis of the wide range of human factor issues which had or may have had a bearing on what happened including the identification of and discussion of 15 active and/or latent errors, a TEM based analysis and an analysis based on the presence or absence of Safety Barriers. . It was noted that although a practical means to provide a Takeoff Performance Management System (TOPMS) had been under examination for over 20 years with NASA first trialling one on a 737 in 1994, and there had been extensive activity following a corresponding Safety Recommendation after the fatal takeoff accident at Halifax, Canada in 2004, no Boeing aircraft currently have such systems installed. It was also noted that such systems would not prevent takeoffs based on incorrect performance calculations if these were, as in this case, a result of incorrect parameter inputs unless they detected low acceleration. The Investigation also looked at the recorded prevalence of takeoff performance calculation events at El Al over the previous 10 years and found that: Between 2008 & 2018 there had been 10 reported events of which 2. were classified as significance “negligible”, 7 as “low” and 1 as “moderate”. Some of the errors were detected before takeoff and some in retrospect. They included: Using data for the wrong runway Using data for the wrong airport Using the wrong flap setting (mostly due to re-calculation following change of conditions) Failure to display V-speeds Deteriorating conditions not accounted for by the crew Entering an incorrect weight Entering an incorrect temperature for thrust calculation when using the assumed temperature method for a reduced thrust takeoff. Using data for the wrong runway. Using data for the wrong airport. Using the wrong flap setting (mostly due to re-calculation following change of conditions). Failure to display V-speeds. Deteriorating conditions not accounted for by the crew. Entering an incorrect weight. Entering an incorrect temperature for thrust calculation when using the assumed temperature method for a reduced thrust takeoff. It was also found that there had been cases where correct performance calculation had then been followed by erroneous thrust application - two instances of a 767 taking off with CLB thrust set and one of a 777 taking off with TO-2 thrust instead of TO. The Conclusions of the Investigation were documented in the form of 33 detailed observations which included but were not limited to those presented in summary form below: After the initial data input error by the Captain, cross checking was inadequate.. Takeoff with erroneous thrust and speed parameters created a real risk of tail strike or loss of control after liftoff, during initial climb and during flap retraction.. The aircraft’s automatic Tail Strike Protection (TSP) system worked as intended by delaying the commanded pitch increase during rotation and it is highly probable that it prevented an accident. Elevator deflection angles reduced immediately, the nose