pilots. The Captain then mistakenly entered 128.6 tonnes as the ZFW instead of the correct 168.6 tonnes but immediately noticed what he had done and stated it out loud before (supposedly) making a correction - although actually the incorrect figure remained. The Relief Captain reported having heard the operating Captain mention his error and saw him making a further entry but from where he sat had not been able to see what the new entry was. The operating First Officer was otherwise occupied and remained unaware of this episode. Subsequently, both pilots made independent OPT performance calculations on their personal iPads. Both then entered the final TOW figure from their OPT into the FMC and the Captain also entered his (incorrect) ZFW but the First Officer did not revise his provisional ZFW which was close to the final one. After both pilots subsequently copied the TOW and the ZFW from the FMC CDU into their iPad OPT app, the First Officer noticed that the difference between the TOW and the ZFW on his OPT “did not make sense” without realising that this was because his provisional ZFW was very close to the final one whereas the TOW copied from the FMC was too low by 40 tons. He remarked out loud that “something was strange” but he “did not elaborate” and the Captain did not respond. The First Officer then modified his ZFW value to the wrong value which he saw on the Captain’s EFB OPT screen after which they both made concurrent calculations and compared their (consequently identical) results before the Captain entered the (incorrect) takeoff speeds and thrust setting into the FMC & MCP. The engines were started and the aircraft was taxied to departure runway 26 which was entered with 11 minutes to go before the specially extended night curfew time. Takeoff commenced but at the Vr call, the First Officer found the response to his rearward control column movement was “sluggish” and more back pressure than expected was required to achieve liftoff and align the pitch attitude with the HUD takeoff reference line. He also subsequently stated that he had felt that “a relatively long time” had elapsed before the Captain made the “Positive Rate” call. Once the landing gear had been raised and the initial rate of climb had been established, the climb proceeded as usual. Once above 10,000 feet, the Relief Captain went to the crew rest compartment although the Relief First Officer remained on the flight deck. Passing approximately 20,000 feet, the crew reviewed the calculated cruise performance and were surprised to find that the FMC-computed optimum cruise altitude was about 38,000 feet which was somewhat higher than the 34,000 feet more typical on long-range flights. It was immediately evident that the ZFW was 40 tonnes too low and that as a result, the TOW was 40 tonnes too low as well. The Captain corrected the error and “immediately realised the severity of the event and its potential risk” since it was now