to additional mental pressure and to a reduced capability to detect unlikely flight parameters, in particular when they are subject to time constraints as was the case with this flight.. The risk mitigation process conducted by El Al when the 787 fleet was established was not sufficiently effective in respect of reducing risk for flights manned by crew combinations having little experience on the new type. The implemented risk mitigation processes were initially based on all new 787 pilots being from the 777 fleet with which the 787 has a common type rating. These processes were not properly revised when this assumption was no longer true.. The tracking of 787 pilot performance via OFDM was one of the risk mitigation measures for the establishment of the fleet but was inadequate because it was focusing on a narrow aspect of the flight, the aircraft operation at takeoff and landing. It did not cover other operational performance and did not define tracking parameters or irregular frequencies. In any case, tracking was not effective because the data output lacked essential details because of incompatibility between the aircraft parameters and the ground analysis systems.. Another risk mitigation step defined for the fleet was that there should be a discussion between the Fleet Manager or Chief Pilot and the designated Check Captain prior to any Line Check or Initial Operating Experience flight. It was stated by the 787 Chief Pilot that a general conversation on training flights and checks in general had taken place with the Check Captain involved a few days before the incident flight but that it had not related to this particular Line Check. The Check Captain involved also reported having been unaware of the fact that he would be conducting a Line Check prior to beginning his crew pre-flight briefing on the day. The Chief Pilot stated that the crew rostering for the investigated flight had been “in focus” by fleet management because of the low accumulated type experience of all the pilots involved but that it was decided to refrain from changing it because both Captains were experienced and in the past both of them had held senior flight operations management positions. This decision was approved and it was considered that the fact that a number of crew family members were seeking to travel on the flight may have also been a reason for not changing the roster.. El Al’s 787 operating procedures did not include any reliable crosschecking of the pitch trim set for takeoff. Mismatched trim values detected during a cross check would necessitate an explanation and thereby support error detection. However, on the investigated flight, the trim value from the FMC happened to be similar to the value on the load sheet.. The ‘Before Start’ Checklist did not include an item requiring the call out and checking of the calculated engine thrust. Checking of this parameter meets the first criterion for inclusion of an item in the normal checklist, since it is a parameter critical to flight