at Gatwick, they were informed by ground personnel that there was damage to the rear fuselage consistent with a tail strike. This led the crew to review their take off performance data and the error made became apparent. FDR data showed that rotation had commenced at 126 KCAS, 3 knots below the calculated VR and 14 knots below the correct VR. The nose gear left the ground and approximately four seconds later, pitch attitude increased through 10.8°, the documented threshold for a tail strike with landing gear compressed, increasing further as the main gear left the ground. The achieved mean pitch rate from the time of rotation to 10° pitch attitude was calculated to have been 2.3° per second, which is within the FCTM recommended range. The Investigation compared the data used for the Chambery take off with correct data and found that the effect of using a weight 6.6 tonnes less than it actually was were reference speeds up to 12 knots too low and an N1 of 88.6% based on an assumed temperature of 47°C rather than the correct 92.8% based on an assumed temperature of 30°C. The EFB software involved was found to be in widespread use. The Titan Airways Operations Manual did not state that the performance program must be shut down between uses and it was established that the Operator’s pilots routinely left the EFB in Standby Mode so that the program remained active. It was noted that for regulatory purposes, this EFB system was classified as a ‘Type B’ application running on ‘Class 1’ hardware. It therefore required Operational but not Airworthiness regulatory approval. The Investigation examined in some depth both the EFB arrangements in place at Titan Airways and the external oversight of their use. It also noted that “there have been a number of previous incidents and accidents resulting from incorrect calculation of takeoff performance” in which the outcome can range from a perception of a "‘sluggish’ takeoff, a tail strike, a runway overrun, reduced obstacle clearance, degraded climb performance or, in the worst case, a catastrophic takeoff accident”. It was also considered that since it is often the case that takeoff underperformance is subtle, “it is possible that events have also occurred but have not been noticed”. The Investigation noted that EASA NPA No 2012-02, proposing the integration of the extant guidance on EFB oversight and use contained in JAA TGL 36 into the EASA regime had led to the issue of AMC 20-25 ‘Airworthiness and operational consideration for the approval of Electronic flight Bags (EFBs)’ which did not include any reference to the recommendations in JAA Safety Information Communication No 7 which had been issued by JAA as supplementary guidance to TGL 36 in 2006 for the specific purpose of reducing the chances of flight crews inadvertently using performance data retained in an EFB. It was noted that “the AMC does not detail any equivalent detailed checklists such as those used by the UK CAA for an operational evaluation, nor