do the EASA publish any” and that “at the time of this report, AMC 20-25 was due for final release in early 2013”. During the initial stages of the Investigation, it was reported that the pitch forces on the aircraft involved were particularly light. Although no aircraft technical log defect entries concerning this had been made prior to the accident, shortly after the aircraft had been repaired and returned to service, an entry was made reporting that the elevator feel force was “light”. Trouble shooting actions for ‘Low Control Forces’ prescribed in the ATM resulted in the discovery that a spring in the elevator feel and centring unit had broken. A strip inspection of the unit was then undertaken as part of the Investigation and it was found that the outer main spring in the unit had fractured. It was established that the unit had last been inspected during a ‘C’ Check in June 2011. An analysis performed by the aircraft manufacturer “showed that a broken outer main spring would reduce the control column pull force during aircraft rotation from approximately 30 lb.ft. with intact springs, to approximately 20 lb.ft. with the broken spring". At the conclusion of the account of the Investigation the following summary was provided: “The use of computers in the calculation of performance requirements has brought about improvements in the accuracy and ease with which they can be made. There remains, however, a continued vulnerability to the use of incorrect data in making these calculations, a solution to which remains outstanding. This accident serves to demonstrate that, given these circumstances, the existence of and adherence to robust procedures, and appropriately designed software and hardware, are essential”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Civil Aviation Authority update their criteria for the operational approval of Electronic Flight Bags (EFBs) to ensure operators have procedures in place for the use of any ‘standby modes’ and on-screen keyboards, and to prevent the inadvertent use of outdated EFB performance data. [2012-035]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency establish a set of detailed guidelines for the operational evaluation and approval of Electronic Flight Bags. These should be more specific than the proposed Acceptable Means of Compliance (AMC) 20-25 and include information such as provided in the Federal Aviation Authority document ‘Electronic Flight Bag Authorization for Use’ and Joint Aviation Authorities Safety Information Communication No 7. [2012-036]. In respect of the exacerbation of deficiencies identified in the EFB system involved by the nature of the Operator’s corresponding SOPs, it was noted that “the Operator was sufficiently small that the relevant managers believed all pilots knew what was expected of them despite these shortcomings”. Since it was stated by both pilots that they were aware of the need to check the EFB performance calculations, the Investigation considered that “the problem came in identifying exactly what was expected and in this the SOPs were, in parts, out of date, insufficiently comprehensive and lacking in clarity”. It