An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten but Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data was successfully downloaded and QAR data was also available. It was found that damage to the aircraft had been confined to a 1.9 metre long “deep longitudinal scoring of the rear fuselage skin” within the pressurised section of the fuselage, beneath the aft end of the rear baggage hold. It was found that “this damage created a small leak path for pressurised cabin air to escape to atmosphere, although the rate of leakage was small and insufficient to affect cabin pressurisation during the (subsequent) flight.” It was noted that in the 737-300 variant, this area is not protected by a ‘tail bumper’. It was found that prior to the departure from Chambery, the aircraft had positioned empty from London Stansted. The Electronic Flight Bag had remained in Standby mode during this flight and was in that mode when the 34 year old aircraft commander began to use it for the take off performance calculations. During this process, he failed to enter the aircraft take off weight into EFB used for take off performance calculations and the weight used defaulted to the take off weight input for the previous positioning flight, which had been much lower on account of the absence of passengers and baggage. He noted that although he normally entered Flap 5 into takeoff performance calculations, at airports such as Chambery where he considered that performance was more critical, he would select ‘optimum flap setting’, which had given Flap 1. He stated that at the time he had not considered either this or the computed takeoff speeds unusual and when the output allowed for a reduced thrust takeoff, he did not think that the calculated assumed temperature was unreasonable either - although with hindsight, he did think it had been too high for the aerodrome and the prevailing conditions. The commander stated that he had written the speeds he had computed using the EFB on the flight paperwork and then entered them into the FMC, thus overwriting the FMC-generated speeds. He stated that this was “standard practice” and that he did not take notice of any difference between the two sets of speeds. At no stage had there been any cross-checking of the EFB calculations. The subsequent take off with the commander as PF had occurred in benign weather conditions and during takeoff both pilots reported noticing “a slight judder” which they considered was due to turbulence from the preceding aircraft. Shortly afterwards, they received a call on the intercom from the rear cabin crew informing them that they had also felt a judder - this call had been intended for the senior cabin crew member at the front of the cabin, but had been mistakenly made to the flight deck. In the absence of any flight deck indications of abnormal status, the flight crew proceeded to complete the intended flight uneventfully. After engine shut down