An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA). It was established that the flight was being conducted as part the procedures for validation of the airworthiness of the aircraft prior to hand back to the owner, Air New Zealand, the following day at the end of a period of dry lease. The aircraft had been ferried to Perpignan three weeks earlier for maintenance and painting work and the responsible MRO, EAS Industries, had issued a Certificate of Release to service shortly before the accident flight had commenced. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the flight and the passengers on board had been a pilot (occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seat) and three engineers from Air New Zealand, together with a representative of the New Zealand CAA. As a result of some ATC concerns about the form of prior notification of the intention to conduct flight trials at various altitudes and configurations prior to the return to Frankfurt as General Air Traffic (GAT), which became apparent soon after the flight had taken off, it was found that the flight crew, in association with the observing Air New Zealand pilot, had “adapted the programme of checks in an improvised manner”. The flight proceeded uneventfully until level at FL320. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data then showed that Angle of Attack (AOA) sensors 1 and 2 had stopped moving and had remained inoperative until the end of the flight at almost identical fixed angles of attack consistent with the actual cruise angle of attack. However, this was not appreciated by the crew. In view of this finding, the records of the maintenance carried out on the accident aircraft at Perpignan prior to the flight were examined and it was found to have been performed and / or checked in accordance with an approved maintenance programme and carried out by Part 66 qualified personnel. However, the work carried out had involved a repaint, and it was noted that painting and external finish activity is not included in the classes and categories for Part 145 MRO approvals. It was noted that AOA sensors are not designed to be subjected to jets of fluids such as those encountered during de-icing, washing and cleaning operations and that, although the applicable stripping and cleaning procedures associated with repainting of the aircraft three days prior to the accident flight had included protection of these sensors, this action had not been taken. As a result, water had penetrated inside two of the three AOA sensors and remained there, rendering angle of attack protection inoperative in normal law. After about an hour of flight, the aircraft returned to the Perpignan area and the aircraft was cleared to carry out an Instrument Landing System (ILS) procedure to runway 33, followed by a go around and a departure towards the flight planned destination. At an altitude 3000 ft and having descended below cloud whilst positioning, as cleared, to join the