ILS LLZ, the flight crew decided to do the low speed handling check in landing configuration and thrust was set to fight idle accordingly. This altitude was noted to have been substantially lower than that routinely used by trained manufacturer test pilots during their customer acceptance flights of new aircraft. An MDCU message to check gross weight, which had been displayed because of a discrepancy between the weights calculated using AOA data and those using takeoff weight and fuel consumption was not noticed by the crew. The limit speeds corresponding to angle of attack protections displayed on the EADI speed tape were found to have been incorrect because of the sensor failure. As the crew waited for the triggering of the expected stall protection while allowing the speed to fall to that of a stall, the auto-trim system was found to have gradually moved the horizontal stabiliser to a full nose-up position where it remained until the end of the flight. It was found that the triggering of an initial stall warning in normal law, at an angle of attack close to that expected, indicated that the third AOA sensor was working at that time. When an initial stall warning triggered, it was found that the response had been as prescribed. As the flight control system had passed to direct law due to the loss of normal law operating conditions, the auto-trim system was no longer available and so the auto-trim system could not move the stabiliser from the nose-up position. There was no reaction from either of the flight crew or the observing pilot to the appearance of the ‘USE MAN PITCH TRIM’ message and there was no input on the manual trim wheel at any time or any consistent reduction in engine thrust so that ultimately a combination of the stabiliser set at full pitch-up and the pitch-up moment generated by the high thrust from the engines led to a terminal loss of control. The Investigation noted that end-of-lease airworthiness check flights, although not exceptional, were not included in the list of non-revenue flights detailed in the EU-OPS 1.1045 and that there was no extant overall framework for non-revenue flights either within the EU or outside it which could be used to set constraints on these flights or establish the skills required of the pilots involved in them. It was noted that Operators therefore have to define for themselves the programme and operational conditions for these flights in their Operations Manual and may not have fully evaluated the specific risks that these flights may present. In the case of the accident flight, Air New Zealand and XL Airways Germany were found to have agreed a programme of in-flight checks based on an Airbus programme used for customer acceptance flights which are performed by specially trained Airbus acceptance pilots and engineers. Three Safety Recommendations relating to these facts were issued in the Interim Factual Report, the content of which is subsumed by the Final Report It was concluded that