landing gear with the centre hydraulic system, which initiated the occurrence.. The fact that the C829 BAT BUS DISTR circuit breaker which controlled the power supply circuit of the alternate landing gear extension system was tripped when the centre hydraulic system was inoperative.. The flight crew’s failure to detect the tripped C829 circuit breaker prior to the approach to land after detecting that the landing gear could not be extended with the alternate system.. Four Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Lack of guards protecting the circuit breakers on P6-1 panel against inadvertent mechanical opening which subsequent to the manufacture of the accident aircraft have been included as standard.. The location of the C829 circuit breaker location on panel P6-1 (an extremely low position) had impeded observation of its setting and favoured its inadvertent mechanical opening.. A lack of effective procedures at the Operator’s Operations Centre, which had impeded specialist support for the flight crew.. The Operator’s failure to incorporate Service Bulletin 767-32-0162.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made at an early stage of the Investigation in an ‘Interim Statement’ detailing the progress of the Investigation and no more were made upon its completion. These earlier Recommendations and a summary of the responses of the recipients during the five years between their issue and the completion of the Final Report were as follows: that the Boeing Company should verify and modify the following checklists: HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (C only) HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (L and C) HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (R and C) GEAR DISAGREE. HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (C only). HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (L and C). HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (R and C). GEAR DISAGREE. Boeing responded that it has reviewed these Checklists and provides its response to the recommendation that they be modified in response to the SCAAI’s specific recommendations following. that the Boeing Company should modify the above four checklists by adding a subsection that in case of failure in the landing gear alternate extension the flight crew should check C4248 LANDING GEAR - ALT EXT MOTOR and C829 BAT BUS DISTR circuit breakers.. Boeing responded that it does not agree that an additional subsection should be added to the current checklist. The QRH Non-Normal Checklists (NNC) are intended to give the crew direction based on a single failure of a specific function or system. The QRH is a compact reference manual, and combinations of all possible multiple failures of all systems are not included due to the complexity that would result. The checklist instructions advise that system controls are assumed in the normal configuration for the phase of flight before the start of the NNC. In the context of this event, normal configuration means that all relevant circuit breakers are in the proper (closed) position. that the Boeing Company should develop a checklist specifying flight crew actions in case of the total failure of the landing gear extension systems.. Boeing responded that it does not agree that a separate checklist should be added for an all-gear-up landing. Section 14 of