the QRH contains the checklist to be used in the event that the landing gear position disagrees with the landing gear lever position. This checklist includes instructions to utilize the alternate system to lower the gear. If any gear down (green) light is still not illuminated, the checklist instructs the crew to plan to land on available gear, which includes the case where no gear is available. The Flight Crew Training Manual provides further guidance in the case of gear disagree combinations. One of these combinations is for all gear up (or partially extended); the guidance provided includes the expectation that the engines will contact the ground first and the instruction to utilise the rudder in order to maintain the runway centreline. that the Boeing Company should introduce a mandatory Service Bulletin providing for physical protection of the circuit breakers located in the areas of direct contact with shoes, equipment for cleaning, luggage etc., in which the breakers may be damaged or unintentionally set in the OFF positions. This applies to all B767 operators which have not added such a protection to aircraft manufactured prior to inclusion of such protection at build.. Boeing responded that it is currently in the process of creating a Service Bulletin that will provide instructions and a kit of parts to operators regarding adding circuit breaker guards consistent with those installed at build in later manufactured aircraft and anticipated that this Bulletin will become available to Operators in the first quarter of 2014. that LOT Polish Airlines should, taking into account the conclusions of the Commission, verify and modify the above cited checklists.. LOT Polish Airlines responded that they have partially implemented this recommendation. They have recommended that the ‘After gear down lights illuminate’ section of the ‘HYDRAULIC SYSTEM PRESSURE (C only)’ procedure should be removed and have introduced a ‘GEAR UP LANDING’ procedure which refers to the ‘GEAR DISAGREE procedure. In the ‘GEAR DISAGREE’ they propose to enter: ‘Any or all gear down (green) light not illuminated’. They advise that the gear up landing technique is described in FCTM and is known to their crews. that LOT Polish Airlines should modify the above four checklists by adding a subsection that in case of failure in the landing gear alternate extension the flight crew should check C4248 LANDING GEAR - ALT EXT MOTOR and C829 BUT BUS DISTR circuit breakers.. LOT Polish Airlines responded that they do not see sufficient grounds for the implementation of this Recommendation at this stage. that LOT Polish Airlines should develop a checklist specifying the flight crew actions in case of the total failure in the landing gear extension systems.. LOT Polish Airlines responded that they do not see sufficient grounds for the implementation of this Recommendation at this stage. that LOT Polish Airlines should, in consultation with the Boeing Company, install physical protection of the circuit breakers located in the areas of direct contact with shoes, equipment for cleaning, luggage etc., in which the breakers may be damaged or