to clear the bottom of the door 3R slide “ran away”. The dual over-wing emergency exits on the right side of the aircraft (2R1 and 2R2) were not used because of the engine fire on that side and although those on the left side of the aircraft (2L1, 2L2) were opened, these exits were not used either. All occupants were successfully evacuated with no injuries. Damage to the aircraft was substantial and occurred to the lower aft part of the fuselage, both engines and their nacelles and to components of various on-board systems in the affected areas. It was subsequently classified as a hull loss. It was noted that the Airport did not have the capability to remove such a large disabled aircraft from the runway and a significant delay ensued as the external contractor engaged to achieve this was based several hundred miles away from Warsaw. Visual inspection of the flight deck by investigators shortly after the accident found that the C829 BAT BUS DISTR circuit breaker situated at the inboard base of the P6-1 CB panel (see the illustration below) situated behind the Captain’s seat was tripped. An exhaustive examination and function testing of all systems and components whose malfunction could have caused the C829 CB to trip subsequently found no abnormalities and the CB itself was found to operate correctly. This 25 amp-rated CB controls the power to 13 subsidiary ones which then individually protect various emergency systems which included the 7½ amp rated CB protecting the Alternate Gear Extension Motor needed for Alternate or free fall gear extension to work. In respect of how the C829 CB came to be tripped when alternate gear selection was attempted, it was considered that it was at least possible that it had for some reason already been tripped when the P6-1 panel had been checked by the First Officer during the Pre Flight Checks prior to departure from Newark but this had gone unnoticed given its floor level position. It was also considered feasible that the (routine) use of the space between the Captain’s seat and the P6-1 panel located behind it for stowage of such items as cleaning materials, shoes and crew baggage could have resulted in unintended tripping of this CB and that such use could also have obscured a tripped CB on the bottom row from detection by a less than thorough inspection, despite this being conducted in daylight. It was noted that Boeing had been aware for some time that in-service experience indicated that because of its location, a protective guard over the P6-1 CB panel would be appropriate and in response had initially offered an SB to install one and then incorporated such guard at build. However, the accident aircraft had been manufactured prior to the modification being incorporated at build and LOT had not taken up the option to install the guard in accordance with the corresponding SB. In terms of the support available to the flight crew once they found that they