An Investigation was carried out by the Polish State Commission on Aircraft Accidents Investigation (SCAAI). Data from the SSFDR, CVR and QAR were successfully downloaded. It was found that the 57 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had 15,980 total flying hours which included 13,307 on type, most in command. He reported never having been faced with any emergency situations caused by technical failures in 22 years in command. The 51 year-old First Officer had 9,431 total flying hours which included 1,981 hours on type. It was established that after takeoff from Newark, with the Captain as PF, the centre (main/C) hydraulic system had lost pressure due to leakage of its fluid during retraction of the landing gear and flaps. The crew had actioned the relevant procedure and noted that this failure would have prevented normal extension of the landing gear for landing. After consultation with LOT Maintenance Control, it was decided to continue to Warsaw as scheduled. During the subsequent approach to Warsaw, two successive attempts to lower the landing gear using the Alternate Procedure were unsuccessful and an ‘Emergency’ was declared. Two checks that all CBs on the relevant CB panel were set were made by the First Officer who did not see any tripped CBs. Landing Gear deployment by free fall was also attempted but was also unsuccessful. Reducing fuel endurance eventually led the Captain to plan for a belly landing and this intention was communicated to ATC so that appropriate preparations could be made. These included the laying of foam over about 3,000 metres of the intended landing runway 33. A 1.2g touchdown on the runway centreline with both engines operating was made at a groundspeed of 127 knots and a pitch attitude of +5.3°. After the right hand engine contacted the runway surface, it caught fire and the aircraft deviated to the right of the centreline before coming to a stop about two thirds of the way along the runway just after its intersection with runway 29. The fire in the right hand engine was a fuel-fed fire resulting of friction between the base of the nacelle and the runway surface and “intense sparking” was visible. On reaching the site, RFFS personnel signalled the flight crew to shut down both engines and were able to quickly extinguish the fire. It was subsequently estimated that approximately 1,600 kg of fuel had been left in tanks at touchdown. The Captain had instructed the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) that an evacuation should commence as soon as the aircraft stopped without waiting for further orders, however in the event, the SCCM still sought confirmation from the flight crew before announcing this. Evacuation slides were deployed from doors 3L and 3R almost immediately but the same action at doors 1L/1R occurred 12 seconds later as a result of the SCCMs failure to heed the Captain’s prior instructions. The shallow angle of the rear slides slowed down their rate of use particularly when those assisting passengers