could not lower the gear using the alternate system, it was noted that they had been unable to make direct radio contact with Company engineering because of an inoperative ground radio and had been obliged to wait 20 minutes whilst an engineer drove to Operations Control. His advice had then not been informed by a full understanding of the way the alternate gear extension system worked or was controlled. The First Officer reported that he had, in response to the engineer’s advice “checked all of the circuit breakers on the P6-1 panel” and tripped and reset the C4248 CB. However, he reported that he had not tripped and reset the C829 CB nor had he been instructed to do so. It was noted that subsequent to this, the Captain had instructed the First Officer to re-check the same circuit breaker panel again “this time in the presence of the Chief Flight Attendant” and that the First Officer had subsequently reported to both the Captain and by radio to Operations Control that this had been done. The Captain stated that he had been focused on controlling the aircraft and had consequently “monitored FO actions only as far as he could from his position”. The cause of the loss of hydraulic pressure in the Centre or ‘C’ System was found to have been the sudden loss of most of its fluid when a hose connecting the right main gear leg to the (main) ‘C’ hydraulic system failed due to fracturing of the metal band around the end of the hose. A detailed examination of the crack in this hose was undertaken using a scanning electron microscope and it was found that there had been a “possible stress relaxation of the hose material resulting in material creep” which it was considered could have been the result of kinking at a location which according to the hose manufacturer, is common “because the hose does not swivel and often gets kinked during installation”. It was also considered that signs of abrasion on the inner Kevlar lining of the pressure sleeving were “indicative of repeated hose flexing due to pressure changes during the operation of the landing gear” which “may also indicate that the hose had not been correctly aligned when installed”. It was noted that there had been no relevant findings during the most recent routine (6000 hour) zonal inspection covering the damaged hose in March 2011. It was further noted that Boeing had determined that the inadequate life in service of the type of hose fitted to the accident aircraft due to fluid leaks was due to exceedence of the minimum hose bend radius as originally installed and, in June 2000, had released an SB which fixed this problem by substituting a redesigned bracket and swivel fitting but LOT had decided not to make this change. It was concluded that the Causes of the accident were as follows: Failure of the hydraulic hose connecting the hydraulic system on the right leg of the main