from the three independent pitot-static sensor systems through a fault detection system which integrates them into a single 'voted airspeed' which is then shown on the PFDs. Separately from this process, an alternative derivation of airspeed is computed from the Angle of Attack (AOA) (AoA) and inertial reference systems and described as the 'AoA speed'. Any "significant disparities" between the voted airspeed normally displayed on the PFDs and the AoA speed will result in the annunciation of the 'AIRSPEED UNRELIABLE' message accompanied by disconnection of the AP. If the gap between the voted airspeed and the AoA speed then becomes sufficient to breach a predetermine threshold - in this case the voted airspeed reached the 'No Computed Data' level - then the Primary Flight Control System reverts to Secondary Mode. In this mode, various system functions, including the autopilot, are no longer available and it was found that "for the conditions of this event", Secondary Mode was a latched condition which, once activated, meant that Normal Mode could only be re-instated on the ground. The FDR data for the event (see below) shows that the speed discrepancy only lasted for 17 seconds but that it only took 5 seconds for the speed discrepancy to become so great that the reversion to Secondary Mode had occurred. The Findings of the Investigation in the form of Contributing Factors were formally documented as follows: The aircraft entered a region of high ice water content which caused icing of the three independent pitot sources and anomalous airspeed indications.. Short duration anomalous airspeed indications caused the flight control computer to transition to secondary mode. In secondary mode, the autopilot and some auto-flight protections were unavailable to the flight crew.. Safety Action taken whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as including the following: Boeing made revisions to the flight control software to: reduce the chances of reverting to secondary mode in a short duration, erratic airspeed event. limit the rate of elevator feel reduction with drops in airspeed so that the control column will stay at a higher feel force to mitigate any large and abrupt unintentional pitch inputs (there were no such inputs during the investigated event).. reduce the chances of reverting to secondary mode in a short duration, erratic airspeed event.. limit the rate of elevator feel reduction with drops in airspeed so that the control column will stay at a higher feel force to mitigate any large and abrupt unintentional pitch inputs (there were no such inputs during the investigated event).. The FAA (in response to a previous, similar event on another 787-8) issued an AD requiring the addition of an 'Airspeed Drop' non-normal procedure to direct pilots faced with "unrealistic drops" in IAS to avoid abrupt flight control inputs and ensure that the AP is not engaged before making manual control inputs.. The Final Report was published on 14 June 2016. No Safety Recommendations were made.