the runway surface was slightly concave to a low point of 114 metres. As shown in the diagram below, on the night of the accident, taxiways 16.1, 17.1, 17 and HP1 were closed and clear of taxiway B1, and work was in progress to construct taxiway HP2. It was established that the MD83 had been cleared to taxi to the holding point for 27 almost half an hour before the SD330 but although it had taxied as cleared, its take-off had then been delayed whilst the crew taxied clear and transferred back to GND to resolve a technical problem. Whilst with GND, that controller noticed that the aircraft was on a taxiway which led to the southerly departure runway 26 and proposed that runway for departure and altered the MD83 strip. Ten minutes later, the MD83 was ready to depart but requested 27, which was agreed and the aircraft transferred back to TWR. The corresponding strip, which had been altered by the GND controller to read '26' with the associated SID was only partially corrected so that the TWR controller initially thought that the aircraft was now departing from 26 and cleared it to do so. The crew then advised that they were at the 27 Holding Point and were cleared to line up and wait on runway 27 behind a landing 737. Three seconds after this clearance, GND transferred the SD330, which had requested and received approval for departure from taxiway 16 to the TWR frequency. The TWR controller "did not notice" the circled '16' annotation on the strip. Just over two minutes after the transfer to listen out on TWR, with the 737 having meanwhile landed and passed in front of the SD330 waiting on taxiway 16 before clearing the runway, TWR cleared the MD83 (in French) for take-off. Five seconds after this, the SD330 was instructed by TWR (in English) to "line up runway 27 and wait, number 2". On receipt of this clearance, its crew then began to taxi onto the runway "whilst looking for the Number 1" just as the MD 83 approached the intersection at high speed. Seconds before impact, the SD330 Captain noticed the MD 83 anti-collision beacon and braked. At about the same time, with the aircraft about to rotate, the MD 83 crew reported noticing the SD330 "on the edge of the runway". With no time to take avoiding action, the left wing of the MD 83 collided with the right propeller and cut through the SD330 flight deck. The MD 83 rejected its take-off and informed TWR that they had just hit another aircraft. The ground tracks and timings for both aircraft are shown in the diagram below. The damage to both aircraft was significant - see the illustrations below. The flight deck of the SD330 was partially destroyed, its First Officer was killed outright as the MD83 wing penetrated the flight deck from the right and the Captain was seriously injured. No fire resulted from the impact and none