aircraft line up in front of an aircraft on take-off or on final instead of lining up. behind, there is a confusion in call-signs which leads to one aircraft moving other than that which the controller wished to call.. It was considered that these events "demonstrate that it is sometimes difficult for crews to identify where they are and so arrive at a predetermined point". Recurring features were found: Holding points are not always identified.. The terminology used is sometimes ambiguous when several call signs resemble each other and no position information is given.. In particular, one aircraft lining up in front of another aircraft which is taking off is not exceptional, collisions being avoided because the crews notice each other in time - being able to see is a crucial factor in saving the situation which was absent in the case of the investigated accident.. In addition, a general lack of awareness amongst the Paris CDG controllers of such incidents and the lessons which could be learned from them was identified as was the fact that "no organised (incident) feedback exchange system exists between different French aerodromes, even less with foreign aerodromes". It was considered "regrettable that the absence of such a system [means that an] objective comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of the use of a single language, for example, is not possible". It was concluded that "this rather underdeveloped feedback system, associated with a lack of established rules for teamwork, results in a non-optimal use of the [safety-related] information available". The formal determination of Probable Causes was as follows: The TWR controller’s erroneous perception of the position of the aircraft, this being reinforced by the context and the working methods, which led him to clear the SD330 to line up.. The inadequacy of systematic verification procedures in ATC which made it impossible for the error to be corrected.. The SD330 crew not dispelling any doubts they had as to the position of the “number one” aircraft before entering the runway.. It was also formally determined that Contributory Factors included the following: Light pollution in the area of runway 27, which made a direct view difficult for the TWR controller.. Difficulty for the TWR controller in accessing radar information: the 'ASTRE' image was difficult to read and the 'AVISO' image was not displayed at his control position.. The use of two languages for radio communications, which meant that the SD330 crew were not aware that the MD 83 was going to take off.. The angle between access taxiway 16 and the runway which made it impossible for the SD330 crew to perform a visual check before entering the runway.. The lack of co-ordination between the TWR and GND controllers when managing the SD330, exacerbated by the presence of a third party whose role was not defined.. An occurrence feedback system which was recent and still underdeveloped.. A total of 14 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC together study all of