An Investigation was carried out by the French BEA. The MD83 was equipped with a FDR and a CVR but the SD330 was fitted only with a CVR - there was no requirement to fit an FDR. Data from the available recorders were successfully downloaded for use by the Investigation. ATC recorded data were also available. A Preliminary report containing the initial factual information available at that time was published on 30 June 2000. It was found that the SD330 flight crew consisted of a 41 year-old Line Training Captain with 2,440 hours total flying experience including 1,005 on type who was overseeing a 43 year-old First Officer newly qualified on type for which the accident flight was his 6th line training sector with the same Captain and his third duty on the night return flight from London Luton to Paris CDG. This First Officer had 4,370 hours total flying experience which included 14 hours on type. The MD83 flight crew consisted of a 55 year-old Captain who had 11,418 hours total flying experience and had been type rated on the MD83 for three years and a 47 year-old First Officer who had 11,104 hours total flying experience and had been type rated on the MD83 for 9 months. At the time of the accident, the ATC function for the airport was grouped at a single control position as follows: a Delivery Position occupied by the 31-year old TWR Manager.. a 36 year-old TWR controller who was an ENAC instructor on his sixth day of re-qualification experience who had originally qualified in the position 9 years earlier before transferring to ENAC about 18 months prior to the accident.. a 29 year-old GND controller who had first qualified in that position about 3½ years prior to the accident.. an Approach/Departure Position "occupied by the APP controller(grouped with the IFR room)".. Although all three runways were in use, all traffic was being controlled by this team from 'north' positions. In addition, because of advance awareness of an abnormally busy late evening period due to spectators returning to Spain after a major football match in Paris, the Head of ATC was also present in the TWR and seated between the TWR and GND control positions passing strips between them. It was noted that work was under way for the construction of a fourth runway to the north of and parallel to the runway where the collision occurred - runway 09/27. The working area was outside the runway protected area. Weather conditions were good and were assessed not to have been a factor in the collision. Runway 09/27 was active in a westerly direction and traffic was being controlled from an 82 metre-high TWR which was located 1,800 metres from the runway threshold and 1,450 metres from the intersection of the runway and taxiway 16. Both the threshold of the runway and its intersection with taxiway 16, which were 1,730 metres apart, were at an altitude of 117 metres and between these two points,