the procedures and associated means for the simultaneous use of two different parts of a runway so as to guarantee, in all circumstances, the same level of safety as when the runway is used by only one aircraft.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that terminology used in practice by the ground controller include the systematic identification of the holding point specific to the required taxiway during the instruction to taxi towards the runway.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that terminology used in practice by the aerodrome air traffic control include the systematic identification of the taxiway from which the aircraft must line up.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that terminology used in practice by the aerodrome air traffic control systematically include, where a clearance is issued to line up behind a departing aircraft, the formal and unambiguous identification of said aircraft.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that the procedure for sequential line-up be defined, as well as conditions for its application.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that the control positions at Paris Charles de Gaulle aerodrome be equipped with the latest ground radar equipment.. that Aéroports de Paris and the DGAC should ensure that the use of high speed exits for line-ups be subject to the existence of arrangements which guarantee a level of safety equivalent to visual checks performed by the crew.. that the DGAC, in the light of the analysis of this accident and previously acquired experience, study the expediency and methods of implementation for the systematic use of the English language for air traffic control at Paris Charles de Gaulle aerodrome, as well as the extension of this measure to other aerodromes with significant international traffic.. that the DGAC establish a precise definition and a verification procedure for Control Tower Operations Manuals.. that the DGAC study the implementation in ATC practices in respect of systematic checking procedures.. that the DGAC accelerate and systematise the implementation of an ATC resource management training course, specifically taking into account questions related to co-ordination.. that the DGAC should ensure that the functions of a controller assistant (role, prerogatives and possible manning of the position) are defined.. that the DGAC should ensure that it is only permissible for the Tower Manager to fulfil a control position where this remains compatible with his other responsibilities.. that the DGAC should ensure that procedures for releasing controllers to duty are defined so as to exclude this being dependant on self-assessment.. The Final Report in an Official English translation and the definitive version of the Report in French were published in June 2001.