of the 157 occupants of the MD83 were injured. It was noted that the sight line from the SD330 flight deck whilst at the holding point would have precluded any view of the beginning of the runway and that this had only changed when the aircraft had been manoeuvred slightly to the right in preparation for line up. It was also noted that although the MD83 had understood the line-up clearance given in English to the SD330, it was not possible for them to realise that this aircraft was further down the runway rather than in line behind them. The way in which the TWR controller had formed and continued with his incorrect mental map was considered during the Investigation. It was noted that: There had been no verbal coordination between the GND and TWR controllers when the GND controller agreed that the SD330 could taxi to and await take-off clearance - as it often did - from taxiway 16 although the strip was so annotated.. In accordance with normal procedures, GND made no further mention of aircraft position when transferring either aircraft to TWR and in both cases this was done, again as permitted by procedures, by instructing the aircraft to change frequency and await a call from the TWR controller.. Given that he believed that the work to construct new taxiway HP and the associated taxiway closures meant that taxiways 16 and 17 "would not be in use", the TWR controller was functioning on the basis of "an erroneous perception of the situation […] according to which all aircraft having to take off from runway 27 were directed towards the runway threshold”. It was considered that the fact that there had been no TWR team briefing - which in any case procedures did not require - had "facilitated this erroneous perception". Nothing subsequently disturbed this false mental picture.. A direct visual check was difficult to perform because of the two areas of construction works and consequent light pollution and verification using ground radar was difficult because of the particular nature of the display. In any case "bearing in mind his mental picture of the situation, there was no reason for his attention to be drawn to taxiway 16".. During radio communications between TWR and the SD330, there was no mention of its position, nor did procedures require this.. The previously quoted words used by the TWR controller to instruct the SD330 to line up were predicated on his mistaken belief that the aircraft was at the threshold holding point behind the MD83.. The Investigation found that "the organisation of ATC services at Paris Charles de Gaulle is defined by an Operations Manual that is not updated regularly and by a large number of unorganised internal memos". It also found that runway incursions at Paris CDG were relatively frequent - 20 had been recorded in the first 6 months of 2000 many of which evidenced recurring types of events: aircraft cross the runway or go past a holding point,.