An Investigation into this Serious Incident was carried out by the Danish Accident Investigation Board. Data from the QAR was retrieved but relevant data from the SSCVR had been overwritten by the time the event was reported to the Board by Kangerlussuaq ATC a little under 2 hours after it had occurred. The 47 year-old Captain had 14,800 hours total flying experience; the experience on type was not stated. The 44 year-old First Officer had 3,494 hours total flying experience which included 2,681 hours on the aircraft type involved. The investigated event occurred during a seven sector rostered flight duty; the position of the investigated flight in that sequence was not stated but an investigation as to whether fatigue may have been a factor in the performance of either pilot found no evidence of this. It was established that after clearance to line up on runway 27 ready for departure, the departing aircraft had read this clearance back and then taxied from the apron via taxiway 'A' onto the runway. A take-off clearance was not given as the TWR, where a trainee controller was in position and being overseen by an OJTI, had, in anticipation of the departure of the DHC8, instructed three vehicles involved in snow clearance on the runway to vacate via taxiway 'D' using "the local FM channel" and communicating in the local language. This local frequency was not promulgated in the AIP. Just seven seconds after arriving as cleared in the 27 take-off position at taxiway 'A' and after the crew had "been in doubt whether or not a take-off clearance had been issued but (had) agreed that the aircraft was cleared for take-off", the aircraft began its take-off roll. An ASDA/TODA of 2579 metres was available from that point and the aircraft was operating at significantly below its permitted MTOM. The crew had no visual contact with the vehicles because they were located on the western end of the runway where the last 923 metres, beginning just beyond taxiway 'D', slopes down to a threshold elevation which is 65 feet lower than the opposite end of the runway (see the runway longitudinal profile below). It is not made clear whether the crew subsequently did sight any of the vehicles later in the take-off roll. As the aircraft passed taxiway 'C', (see the annotated aerial view above), the first vehicle was about to vacate the runway as cleared at taxiway 'D' but the other two still had around 500 metres to go before reaching that point. The take-off was continued and the aircraft became airborne approximately 35 seconds after starting to roll, subsequently passing approximately 300 feet overhead of the nearest vehicle. It was estimated that the closest the aircraft had come to any of the vehicles before becoming airborne was approximately 900 metres. It was reported that "the student air traffic controller at Sondrestrom TWR observed that the aircraft had started its take-off roll and pointed it out to the instructor air traffic controller" and