that "for a short while, the instructor air traffic controller considered an instruction on (instructing a rejected) take-off but had (by then) noticed that the aircraft had started rotating". It was noted that as it taxied out, the aircraft was running about an hour behind schedule and the Investigation considered that a relevant context for the imminent departure could have been that the flight crew were "eagerly trying to catch up on time in order not to exceed their maximum daily duty period of 10:30 hours (seven sectors)" and that, this "might have mentally provoked them to act from their expectations rather than the factual reality". It was considered that the following "human factor topics (had) most likely affected the flight crew mutual communication and decision making process and led to the take-off from an engaged runway": Over-motivation. Bias. Motivational judgement. Complacency. Goal conflicts. Workload and stress.. The Investigation also considered the absence of what were described as "soft safety barriers" including: The aircraft operator’s SOP for the use of aircraft external lights on the ground did not meet the recommendations to that effect aimed at maximising aircraft conspicuity contained in the ICAO 'Manual on the Prevention of Runway Incursions' Doc 9870.. The ICAO PANS-ATM Doc 4444 advice to consider adding "(and) wait" to line up clearances, which were not also issued as take-off clearances in appropriate circumstances, had not resulted in this action being taken in this case. The Investigation considered that the addition of "and wait" would have made the line up clearance more "attention demanding".. TWR did not re-transmit ATC voice communications between the TWR and the runway snow clearing vehicles to aircraft in the air or on the ground. It was considered that whilst "there is delicate balance between securing situational awareness on the one hand and balanced and not least relevant ATC voice communication on the other hand" there were safety-related weaknesses in some of the phraseology used and in dual language and dual frequency use.. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the aircraft "departed from an engaged runway at Kangerlussuaq without an ATC clearance". Four Contributory Factors were identified as having "influenced the sequence of events" as follows: The actual flight was approximately one hour behind the scheduled time of departure.. An over-motivated flight crew acted from their expectations rather than the factual reality.. Runway down slope prevented the flight crew from spotting the three runway snow clearing vehicles.. Soft safety barriers like the applied ATC phraseology and the flight crew Standard Operating Procedures on use of landing lights did not provoke or raise the attention of the flight crew in such a way that their decision making process changed.. Relevant Safety Action taken by the aircraft operator in response to the event during the Investigation was noted to have included the following: Flight crew were reminded of their responsibility to secure the SSCVR for safety investigation purposes.. A new SOP was "defined" by which both pilots must confirm ATC clearances with each