An Investigation was carried out by the Japan Transport Safety Board. Data from the FDR were successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation but CVR data had been overwritten by the time the aircraft had completed its diversion. It was noted that the 60 year-old Captain had accumulated 28,935 total flying hours including 4,408 on type and had recently completed his command training on type (approximately three months earlier). The First Officer had accumulated 6,173 flying total hours of which just 399 were on the B777 having completed his type conversion a little over an year earlier after flying in the same rank on the A320. An augmented flight crew was on board but they were not acting as either PF or PM at the time of the turbulence episode and their location on board at that time was not reported. It was established that the flight had departed Incheon without the Captain giving the Cabin Crew any indication that there could be turbulence in the initial stages of the flight. On reaching the initial cruise altitude of FL 270, the Captain had made a PA advising that "there was no problem regarding the weather" along the intended flight and turned off the seatbelt signs. The cabin crew then began the usual in-flight service. Then, just over an hour after take-off with the aircraft over northern Japan, the Captain reported having observed (with the AP and A/T engaged) a slight rearward movement of the thrust levers which he recognised as indicative of the potential onset of turbulence - see note 1 in the first illustration. He therefore turned the seat belt signs back on. At this time, it was reported that although thin cloud could be intermittently seen, the weather radar did not show any significant returns as set and so the Captain did not give instructions such as calling for attention in respect of the seat belt signs or instructing the cabin crew to take their seats. The cabin crew reported having confirmed the wearing of seatbelts and then continued with their in-flight service. Flight at FL 270 continued in stable conditions and with no significant returns on the weather radar for a further 15 minutes until the sudden onset of severe turbulence - see note 2 in the first illustration. The Captain reported immediately making a further PA to the cabin crew to be seated secured and reminded all passengers to remain seated with their seat belts on. Selected FDR data covering the event [Reproduced from the Official Report] In an attempt to get clear of the turbulence, ATC were asked for clearance to climb and this was given to FL 340 and commenced immediately - note 3 in the first illustration. However, a second severe episode of turbulence occurred 2 minutes after the first - note 4 in the first illustration - and the severe turbulence then continued for a further 20 minutes. About an hour after the initial turbulence encounter, having climbed to FL350 (note 6),