3/A transponder codes, and a higher level of data integrity. Mode S EHS key benefits for ATC safety nets are “further [improving] the accuracy of safety nets, e.g. short-term conflict alert (STCA), through the provision of more accurate aircraft tracks; [and allowing] the implementation of new safety nets in the ATM automation system for cross-checking selected aircraft vertical intention (i.e., selected altitude) with the ATC controller’s instruction as well as verifying the barometric pressure setting applied in the aircraft,” the guidance document said. “Ground automation systems can use DAPs information for a wide variety of uses, such as for tracking, safety net processing, situational awareness, en-route meteorological information sharing, and so on.” Mode S RPA address limitations and potential interference — In April 2019, the ICAO Surveillance Panel summarized industry concerns “about some of the technical limitations associated with large numbers of [RPAs] attempting to make use of current Mode S surveillance avionics. Particular focus has been on the topics of 24-bit aircraft address availability for RPAS and potential 1090 MHz congestion from RPAS,” according to ICAO’s meeting report. The panel noted that the existing avionics design could allocate 24-bit aircraft addresses for up to 16,177,214 aircraft, adding “If there were no growth in [for example, U.S. RPA] fleets, then a maximum of 600,000 aircraft addresses would be available. As of 2 April 2018, there were over 150,000 registered RPAS in the U.S. Projections of RPAS growth in the U.S. indicate that it is likely that there will be over a million such vehicles by 2025.”. Moreover, the ICAO Surveillance Panel’s proposed guidance to member States, based on research conducted for the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to date, notes that “large numbers of RPAS (one RPAS per 2 square kilometres) operating at low altitudes (less than 500 ft above ground level) in a typical high-density terminal airspace (760 ADS-B–equipped aircraft operating within a 200 nm radius and from ground level to Flight Level 180) can interfere with ADS-B ground station reception of aircraft ADS-B reports when the transmit power of each RPAS is 1 watt or higher.” In comparison, ICAO-compliant ADS-B avionics will transmit at 70–125 watts, the report said. The key findings, the conclusion and a “future work” section, summarized in an AIAA paper, at the time were disputed by the FAA. FAA obtained further independent analyses of a separate concern: effects of RPAS traffic density and transmission power on air-to-air and air-to-ground uses of ADS-B on 978 MHz — according to the ICAO Surveillance Panel. The panel noted that other findings initially disputed by the FAA included a scenario in which 1,400 RPAs operating within 800 square miles below 500 ft above ground level (AGL). The scenario “causes ADS-B ground stations to become blinded from seeing manned aircraft ADS-B reports,” the Surveillance Panel said in its summary. The other ADS-B frequency, 1090 MHz, already is more congested than the 978 MHz frequency, and studies are underway in other ICAO member states to find solutions, its report added.