Potential technical issues and consequences have been identified by experts and safety management systems. Further studies are underway, as a result, for the following specific issues where noted: Early insights from ICAO — In a 2012 presentation about two future ATC safety net enhancements, ICAO stressed that IFR RPAS risks in non-segregated airspace must be considered proactively. Its arguments were: “Enhancements to airborne and ground safety nets are clearly technology based and will depend upon the evolution and development of surveillance and system processing capabilities. The need to serve 4D trajectory operations and accommodate trajectory conformance monitoring in all dimensions should provide the impetus to redefine safety net algorithms to fit future operations. … By their nature, safety nets are designed specifically for and implemented in particular airframes and ATC centres, therefore interoperability is essential.". “Hence, the development of safety nets, including the derivation of algorithms and operational procedures, should be harmonized globally. Equally, an awareness and mitigation of common failure modes … is necessary. Deployment of airborne safety nets could benefit from widespread implementation of ADS-B, with backwards compatibility between the ADS-B versions. Developments in ATM automation should build in capability for the various system alerts and flexibility in their local programming to fit particular site considerations.” ICAO RPAS Concept of Operations — The CONOPS, without explicitly listing ATC safety nets by that term, assumes that RPAS — like manned aircraft — must benefit from various “safety systems used to satisfy operational requirements and mitigate failures.” It notes that “The extent and sophistication of operational safety systems will vary depending on the intended use and complexity of the operational environment. Examples of particular importance in enabling international IFR operations include systems for detecting other aircraft and hazards; providing voice and data communication with ATC; and providing surveillance information to ATC (i.e., [data from the] pressure-altitude reporting transponder, ADS-B or MLAT [ Multilateration ]). … On the aerodrome surface, RPAS will interact with ATC much the same as manned operations.”. Two classifications of RPAS — A committee working paper on emerging issues from ICAO’s 13th Air Navigation Conference in October 2018 describes a fundamental difference that makes it hard to sterotype RPAS and small UAS operations. One broad category of RPAS is being treated, or will be treated, by ATC as closely as possible to manned aircraft. The other broad category of RPAS is being treated, or will be treated, much differently. Therefore, UAS/RPAS operators will need to determine case-by-case whether an ATC safety net would protect their RPAS operation.. The working paper explains: “There are two distinct threads to [non-segregated, unmanned aircraft system (UAS)] integration: IFR RPAS operations; and UAS traffic management (UTM). The IFR RPAS operations will be almost transparent to the ATM system. UTM services are anticipated to be initially deployed in airspace below 500 ft which, although largely in uncontrolled airspace, is not unmanaged. Consequently, UTM needs to safely and securely interface and integrate with ATM.” For small UAS operations under visual flight rules (VFR), “ICAO