altitudes (less than 500 ft above ground level) in a typical high-density terminal airspace (760 ADS-B–equipped aircraft operating within a 200 nm radius and from ground level to Flight Level 180) can interfere with ADS-B ground station reception of aircraft ADS-B reports when the transmit power of each RPAS is 1 watt or higher.” In comparison, ICAO-compliant ADS-B avionics will transmit at 70–125 watts, the report said. The key findings, the conclusion and a “future work” section, summarized in an AIAA paper, at the time were disputed by the FAA. FAA obtained further independent analyses of a separate concern: effects of RPAS traffic density and transmission power on air-to-air and air-to-ground uses of ADS-B on 978 MHz — according to the ICAO Surveillance Panel. The panel noted that other findings initially disputed by the FAA included a scenario in which 1,400 RPAs operating within 800 square miles below 500 ft above ground level (AGL). The scenario “causes ADS-B ground stations to become blinded from seeing manned aircraft ADS-B reports,” the Surveillance Panel said in its summary. The other ADS-B frequency, 1090 MHz, already is more congested than the 978 MHz frequency, and studies are underway in other ICAO member states to find solutions, its report added. The ICAO Surveillance Panel, given these uncertainties, also proposed to advise ICAO member states to conduct their own RF spectrum–congestion analyses “to determine how RPAS operations might impact the performance of ANSP surveillance systems” and then “to consider whether or not to prohibit such equipage, and under what circumstances. … “States should consider the degree to which the operation of RPAS may or may not require air traffic services as defined by ICAO. For example, if RPAS are operating in uncontrolled airspace, then the use of ICAO-compliant aeronautical surveillance equipment by RPAS may not be justified.” Similarly, if RPAs are not operating near manned aircraft “the use of ICAO-compliant aeronautical surveillance equipment by RPAS may not be justified.”