S following investment by airspace users and the air navigation service providers,” its report said. This includes “improvements to safety net conflict alerts, including a five-minute look-ahead time conflict alert – generally in non-surveillance airspace.” Authorities also reported that work in progress will increase the nation’s use of Mode S DAPs data for ATC safety net alerting and for display to the controller. The first application of Mode S DAPS data and ADS-B “selected altitude” data from all compliant aircraft generates alerts to ATC whenever these data are mismatched to the cleared flight level (CFL) data on controllers’ traffic surveillance displays. In April 2019, the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) told regional counterparts that it had replaced its last Mode A/C terminal radar with a Mode S radar in September 2017. “All CAAS’s secondary surveillance radars are now Mode S radars,” the report said. “Recognising the improved safety and operational benefits arising from the use of ADS-B in remote areas beyond radar coverage [e.g., over the South China Sea], CAAS embarked on data-sharing collaborations with its counterparts in Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam. In September 2018, the ADS-B and VHF coverage in the northwestern part of the Singapore FIR was expanded as a result of a further collaboration agreement between Vietnam and Singapore. An ADS-B collaboration project is currently underway between Brunei and Singapore.” The nation’s other major ATC enhancements are expanded use of Mode S DAPs to couple aircraft with their flight plans and to display to the controllers: ACAS resolution advisory notifications from aircraft, final state selected altitude (FSSA), indicated airspeed, Mach number and magnetic heading. “An alert will be presented to the controller via the [displayed] aircraft label for aircraft with an executive flight level–FSSA mismatch. … Upgrading also includes the capability to process DAPs by the multi-sensor tracking system and [to process ATC] safety net functions of the ATM automation system,” the report said. In April 2019, the Air Traffic Management Bureau (ATMB) of the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) shared with regional counterparts its experience in ATC surveillance system implementation. This work included actions likely relevant to ATC safety nets and RPAS/UAS. Application of Mode S DAPs data has been an important aspect, and “CAAC positively promotes the application of Mode S DAPs, [taking on] the task of compiling the Mode S DAPs of aircraft in ICAO’s Asia and Pacific (APAC) Region,” the presentation said. “The use of DAPs data was initially limited to functionality available from Mode S (ELS) data items such as flight ID, ICAO unique address and altitude. In August 2013, ATMB/CAAC added [Mode S EHS] ‘selected altitude’ data to the Chengdu Area Control Centre’s ATM automation system.” The ATMB’s short list of near-term ATC challenges includes newly required surveillance of UAS aircraft, the presentation said.