Occurrences which may represent a significant risk to aviation safety are to be reported through the mandatory occurrence reporting systems. Each aeronautical service provider established in a EU Member State must have in place a mandatory reporting system to facilitate the collection of details of occurrences. Each Member State must have in place a mandatory reporting system to facilitate the collection of details of occurrences collected by aeronautical service providers. The European Aviation Safety Agency must have in place a mandatory reporting system to facilitate the collection of details of occurrences, including those collected by organisations which have been certified or approved directly by the Agency. The following natural persons are to report occurrences through the system established by the aeronautical service provider which employs, contracts or uses the services of the reporter or, failing that, through the system established by the Member State of establishment of their organisation, or by the State which issued, validated or converted the pilot's licence, or through the system established by EASA: the pilot in command, or, in cases where the pilot in command is unable to report the occurrence, any other crew member next in the chain of command of an aircraft registered in a EU Member State or an aircraft registered outside the EU but used by an operator for which a EU Member State ensures oversight of operations or an operator established in the EU;. a person engaged in designing, manufacturing, continuous airworthiness monitoring, maintaining or modifying an aircraft, or any equipment or part thereof, under the oversight of a EU Member State or of EASA;. a person who signs an airworthiness review certificate, or a release to service in respect of an aircraft or any equipment or part thereof, under the oversight of a EU Member State or of EASA;. a person who performs a function which requires him or her to be authorised by a EU Member State as a staff member of an air traffic service provider entrusted with responsibilities related to air navigation services or as a flight information service officer;. a person who performs a function connected with the safety management of an airport to which Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council applies;. a person who performs a function connected with the installation, modification, maintenance, repair, overhaul, flight-checking or inspection of air navigation facilities for which a EU Member State ensures the oversight;. a person who performs a function connected with the ground handling of aircraft, including fuelling, load sheet preparation, loading, de-icing and towing at an airport covered by Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008.. These natural persons are to report occurrences within 72 hours of becoming aware of the occurrence, unless exceptional circumstances prevent this. Following the notification of an occurrence, any aeronautical service provider established in a EU Member State shall report to the competent authority of that Member State, or the EASA if certified or approved by EASA, the details of occurrences collected as soon as possible, and