After the classification of the event as a Serious Incident by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Unit at the Aircraft, Maritime and Railway Accident Investigation Unit Directorate at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, an Investigation Commission was appointed by the Minister. Recorded ATC data from both ACCs involved - from the FDR of the E170 and from the NVM of its CMC (Central Maintenance Computer) - were available to inform the Investigation. It was noted that the 47 year-old E170 Captain had been employed by LOT for 18 years and had accumulated 12,100 total flying hours including 3,300 hours as a Captain on type. The 45 year-old E170 First Officer had been employed by LOT for 4 months and had accumulated 4,600 total flying total hours of which 1,026 hours were on type. It was established that the E170 was tracking south eastwards after entering Romanian airspace at FL370 and had been identified on radar when, after 12 minutes, its squawk disappeared from all controller work stations at Bucharest ACC. No attempt was made to query this with the aircraft but during discussion between controllers in the BANAP sector where the aircraft had been when its squawk disappeared and the next ACC sector (DINSI) along its flight planned route, the BANAP sector executive controller "stated that LOT 7293 overflew the sector an hour before". One minute later, in the DINSI sector from which the aircraft would be expected to enter Sofia ACC airspace (see the illustration below), an automatic message was generated with the E170 at FL350 and sent to Sofia ACC. There was still no attempt made to communicate with the E170 or any transmission received from it and it was not transferred to the next sector. After a further eight minutes, the first query from Romanian military ATC was made to Bucharest ACC as to whether a civil aircraft was flying without a transponder. Various exchanges within ATC followed and after a further 12 minutes, unidentified traffic at FL370 tracking as the E170 might be expected to be was reported by a NATO AWACS aircraft to be overhead the Bucharest/Sofia ACC boundary at FL370 and tracking along the E170 flight planned route. At the same time, the receiving Sofia ACC sector controller (VARNA EAST UPPER) observed an unidentified but corresponding primary target. At this point, the E170 was still on the Bucharest ACC BANAP frequency which it had been on when the transponder squawk had ceased and the crew reported their FIR boundary position on that frequency. Not until it was already 25-30 nm beyond the Bucharest/Sofia ACC boundary did the controller transfer it to the (incorrect) Sofia ACC sector, VARNA WEST, where the crew checked in confirming their level and next waypoint (MATEL). Meanwhile, the Sofia ACC VARNA EAST controller was checking with an aircraft which was in the vicinity of the E170 primary target whether its crew could see this "unknown and unidentified" aircraft. This northwest-bound aircraft was to the east of the target