by Embraer. Updated software which eliminated the problem had then been adopted for all new aircraft from January 2010. The flight crew response procedures notified were as follows: If a warning (a light or an audible one) has occurred, even for a moment, and the flight crew is not sure what the warning has exactly been, the status of the TCAS/Transponder system must be checked.. If the transponder has returned to STANDBY Mode, confirmed by the inscription STANDBY in green colour on MCDU, the flight crew must select again the desired operational mode.. If both inscriptions STANDBY and TA/RA on MCDU are displayed in white colour, a transponder swap is required before selecting the desired mode.. In both cases, the flight crew shall check as a must whether the inscription TCAS OFF on PFD disappears or not.. These procedures were found not to have been followed by the E170 crew, although during interview, they advised that they had seen the 'NAVCOM 1 FAIL' message which they claimed had "disappeared after one or two seconds". They had not noticed the PFD cautions or the MDCU status annunciations and had remained unaware of the changed status of the transponder until the absence of a squawk was notified on contact with Sofia ACC 32 minutes later. The Investigation was unable to establish whether the E170 crew had "acted in conformity with the procedures specified in the Aircraft Operating Manual upon....failure of the transponder, due to lack of a copy of such a manual, which had not been provided to the moment despite a corresponding request". For the same reason, it was not clear whether the pre 2010 software fault had been reflected in those procedures. Various deficiencies in both ATC procedures and in the performance of particular controllers within existing procedures were identified as having made a significant contribution to the delay in notifying the E170 crew that their squawk had disappeared. The Main Cause of the conflict was found to be the "unintentional interruption of Air Traffic Service from ACC Bucharest in respect of the southbound E170 after its transponder mode of operation changed to STANDBY which continued as the aircraft entered Sofia FIR". Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The failure of the Embraer 170 flight crew to implement appropriate procedures after the momentary failure of their transponder system.. The failure of ACC Bucharest to provide timely information on the location, direction of flight and height of the unidentified aircraft previously received from (the AWACS aircraft) to ACC Sofia.. The failure of ACC Bucharest to implement relevant procedures from the LoA between Sofia and Bucharest ACCs in respect of the transfer of Control, Communications and Aircraft Identification.. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Romanian ANSP ROMATSA should provide theoretical and practical training and examination of ATCOs in respect of their appropriate actions in cases of special/emergency situations, including transponder failure during flight in Bucharest ACC. [BG.SIA-2015/03/01]. that Romanian ANSP ROMATSA should