at FL380 and replied that they could see an aircraft 5nm away and 1,000 feet below them. The controller then advised a second aircraft, the Falcon 900, which was 10nm southwest of the target and on a potentially conflicting south easterly crossing track at FL370, of "traffic information" to the effect that there was unknown traffic at an unknown level in a 10 o' clock position at 13nm crossing left to right. At almost the same time as the E170 was being transferred to the wrong Sofia ACC sector (VARNA WEST) by Bucharest, and with the E170 being subsequently found to be 8/9 nm away, the F900 crew replied that they had the traffic in sight "far away" and that it was at approximately FL400. Less than a minute later, one of the F900 pilots reported that "I have just seen the traffic and I do not have TCAS on him and he was crossing behind me above…and there was less than FL 400". Examination of radar recordings showed that the E170 had passed 0.9nm behind the F900 at the same level. At the same time as this was happening, the VARNA WEST controller had informed the E170 crew that they were not providing a secondary target and the crew had switched their transponder back on and been identified. This enabled the controller to transfer the aircraft to the correct Sofia ACC sector and the E170 checked in there two minutes after the minimum separation had occurred. The Investigation confirmed the time at which the E170 transponder had been switched off from the aircraft CMC data and the corresponding generation of crew alerting messages and other flight deck transponder status annunciations. It was found that the switching of the transponder to STBY would have been followed by an EICAS 'MASTER CAUTION' with display of the message "NAVCOM 1 (2) FAIL" for less than 10 seconds. The lower left hand side of both pilots' PFDs would have annunciated the message "TCAS OFF" in amber upper case letters and both pilots' central pedestal MDCU TCAS status indications would have shown "STBY" in green instead of "TA/RA". The transponder status change was found to be a consequence of a momentary uncommanded failure of a NAV/COM software interface which would have rapidly auto-reset the NAV/COM radios as they were previously but left the transponder in STBY. It was noted that the NAV/COM 1(2) FAIL EICAS Caution would, by design with the software version installed on the aircraft involved, have ceased as soon as the NAV/COM radio function had been restored, leaving just the PFD alerts and the MCDU indications of TCAS OFF/STBY status. It was noted that the avionics software fault which was capable of causing reversion of the transponder to STBY until manually reinstated had been discovered during initial service experience with the aircraft type and had been identified by Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Honeywell in 2007 and immediately notified to Operators accompanied by appropriate flight crew response procedures based on Honeywell guidance