the passengers and two of the cabin crew had left the aircraft, the latter in order to assist passengers on the ground, and noted “a lot of baggage near the exits”, all six of which had been opened. Ten passengers sustained minor injuries during the evacuation, two of whom were taken to hospital by ambulance and the others were treated for minor injuries at the scene. All but the two passengers taken to hospital were eventually transported to the terminal in buses and the aircraft was later towed off the runway to a remote parking position. Several passengers who evacuated via the right side overwing exit (2R) were either nearly blown over, or were blown over several times by the jet efflux from the right engine and some of their belongings blown away. As shown on the illustration above, passengers crossing behind the engine were at risk of exposure to ‘wind’ speeds of 65 mph or more even with the engine running only at idle and it was concluded that in general, there had been “a risk of serious injury due to one of the engines running during the evacuation”. Separately from the way the emergency evacuation was initiated and conducted, it was observed that yet again, such an evacuation had involved passengers taking their carry-on baggage with them when evacuating. In this case, it had particularly occurred at the overwing exits where the evacuation was not supervised by crew members. It was noted that the CS25.803 requirement that it must be demonstrated that an emergency evacuation of all occupants from an aircraft can be achieved within 90 seconds “does not require any of the test ‘passengers’ to retrieve their own baggage and attempt to leave the aircraft with it”. The cabin crew reported having heard a loud noise soon after the takeoff roll started and had detected the drift to the left before the aircraft came to a stop a few seconds later. All cabin crew except the SCCM reported hearing Captain’s “attention crew on station” PA following which they all stood up at their assigned exits. None of them observed any danger and all awaited further instructions from the Captain. After a slight delay, the SCCM spoke with one of the rear-stationed cabin crew which was followed by the SCCM ordering an emergency evacuation over the PA system. An evacuation was immediately commenced. All exits except Door 3L, where the slide did not appear to deploy correctly and the exit was blocked, were used for the evacuation. At both the forward and rear exits several passengers brought their hand baggage with them, but it was removed from them before they were permitted onto the slide. All members of the cabin crew were interviewed the following day and further interviews were subsequently conducted with the SCCM and the two cabin crew who had been assigned to the rear of the cabin. During her interviews, the SCCM stated that she had not heard the Captain’s “attention crew on station” PA