such as those involved in this case to be ‘‘a common skill-based error’’ and noted that in general, such occurrences can only be reliably prevented by an error-tolerant design from the outset. In this case, it had concluded that “mitigating or eliminating the possibility of an improperly assembled IGV/VSV lever arm would require an engine redesign which it does not consider feasible based on the low rate of occurrence” and noted that “there is currently no means, other than visual inspection, to detect improper lever arm assembly”. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The Engine Failure. The left engine experienced a contained failure. All the damage found in the engine was consistent with the release of one or more first stage high-pressure compressor blades as a result of high-cycle fatigue arising from aerodynamic excitation of the blades. A single inlet guide vane lever arm, which had been improperly assembled in the connecting link on the inlet guide vane actuation ring, was identified as the source of the stimulus that resulted in the blade release. The Emergency Evacuation. As a result of the engine failure and subsequent rejected takeoff, the Senior Flight Attendant ordered an emergency evacuation that was not necessary in the circumstances. This was probably the result of a combination of factors that heightened her emotional response to the event and affected her decision making. The factors included inexperience as a flight attendant, weaknesses in her training and communication difficulties during the event. As a result of the flight crew not being consulted before the evacuation was commenced, the right engine remained running for the first few minutes of the evacuation. This led to an increased risk of serious injury to those passengers that evacuated on the right side of the aircraft. Indeed, several passengers sustained minor injuries having been blown over by the exhaust. During the evacuation several passengers hindered the evacuation by taking their cabin baggage with them. While some were removed by the flight attendants at the supervised exits, this was not possible at the overwing exits. Safety Action taken in response to this and other recent similar A320 family events was noted as having included the following: Laudamotion: Augmented the team responsible for training with the addition of a deputy manager of flight attendant training.. Introduced a maximum limit of 30 trainees on initial flight attendant training courses.. Added practical training in the Cabin Emergency Evacuation Trainer (CEET) to the senior flight attendant course as standard and also incorporated practical training into their annual recurrent training.. Improved the number of training scenarios used in the CEET to include scenarios that result in a return to normal operations rather than an evacuation.. Expanded the flight attendant training syllabus to include the performance effects of startle, an improved 30-second review technique (a process where cabin crew mentally rehearse the steps they would have to take during an evacuation before each takeoff and landing) and enhanced communication training.. Produced a video training aid that