A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB assisted by relevant recorded data downloaded from the CVR and FDR following their removal from the aircraft. The CVR contained interphone conversations between the flight crew and the cabin crew but not PA use by the cabin crew. It was noted that the 44 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 14,128 hours flying experience of which 10,308 hours were on type. Corresponding experience details in respect of the First Officer were not recorded but the flight involved was a line training sector for them. There were five cabin crew on board, one more than usual, but the fifth was not part of the operating crew and was on a familiarisation flight after recently completing her ground training. It was established that, having lined up the aircraft on runway 22, the Captain, who was acting as PF for the flight set rated thrust and commenced the takeoff. About a second after the First Officer had called “thrust set” at a recorded groundspeed of 31 knots, a loud bang occurred and the aircraft began to drift left of the centreline as the Captain announced a rejected takeoff. The aircraft came to a stop between the centreline and the left runway edge. The Captain then set the parking brake and used the PA system to make the standard announcement “attention crew on station” twice. The First Officer advised ATC that they were stopping on the runway and then worked through the SOP actions for the indicated abnormal conditions which included an ECAM ‘ENG FAIL 1’ annunciation and therefore the shutdown of the engine. There were no signs or indications of a left engine fire. The RFFS arrived quickly and the Captain contacted them on the UK standard frequency for that purpose, 121.6 MHz to confirm that there were no external signs of engine fire. On receiving confirmation that this was so, the Captain decided to vacate the runway using thrust from the right engine and requested clearance to do so. One minute after the left engine had been shut down, and just as the Captain was about to make a PA to instruct the cabin crew to resume normal operations, a ‘DOOR L FWD CABIN’ caution message appeared on the ECAM. After initially thinking it was a fault, he then reported having seen the Door 1L evacuation slide deployed and saw passengers moving in front of the aircraft. The Captain called the Senior Cabin Crew Member (SCCM) on the interphone and asked why the evacuation had been initiated and was told that “she believed he had ordered one”, which he (correctly) denied. Following this exchange, the APU was started and the right engine, which was still operating while the evacuation was underway, was shut down. The First Officer then went into the cabin whilst the Captain remained on the flight deck to maintain radio contact with TWR and the RFFS. On entering the cabin, the First Officer found that all