and that the noise of the engine failing had been “very loud" and that this and the movement of the aircraft to the left had “scared her”. She stated that when the other cabin crew all stood up (on hearing the Captain’s PA) she did so too and had been “aware of all the passengers looking at her”. She added that she had “felt under pressure because of this” and had generally been “feeling shocked and overwhelmed”. Her initial attempts to contact the rear-stationed cabin crew by interphone had been unsuccessful and “there was confusion while they attempted to communicate using a combination of the interphone, hand signals and the PA”, although the darkness in the cabin had made the use of hand signals difficult. She explained that she had wanted to obtain information from the rear cabin crew “to help her decide whether an evacuation was needed” and noted that she had gotten the impression that the (male) crew member she had communicated with was himself “scared and shocked” and that his nearby (female) colleague was “completely shocked”. She stated that at some point in this exchange with the rear cabin crew, she had at some point said “evacuate, evacuate, evacuate” over the interphone. The rear crew member who had heard this explained that when she said it, he had not understood why she would order an evacuation over the interphone so he told her to announce it over the PA which she had then done. The SCCM stated at interview that she was aware of the guidance in the “flight safety manual” about the circumstances in which cabin crew might need to initiate an evacuation on their own initiative but “was not thinking about this at the time”. It was found that she had initially qualified as cabin crew in May 2017 and had then operated as a junior crew until November 2017 when the operator under its previous ownership had ceased trading. After the change of ownership and restart of operations, she had returned to cabin crew duties at the operator in April 2018 and after completing SCCM training was promoted accordingly in May 2018. The practical training for this promotion included scenarios using a Cabin Emergency Evacuation Trainer (CEET) but all of these training scenarios ended with a simulated evacuation. It was also noted that none of the cabin crew training conducted by the operator included any aspect of pilots’ activity when responding to an emergency or the potential effects of startle and surprise on cabin crew performance. However, all cabin crew training met the relevant EASA requirements and had been approved by the Austrian Aviation Regulator. The OM Part A was found to include a statement that “the designated senior (cabin crew) must have at least one year’s experience as an operating cabin crew member”. Other than this, the operator was found not to have any requirements for the composition of the cabin crew team assigned to each flight duty in terms of experience. The