engine involved was a CFM 56-5B which had been manufactured in 2007 and installed on the subject aircraft since new. The operator had taken delivery of the aircraft in December 2018 and had not performed any maintenance on the engine since then other than oil replenishment. However after the aircraft’s return to the lessor from a previous operator, the return-from-lease inspection had disclosed several left engine defects which required off-wing repair at a specialist engine overhaul facility. During this repair work, Inlet Guide Vanes (IGV) and the Variable Stator Vane (VSV) actuation rings were split to remove the top half of the High Pressure Compressor (HPC) case to enable the replacement of two damaged HPC blades. This work required the disassembly of the connecting links on the IGV and VSV actuation rings. These rings and their connecting links were reassembled after reinstallation of the HPC case and “no defects were noted during the post-repair inspections or the subsequent engine test cell runs” and the engine was subsequently refitted to the aircraft. It became evident at an early stage in the Investigation that the contained failure of the engine had been a result of the release of several stage 1 HPC blades. These blade failures were attributed to crack progression due to High Cycle Fatigue failure cause by tensile overload and several other HPC blades were also found to be exhibiting fatigue initiation in the blade dovetail. It was then found that the blade fatigue surfaces “were consistent with failure due to a known aerodynamic excitation phenomenon caused by an ‘off-schedule’ Inlet Guide Vane (IGV) / Variable Stator Vane (VSV) condition" which creates stresses in the blade which exceed the design limit. It was considered that the only origin of this “off-schedule condition” which arises from “improper engagement of IGV/ VSV lever arms with their connecting link” was the December 2018 pre-delivery repair work on the engine. It was noted that in comparison with other blade liberation events with the same origin, the engine which had failed in this case had done so with a comparatively low time since the suspect engine repair work which indicated that the extent of the “off schedule” vane condition at release from repair must have been more significant than in most other cases. It was noted that although the relevant Engine Shop Manual task covering the December 2018 repair contained instructions for a visual inspection to verify the proper installation of the IGV / VSV lever arms, for reasons which could not be determined, mis-assembly was not identified in this way and as reassembly of the whole engine progressed, it would have become increasingly unlikely that the single disconnected IGV lever arm which had been the origin of the excitation problem would be detected since it would have been quickly obscured by external hoses, pipes and brackets. It was also considered very unlikely that the required post-maintenance engine runs would have disclosed the error. The engine manufacturer observed that it considered incomplete installation of components