go around was commenced. Surface radar data showed that another Delta Air Lines aircraft, an MD-88, had been moving westwards on taxiway ‘N’ when the go around occurred and the two aircraft came within 87 metres horizontally and 257 feet vertically. The TWR controller provided heading instructions to the aircraft on go around before transferring it back to radar where vectors to an ILS approach to runway 10 were provided and the rest of the flight was without further event. Why It Happened According to the aircraft operator’s FOM procedures, the ILS approach initially flown became unstabilised when the First Officer failed to track the ILS LOC whilst controlling the aircraft manually. These procedures stated that “if a stabilised approach could not be established and maintained, pilots were to initiate a go-around and not attempt to land from an unstable approach”. These procedures also stated that an approach should only continue below the applicable DA if “the aircraft is in a position from which a normal approach to the runway of intended landing can be made” which was not the case. The delay in the Captain’s call for a go around was also a breach of procedures since the circumstances required one at that time and the lack of the required immediate response to this call was then followed by a delay in the Captain taking control which led to the proximity to the taxiing aircraft being much reduced as the go around was commenced. An examination of the rostering and prior rest/sleep patterns of both pilots found no evidence that their performance might have been affected by fatigue and no other explanation for their inadequate performance was found. FOM content on pilot responsibilities regarding a go around were clear and “stated that the pilot flying and the pilot monitoring are responsible for monitoring the approach and that, if either pilot observes flight parameters outside the stabilised approach criteria, a go-around must be called and honoured”. It was also found that the aircraft operator’s encouragement for pilots to maintain their manual approach flying skills was qualified in the FOM by the requirement that “manual flight (for the primary purpose of maintaining proficiency) should normally be exercised under suitable environmental and low workload conditions” and in the 737 OM by the requirement that “the AP should be used for ILS category 1 approaches when the RVR is below (the equivalent of) 1220 metres or the visibility was below (the equivalent of) 1200 metres”. The weather report received by the crew a few minutes before commencing the approach included RVR and visibility figures which were both low enough to require the AP to be used for a Cat 1 ILS approach. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the investigated event was "the flight crew members’ failure to properly monitor the aircraft flightpath, which caused the approach to become unstabilised and resulted in the aircraft descending below the decision altitude while misaligned with the localiser course". Two Contributory Factors to the