An Investigation was carried out by the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) supported by downloaded FDR data and relevant recorded ATC data. It was noted that the 57 year-old Captain had recorded a total of 9,440 hours flying experience which included 1,780 hours on type and 7,777 hours in command on all types. The 43 year-old First Officer had a total of 3,000 hours flying experience which included 593 hours on type. The First Officer was acting as PF and the crew were aware by ACARS message that the final stages of the destination approach were unlikely to be made with visual reference available until near to the instrument approach decision altitude. Relatively poor surface visibility - 200 metres in mist with fog patches and an overcast with a 300 feet base were being reported. Once in contact with Atlanta TRACON, the flight was cleared for an ILS approach to runway 09R. FDR data showed that the AP was disconnected with about 3½ miles to go and passing about 1,230 feet agl in VMC which the First Officer subsequently stated had been because “he wanted to practice hand flying the approach”. It was noted that this was actively encouraged by the airline “in appropriate conditions” which were specified. Soon after this, IMC was entered and the aircraft began to drift to the right of the LOC. At 500 feet agl, the First Officer then also disconnected the A/T which the Captain subsequently stated had not been previously briefed and, as with the earlier AP disconnection, had been a surprise to him. He added that when the A/T was disconnected, “things got squirrely.” At 300 feet agl, the First Officer began to correct the LOC deviation but having returned to the LOC, this corrective track was continued and when the aircraft reached the centreline at 300 feet agl, the track was maintained and the deviation left of the LOC which followed took the aircraft towards the extended centreline of parallel taxiway ‘N’ which was about 200 metres north of the landing runway centreline. The descent was continued below the procedure DA with visual reference available but the drift to the left of the landing runway extended centreline was not corrected. At 120 feet agl, by which time the aircraft had almost reached the taxiway ‘N’ extended centreline and was about 400 metres from the end of it, the Captain ordered a go around. FDR data showed that the takeoff/go-around switch on the thrust levers was pressed and the takeoff/go-around engage parameter transitioned to takeoff/go-around. Three seconds later, the TWR controller instructed the aircraft to go around which the Captain responded with “Delta 2196 is on the go” and a few seconds later, the controller added “it looks like you’re over the taxiway”. The aircraft had continued to descend to about 50 feet above the western end of taxiway ‘N’ before it began to climb and was calculated to have been beyond full scale ILS LOC deflection at the time the