An Investigation was carried out by an Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission constituted by the Government of Nepal, Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation. The 30 minute CVR fitted to the aircraft was recovered and downloaded and good data was obtained. It was established that that the aircraft and crew had positioned to Pokhara the day before the accident in order to operate up to five Pokhara-Jomsom-Pokhara charter flights planned for 16 May 2013. The accident flight was the outbound leg of the second rotation with the Captain as PF and was expected to take about 20 minutes. The flight made initial contact with Jomson at the compulsory reporting point 9 miles from the airport when maintaining an altitude of 12,500 feet and was advised that Runway 24 was in use with the surface wind south westerly at 8-12 knots. The Co-pilot accepted the instruction to report downwind for runway 24. Subsequently, with no briefing or discussion between the two pilots about the tail wind which would result, the Captain called and requested Runway 06 instead of Runway 24. The wind speed as previously given was repeated and on hearing the response from the Captain of ”no problem”, the use of Runway 06 was approved. The pre-landing checklist was completed and in respect of a missed approach, the response of the Captain had been “standard”. Full flap was used and the aircraft touched down - not fully aligned with the runway centreline - some 237 metres past the threshold of the 739 metre-long paved runway (elevation 8976 feet amsl). After rolling for 59 metres the aircraft left the runway to the right onto grass. It continued for a distance of approximately 215 metres at a maximum distance from the edge of the runway of 6 metres before re-entering the runway. Then, without any communication with the Co-pilot about his intention, the Captain "started adding power with the intention of taking off". The accelerating aircraft had insufficient speed to get airborne and overran the end of the runway, breached a barbed-wire fence and gabion wall and finally fell down into the edge of the Kaligandaki river. The aircraft came to a stop with the left wing resting in the middle of the river preventing the aircraft being totally submerged. Damage to the aircraft included the complete severance of the right wing and complete detachment and destruction of the structure at the front of the aircraft including the cockpit. The 39 year old Captain was found to have accumulated 8451 flying hours, almost all of them on the DHC6 which he had been flying for 13 years. The 29 year-old Co-pilot had accumulated 1396 flying hours, all but 194 of them on the DHC 6. The Investigation noted that: Jomson was designated as a STOL airfield but concluded that the approach made had not been in accordance with the applicable procedures with which the Captain had been familiar. In particular, the airspeed on final approach appeared to have been much higher than