An Investigation was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA, based mainly on crew and passenger statements which included that of the a doctor who had been on board and had assessed and assisted the seriously injured passenger. For operational reasons, the aircraft used to operate the accident flight was not the one initially scheduled. This change, although not involving the substitution of a different aircraft type, did involve the aircraft having a differently configured cabin which, when the cabin crew were only notified late of the details of the new cabin configuration, put them under workload pressure prior to and during passenger boarding. As the aircraft began its takeoff, a fully loaded cabin service cart containing retail sales items located at the front galley (position 1 in the illustration below) and weighing around 80 kg came out of its stowage because the retaining latches had not been set. (NB: No mention was made in the Official Report of the foot-applied brake which these industry standard carts also have.) The cart then began to roll down the right-hand cabin aisle at an increasing speed before being stopped by impact with a fortunately empty seat in the row adjacent to the door 4R (position 3). The cart injured eight passengers whilst in transit, one of whom sitting in row 25 (position 2), had been leaning into the aisle and when hit by the cart had sustained a serious facial injury. The Chief Purser, who was stationed at Door 2L subsequently stated that he had “heard a loud noise and thought he saw an in-flight retail trolley go by” but as the takeoff was in progress he was unable to move or use the interphone. Soon after the aircraft became airborne, the cabin crew at door 4R notified him that an in-flight retail cart “had arrived in his zone” and having realised that the injuries included one which was serious, the Chief Purser then notified the flight crew and appealed over the PA for any doctors to make themselves known. A doctor responded to the appeal and attended the seriously injured passenger who had been leaning into the aisle as the cart came past and had sustained a serious facial injury. The doctor was admitted to the flight deck and held a teleconference call with a paramedic on the ground on the basis of which it was decided that the passenger’s condition did not require the aircraft to divert and that she would be regularly monitored during the flight by the doctor and a member of cabin crew and handed over to medical specialists immediately on arrival in Paris. The cabin as configured with the track of the cabin service cart shown (position 2 is the seat occupied by the seriously injured passenger). [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was noted that the aircraft operator has an Operations Control Centre (OCC) to provide tactical oversight of its operations including, as in this case, determining and then supporting