any unplanned but necessary aircraft substitutions such as the one *necessary for this flight. The physical configuration of aircraft within an aircraft type is liable to differ and this information was contained in the ‘configuration catalogue’ which when necessary an OCC controller checks and then communicates to those who need to know. The OCC controller overseeing this change was found to have misread the catalogue and communicated the wrong configuration, which included 42 more business class seats than were actually available and commensurately fewer economy and premium economy seats. The correct configuration for the allocated aircraft would normally be provided to all operating crew on their tablets but this facility did not extend to these changes and so they only found out what they were after the Chief Purser discovered a paper copy of this information on the aircraft after the cabin crew had boarded the aircraft. This information was relevant to the pre-flight catering onload and to passenger seat allocation and service. During his subsequent on-aircraft briefing, the Chief Purser reminded his team that the passengers may well not be as relaxed as usual because of a boarding delay due to a late catering upload and the non routine stowage it had required. He subsequently stated that time pressure had dictated that the catering stowage had been “done in a disorganised manner” with the cabin crew assisting with loading which was “not standard practice”. The Chief Purser also decided that as no aircraft loading plan was available, the mandatory check that the seals on loaded cabin service carts were intact would be deferred until after takeoff instead of being done before departure as it would normally be so as not to further delay boarding. It was noted that this check could only be done by removing each cart from its stowage and then returning and re-securing it. The member of cabin crew who overlooked the securing of the cart in its stowage subsequently stated that passenger boarding had commenced before the crew had been able to complete stowage of all the cabin service carts in their correct locations. Having been assigned to look after business class passengers, she had eventually become “overwhelmed” by the unusually high pre-takeoff cabin service workload caused by more than four times the number of business class passengers, the majority of whom had been upgraded from economy since the flight had been sold for an aircraft configured with 422 economy class seats whereas the substitute aircraft had only 206 of these. A total of six Contributory Factors to the accident were identified by the Investigation as follows: The failure of the Operations Control Centre (OCC) to communicate the correct aircraft configuration during the aircraft substitution process, possibly related to the use of a non-automated tool to select the configuration.. The incorrect aircraft configuration provided by the OCC controller led to a large number of passengers not accustomed to the services provided in business class being upgraded to that class and to the incorrect loading of