Touch-and-go essentially joins two manoeuvres into one - the aircraft lands on the runway, then accelerates and takes off again. The procedure is normally practiced during flight training but is sometimes used as a form of aborted landing after touchdown. An example of the path of an aircraft performing a touch and go. The advantages of touch-and-go include: Both actions (take-off and landing) are performed (as opposed to low approach). Short runway occupancy (as opposed to e.g. a stop and go or a landing and backtrack for another take off). Shorter duration, meaning more cycles can be done per hour (as opposed to e.g. stop and go or full stop landing and taxi-back take off). The procedure itself can be performed in a real situation (aborted landing after touchdown). The procedure offers some specific challenges that need to be considered when deciding whether it is appropriate to perform it, e.g.: The procedure is more demanding on the pilot as they must quickly switch their mindset from trying to land to getting back in the air while changing the aircraft configuration accordingly.. There may not be enough runway available. For various reasons (runway length, wind, landing technique, etc.) it is possible that the remaining runway is insufficient for a safe take off. The decision whether to continue as planned or abort the take off part may need to be done very quickly, and in combination with switching the aircraft from one configuration to the other.. Not doing it properly may defeat the purpose of the exercise. The main objective of a touch and go is to practice the two manoeuvres. That means the take-off part is only supposed to be initiated when the aircraft is firmly on the ground and has decelerated. Sometimes due to e.g. having a shorter runway, a delayed touchdown, etc. the landing part is performed differently compared to the full-stop scenario, e.g. almost simultaneous touchdown of all wheels (to save time), no deceleration, etc.. There is more stress on the engine as it has to quickly go from a relatively cold condition (typical for landing) to a full power state (expected for take-off).. The performance of touch-and-go instead of a landing must be communicated to air traffic control so that they may plan the traffic flow accordingly. Sometimes it would not be safe to approve a touch-and-go and the controller would clear the pilot for a full stop landing.