There are some manoeuvres that can be viewed as an alternative to touch-and-go and are also used in flight training: Stop and go - the aircraft comes to a complete stop and then starts a take-off roll. This option is often preferable to touch-and-go as it is less demanding for the pilot. This is because the two actions are split - the pilots first focuses on the landing and only when this task is complete, they turn their attention to take-off. Also, there is some time to switch between the tasks which is not the case with touch-and-go. The downside is that stop-and-go requires a longer runway and the aircraft needs to stay on the runway for a longer period of time. Sometimes these requirements cannot be satisfied due to e.g. busy traffic or the runway being too short.. An example of the path of an aircraft, performing a stop and go. The green part is the landing, the blue clock indicates the time when the aircraft is stopped preparing for take-off and the pink part is the take off. Low approach - a combination of an approach and a go-around. The aircraft does not touch the runway (unlike touch-and-go/stop-and-go). Unlike missed approach, the aircraft does not start climbing at the missed aprroach point but continues to fly at this height instead. The climb starts at a later point, e.g. after overflying the runway end.. An example of the path of an aircraft, performing a low approach. The flight descends to the minimum descent altitude (or decision altitude) and maintains it until passing over the runway end. An example of the path of an aircraft, performing a go around. The flight descends to the minimum descent altitude (or decision altitude) and then starts to climb. Note that in a real-life situation the procedure may start before reaching the MDA/DA and sometimes after that. Full-stop landing followed by a taxi-back take-off. The aircraft exits the runway (as if this were the end of the flight) and then taxies to the holding point. Sometimes (wind and traffic permitting) a backtrack can be used to take off from the opposite direction. The advantage of this option is that it fully represents both parts of the flight. The downside is that it is the most time consuming.. An example of the path of an aircraft, performing a taxi-back for take off.