by the ground based radio equipment that is used for the approach. The point at which LVPs are implemented may vary from one aerodrome to another depending on local conditions and facilities available. It will usually be determined by a specific RVR or cloud base measurement. Typically an RVR below 550 metres or a cloud base below 200 ft aal will trigger LVPs. Adequate consideration should be given to the time taken to implement fully all of the measures required to protect operations in low visibility conditions. Provision should also be made for alerting airlines, and other organisations with movement area access, in good time prior to the introduction of LVPs. This is particularly important where companies exercise control over their own apron areas and maintenance facilities adjacent to the manoeuvring area. Regulatory authorities offer guidelines in respect of LVP implementation and suspension. A typical example is found in UK CAP 168: Licensing of Aerodromes, Appendix 2B, which contains information on the subject. ICAO European Region guidance material on LVPs is available in ICAO EUR Doc 013 "European Guidance Material on All Weather Operations at Aerodromes". Low Visibility Operations may only be conducted under strict conditions, which are described fully in IR-OPS Subpart E Low Visibility Operations (LVO) and associated Acceptable Means of Compliance and Guidance Material, and EU-OPS 1.440 - EU-OPS 1.460 and relevant appendices. Essentially these concern the following main areas: Flight crew complement, training, qualification and authorisation;. Aircraft minimum equipment and certification;. Aerodrome considerations; and,. Operating procedures.. Taxi-out for departure and taxi-in after arrival in low visibility conditions is one of the most demanding phases of all-weather operations. The following good practices should be considered for inclusion in the SOPs: A thorough and good briefing for the taxi-out or taxi-in phase (route) is extremely important; the brief of the taxi pattern should use headings and turn directions for better orientation;. No paperwork whatsoever shall be done during taxi-out or taxi-in, all checks should be done at a standstill;. All flight crew members must have the taxi chart available during all ground operations during LVP;. If there is any doubt about the position of the aircraft whilst taxiing before take-off or after landing, the flight crew should stop the aircraft and inform ATC immediately; early verbal intervention or even taking over control for braking may be needed by the pilot monitoring (PM) to prevent a safety relevant event.. ATC should be asked for guidance in standard English phraseology. ATC can then immediately give the necessary urgent instructions to aircraft about to depart or land; to discontinue take-off or approach as applicable, before taxiing assistance and guidance is offered to the ‘lost’ crew;. Lights can be helpful to make the aircraft visible to others;. Never cross a lit red stop bar;. The runway should be confirmed by both pilots before any take-off (a/c heading upon entering the runway must match the painted numbers on the runway);. When rejected take-off is carried out the crew must maintain awareness of the