An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (UK) (AAIB). Data from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) was successfully downloaded and CCTV, R/T and Surface Movement Radar recordings were also available. In addition, an AAIB passenger questionnaire was sent to each of the 187 passengers and 105 completed ones were returned. It was noted that the aircraft commander had been designated PF for the flight which was departing at ‘first light’ with the main cabin lighting dimmed. After taxiing out in drizzle through some areas of standing water, a take off was commenced from runway 05 by engaging the TOGA thrust mode of the A/T. During normal acceleration, both pilots became aware of a “strange” smell and at about 80 knots, this became stronger and there was a perception that “slight misting” was occurring on the flight deck. Similar awareness was apparent in the passenger cabin with the unusual smell variously described as “hot oil”, “burning electrics” or “burning rubber”. What appeared to be smoke was coming from the PSUs, visible in the beams of those individual reading lights which were illuminated in the otherwise dimly-lit cabin. This situation prompted the Cabin Service Director (CSD) to use the flight crew interphone to advise of an “urgent” situation in the cabin. Upon receipt of the CSD call, the aircraft commander called and commenced a rejected take off with the aircraft approaching 100 KIAS. Having brought the aircraft to a stop on the runway, the commander called the CSD to the flight deck and, after receiving a report of conditions in the cabin and observing them directly through the open flight deck door, he ordered an emergency evacuation. Slides and overwing exits - the latter opened without difficulty by passengers - were used and cabin crew observed some passengers recovering personal items from the overhead lockers and thereby delaying the movement towards the exits. The airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Services attended and once all the occupants had left the aircraft, carried out an inspection which found no signs of fire but “detected a faint smell of smoke.” Despite the fact that there had been a widespread perception of an abnormal situation as the take off began, no defects were subsequently identified which could have led to the “smoke” or fumes that were seen and smelt and analysis of cabin air filters “showed that there were no unusual substances or residues of oil or hydraulic fluid present”. It was considered possible that the slightly later than usual selection of the air conditioning packs on after engine start (although the timing of this selection was still in line with the applicable SOPs) coupled with a short taxi time may have meant that the passenger cabin was slightly warmer than usual for take off. If so, this together with the humid ambient conditions when take off engine thrust increased the available supply of cold air to the cabin to achieve the selected temperature. As the cabin