was warm and humid, this sudden influx of cold air “could have caused the formation of mist or fog in the cabin which, in the low lighting conditions, could have given the appearance of smoke or fumes”. However, the Investigation could find no reason for the acrid burning smell which could not subsequently be replicated and there was neither a residual smell in the cabin nor on the clothing of any of the occupants and there were no reports of any negative effects. The only conclusion possible was that the smell “may have been due to excessive moisture in the (air conditioning) system, vaporising from the ducting as it heated up to its normal operating temperature”. In respect of reports from some passengers in window seats that they had seen sparks outside the aircraft as the take off was being rejected, no possible source could be identified and it was suspected that what may have been seen in the prevailing wet runway and low light level was the aircraft and runway lights intermittently reflecting off the spray thrown up from the main landing gear as full reverse thrust was deployed. The returned passenger evacuation questionnaires facilitated a better understanding of the passenger perspective than would otherwise have been possible from observations at the time alone. In addition to passenger perceptions of cabin conditions during the take off roll and subsequent rapid deceleration, useful information in respect of the evacuation itself was gained. It was found that those using the overwing exits had been able to see the markings indicating the rearward direction of movement off the wet wing surface but had found it difficult to see the extent of the drop to the ground in the poor light and some of them had not appreciated that it was necessary to slide down the flap surfaces (which had been set to 40° by the flight crew as required) with some expecting to find a slide available. On the left wing, it was noted that some passengers had successfully slid to the ground and then assisted others to do the same but on the right wing, fewer people did this and some who had exited onto the wing then re entered the cabin and left via the door slides having concluded that there were “no visible signs of danger”. Slide evacuation involved a rapid transit to the bottom due to the wet surface of the slide and some people had difficulty getting out of the way before the next passenger arrived which led to a number of minor injuries as people collided or were knocked over. The evacuation was timed at 3 minutes and 38 seconds, although this total included the time taken for the aircraft commander to walk through the cabin to check that everyone was off the aircraft. Relevant aspects of the evacuation certification requirements were reviewed. These were noted as including the 90 second evacuation requirement and the certification test assumptions. In respect of the proportion of the 105