was noted that FDR data alone was insufficient to determine whether the door had closed incorrectly during gear retraction after takeoff or whether it had opened progressively during the climb to FL 110. A ground search for the lost door was focused on the known position it had detached modified by the wind velocity at intervals below and using assumptions about its aerodynamic characteristics. Three parts of the door were found respectively on 31 March 2018, 8 April 2018 and 1 May 2018 all within a 1 nm radius of the estimated point of loss of the door. With reference to the recovered parts in addition to recorded minor changes to the drag coefficient, it was possible to establish the sequence of in-flight events which had culminated in the detachment of the door as follows: the nut of the door’s rear hinge assembly had unscrewed in service before coming off.. the screw then moved backwards which allowed the male hinge to come out of the female hinge resulting in the landing gear door being slightly misaligned with the fuselage surface.. the abnormal position of the door also resulted in additional loads on the other landing gear door attachment points, in particular the link which failed under fatigue at the start of the descent.. the loss of this link and the rear hinge assembly attachment points then introduced substantial loads on the remaining main attachment point, the front hinge assembly, until failure under overload of its male hinge.. once the three main attachment points were no longer effective (link, front hinge assembly and rear hinge assembly), the door then swung upwards around hinge No. 1 and struck the fuselage and window which resulted in the noise heard and the jolt felt by those on the aircraft.. this was then quickly followed by the failure under overload of the remaining hinge thus completely releasing the door from the aircraft. Recovered door components. Source: BEA [from official Report] The nut of the rear hinge assembly of the left main landing gear door was missing and was not found. It was this loss that set off the sequence which culminated in the detachment of the door in flight which both damaged the aircraft and created a potential hazard for people and structures on the ground. The exact reason for the loss of the nut could not be established but it was found that the nut of the front hinge assembly of the left main landing gear door did not comply with the configuration specified during the initial design in that the material and protection were different to that contained in the IPC. It was also found that the nuts of both the front and rear hinge assemblies of the right main landing gear door of the aircraft were similarly IPC non-compliant and the P/N of these three nuts “could not be determined with precision”. It was noted that alternatives to the IPC Part Numbers for these nut were approved by ATR through its “generic