An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency, the BEA. The FDR and CVR were both downloaded and their relevant data were synchronised. These data provided very useful information on both the prelude to the door detachment and the location of the wreckage of the door on the ground to be determined. The Captain had a total of 7,294 hours flying experience which included just over 6,700 on type whilst the PF First Officer had a total of 414 hours flying experience of which 132 hours were on type. The climb after departure continued to FL 110 where the aircraft was temporally levelled off. Despite a normal power setting, a ‘CRUISE SPEED LOW’ alert was annunciated for 60 seconds beginning approximately two minutes after this temporary level off. Then, the climb to the final cruise level of FL190 was completed and again, two minutes after reaching it, a ‘CRUISE SPEED LOW’ alert was annunciated and remained active throughout the cruise until ceasing (by design) as descent began. The flight crew followed the relevant OM procedure and checked the airspeed which showed that the indicated airspeed of 212 KIAS was 12 knots below the expected 224 KIAS which was to be expected for the prevailing flight conditions. Later on, shortly after descent had begun, the aircraft was passing FL 178 when all those on board heard a thud and felt a jolt. There was no significant deviation in the aircraft’s AP controlled trajectory and no abnormal flight parameters were seen so the descent was continued and there were no further unexplained occurrences. After taxiing in at Aurillac, the crew were made aware of a missing left main landing gear door and upon inspecting the area confirmed this. Various mainly superficial damage to the aircraft was subsequently found including to the left wing root fairings, the vertical stabiliser, some cabin windows, the surrounding fuselage and the left lower wing surface skin. A tear on the lower surface skin of the left flap was also found. The Investigation was able to identify from FDR data the point when the gear door had detached by an identifiable change in the recorded drag coefficient which occurred because of changes in the angle of attack which caused measurable changes in all three accelerations (longitudinal, lateral and vertical). It was apparent that during the cruise and as the descent began, the gear door had been in a position (or had freedom of movement) which generated additional drag which had essentially remained constant until it disappeared when the 15 kg door detached. The two unexplained CRUISE SPEED LOW Alerts were found to have been caused by the marginal misalignment of the insecure landing gear door which had created additional drag. This showed that the door had been insecure from at least the level off at FL110 and perhaps earlier in the flight although no FDR evidence was found to indicate that this had been the case on previous flights. It