documentation” but it was found that this documentation “could result in nuts with a P/N which does not comply with the IPC being installed”. It was also found that neither the Job Instruction Card (JIC) applicable at the date of the investigated event nor the generic ATR documentation indicated the tightening torques to be applied to the IPC P/N of the landing gear door hinge fasteners. Errors were also found in the generic documentation in respect of the tightening torques to be used with possible alternatives to the IPC P/N nuts. It was noted that the most recent maintenance intervention involving the rear bay door hinge assembly of the left main landing gear had been over three years prior to the investigated event when it was removed and reinstalled. It was found that that the securing nuts of interest had not been replaced during this operation. The Investigation was unable to determine when and under what circumstances these nuts had first been installed on the aircraft and it was noted that at the time the investigated event occurred, the landing gear maintenance programme did not require any specific check of these hinge assemblies. It was also noted that ATR’s generic maintenance documentation allowed nuts to be reused without any check being performed on their self-locking capability. An examination of the fasteners of all HOP! ATR 42 aircraft found that “around 50%” of the nuts did not comply with the IPC specification" and it was additionally found that the various deviations observed on the assemblies of the HOP! ATR 42 fleet “were not a priori connected to work carried out by a particular maintenance workshop” and observed that the nuts used for the door hinge assemblies are also used elsewhere on the aircraft so that the errors found in the generic maintenance documentation may also affect fasteners used elsewhere on the aircraft. Overall, the Investigation resulted in the discovery of errors in the generic maintenance documentation that could lead to the installation of screw/nut combinations outside of state-of-the art criteria. Whilst the consequences of these deviations from good practice, on the mechanical performance of the screwed joints affected were not precisely determined, it was concluded that they could result in such fasteners no longer fulfilling their intended function. Three potential Contributory Factors to the nut of the rear hinge assembly of the left main landing gear door becoming loose and then unscrewing were identified: The ATR maintenance documentation concerning the choice of nuts to be used as an alternative to the IPC P/Ns was complex and contained errors which could lead to the choice of a nut with an unsuitable P/N.. The tightening torque to be applied to this fastener and to the associated alternatives was missing from the ATR documentation.. The ATR generic maintenance documentation allowed nuts to be reused without checking their self-locking capability. The landing gear door removal/installation job card did not specify that it was a self-locking nut and did not require a check for its self-locking