the fuselage structure had been pushed upwards. System damage was found to the ducting of the cross bleed system, to pack ducting and possibly to the packs themselves and also to several brake units. The Captain initially concluded that “the aircraft may have struck a solid object on the runway”. However, the Investigation concluded that “the nature of the damage to the belly panels in the vicinity of the pack bay area indicates that the aircraft had come into contact with a significant amount of water at high speed”. The depth of this water was estimated from the evidence available as having been at least 30 cm deep and possible as much as 60 cm. The source of this water was the “Petite Riviere du Vieux Fort” (see the illustration below) which had, unknown to ATC, burst its banks where its natural channel turns from south to west and begins to parallel the runway, a change made to facilitate runway extension. It was considered that the un-commanded change in aircraft direction after touchdown “may have been the result of aquaplaning”. It was noted that after the aircraft had parked but prior to passenger disembarkation, water from the river “began flooding the airport terminal, the ramp and runway area” with this second deluge believed to have deposited debris such as logs / branches, ULDs and other baggage handling equipment subsequently seen on the runway and surrounding areas later in the night. The Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: the nature of the damage sustained by the aircraft points to the aircraft coming into contact with a significant amount of water at high speed. There is no evidence to indicate that the aircraft struck anything else.. the original course of the river to the north of the runway had been diverted to facilitate a past runway extension and as a result of the heavy rain that prevailed in the hours prior to the investigated landing, the river had burst its banks at the point where the original course of the river had been diverted 90 degrees to the west which had led directly to the touchdown area of the runway in use being flooded at the time of the landing.. the evidence indicates that at the time of the investigated landing, the depth of water where touchdown occurred was between 30 cm and 60 cm in depth.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the St Lucia Authorities should implement more frequent runway inspections during periods of severe weather conditions in order to check for flooding.. that the St Lucia Authorities should install physical ‘high level’ indicators to warn of rising water levels in the adjacent river to the north of the Airport.. that the St Lucia Authorities should install flood defences in order to prevent future runway contamination at the Airport should the river burst its banks.. that the St Lucia Authorities should install Unit Load Device (ULD) and ground equipment storage areas