An Investigation was carried out by the Eastern Caribbean CAA under the provision of the St Lucia CARs 2007. Relevant recorded flight data was obtained from Airbus. A Preliminary Report detailing initial progress with the Investigation was published on 23 August 2018. It was noted that the 50 year-old Captain had a total of 13,000 hours flying experience of which 9,800 hours were on the A330/340. The 30 year-old First Officer had a total of 4,783 hours flying experience of which 807 hours were on the A330. It was established that the crew were on the second flight of their duty which had consisted of a return trip to Tobago and that on arrival back in St. Lucia, the aircraft was scheduled to continue to London Gatwick. After a delayed departure due to reports of thunderstorm activity, heavy rainfall and strong and gusting winds at St Lucia which had resulted in intermittent closure of the airport, the flight departed Tobago with the First Officer as PF. On checking the St Lucia weather en route whilst still 128 nm southwest of destination, the crew were advised of “thunderstorm activity at the field...thunderstorms in all quadrants”. Fifteen minutes later, when 18 nm southwest of the airport, the crew asked if the airport was still open and were told it was currently closed. They opted to take up the hold and await an improvement. Half an hour later, ATC advised the flight that visibility at the airport had improved and, after asking the crew to standby for an imminent METAR, the controller then gave it as including present weather “thundershowers (with) CBs in all quadrants”, adding that the airport was now open. The aircraft, with the Captain now having taken over as PF, was cleared to commence an RNAV approach to runway 10. A stable approach was flown and the 2744 metre-long runway was in sight shortly after descent through 1000 feet agl with the AP disengaged at 600 feet agl. However, on main gear touchdown 700 metres past the threshold and 6/7 metres right of the centreline at 135 KCAS with the auto brakes set to MED, a significant ‘juddering’ was immediately obvious. The crew also reported that, for no obvious reason, the aircraft had veered to the left - although this was easily brought under control. The nose landing gear touched down at approximately 120 KCAS and the FDR recorded an immediate 3° left turn and then an 8° right turn onto 107° at a speed of 75 knots followed at 40 knots by a further 6° to the right which resulted in the centreline being regained. As the landing roll continued, a series of ECAM cautions were displayed, including a left wing air leak. The aircraft taxied to its parking gate and was shut down. The attending ground engineer then summoned the Captain to come outside and look at the aircraft where there was extensive damage to the underside of the aircraft in the vicinity of the pack bay where