Operationally, jet efflux can be hazardous in three ways: In the ramp environment where it can damage other aircraft, blow over ground equipment (baggage carts, aircraft steps, vehicles, etc.), cause structural damage to buildings, or injure or kill passengers, crew and ground personnel who may be in the vicinity.. On taxiways where other aircraft (and especially jet engines) may be damaged by Foreign Object Debris (FOD) and smaller or light aircraft blown over or subjected to loss of directional control.. On surface manoeuvring areas that are either damaged or not designed to withstand the efflux from engines running at high power.. Whilst these risks are ever-present and generally recognised within the ramp environment, when there is a specific hazard then signage and or NOTAMs are usually provided. Flight crews should check these and always use the minimum ‘breakaway’ thrust to commence moving. However, what is not generally recognised are the hazards that may be created when away from the ramp environment. Two specific hazards to aircraft safety are particularly important: Where the efflux from one aircraft on the ground affects another (usually smaller) aircraft. There is often no appreciation by the flight crew of large aircraft of the potential hazard to smaller aircraft which is created by the application of ‘breakaway thrust’ to commence moving. This is particularly hazardous when the smaller aircraft is moving behind the larger aircraft. The most dangerous case is when the smaller aircraft is on the take-off or landing roll and passes at speed behind a larger aircraft which has stopped just clear of the active runway after crossing or vacating it and which is applying breakaway thrust to re-commence taxiing. In the worst case, a loss of directional control and Runway Excursion could result. As well as light aircraft, smaller regional and business jets operating at busy airports with frequent wide body aircraft movements are at particular risk. The only defence for a smaller aircraft is a high degree of proactive situational awareness on the part of all flight crews.. The second major hazard is where the jet efflux dislodges sections of taxiway or stopway paving, or other debris, deflecting it rearwards and upwards causing it to hit and damage the stabiliser and/or elevators. This could lead to impaired control authority resulting in loss of control during rotation and initial climb. Manoeuvring surface cleanliness is the responsibility of the airport authority but its major impact is on aircraft safety. Other than during scheduled airfield/ATC inspections, contamination may only be apparent to operating flight crew..