as the speed reduced through 188 KCAS, a selected altitude of 400 feet was set, and V/S mode engaged with a 1200 fpm rate of descent. Passing 1800 feet QNH, the flaps were selected to 15° and the selected speed was 140 knots as the Captain confirmed “fully established” to TWR and the flight was cleared to land. On request from the First Officer, the Captain selected the landing gear down and was recorded telling the First Officer to “go, go to the limit". The selected rate of descent was progressively increased to 1800 fpm and flaps 30° selected. With 3.3 nm to go, the altitude capture mode engaged 400ft before the selected (400 feet) altitude was reached because of the commanded 1800 fpm descent. As 400 feet was approached with the indicated speed now reduced to 125 knots but the runway still not in sight, the Captain was recorded saying “we continue to 300” and the selected vertical mode was changed from the just-engaged ‘pitch hold’ back to V/S with a 1000 fpm rate of descent. The Captain said “keep on going” but passing 310 feet at 121 KCAS, the aircraft was still 2 nm from the runway. Eight seconds later at 135 feet above the sea surface and an indicated speed of 128 knots, the First Officer said “it's not normal” and then spoke in Arabic, his native tongue, "now take it in manual" and disconnected the AP at a height of 80 feet, began to apply back pressure to his control column and increased power. However, at the same time, the Captain began an opposite input to his control column which neutralised the attempt to climb and a couple of seconds later, the aircraft hit the sea surface twice in quick succession, the first time with an impact which registered a maximum vertical acceleration during impact of 3.2 g and the second, at a -3° pitch attitude, which registered 3.9 g. After a few seconds, the Captain stopped his pitch down and the First Officer was able to increase his pitch up sufficiently to establish the aircraft in a recovery climb. The Captain advised Al Hoceima TWR that the aircraft had made a go around and would divert to Nador. When the controller queried the reason for the go around, the Captain responded that it followed a bird strike which was not true. On arrival at Nador, a visual inspection of the aircraft found that serious structural damage had been sustained to the lower fuselage in the vicinity of the main landing gear which itself was subsequently, along with the nose landing gear, confirmed to have exceeded the maximum certified load and therefore required replacement. The Captain’s initial report to the aircraft operator maintained the bird strike story but this was subsequently corrected to advise contact with the sea surface prior to the go around. The first illustration below shows the approach vertical profile flown and the selected FMS vertical mode in use and, below the main