total failure of the EGPWS, which was likely to have supported the flight crew decision to deactivate it intentionally.. the lack of any meaningful CRM on the flight deck, especially in terms of communication, coordination and adaptation to take account of the steep [[Authority Gradients|authority gradient between the Captain and the First Officer and the high level of assertiveness of the Captain which led to the First Officer being slow to challenge the Captain’s directions when aware that they were incompatible with the requirements for stabilised approaches and respect for approach procedure minimums.. Safety Action taken by RAM Express whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted as having included: Installation of an EGPWS switch seal and the addition of a check that this remains intact as part of the Daily Check of the airworthiness of the aircraft.. Introduction of a DDM procedure to cover a total failure of the EGPWS.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that RAM Express strengthen the process of integrating their pilots’ performance through CRM training modules adapted in such a way as to ensure the fluidity of interactions and the consistency of communications between pilots and the appropriateness of decisions. [01/19]. that RAM Express strengthens their pilot training for non precision approaches by: emphasising during awareness and training sessions the need to conduct constant angle approaches when vertical guidance is not available adapting the aircraft equipment and associated procedures to allow the vertical profiles of such approaches to be programmed and followed. [02/19]. emphasising during awareness and training sessions the need to conduct constant angle approaches when vertical guidance is not available. adapting the aircraft equipment and associated procedures to allow the vertical profiles of such approaches to be programmed and followed. [02/19]. that RAM Express validates during flight crews’ training and skill checks that they: take into account the criteria for undertaking and continuing an approach in terms of stabilisation and minima. fully understand the EGPWS system, the meanings of its messages and the response to be followed in the event that alerts or warnings are annunciated. [[03/19]. take into account the criteria for undertaking and continuing an approach in terms of stabilisation and minima.. fully understand the EGPWS system, the meanings of its messages and the response to be followed in the event that alerts or warnings are annunciated. [[03/19]. that RAM Express insists during flight crews’ training and skill checks that: the criteria for undertaking and continuing an approach, in terms of stabilisation and minima, are taken into account. The meanings of the alerts and warnings which may be delivered by the EGPWS system are understood and the required responses to each are followed. [04/19]. the criteria for undertaking and continuing an approach, in terms of stabilisation and minima, are taken into account.. The meanings of the alerts and warnings which may be delivered by the EGPWS system are understood and the required responses to each are followed. [04/19]. The Final Report of the