60 feet above sea level. The Captain responded by pitching up and adding power and after reaching a recorded minimum height of 45 feet above the sea surface, the aircraft climbed to a recorded height of 108 feet and maintained this until the runway was acquired visually and landed. The second flight was then competed without further event. Because of the relatively short flight time for the third, Tangier to Al Hoceima, sector, the approach briefing for Al Hoceima was carried out on the ground in Tangier based on a VOR/DME approach to runway 17 (see the illustration below) for which the MDA was 760 feet. The Captain was recorded explaining to the First Officer that “if the runway is not in sight at the MDA, we will descend until a height of 400 feet which will then be maintained until the runway is in view and that if the runway is still not in sight at 2 nm from the VOR, it will be necessary stop the approach and make a go around”. In addition, the Captain was recorded as accepting, after consulting the DDM (Dispatch Deviation Manual), the First Officer’s suggestion that the GPWS should be disabled so as to avoid alarms being activated during the descent and approach “because they think that those emitted by this system, during the first flight were untimely”. The flight proceeded normally and, after a six minute cruise at FL 130 during which the (PM) Captain had further discussed the plan for the approach - which would involve establishing directly onto the FAT (final approach track) - with the First Officer and had given corresponding instructions in respect of it. Descent as cleared to FL 060 was commenced and Al Hoceima TWR contacted and the intention to make a VOR/DME approach for runway 17 agreed. The Captain then reminded the First Officer of the manoeuvres to be executed in the event of a go-around and stated that during the approach, he would “take care of the monitoring of speed and water” whilst the First Officer controlled the flight path. Re-clearance to 3000 feet on QNH was given and the selected altitude set accordingly and the rate of descent to 1,500 fpm then to 1,300 fpm. The approach checklist was run and passing 4500 feet QNH, with the aircraft 11.5 nm from runway 17 threshold at 230 KCAS, the Captain de-activated the EGPWS and reminded the First Officer to select more flap to increase the rate of descent. The VOR/DME 17 Approach Plate for Al Hoceima. [Reproduced from the Official Report] As the heading was set to establish on final approach, the Captain told the First Officer to reduce speed from 220 knots and the First Officer set 170 knots. TWR then gave them the latest weather as “wind calm, visibility four thousand in mist, overcast at 600, temperature 23, dew point 23, QNH 1016" which the Captain acknowledged. With the aircraft established on the procedure radial and approaching the procedure vertical profile