diagram, the actual rate of descent and, where appropriate, the selected target vertical speed. The second illustration below shows the vertical profile and impact vertical acceleration around sea impact. The vertical profile flown (mauve) against the VOR/DME procedure vertical profile extended below its MDA (760 feet) using QNH altitude (1016 hPa) as the vertical reference. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Detail of the recorded vertical acceleration and height above the sea during the impact phase. [Reproduced from the Official Report] In addition to the flagrant breaching of the MDA on both approaches to Al Hoceima, it was noted that the RAM Express OM was unequivocal on the requirement for all approaches in IMC to be stabilised by 1000 feet aal, on what constituted ‘stabilised’ and on the automatic requirement to go around if not stabilised. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included, but were not limited to the following: The approach to Al Hoceima was characterised by a lack of preparation and anticipation and the flight crew's poor level of CRM made it impossible to manage effectively. Verbal communication was limited to the Captain’s instructions followed without challenge by the First Officer and call outs were non-existent and cross-checks rare and ambiguous.. The flight crew's work was characterised by deliberate violation of procedures and hazardous operational decisions in support of a determination to continue the approach in the absence of the required conditions and beyond the limits.. Before commencing the accident flight, the crew had decided and briefed that they would descend to an altitude which was significantly below the applicable MDA.. The crew de-activated the system (GPWS) during the flight so as not to receive alerts during the approach.. The VOR / DME approach at Al Hoceima was planned when the ceiling was already 600 feet, significantly lower than the MDA for the procedure to be flown.. The execution of the approach was characterised by an obvious delay in the configuration of the aircraft and failure to properly control indicated speed, altitude and rate of descent.. The approach carried out was therefore not stabilised as required by the SOPs of the company.. The crew did not initiate a go-around when it became apparent that the approach was not stabilised below the specified gate.. The crew descended below the minimum descent altitude (MDA) without having the mandated visual reference to do so.. The Probable Cause of the Accident was formally determined as “non-compliance with operational procedures, in particular; the deliberate deactivating of the EGPWS, the continuation of an unstable approach below the applicable stabilisation gate and the continuation of the approach below the applicable minima in the absence of visual reference with only the First Officer’s reaction, even though it was late, making it possible to limit the outcome to no more than significant damage to the aircraft”. Contributory Factors were also identified as: the absence of any ‘advisory callouts’ by the First Officer during the approach.. the absence of any reference in the Despatch Deviation Manual (DDM) covering a