On 9 July 2018, an ATR 72-600 (CN-COH) being operated by RAM Express, a wholly owned operating subsidiary of Royal Air Maroc (RAM), on a scheduled domestic passenger flight for the parent company from Tangier to Al Hoceima as RAM439 hit the sea surface twice in quick succession whilst on approach to destination in day IMC before successfully climbing away and, after reporting a bird strike, diverting to Nador where substantial structural and landing gear damage which rendered the aircraft unfit for flight pending major repairs was found. None of the 58 occupants were injured by the impact. The position of sea surface impact on the approach runway extended centreline. [Reproduced from the Official Report] An Investigation into the Accident was carried out by the Moroccan Bureau d’Enquêtes et Analyses (BEA) in accordance with ICAO Annex 13 principles. The FDR and 2 hour CVR were both removed undamaged from the aircraft and their relevant data were subsequently downloaded successfully. It was noted that the 61 year-old Training Captain in command had a total of 13,487 flying hours which included 193 hours on type. He had obtained his ATR72 type rating four months prior to the accident just over a month after beginning employment with the operator following a long period of employment as a Boeing 737 Captain and instructor at the parent company RAM. The 25 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,063 flying hours which included 815 hours on type. He had obtained his ATR72 type rating just over a year prior to the accident after beginning employment with the operator two months earlier. An observer pilot, a new company recruit not qualified on the aircraft type, was also present on the flight deck and occupying the supernumerary crew seat during the flight sequence which included the accident. The flight sequence operated by the aircraft and crew on the day of the accident was planned as Casablanca - Al Hoceima - Tangier - Al Hoceima - Casablanca. Before commencing the first of these flights, the crew agreed that the Captain would act as PF for the first leg and then revert to acting as PM for the remainder. During the first flight, in the cruise at FL160, an EGPWS ‘TERRAIN’ annunciation was displayed and the amber “TERRAIN FAULT” light was illuminated, a system activation which indicated temporary loss of the system’s ‘enhanced’ modes and which was assessed as “probably linked to a degradation of the GPS signal”. This annunciation lasted a little over 6 minutes. The crew subsequently planned for and commenced an RNAV approach to runway 17 at Al Hoceima having noted that the reported ceiling was 800 feet aal. On reaching the procedure MDA of 1,030 feet, the Captain was “unable to see the runway” but decided to continue the descent anyway with a rate of descent of around 1000 fpm. One minute later, the EGPWS ‘TERRAIN AHEAD, PULL UP’ warning was activated with the aircraft 1760 metres from the intended landing runway threshold and just