An Investigation was delegated to the French BEA by the Fiji Islands civil aviation authorities and a field investigator was sent to Nadi from the French overseas territory of New Caledonia to begin the Investigation. Neither an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were fitted to the aircraft and were not required to be. It was noted that Air Alizé was authorised to perform medical evacuation flights between the Fiji Islands Nouméa and routinely used the Beech King Air to do this. Both the 60 year old aircraft commander and the 54 year old First Officer were experienced on the aircraft type. The latter worked only part time for Air Alizé and otherwise was a qualified helicopter pilot and TRE(H) working for another company. Although the Beech King Air is certified for operation by a single pilot, when used as a public transport aeroplane by Air Alizé, it was flown by two type-rated pilots. It was established that the landing at Nadi was to facilitate refuelling only and that the flight was destined for Wallis and Fortuna aerodrome to pick up and transfer a patient to Nouméa. About two hours after taking off from there, the night descent towards Nadi began in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) and a clearance was subsequently given to make an ILS approach to runway 02. Shortly after overflying a locator beacon positioned at 9.6nm from touchdown on the localiser, a landing clearance was given with a wind check of 110°/13 knots and advice that it was raining and the runway was wet. The crew stated that having selected the landing gear down, they had seen 'three greens' indicating that it was locked down. As the aircraft emerged into VMC at about 1800 feet, the crew noticed, as a result of the windshield wipers stopping and the landing/ taxi and centre instrument panel lighting going off, that there had been a partial electrical failure. The crew located pocket torches and decided to continue the approach and did not advise ATC of any technical problem. They also subsequently said that the prevailing weather conditions around the aerodrome (see below) did not encourage them to abandon the approach. At about 1,000 ft, the extension of the flaps to the landing position triggered the aural warning for non-extension of the landing gear but the crew presumed that this (and the now unlit 'three greens' landing gear down and locked indication) were a consequence of the observed partial electrical failure and after checking the position of the flap and landing gear levers, continued the approach. They did not consider the possibility that the gear might not be locked down. The First Officer subsequently stated that the landing was initially normal but the landing gear then collapsed and the propellers hit the surface of the runway before it left the runway to the right. It came to a stop on a heading of 055° with the fuselage in direct contact with the grass, approximately 1560 metres beyond the