runway threshold. The landing gear was subsequently found to be retracted, although the landing gear doors were open. A weather report issued at about the time of the accident - 0200 local time on 26 April - gave 130°/13 knots, visibility 10km, thunderstorm with rain and cloud FEW CB at 1800 feet, SCT Towering CU at 2800 feet and OVC at 10,000 feet with a coded remark indicating that there had been 7.1mm of rain in the previous hour. It was found that none of the five abnormal procedures documented for the aircraft electrical system in the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) were relevant to the failure which occurred. The Investigation sought to establish the nature of the electrical system failure and the reason for the landing gear retraction at touchdown. It was found that that electrical failure had been confined to the "no 2 secondary circuit" which supplied power to various equipment and lighting systems including the windscreen wipers and some flight deck lighting as well as the landing gear control unit and the landing gear status lights. It did not supply power to the landing gear warning horn. It was found that the reason for the electrical system failure was that two 70 amp diodes which were inaccessible to the crew, at least one of which was required to allow the "no 2 secondary circuit" to function, had failed. It was considered that one had almost certainly already been inoperative before the other having failed when the landing gear was selected down on the approach to Nadi. Once the two diodes had been replaced, the landing gear system was found to work normally. None of the CBs visible to the crew had tripped. The aircraft manufacturer provided statistics which indicated that the in-service failure rate for the type of diodes which failed when fitted to both the accident aircraft type and to other aircraft types was "extremely low". It appeared that these diodes were an 'on condition'; component with no maximum service life but subject to "periodic inspection" every 600 flying hours. When the aircraft was lifted, the landing gear doors were found to be in the open position and when the battery was reconnected, the warning horn for the landing gear could be heard. The landing gear locking system was checked and found to be working normally. It was found during ground testing of an aircraft of the same type supported on jacks that selection of gear down associated with an almost simultaneous cut-off of the electrical power supply to the "no 2 electrical circuit" led to the complete opening of the landing gear doors as well as the beginning (only) of the extension of the landing gear. The position of the doors and the landing gear was then similar to that noted when the accident aircraft had been lifted. During this test, the three green gear status lights remained unlit and landing gear actuation using the gear selector was no longer possible. When either one of the