power levers was retarded to a low power position, the gear warning horn sounded to indicate that the landing gear was not locked. After carefully considering all possibilities, the Investigation could not find a way to explain the sequence of events described by the crew, i.e. the illumination of the green landing gear down status lights followed by the unlocking of the landing gear with no action taken by the crew on the associated controls. It was concluded that the decision to continue the approach without performing a proper evaluation of their situation after the obvious electrical malfunction was probably reinforced by: The fact that they stated that they had seen three greens indicating that the landing gear was down after actuating the landing gear selector. The absence of any tripped circuit breakers on the various flight deck panels;. The turbulent flying conditions at night with rain with the windscreen wipers no longer operating due to the electrical failure;. The fact that the necessary visual references for landing had almost certainly been acquired by the time the gear warning horn sounded.. The Causes of the Accident were summarised as follows: At night in adverse meteorological conditions, the crew decided to continue with the approach and to land, while the landing gear was not locked in the down position due to the failure of the secondary electric circuit. The origin of this failure was probably the increase in the number of operating cycles of the hydraulic power pack which delivers the hydraulic energy required to extend and retract the landing gear. This led to the failure of the diodes in the protective secondary circuit, which could not be checked in flight. The decision to continue the approach resulted from incorrect comprehension of the electrical failure and the aural warning that sounded during the final approach. The conviction that the landing gear was locked down, associated with the meteorological conditions and the failure of the circuit-breakers to trip, did not prompt the crew to correctly assess the risk associated with the electrical failure." The Final Report was published in English translation on 24 July 2014 following publication in French in June 2014. No Safety Recommendations were made.