taxied across the hold line and onto Runway 24R without an authorisation from the (runway) controller to line up on the runway or take off.. Given that the airport controller’s attention was directed toward the arriving aircraft, the controller did not detect ACA726 crossing the hold line and taxiing onto the runway.. When the runway incursion monitoring and conflict alert system (RIMCAS) stage 1 visual alert displayed on the tower advanced surface movement guidance and control system (A-SMGCS) display, the airport controller’s attention was directed toward the aircraft on final approach, resulting in the stage 1 alert being undetected on the A-SMGCS display.. Five seconds later, the RIMCAS stage 2 alarm sounded in the tower at the same time that the ACA1259 flight crew reported to the airport controller that there was an aircraft on the runway and that they were overshooting the runway. The RIMCAS stage 2 aural alarm did not provide a timely warning to the airport controller to provide alternate instructions to the flight crews.. Four formally-stated Findings as to Risk were as follows: If air traffic controllers are not required to use standard phraseology that reinforces the need to hold short of a departure runway, there is an increased risk of miscommunication leading to runway incursions.. If plain-language phraseology used by air traffic controllers is not explicit, there is a risk of miscommunication between air traffic control and flight crews.. If airport lighting system stop bars are not illuminated at a hold line across a taxiway or in a holding bay leading to a departure runway and the RIMCAS stop bar overrun monitoring function is not used, there is an increased risk that an airport controller will not be alerted to an unauthorised movement of an aircraft or vehicle across a hold line.. If required commuting flights are not included as part of the pilot’s duty day, there is an increased risk of pilots operating while fatigued due to prolonged periods of wakefulness.. Safety Action taken as a result of the occurrence was noted as having included: Nav Canada made a number of modifications to the configuration of the A-SMGCS RIMCAS functions to improve their effectiveness.. Air Canada formulated changes to their Flight Operations Manual in respect of air traffic clearances classified in that Manual as "critically important" requiring crews to "reconcile, using standard phraseology, any critically important clearance issued using non-standard phraseology, whether the crew believes they fully understand the instruction or not".. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release on 29 March 2017 and it was officially released on 24 May 2017. No Safety Recommendations were made.