E190, the TWR controller saw on the A-SMGCS display that it was approaching the hold line and then looked away towards final approach to ensure that it would be possible to have the E190 taxi into position on the runway in preparation for take-off between the A320 about to land and the next approaching aircraft. Whilst he was doing this, the E190 continued taxiing over the hold line and 12 seconds later crossed the edge of Runway 24R which activated a RIMCAS (Runway Incursion Monitoring and Conflict Alert System) Stage 1 visual alert on the A-SMGCS display which "went unnoticed". Approximately 5 seconds later, as the E190 was turning onto the Runway 24R centreline, the crew of the A320 on final approach, which was descending through 270 feet agl transmitted on TWR that there was an aircraft on the runway and that they were commencing a go around. As this transmission was in progress, a Stage 2 aural RIMCAS Alert was activated. The A320 subsequently over flew the E190 as it climbed through 580 feet agl. The TWR controller "could not visually see (the E190) on the runway from the south tower controller work position" and when asked where they were, the E190 crew reported that they were on runway 24R to which the controller responded that they had not been given authorisation to line up on Runway 24R and requested that they hold position. Take-off clearance was subsequently given to the E190 and the A320 landed off its second approach. After the crew's night stop at La Guardia, the E190 Captain "discussed the occurrence with the Chief Pilot and it was agreed to continue with flight operations for that day and after completion of his flying duties, an ASR was submitted to the Company". The Investigation reviewed a number of safety issues which it considered that the incursion had highlighted as follows: Controller Phraseology. ANSP NavCanada's 'Air Traffic Control Manual of Operations' content on controller use of phraseology at the time of the incursion was found to permit controllers to “issue taxi authorizations and instructions in plain, concise language to aircraft taxiing on the manoeuvring area". It also required a controller "to instruct an aircraft to taxi, cross or hold short of any runway/taxiway it will cross while taxiing". However, it was found that it did not "require an air traffic controller to instruct an aircraft taxiing for departure to hold short at the departure end of a runway that will be used for takeoff" since in this case pilots "must not cross a hold line on a taxiway leading to a departure runway that will be used for takeoff unless they have received either an authorisation to line up on the runway in preparation for takeoff, or an authorisation to take off". It was noted that "under normal circumstances, an airport (TWR) controller, not a ground controller, will authorise an aircraft to line up on the runway in preparation for takeoff". The Investigation also found GND controllers at