Toronto used differing phraseology when issuing taxi instructions into a holding bay with the variations including “go to the right/left”, “stay to the right/left” and “stay west/east”. Non-use of Stop Bars. The fact that the available in-pavement illuminated stop bars were not in use at the time of the incursion was also reviewed. It was noted that Safety Regulator Transport Canada's publication 'Aerodromes Standards and Recommended Practices' (TP 312) was "the authoritative document that dictates airport requirements in Canada" and that requires that “a stop bar is provided at every runway-holding position serving a runway operating in visibility conditions below RVR 1200 feet" (366 metres). It was found that at Toronto, "stop bar lights are illuminated at the hold line across taxiways that cross an active runway, (but) they are not illuminated at the hold line across a taxiway or in a holding bay at the departure end of an active runway unless the airport is operating under reduced visibility", the latter defined as being when RVR is less than 2,600 feet (792 metres) but greater than 1,200 feet (366 metres). The statement in ICAO Annex 14 Volume 1 that runway incursions “may take place in all visibility or weather conditions (and that) the provision of stop bars at runway-holding positions and their use at night and in visibility conditions greater than 550 metres (1800 feet) Runway Visual Range can form part of effective runway incursion prevention measures” was also noted, as was ANSP NavCanada's action to draw attention to it. However, it was found that "some controllers reported that turning the stop bar lights on and off was cumbersome and time consuming, and that their use at the departure end of a runway could impede airport operations". RIMCAS effectiveness. It was noted that the RIMCAS installed at Toronto had two distinct modes of operation, stop bar overrun monitoring and runway incursion monitoring. It was found from the NavCanada publication describing the system that "the stop bar overrun monitoring function of the RIMCAS assesses aircraft and vehicle target position reports and generates an aural alert to the air traffic controller whenever any target reported by the A-SMGCS crosses an illuminated stop bar that is associated with a hold line and that has not been disabled first" unless the target is an aircraft that has landed or a vehicle leaving the runway. This source also stated that the runway incursion monitoring function of the RIMCAS "assesses aircraft and vehicle target position reports from the A-SMGCS in order to warn the air traffic controller of a runway area incursion by aircraft or vehicles when an aircraft is due to land or take off on an active runway" with the "runway area" described as "normally comprising the entire active runway and associated sensitive areas". These functions of the system were noted as being "designed to inform an air traffic controller that a runway incursion has occurred and allow for alternate instructions to be issued by the air traffic controller to the aircraft or