An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB). Sufficient relevant recorded data and testimony was available to enable a detailed reconstruction of the events leading up to the incursion. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had been benign and had played no part in the incursion. It was found that the E190 Captain who was PF at the time of the incursion had approximately 10,000 total flying hours which included 1,259 hours on type and a total of 8,524 hours on "Airbus-type aircraft". The First Officer, had approximately 8,200 total flying hours which included 2,500 hours on type. The flight departure which led to the incursion was noted to be the Captain's first and only flight in his period on duty that day. For the First Officer, it was the third of three flights in the day’s duty period. The TWR controller involved was also the shift supervisor and had been a controller at Toronto since 2005 and a shift supervisor since 2008. Prior to the incursion, traffic had been relatively light with only runway 23 (departing traffic) and 24R (arriving traffic) being open (see the aerodrome chart below) and the two available tower positions, north and south, had been combined. However, shortly before the incursion occurred, it had been decided that both runways would be used for arriving and departing traffic and the two positions had reverted to individual control with the shift supervisor taking the south tower position covering runway 24R and the north tower position covering runway 23. It was established that after the E190 crew had encountered a problem with the FMS which became apparent after engine start and which had resulted in a clearance to taxiway DV where they would be able to stop and resolve it, and they had reported ready for departure to GND aware that a departure from runway 24R could be expected. However, the controller thought the call had been from Air Georgian (GGN) 7286, a Beech 1900 which would also be departing from 24R and responded to that aircraft. On subsequently repeating their call, GND instructed the E190 to "...give way to that Georgian and taxi into the holding bay" - see the second illustration below. Whilst this was happening, TWR cleared the A320 to land on Runway 24R. GND asked if the E190 was ready to go and on receiving an affirmative reply, advised that as the Beech 1900 on the left side of the runway 24R holding bay was not yet ready, the E190 could "go to the right side" and change to the TWR frequency 118.35. It was subsequently found "this transmission was interpreted by ACA726’s flight crew as authorisation to go to the right runway (i.e. Runway 24R) and the crew had read back "Over to the right side, eighteen thirty-five..."" As the E190 taxied forward, both pilots reported seeing an aircraft on final approach and believing it to be approaching parallel runway 24L. While planning the release of the