vehicles involved". It was noted that given the prevailing visibility conditions, there was no requirement for the stop bar co-located with the hold line in the holding bay leading to Runway 24R in use and so the RIMCAS stop bar overrun monitoring function was not active. It was found that the RIMCAS runway incursion monitoring function was configured to monitor the final approach area of Runway 24R and configured to provide a Stage 1 visual alert 30 seconds ahead of a landing aircraft conflict and a Stage 2 aural alert 20 seconds ahead of a landing aircraft conflict, a conflict being defined as another aircraft or vehicle crossing the runway edge. In the investigated incursion, the RIMCAS Stage 1 alert was activated when the E190 crossed the edge of the runway by which time the A320 was less than 30 seconds from the threshold. The RIMCAS Stage 2 Alert occurred about 5 seconds later as the E190 was turning onto the centreline. Visibility of the runway 24R threshold from the TWR at night. It was noted that the threshold of Runway 24R was approximately 1.4 nm from the TWR and that when it is dark, the view of the area from the south tower position "is saturated with various lights from Terminal 1" part of which lies between the TWR cabin and the runway threshold (see the aerodrome chart above). The A-SMGCS display is therefore routinely used to confirm the positions of aircraft which was done in this case before the E190 crossed the hold line but not afterwards. The Investigation also considered whether fatigue might have affected the performance of the E190 pilots but concluded that on the evidence available this had not been a factor for either pilot. It was nevertheless concluded that because of commuting from his home in Winnipeg to begin work out of Toronto on the day of the incursion, "it is likely that the First Officer was fatigued at the time of the occurrence". However, it was considered that the fact that both pilots had had "a common understanding" of the GND controller’s instructions as being an authorisation to taxi onto the active runway mitigated against his fatigue having been a relevant factor. Finally, it was noted that risk-bearing Runway Incursions, and in particular the risk of high speed runway collisions as a result, remained an ongoing national safety concern and that Runway Incursions had been on the TSB’s "Watchlist" of key safety issues since 2010. It was noted that NavCanada had recorded over 2000 runway incursions at Canadian Airports from 2011 to 2015, with 27 of these being recorded as serious events. The formally-stated Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were as follows: The plain-language taxi instruction issued by the ground controller was misinterpreted by the flight crew, and the flight crew’s readback using the same phraseology was ineffective in confirming that the ground controller and the flight crew had a common understanding.. Due to a misinterpretation of the taxi instruction, ACA726