continued civil transport operations at Pristina were addressed without delay. This was that: an evaluation of the conditions for the operation of Pristina aerodrome be carried out and procedures be put into effect which are compatible with the rules laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), and that civil flights serving Pristina be immediately suspended while these measures are put into effect (and that) particular attention should be paid to the following points :. - the reliability of the radio-navigation aids used, both in terms of their power supply and the quality of the information supplied - approach, go round and departure procedures - control procedures and terminology - documentation published and distributed to crews. The Investigation noted that the responsible military authorities “immediately followed up this safety recommendation” with the airport being closed to civil traffic pending resolution, Seven other Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the investigation: the opening to international civil traffic of an aerodrome which is not under the effective authority of a contracting State be subject, henceforth, to a complete audit by the ICAO.. the Italian civil aviation authorities, along with those of any other member states of the JAA in the same situation, apply the JAR OPS regulations in the shortest possible time.. civil aviation authorities exercise reinforced surveillance of companies with a recently acquired air transport certificate or where there is significant change in an operator’s structure or activity.. the airworthiness authorities make any modifications mandatory which are designed to improve the operation of equipment of last resort, such as the GPWS.. a complete test of the GPWS system be included in the pre-flight checklist. where there is a GPWS mode failure, the JAR OPS 1 amendment make the takeoff of a public transport aircraft subject to establishing and following alternate procedures according to the type of operation and environment.. ICAO take the initiative in the near future to re-examine the standards applicable to emergency locator transmitters so as to ensure that they correspond to the objective of operating correctly after an accident in order that the aircraft’s location be established rapidly (and that) in parallel, the study of supplementary or replacement systems which permit rapid and precise identification of the location of an accident aircraft be considered as a priority.. The Final Report may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: BEA Accident Report F-FV991112A (English translation)