for the Captain. Moreover, note should also be made that this study did not take into account the concentration and workload, which the (recent) first flights, and difficult approaches to Pristina and Tirana had probably entailed. This state of fatigue promoted hypovigilance on the part of the crew, lulled by what appeared to be radar vectoring and made confident by the success of their previous approaches.” It was also considered that there had been no evidence of “structured teamwork” by the flight crew during the accident flight with “imprecise preparation (for) the arrival, absence of callouts of safety altitudes or of the beginning of the procedure (and) absence of crosschecks.” The Investigation also failed to find any evidence of organised training for the flight crew on teamwork or on Crew Resource Management. Further findings of the investigation included: that the event….shows (either) the crew’s lack of knowledge of its Operations Manual or (alternatively) the lack of importance they appeared to attach to respect for the instructions in this manual, at least with regard to flights conducted in a specific context, in this case that of humanitarian flights.”. that the crew’s state of fatigue and its ignorance of the limits of radar vectoring at Pristina meant that they were unable to identify the critical situation in which they found themselves. It is likely that good teamwork and strict application of the Operations Manual would have avoided them being in this situation, left to their own devices.. the great importance which must be given to aeronautical information, both in terms of quality and distribution. To be coherent and known to all, it must be written in the same format and be accessible through one channel. This is precisely the intention of the provisions of ICAO Annex 15.. the aircraft operator was a recently created airline undergoing rapid development, thus in a financially weak position, having had no time to stabilise itself, or to acquire collective experience in its structures and procedures.. The Investigation concluded that the accident was due to: teamwork which lacked procedural discipline and vigilance during manoeuvres in a mountainous region with poor visibility.. the aircraft being kept on its track and then forgotten by a military controller unused to the mountainous environment of the aerodrome and to preventing the risk of collisions with high ground, within the framework of the radar service he was providing.. the operator's critical situation as a new company highly dependent on the lease contract, favouring a failure to respect procedures.. the opening of the aerodrome to civil traffic without an advance evaluation of the operating conditions or of the conditions for distribution of aeronautical information.. It also found that the following factors contributed to the accident: crew fatigue, favouring a lowering of vigilance.. undertaking the flight with an unserviceable or disconnected GPWS.. A number of Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the investigation. One was made early on to ensure that aspects of the accident circumstances that could affect the safety of