An Investigation into the Serious Incident was carried out by the Hong Kong Air Accident Investigation Authority (AAIA) in accordance with Annex 13 principles. Relevant data was recovered from both the CVR and the SSFDR. Relevant airport CCTV and ATC data was also reviewed and of assistance. The 52 year-old Captain in command of the flight, who was acting as PF and occupying the left hand seat, had a total of 5,223 flying hours experience with Atlas Air, all but 23 of these hours being on type. The 58 year-old Check Captain had a total of 16,000 flying hours experience with Atlas Air of which 7,600 hours were on type. Both of these pilots held FAA-issued ATPLs. A Relief First Officer and an ‘operational experience student’ were occupying the flight deck supernumerary seats. During the cruise part of the eight hour flight, the Check Captain took a rest break but the Captain on line check did not, subsequently stating that he had not needed one as he had been “good to continue flying”. The Approach Briefing for runway 25R did not include any discussion about which crosswind landing technique would be used. The subsequent crabbed approach was normal with the reported surface wind varying in direction between 150° and 220° and in speed between 17 and 28 knots. Just before touchdown, the Check Captain said “bring the nose over” and, conscious that this was a check flight, the PF Captain “followed the prompt” and tried to de-crab prior to touchdown even though this was a procedure he was not familiar with. Immediately following touchdown, the aircraft veered to the right of the runway centreline before its direction reversed abruptly to the left of the centreline and then sharply banked to the right of the centreline again. This right bank caused a significant drop in the right wing to the extent the underside of both the No.3 and No.4 engines contacted the runway surface and sustained damage. The deviations lasted around 16 seconds, after which the runway centreline was regained with the wings level as deceleration continued below 90 knots and the remainder of the landing roll was normal. At the time this happened, the ATIS broadcast included the caution that “significant windshear and moderate turbulence” could affect runway 25R. The actual 2 minute mean wind velocity at the runway 25R threshold at the time of touchdown was found to have been 182°/17 knots with the “10 minute gust” at that time being 30 knots. It was noted that as the aircraft was not carrying any payload, its landing weight - just under 190 tonnes - was significantly below the corresponding weight when loaded and the AFM MLW of 285.7 tonnes. It was also noted that the ground clearance of the No.3 engine is between 0.71 metres and 0.93 metres and that of the No.4 engine is between 1.32 metres and 1.8 metres. FDR data showed that until about 10 seconds before touchdown, the recorded on board computed wind direction was