from approximately 200° at between 17 and 20 knots. FDR data also showed that the rate of descent in final approach was maintained at around 900 fpm until just before the flare was initiated, the only significant exception being “a momentary excursion to 330 fpm and 1320 fpm at 450 agl”. The approach was conducted with the aircraft crabbed into the left crosswind at an angle of about 7 degrees. It was noted that (unless an aircraft operator directs otherwise) the way a crosswind landing is safely achieved is a matter of the pilot performing it to decide with this subject being included in the approach brief, the primary difference being whether the aircraft drift angle is eliminated during the later stages of the flare or after touchdown. It was found that there was no Atlas Air documentation on crosswind landing technique and that this could only be found in the Boeing Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) which at Atlas Air was “for reference only and not required at any point during training”. The PF Captain stated that he had “not reviewed it recently” and the Boeing Flight Crew Operations Manual (FCOM) did not contain relevant guidance. During interview he “was able to discuss the various crosswind (approach and landing) techniques but not how they applied in practice or the pros and cons of each”. FCTM guidance on crosswind approach and landing was found to cover both de-crab in the flare and after touchdown, advising that the latter method could be used up to the crosswind components specified in the FCTM landing crosswind guidelines speed table. A detailed analysis of the FDR data showed that the relevant aircraft systems had functioned as designed. It showed that “a few seconds into flare the rudder pedal initially deflected upwind (left), then downwind (right), with control wheel deflected abruptly into the wind (left), then varied to the right and again left prior to touchdown” with a 6-degree crab angle at touchdown as right rudder and aileron control inputs were made resulting in a heading 5 degrees to the right of the centreline at a bank angle of just over 3.2°. After two seconds, “substantial left rudder and aileron control inputs were made, seemingly checking the momentary right bank” but these were excessive and the aircraft response was a left turn onto a heading 14 degrees left of the centreline and a left bank angle of approximately 4.6 degrees which was sustained for about 5 seconds. Just before the maximum left turn was reached, “substantial” right rudder and aileron control inputs were made which it was surmised were an attempt to respond to the significant left bank. These inputs resulted in the aircraft turning and banking to the right with the bank angle reaching 5.6 degrees which is when the two engines on the right wing probably contacted the runway. Taking the available weather information into account, it was considered that “wind direction and speed was not a significant issue to the control of