the aircraft during and after landing” and that the veering and rolling of the aircraft “was probably due to a series of incorrect rudder and aileron inputs made after the touchdown”. It was also considered that “the pilot’s input on the controls was about two seconds behind the directional control of the aircraft” with most control inputs being made being to correct the previous directional deviation. It was not confirmed but considered that the Captain’s unfamiliarity with the technique of de-crabbing an aircraft just before touchdown may have been the primary origin of the mishandling episode. The Cause of the investigated Serious Incident was formally documented as “the combined effects of a sharp right yaw and significant right roll in response to the exaggerated inputs made by the aircraft commander”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: The Commander made a sudden change of his crosswind landing technique from crab to de-crab on short final because he considered that the Line Check Captain expected a de-crab landing.. Prior to the top of descent, there was no discussion about crosswind landing technique or what would be expected during landing.. Safety Action taken by Atlas Air whilst the Investigation was in progress and advised to it was noted to have included a “recommendation” to its Flight Operations Department to: Develop, for all aircraft types, a ground school module on crosswind takeoffs and landings to be presented to all flight crew at Initial, Transition and Upgrade training prior to full flight simulator work. This module to include preferred techniques, flight control inputs, performance considerations, application of reverse thrust and the effects of the side thrust component if applicable with an initial demonstration and explanation of it to all Instructors and Line Check Captains to ensure their standardisation to correct procedures and techniques during crosswind conditions.. Revise the existing Full Flight Simulator modules to incorporate a realistic amount of crosswind component for all takeoffs and landings in accordance with the Extended Envelope and Adverse Weather Training of 14 CFR Part 60 with multiple modules so as to include different crosswind component scenarios which should be of varying characteristics and intensities.. Ensure that Initial, Transition and Upgrade curriculums make reading of the FCTM prior to Full Flight Simulator time compulsory and fleet-specific curriculums are updated as necessary.. One Safety Recommendations was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Atlas Air reviews Crew Resource Management (CRM) during annual line checks. [07-2020]. The Final Report of the Investigation was presented to the Hong Kong Government on 3 November 2020 and released online shortly afterwards.