Since the products of combustion depend on many factors, including the fuel being consumed, the availability of oxygen, the rate of combustion and the fire suppression agent(s) used, the toxicity of the smoke encountered in a fire at any particular moment will vary considerably. Smoke gases fall into two categories - the irritant and the immediately hazardous. The irritant category includes hydrogen chloride and acrolein which are generated from burning electrical insulation and some other cabin materials. Any burning materials which contain Carbon will not only produce immediately hazardous Carbon Monoxide but also Carbon Dioxide which replaces the oxygen being used to sustain the fire. This process alters (reduces) the partial pressure of Oxygen in the Cabin atmosphere and thus increases respiration rates. As a result, people involuntarily take in a relatively greater quantity of other gases - including the unwanted ones. This raised respiration level is in addition to that which occurs, even in normal flight, when the cabin altitude is greater than ground level. However, since the partial pressure of Oxygen at aircraft altitudes above 8000 feet will be greater in a pressurised cabin than in the external environment, it is wise to keep the cabin pressurised to retain some oxygen availability (since passenger oxygen masks can clearly not be deployed in a cabin fire scenario). The main immediately hazardous gas occurring in cabin fires, in addition to Carbon Monoxide noted above, is Hydrogen Cyanide. This is produced during combustion of wool, silk and many nitrogen-containing synthetics, so is almost guaranteed to occur. Irritant smoke gases can induce tears, pain and disorientation, which adds to the disorientation resulting from poor visibility in the smoke. However, the more subtle effect of the two main toxic gases produced in aircraft cabin fires, Carbon Monoxide and Hydrogen Cyanide, is physical incapacitation; this has often been shown to have prevented successful evacuation from post-crash fires.