of memory: Encoding (processing and combining received information). It is easier to recall information if, during the encoding, it was given more weight/importance or more and stronger links and associations were made. Encoding also depends on the context and personal preferences for the type of information - visual or verbal. Some people prefer verbal, some people visual - hence there is not a “best” way of presentation in training courses and awareness workshops.. Storage (creation of a permanent record of the encoded information). During the storage the information is fading. Processes like consolidation help to prevent the fading. Consolidation is done mainly during sleep or by rehearsal.. Retrieval/Recall (calling back the stored information in response to some cue for use in a process or activity). The context is very important for the recall - it is easier to recall information in the same place it was learnt or to recall by association or links. Some methods for active recall suggest associating the pieces of information to spatial or geographical cues - for example with the rooms and parts of a house. An example in ATC is the arrangement of the strips to some geographical cues of the traffic flows. Other methods suggest using key words or acronyms - like the REST checklist for hand-over/take-over of operational positions.. The information contained in long-term memory can be classified into two types: Declarative - about the facts. This is explicit knowledge and includes semantic and episodic memory. Semantic memory includes the knowledge that we have which is associated with the things we are able to do, e.g. understanding a word or knowing the items in a checklist. This is our memory for meaning. It is generally thought that once information has successfully entered semantic memory, it is never lost. When we are unable to remember an item, e.g. a word, it is because we are unable to find where the item is stored in the memory system, not because the word has been lost from storage. Episodic memory contains our knowledge about specific events, for example, our memory of a particular incident. An important feature of episodic memory is that the information stored does not remain static but is heavily influenced by our expectations of what should have happened. Our recollections from episodic memory are thus influenced by our expectations of the world in a similar way to our initial perceptions. It is important to recognise the part played by these emotional factors, particularly in incident investigation.. Semantic memory includes the knowledge that we have which is associated with the things we are able to do, e.g. understanding a word or knowing the items in a checklist. This is our memory for meaning. It is generally thought that once information has successfully entered semantic memory, it is never lost. When we are unable to remember an item, e.g. a word, it is because we are unable to find where the item is stored in the memory system, not because the word has been