An Investigation was carried out by the Singapore Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB). On arrival at Milan, the 2 hour CVR was removed and downloaded but all relevant data was found to have been overwritten. Relevant ATC data was made available. The 49 year-old Captain had a total of 9,807 hours flying experience which included 313 hours on type and the 41 year old Senior First Officer, who was acting as PF for the sector involved had a total of 5,066 hours flying experience which included 251 hours on type. During the preceding 90 days, they had respectively recorded 97 and 140 flying hours. One of the two flight deck supernumerary crew seats was occupied by a 48 year-old Senior First Officer who was one of the crew who were rostered to operate the next sector of the flight, from Milan to Singapore, who had a total of 11,699 hours flying experience which included 1,750 hours on type and had recorded 94 flying hours during the preceding 90 days. Neither he nor the Captain he would later be operating with, who was not on the flight deck, had any assigned role on the Barcelona - Milan sector. It was established that Barcelona was being operated with runway 07R used for departures and runway 02 for landings - see the illustration below. On completion of pushback, the departing flight was instructed to taxi to the runway 07R full length holding point via parallel taxiway ‘K’. The airport was very quiet at this time (mid morning) and the crew did not see any other aircraft on the ground whilst taxiing as instructed and airport surface movement radar recordings confirmed that the A350 was the only aircraft departing. At this time, the TWR controller was talking to an Airbus A320 on approach to runway 02 behind a business jet on the same approach, but had completed this exchange whilst the A350 was still on the GND frequency. The runway layout at Barcelona with the A350 taxi route to runway 07R shown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Whilst taxiing along taxiway ‘K’ the GND controller transferred the flight to TWR and on checking in there, the controller asked if they were ready for departure and the crew confirmed that they were. The TWR controller responded by instructing the flight to “line up and wait” which was read back correctly. After this the controller began issuing initial taxi instructions to a business jet which had just landed on Runway 02 on the single TWR frequency in use. At that point, his plan was to land the A320 which was on approach to runway 02 and then issue take-off clearance to the A350. The A350 First Officer stated that as the aircraft passed the holding point i.e. was now at 90° to the runway 07R approach path and was about to enter the runway, he had routinely checked his ND, which was set to a 10nm range and would have provided a view of all traffic