within +/- 90° of the aircraft within that range limit, and had seen no traffic on or near the approach to runway 07R. The runway 02 approach was not mentioned. Whilst the TWR controller was still speaking to the business jet, he reported seeing the A350 begin a takeoff roll on Runway 07R. Having assessed that there was sufficient separation between it and the approaching A320 as their ground tracks had already crossed, he stated that he had decided that it was safe to allow the A350 to continue taking off and therefore unnecessary to instruct it to reject its takeoff. He subsequently called the A350 after it had become airborne to advise the crew of their failure to comply with their clearance. The rest of the A350 flight to Milan was recorded as having been without further event. The A350 crew “recalled having received a takeoff clearance” but this was on the clear evidence available not the case. It was considered that the takeoff without clearance would have been less likely to occur if the TWR controller had mentioned the existence of a second (A320) aircraft on approach to runway 02 although of course there was no requirement to do this. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The flight crew had believed that they were the only aircraft traffic in the vicinity. The low workload in traffic monitoring due to the low aerodrome traffic could have resulted in some form of reduced alertness by the flight crew.. The flight crew claimed that they heard a take-off clearance when there had not been one. There was no readback of take-off clearance by the flight crew.. The flight crew had checked the approach path of Runway 07R and found it to be clear. The PF mentioned checking the surrounding vicinity for approaching aircraft traffic but did not detect the A320 that was approaching Runway 02.. Although the TWR controller had managed the take-off situation appropriately, it would be desirable if the flight crew could have been made aware of other aircraft traffic in the vicinity. The TWR controller could have assisted by providing additional information (when issuing the line-up clearance) to the flight crew of the departing aircraft (such as stating the order of the aircraft in the queue with respect to other aircraft traffic), so as to enhance the awareness of the flight crew to the presence of other aircraft.. Safety Action taken by Singapore Airlines as a result of the event during and known to the Investigation was noted as having included the following: issued an INTAM (Internal Notice to Airmen) immediately after the incident for all flights operating to or from Barcelona Airport to require the flight crew to adhere to proper radio communication and readback procedures. The INTAM also reminds the flight crew that ATC instructions should be verified and cross-checked amongst themselves and that any doubt should be clarified with the ATC. The information in the INTAM was also incorporated into the