activation had occurred at 200 KCAS, 3 seconds before the stall, the Investigation found "no (aircraft type) certification document which would explain why a speed margin lower than (the normally required) 7% would have been accepted for the certification of the MD80". It was noted that the Swiftair Operations Manual did not indicate any minimum lateral distance for circumventing storm systems. It was also noted that the FCOM detail on the selection of engine anti-icing stated that icing conditions can exist when the TAT is less than 6°C and visible moisture is present or if ice build-up occurs on the windshield wipers or edges of the windshield. It was considered that these conditions had existed prior to the occurrence of inlet probe icing but noted that "reports from two major airlines with wide MD80 experience" had indicated that "some crews did not activate anti-icing systems in visible moisture conditions in the absence of visible signs of icing". It was also acknowledged that there were indications that Pt2 icing can occur without visible moisture - and that flight at night adds a complication to maintenance of crew awareness of atmospheric conditions. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was that the accident was the result of a combination of the following events: the non-activation of the engine anti-icing systems. the obstruction of the Pt2 pressure sensors, probably by ice crystals, generating erroneous EPR values that caused the autothrottle to limit the thrust produced by the engines to a level below that required to maintain the aeroplane at FL310. the crew's late reaction to the decrease in speed and to the erroneous EPR values, possibly linked to the work load associated with avoiding the convective zone and communication difficulties with air traffic control. the crew's lack of reaction to the appearance of buffet, the stickshaker and the stall warning. the lack of appropriate inputs on the flight controls to recover from a stall situation.. It was further concluded that these events could be explained by a combination of the following Contributory Factors: The FCOM procedure relating to the activation of the anti-icing systems that was not adapted to Pt2 pressure sensor obstruction by ice crystals. Insufficient information for operators on the consequences of a blockage of the Pt2 pressure sensor by icing. The stickshaker and the stall warning triggering logic that led these devices to be triggered belatedly in relation to the aeroplane stall in cruise. the autopilot logic that enables it to continue to give pitch-up commands beyond the stall angle, thereby aggravating the stall situation and increasing the crew's difficulties in recovery.. Three Interim Safety Recommendations were made during the Investigation in duplicate by both the Malian authorities and the French BEA (and in some cases also in duplicate to the FAA and EASA) as follows: that the FAA, as primary certification authority, or if not EASA, require a modification MD80 type Flight Manual to draw crews' attention to the risks linked to possible icing of the Pt2 pressure sensor