made three successive heading changes to the left for weather avoidance before turning right to take up a track almost parallel to the initial one. The evidence indicated that the aircraft had probably been in |cloud above FL240. The SAT at FL310 was -32° C, equivalent to ISA + 11° C and the tops of the most active cloud which was avoided by the track deviation were estimated to have been "well above FL 400" - typical of the ITCZ. Some 22 minutes after take off and at about the time the weather deviation left was followed by a turn to the right onto a northerly track almost parallel to the one initially flown, the aircraft reached FL 310. In the first two minutes after leveling, the airspeed increased to a maximum of M 0.775 and the EPRs stabilized at around 1.92. Then, a slow but steady decrease in airspeed had begun and the normal cruise A/T MACH Mode began to alternate with the MACH ATL Mode, which indicated that the thrust needed to maintain the Mach target displayed on the FGCP was greater than the thrust being produced at the displayed EPR limit value. Soon afterwards, with the speed back to M 0.752, MACH ATL Mode became continuous. For the next four minutes, altitude was maintained but speed continued to decrease and pitch attitude started to increase. Engine N1 remained stable but EPR progressively increased. Then, a 45 second period of fluctuation in the EPR and N1 of both engines occurred. A 20 second period in which these fluctuations continued accompanied by small oscillations in roll. Near the end of the period, the speed had reduced to M 0.561 (203 KCAS) and the A/T was disconnected. With the angle of attack recorded as 9º, the aircraft started to descend in a stalled condition. After a further 20 seconds, during which the EPR and N1 of both engines "started to decrease to values corresponding to idle", the AP was disengaged with the aircraft still stalled. It was seen from the FDR data that "when the crew took over manual control of the aeroplane the angle of attack was 25° and the aircraft was trimmed pitch up". Recovery from the stall was not achieved. With airspeed down to 162 KCAS, pitch attitude began to decrease but an increasing bank to the left developed. DFDR data showed that both parameters were thereafter "subject to significant changes" respectively reaching 80° nose-down and 140° left bank to the left although the aircraft remained "pitched nose-down and banked to the left until it struck the ground" with the flight control surfaces remaining mainly deflected pitch-up and in the direction of a (corrective) bank to the right. Impact occurred just over half an hour after take off and just over 3 minutes after the beginning of EPR fluctuations in both engines. There was no evidence that the engine anti-icing system had been activated by the crew at any point in the flight but “the Investigation was