not able to determine if […] non-activation […] was due to an oversight or to a decision by the crew (to the effect) that the environmental situation did not require it". However it was concluded that during the weather deviation, the aircraft would have passed through an area where ice crystals were likely to have been present. It was concluded from comparison of recorded N1 speeds and EPR values that very soon after levelling at FL 310 the indicated EPR values of the right engine had become invalid "probably due to the obstruction of the Pt2 (inlet) pressure sensor of this engine by ice crystals". The A/T had then adjusted the thrust to prevent the erroneous values from exceeding the EPR LIMIT in cruise setting but the thrust being delivered by the engines was lower than the thrust required for level flight, so the airspeed continued to decrease. The left engine EPR was also affected in this way just under a minute after the right one. It appeared that, possibly in part because of concurrent difficulties in communicating with ATC, the crew had not been aware of the various indications that a serious aircraft control problem was developing – something which it was noted had also been found during the investigation of previous similar MD80 events. As the AP attempted to keep the aircraft at FL 310 with insufficient engine thrust, these indications included: abnormal movements of the Trimmable Horizontal Stabiliser (THS). a steadily increasing pitch attitude. a continuously decreasing indicated airspeed - in particular it was considered that when the speed reached 210 KCAS, the pointer on the airspeed indicator would have been "close to vertical (and) at that moment a quick reading of the instrument could have made it possible to detect inadequate speed".. As the airspeed reached 203 KCAS, the conditions for a "SPD LOW" alert were met and this "might have been displayed on the two FMAs". There was no crew reaction to this alert even though "the buffet phenomenon likely also appeared at the same time". When the speed reached 200 KCAS, "the stickshaker triggered, followed three seconds later by the triggering of the stall warning". No crew action followed and the Investigation concluded that, in addition to failing to detect the various prior indications of an abnormal cruise condition, "presumably they did not identify this critical situation". Disconnection of the AP did not occur until 25 seconds after the triggering of the stickshaker and the crew's continued response was "mainly nose up inputs, contrary to the inputs required to recover the stall". It was found that around twenty seconds prior to impact, engine N1s had begun to increase, quickly reaching values close to maximum thrust. This was attributed to the disappearance of ice from the Pt2 (inlet) pressure sensors which was likely to have been the effect of the significant increase in temperature during the descent. Noting that stall buffet had occurred at 203 KCAS, 7 seconds before the stall occurred and that stickshaker