An Investigation was carried out by a Commission of Inquiry established by the Republic of Mali with technical assistance provided by the BEA France. The FDR was recovered and the data were successfully downloaded but the recovered CVR yielded no useful data because the erase mechanism was found to have been faulty prior to the flight so that older data were not being properly erased before further recording. The Investigation was unable to determine the origin of this malfunction. This Investigation noted that the absence of a usable CVR recording meant that the behaviour of the crew during the accident flight could not be analysed and in particular "it was not possible to study CRM aspects or to evaluate the possible contribution of the employment context and the experience of the crew members". No signal was received from the ELT and it was found damaged at the crash site. An Interim Report on the progress of the Investigation was approved and released on 20 September 2014. Its content is incorporated in the Final Report. It was noted that Swiftair had an ACMI contract for the provision of one MD83 to carry out wet lease for operations on behalf of Air Algérie during the period from 20 June 2014 to 23 September 2014. It was found that both pilots had joined Spanair as First Officers on the accident aircraft type in the late 1990s and, after that airline had closed down, had joined Swiftair in 2012. It was noted that both had gained experience in operations in North and West Africa during their time at Spanair and that since the start of Swiftair operations for Air Algérie, they had been one of three crews deployed to Algiers to support operation of the aircraft. Each of them had operated over 40 flights from this temporary base including to Ouagadougou and return on 21/22 July. The 47 year old Captain had progressed to command on type whilst at Spanair and he had subsequently accumulated 6,445 hours on type at that rank out of 10,007 hours on type in total. His total flying hours were 12,988. The 42 year old First Officer had spent 14 years as a First Officer on the MD80 at Spanair and she had accumulated 7,016 total flying hours which included 6,180 hours as an MD80 First Officer. Recorded data and other circumstantial evidence indicate that the aircraft commander had been PF for the accident flight. Contrary to the filed FPL, the flight was cleared to depart Ouagadougou for Algiers on a northbound clearance via GAO and EPEPO, the same route as had been used on the inbound flight (see diagram below). The A/T was active from take off and the left side AP was engaged as the aircraft passed approximately FL 105 on the climb to FL 310. In the absence of any contrary information, this latter action was taken to indicate that it was "likely" that the Captain had been acting as PF. Above FL 200, the crew