speed at impact was approximately 78 knots. The aircraft then slid for a distance of 78 metres before stopping with the "landing gear broken off, its belly forced up and the wing pressed down into the cabin" but there was no leak of fuel or any fire. It was reported that "the powerful impact rendered both pilots unconscious for a short period" and that "when they came round, the rescue services were outside the window". The pilots were able to evacuate the aircraft using the left cockpit door and the two passengers did so using the right emergency exit from the cabin. It was found that the 49 year-old Captain had 700 hours experience on type out of 6400 hours in total with other time all on aircraft types smaller than the D228. The 35 year-old First Officer had 260 hours experience on type out of 1450 hours in total. It was found that in the case of both pilots, all instruction, training and proficiency checks had been undertaken on the aircraft and that neither had received any training in the "LANDING WITH ELEVATOR INOP" emergency procedure because "it is difficult to provide this type of training without a simulator". It was noted that the aircraft had been equipped with (colour) weather radar but that the available evidence indicated that the pilots had been unable to get a useful display on it shortly before the lightning strike and that there appeared to have been previous problems with both its reliability and, potentially, also with the extent of understanding of its use by the operator’s pilots. Under JAR-OPS 1.670, it was noted that such equipment was a requirement for aircraft of the size of a D228 if operated at night or in IMC "in areas where potentially hazardous weather conditions, regarded as detectable with airborne radar, may be expected to exist along the route". The Kato Operations Manual was found to state that in the event that the weather radar was unserviceable (it was not recorded as such prior to the commencement of the accident flight) "heavy showers (CB) should be avoided (min. distance 10 NM)". This Manual was also found to recommend "switching the cockpit lighting on full and using the sun visor tominimize the effect of dazzling lightning". The ability of Bodø ATC to gain awareness of weather from their radar displays and thus be able to assist pilots without such capability was found to be poor and to have "deteriorated after the last primary surveillance radar upgrade" such that it did not "correspond well with what the pilots experience or see on their weather radar". The only weather presentation available to controllers was 15 minutes behind real time and provided on a discrete display using an internet connection. On an initial examination of the wreckage the day after the accident it was found that the loss of elevator control had been due to loss of integrity of one of the control rods which linked the control column to