the elevator - specifically at the end of the one connected to the elevator - and that the evidence indicated that this had occurred during the propagation of the lightning strike energy from its frontal entry longitudinally through the aircraft to its exit at the tail. Based on the altitude of the aircraft at the time of the strike, the Investigation considered that intra-cloud lightning had been the source of the strike and based on inspection of the wreckage that entry had been at the left-hand baggage door, possibly in two places. It was concluded that the current had then probably followed two paths before leaving the aircraft via the tip of the right elevator: along the fuselage back to the tail then "through the bondings from the fuselage, over to the horizontal tail surface and on through the bondings to right side elevator".. into the elevator rods in the vicinity of the flight deck then along elevator rods until reaching the right side elevator.. Calculations made for the Investigation suggested that "the total amount of energy in the lightning exceeded the values in the model produced by EUROCAE WG31" specialists for aircraft type certification purposes - there was "no sign that the end of the elevator rod had not been sufficiently tightened or that insufficient threads in the adjustable end were in contact with the rod". Also, the condition of the static discharge bonding wires prior to the strike could not be "established with any certainty". Further specialist work conducted for the Investigation indicated that "approximately 30%" of the bonding wires may have sustained mechanical damage prior to the strike and that there had also been considerable prior corrosion of the wires. The combined effect of this would have had "a negative effect on the.....conductivity of the bondings". It was noted that the maintenance requirements of the aircraft manufacturer in respect of bonding wires were not specific, leaving inspection dependent on "generally accepted inspection criteria". The Investigation considered that: weather conditions were acceptable for flying a DO 228 into Bodø on the morning in question.. the airborne weather radar did not provide the crew with the information necessary to avoid flying though or near to highly active convective cells.. had the crew not taken action to regain control of the aircraft when they did, it would have been difficult to do so had it then stalled.. the pilots managed to perform their tasks well under very difficult conditions.. the absence of a real time weather radar display on controllers' screens was considered unsatisfactory.. whilst it is obviously not possible to fit aircraft with bondings that are able to conduct all the currents from every single lightning strike, it is important to inspect installed bondings regularly and replace corroded and splintered wires with new ones.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority and Kato Airline should assess the best way of focusing on maintenance of airborne weather radars