An Investigation was carried out by the Norwegian Accident Investigation Board. FDR and CVR data were successfully recovered, the latter covering 45 minutes which meant that data from both sources covered the period before and after the lightning strike. ATC radar and voice recordings were also available. It was established that as the aircraft approached Bodø with the First Officer as PF, with heavy showers in the area and with the crew aware that a DHC8 in the same area had reported taking a "powerful lightning strike" a few minutes earlier, the aircraft had been struck by "a very powerful lightning strike" whilst in night IMC at 5900 feet QNH about 10nm east of the airport. The crew reported that they had both been temporarily "completely blinded" and that it had been "30 seconds before their vision gradually began to return". During this time, the aircraft had slowly lost altitude and on recovery, the crew realised that the elevator was not working normally. They had then increased engine power which resulted in a rapid climb at up to 4000 fpm and a rapid decease in airspeed almost to the point of stall. FDR data showed that 80 seconds after the strike, "the aircraft was close to stalling, the airspeed had fallen to its lowest value of 66 KIAS and the aircraft had stopped climbing at an altitude of 7,800 ft". It was noted that the single engine Vmca for the aircraft was 81 KIAS. The Captain took control and used engine power and pitch trim to increase the airspeed to a safe level as "the aircraft continued its unwanted climb to 9000 feet". ATC had observed the divergence from cleared altitude and advised that there was no other traffic in the area. The crew declared an emergency having advised that they were having to rely on pitch trim to control attitude because control of the elevator through the control column was not possible. Radar vectors and descent clearance were provided towards runway 25 and sixteen minutes after the strike, in the descent to 2500 feet with no other significant issues appearing to have resulted from it, visual reference with the airport in what was now daylight was gained at a range of 7nm and landing clearance was issued. The attempt at a landing with only limited ability to control vertical speed resulted in a sudden final descent, a hard runway three point contact with the runway and a bounce from which it was decided that a go around was the safest option. A left hand circuit was flown and the aircraft established again on final with the surface wind velocity reported as 230º / 27 knots. FDR data showed that during the final 30 seconds of the approach, airspeed had varied between 99 and 123 knots before dropping to 101 knots just before an 8.4 g impact with the ground 22 metres prior to the threshold of the 2794 metre runway LDA in a virtually level attitude. The equivalent ground