information during the radio communications between the tow leader and the Tower. Misinterpretation of the position and direction of movement of the tow. Take-off clearance given without positive confirmation that the runway was unobstructed. Insufficient teamwork and supervision. Nine Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Airport Authority should ensure that technical facilities with regard to the protection of runway exits are identical to allow standard procedures for all runway crossings, especially with regard to exit 2 of runway 06/24. In the meantime movements to/from the South apron other than by taxiing aircraft should not be allowed during low visibility weather conditions. In this connection it is recommended to follow up ICAO Annex 14 Standards as soon as possible.. that the ANSP and the Airport Authority should ensure that refresher training of procedures and radio communication should be provided to ATC Tower staff and Airport Authority manoeuvring area workers. that the ANSP should ensure that the Tower Supervisor does not have additional duties. that the ANSP should ensure that checklists are used when changing runway configuration. that the ANSP and the Airport Authority should ensure that the control panels for stop bars and traffic lights are redesigned and integrated geographically to avoid any ambiguity. that the ANSP should add a recording capability to the existing ground radar. that the ANSP should ensure that Assistant Controller positions are equipped with a multi-mode display screen. that the ANSP should ensure that Team Resource Management training is implemented for Air Traffic Control staff. that the ANSP and the Airport Authority should ensure that the effectiveness of co-ordination and communication procedures between the two organisations are re-evaluated. The Final Report of the Investigation was published by the Dutch Transport Safety Board (which had become responsible for the Investigation whilst it was in progress after a change in the organisation of safety investigations) in January 2001. The substantive Report is in English but also includes an abbreviated Dutch language version.