reported rejecting the take off and it could be seen from the ground radar that it had slowed to an almost complete stop somewhere between exit 4 and exit 3. Only when the 767 announced that the KLM aircraft ahead was being towed did the Controller realise what had caused the aborted rejected take-off and he then “noticed for the first time that the car and tow were crossing in the direction opposite to what he had been expecting. The OJTI had not heard the take-off clearance given to the 767 “possibly as a result of his involvement in the discussion about the allocation of the stop bar control panels. He was therefore completely surprised by the situation. He could see the 767 stopping and also tow traffic crossing the runway from east to west now well across the runway but not yet clear. The Assistant Controller had been looking at the ground radar display at the position to her right in order to see where the crossing traffic was but had been unsuccessful. The Assistant position has no radar display and the available displays nearby are set by the Runway Controllers to their preference which is not necessarily useful to the Assistant Controller responsible for vehicle communications. It was determined that the conflict had occurred because of the wrong assumption about the actual position and direction of crossing of the towing traffic. The tow traffic had not advised its actual position or destination, the call made only – in line with prevailing procedures, a request to cross runway 24 at exit 2. It was observed that the Assistant Controller had not asked for clarification and “assumed for no specific reason” that (the tow traffic) was waiting at exit 2W of runway 24 with its destination the south apron and then passed that information to the 24 Runway Controller. The Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: Only due to a reasonable actual visibility along the take off direction of the runway and quick and proficient action by the 767 flight crew in rejecting their take-off was a catastrophic accident was avoided. It was also noted that: the design and position of the control panels for stop bars and traffic lights are not unambiguous and therefore prone to human error. The non-use of checklists during the change-over from inbound- to outbound mode resulted in an initially wrong set-up for the stop bar control panel in relation to the Controllers’ duties. This reinforced their doubt about the correct functioning of the system and interfered with their recognition of the wring assumption about the position and movement of the tow;. OJTI (and TWR Supervisor) failed to adequately supervise Tower operations in general and did not make a timely intervention to prevent the conflict. The personnel on duty in the Tower were not working as a team.. The following Causal Factors for the conflict were identified: Low visibility weather conditions which prevented Air Traffic Control from visually identifying vehicles on the ground. Inadequate