An Investigation was commenced by the Accident and Investigation Bureau of the Netherlands Aviation Safety Board. It was established that both aircraft had been issued with clearances which corresponded with their actions. The weather was overcast and surface visibility was being reported as 1700 metres in Mist with runway 24 RVR ranging between 1600 and 1800 metres. It was not possible to monitor ground movements from the VCR and Low Visibility Procedures (LVP) were in force. About 15 minutes prior to the conflict event, the runway configuration had routinely changed from two landing runways (19R and 01R) and one departure runway (09) to two take off runways (09 and 24) and one landing runway (19R). Positions active in respect of runway 24 were one controller who was also responsible for runway 09, a trainee supervised by an OJTI who was also designated as TWR supervisor, a Ground Controller responsible for ground traffic on the southern side of the airport including the area around runway 24 and an Assistant Controller who was responsible for communications with all vehicles on the whole airport manoeuvring area in Dutch. The Assistant Controller received a request for a Boeing 747 under tow to cross runway 24 and the Runway Controller instructed that it should be held since an aircraft was about to roll. He was told by the Assistant Controller that the tow was waiting to cross from west to east at exit 2. Once the departing aircraft had become airborne from 24, The Runway Controller advised the Assistant Controller that the tow could cross. The tow leader then requested that the illuminated stop bar be extinguished but when this was attempted by the Runway Controller, it was realised that the lighting panel was still set up for the previous runway configuration. Once this had been rectified, the Runway Controller selected the west side stop bar to unlit but was surprised to hear the tow leader say that it hadn’t gone out. With the consent of his OJTI, the Runway Controller then selected both east and west side stop bars at exit 2 to unlit. The Runway Controller then began to consider whether it would be possible to get the Delta 767 lined up at the beginning of runway 24 airborne in a rapidly reducing ‘window’ which had appeared because of a gap in landing traffic on runway 19R upon which runway 24 departures were conditional in the prevailing runway configuration. Having seen a ground radar target on the east side of exit 2 which he assumed was the tow traffic now clear and noticing that both exit 2 stop bars were now showing lit again on the lighting panel, he looked across to the Assistant Controller for confirmation but was unable to get her attention straight away. Realising that the take off ‘window’ for the Delta departure was about to expire and assuming that the crossing tow traffic was indeed clear, he issued take off clearance to the 767. Twenty seconds later, the 767