stall recovery corrective action should be taken. Maximum continuous thrust… should be applied and pitch attitude reduced as required to minimize altitude loss. If below the slat limit speed, slats should be extended. At heavy weights or high altitudes, if the airspeed/Mach has become low, this technique alone may not be adequate for recovery and altitude should be traded for airspeed to accelerate out of the buffet. Incomplete recovery may result in a secondary stall or inability to accelerate to cruise mach with thrust available. If recovery action is not promptly initiated, a substantial loss of altitude may result” The Boeing FCOM was also noted to include warnings that: First indication of approach to stall may be one or any combination of the following: Rapid decrease below selected airspeed or digital airspeed turns amber Airspeed decay below the Vmin indicator toward the Vs indicator on the airspeed tape Pitch Attitudes approaching the PLI Stick shaker or initial stall buffet (light wing rock may be present). Rapid decrease below selected airspeed or digital airspeed turns amber. Airspeed decay below the Vmin indicator toward the Vs indicator on the airspeed tape. Pitch Attitudes approaching the PLI. Stick shaker or initial stall buffet (light wing rock may be present). At first indication of approach to stall, simultaneously apply maximum available thrust, level wings and adjust pitch as required to minimize altitude loss.. At first indication of a stall with auto flight engaged immediately disconnect auto flight and initiate stall recovery. Be alert to counteract excessive nose-up trim condition.. Above 25, 000 feet, stall can occur prior to stick shaker with buffet serving as the only stall warning.. In respect of maximum bank angle with the autopilot engaged, the FCOM stated that “if the bank angle limit selector is set to the AUTO position, the bank angle limit value will…(be) limited to 25 degrees between Mach 0.17 and Mach 0.55.” The Probable Cause of this accident was determined by the NTSB as: “The flight crew's failure to adequately monitor the airplane's airspeed during the holding pattern, leading to the onset of an aerodynamic stall and subsequent structural damage to the tail from buffet.” The Investigation Report was adopted on 27 September 2010 and may be seen at SKYbrary bookshelf: DCA08FA075 No Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation.