In August 2014, India described its Kolkata FIR Upper Airspace Harmonisation Project, an advanced air traffic services automation system with redundant infrastructure initially capable of integrating data from 35 radar sites, 32 ADS-B ground stations and 10 multilateration sensors. “The system has provided advanced safety net features which have detected conflicts and alerted the controllers,” the report said. “The safety nets consisted of short-term conflict alert, medium term conflict detection, minimum safe altitude warning, area proximity warning, etc. … [and they] enhanced air safety to a great extent. The unique feature of downlinked aircraft parameters (DAPS data) using Mode S would display cockpit parameters to controllers, thereby making them situationally aware of aircraft intention(s).” In August 2017, the Civil Aviation Department of Hong Kong presented its risk-based implementation of interoperability for air traffic management systems (ATMSs). Its report said, “The new ATMS provides a set of 10 [ATC] safety net functions in order to improve the alerts and confidence levels for controllers. … [The first] three functions with imminent need for safe operation — namely, short term conflict alert (STCA), special use airspace intrusion warning (SUAIW) and cleared level adherence monitoring (CLAM) — were identified and put into operation.” The timetable anticipated complete ADS-B ground-receiver coverage for the Hong Kong FIR by the end of 2017. This ATMS upgrade also supports integrating signals/data from primary surveillance radar, secondary surveillance radar and ADS-B receivers, enabling controllers “to positively locate all aircraft within their detection range, including those with a failed transponder,” the report said. In April 2019, Airways New Zealand presented a report on the impact to New Zealand’s ATC and ATC safety nets of small UAS, and upgrades to its Airshare program that address limitations in handling unexpectedly high UAS traffic volume and the related ATC-workload — “especially at control towers where ATC are responsible for authorizing [UAS] flights within the local control zone and providing separation or traffic information as required.” A UTM provider also was selected to “ensure safe integration of UAS into the existing aviation system across both controlled and uncontrolled airspace” to address causes of events such as “126 reported incidents of unauthorized UAS operating in controlled airspace, usually in close proximity to aircraft or airports.” Airways New Zealand, in the process, identified the need for surveillance of all non-cooperative UAs. Requested UTM features are expected to function somewhat similarly to ATC safety nets, providing defences to UAS intrusions with drone-identification devices, correlation of each UA to its flight plan, automatic warnings to ATC and UA tracking by ATC. “If the UAS infringes the [Airshare software’s computed protection] buffer, the operator and ATC receive a warning. Based on this type of technology, a lot of approvals could be automatic with no contact or involvement with ATC required,” the report said. An April 2019 report by Australia said that the nation’s air traffic controllers, equipped with overall ATM enhancements, are now addressing aircraft loss of separation events. “Australia continues to make greater use of ADS-B and Mode