The main difference between surveillance-based control and procedural control is the way the controller builds and maintains a picture of the air situation. Note that, by definition, the use of procedural control does not mean that surveillance data is not available at all nor does it preclude the use of such data. However, this is only to be done for enhancing the controllers' situational awareness and is by no means intended (or allowed) to assist in providing separation between aircraft. The methods that can be used for separation provision are explicitly stated in local instructions (e.g. manuals of operations). The main tool in procedural control is Flight Progress Strips. Controllers use these in order to: record clearances given to aircraft. This is done by writing pre-defined symbols (e.g. arrows for climb and descent) and other short pieces of information (e.g. levels). The symbols to be used as well as the rules for moving the strips within the controller working position are described in the operation manuals.. represent the air situation. Flight progress strips are placed in a special way to give the controller an idea about the relative position of aircraft. Different strip bays may be used, e.g. for the CTR, there may be bays for flights on the apron, on the taxiways, in the aerodrome traffic circuit, being cleared to enter the active runway(s), etc. for the en-route environment, flight strips may be placed in different bays, e.g. one for eastbound traffic and another for westbound, or one for each airway, or one for each flight level, etc.. for the CTR, there may be bays for flights on the apron, on the taxiways, in the aerodrome traffic circuit, being cleared to enter the active runway(s), etc.. for the en-route environment, flight strips may be placed in different bays, e.g. one for eastbound traffic and another for westbound, or one for each airway, or one for each flight level, etc.. Strips being in the same strip bay are then sorted by some criteria, e.g. estimated time, level, etc. Aircraft position determination and position updates are made by either pilot reports or visual observations, the latter being applicable in the CTR or on the manoeuvring area by tower and ground controllers. Position reports are also used to update the estimates for next points on the route. Position estimates are then used to determine if there is a conflict between aircraft being at the same level and also for issuing clearances for level changes. Situational examples: Two aircraft are maintaining different levels, therefore there is no conflict between them.. Two aircraft are maintaining the same level. Their position estimates over the same waypoint are compared, and if the time difference is less than the prescribed minimum, action must be taken by the controller, for example: one of the aircraft will need to change the level so that vertical separation is applied, or one of the aircraft makes an orbit for delay, so that the applicable time minimum is achieved, or the speeds