Procedural separation is to be provided during procedural control. Traffic on the manoeuvring area is usually separated by use of standard positions that have been assessed to provide adequate spacing. A typical example is the holding point of a taxiway. An aircraft is supposed to proceed after such a point only after obtaining an explicit clearance (including a conditional one). Aerodrome lighting may also be used for this purpose. For complex aerodromes, specific holding points are defined before crossing other taxiways. The following methods are usually used for en-route procedural control: Vertical separation. Standard vertical separation is 1000 ft at or below FL 280 (or at or below FL 410 if RVSM is applied) and 2000 feet above that level. If procedural control is used as a contingency, these may, as a last resort, be temporarily reduced to 500 ft / 1000 ft respectively.. Horizontal separation. The main principle is that if aircraft are at the same level (i.e. vertical separation is not applied) then they should be at different positions. Longitudinal separation. It is based on the distance between two aircraft, and is expressed and applied in minutes or in nautical miles. Different minima may apply based on aircraft speed (the faster the former aircraft, the smaller the separation minimum) and navigation equipment (if aircraft position can be determined more accurately, smaller minima apply). This separation may be applied to successive aircraft (i.e. one flying behind the other) as well as aircraft on opposite or crossing tracks. An example of longitudinal separation is two aircraft on crossing tracks passing the crossing point 15 minutes of each other (in case aircraft position is only determined by pilot reports and no navigation aids are available).. Longitudinal separation. It is based on the distance between two aircraft, and is expressed and applied in minutes or in nautical miles. Different minima may apply based on aircraft speed (the faster the former aircraft, the smaller the separation minimum) and navigation equipment (if aircraft position can be determined more accurately, smaller minima apply). This separation may be applied to successive aircraft (i.e. one flying behind the other) as well as aircraft on opposite or crossing tracks. An example of longitudinal separation is two aircraft on crossing tracks passing the crossing point 15 minutes of each other (in case aircraft position is only determined by pilot reports and no navigation aids are available).. Lateral separation is applied so that the distance between the intended routes is never less than an established distance (expressed in NM). An example of this is two aircraft flying on different (non-intersecting) airways, the distance between which is enough to account for navigational inaccuracies plus a buffer.. Lateral separation is applied so that the distance between the intended routes is never less than an established distance (expressed in NM). An example of this is two aircraft flying on different (non-intersecting) airways, the distance between which is enough to account for navigational inaccuracies plus a buffer.. The methods above are also applicable for