An Accident Investigation was carried out by CENIPA, Brazil's Aeronautical Accidents Investigation and Prevention Centre. FDR data relevant to the event was successfully downloaded and informed the Investigation along with relevant meteorological data. It was noted that Captain, who had been PF for the accident flight, had a total of 11,861 flying hours of which 1,712 hours were on type and that the First Officer had a total of 4,039 flying hours which included 1,757 hours on type. The flight crew stated that prior to the sudden onset of turbulence, they had been in VMC with “clear visibility of the stars above” and no weather returns showing on their weather radar displays. FDR data showed that both pilot displays had been set to a range of 80 nm and with the beam tilt at -1° (although the pilots said that the range on the PM display had been 160 nm). They reported that without warning there had been St Elmo's Fire and the sudden onset of a short period of severe turbulence accompanied by the sound of hail. The seat belt signs had not been selected on because of the assessment by the pilots that there had been no risk of significant turbulence despite the forecasts they had seen for the time of their passage through the ITCZ. These forecast data included a SIGMET available before the aircraft had departed Madrid, warning of thunderstorms with tops up to FL450 during the four hour period during which the accident under investigation occurred. The significant weather chart covering the location of the turbulence event is shown below. The serious injury to a member of the cabin crew occurred as he attempted to secure a service trolley in the rear galley which prevented him from having time to secure himself. The two seriously injured passengers were seated but not secured and both sustained spinal and other injuries after impact with the cabin roof. Once the extent and nature of injuries that had occurred were known, it was decided that the flight should make an en-route diversion to Fortaleza which was achieved without further event. FDR data showed that at the onset of the severe turbulence, the aircraft had suddenly begun to climb rapidly and the Captain had attempted to prevent this by using side stick inputs. There was an un-commanded disconnection of AP during this period of maximum intensity which FDR data showed had lasted for 15 seconds out of a total for the whole episode of 1 minute and 37 seconds. There was no repetition thereafter. FDR data (see below) provided more detail on the upset. An initial vertical acceleration of +1.9g was immediately followed by one of -0.3g within 2 seconds and was accompanied by a rapid climb to FL409 at a rate of up to 4600 fpm. This all occurred within 5 seconds during which the aircraft was subjected to a strong vertical airflow which varied from 2000 fpm down to 9300 fpm up. An uncommanded AP disconnection soon after