relatively low radar reflectivity above a convective cloud top approximately 3000 feet below the aircraft. It was concluded that the flight crew’s inadequate use of flight watch facilities to enhance their weather awareness during their passage through what they were already aware was likely to be an en-route area of heightened turbulence risk was contributory to the accident encounter. The only formal Contributory Factor definitely determined as a result of the Investigation was: Adverse Meteorological Conditions - the prevailing meteorology constituted a critical factor for the event, with characteristics of intense vertical currents of air, great variation of intensity and direction that were provoked directly by the intense and fast convective process of development of a Cumulonimbus (Cb) cell which was less than 20 nm from the aircraft flight path with cloud tops approximately 3,000 feet below it.. Two Potential but Undetermined Contributory Factors were also formally identified: Control skills - the limits of side stick command input and angle of attack protection were exceeded causing the autopilot to disengage; the pilot attempted to counteract the effects of the turbulence and made side stick inputs opposite to the aircraft's attitude changes which may have served to increase the disturbance initiated by the turbulence.. Radar TILT Adjustment - the setting by both pilots of the weather radar range to 80 nm and a ‘TILT’ of -1° in the absence of reflectivity in the upper section of the turbulence dome at the time of the accident may have contributed to the entry of the aircraft into a region of severe turbulence.. As a consequence of the Investigation, two Safety Recommendations were made on completion of the Investigation as follows: that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) disseminate the lessons learned in this report in order to raise the situational awareness of pilots, especially with regard to the identification of areas with adverse weather conditions, as well as the procedures to be adopted to mitigate the risks caused by meteorological phenomena. [A-158/CENIPA/2013 - 01]. that the Brazil National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) work with the operator to reinforce the appropriate technical procedures for the use of radar and aircraft control in the company's Training Program to avoid areas of severe turbulence. [A-158/CENIPA/2013 - 02]. The Final Report was completed on 10 May 2018 and published online in both the definitive Portuguese version and in an official English language version on 15 May 2018.