the severe turbulence was attributed to the exceedence of the limits for side stick input and/or angle of attack but it could not be determined which. Whilst it was also possible that an (inappropriate) attempt to oppose the upward movement had made matters worse, it was not possible to say if this intervention had been the cause of the AP disconnect. The AP was quickly re-engaged and did not drop out again. FDR data also showed that concurrent with the upward airflow, the outside Air Temperature had suddenly risen from -59°C to -52°C (see the first illustration below), which was noted as indicative of the aircraft having been subjected to a rising current of air coming from the convective air movement associated with a cumulonimbus formation “just below it”. Satellite data close to the time of passage (see the second illustration below) confirmed that the three areas of the most intense convective activity were around but not on the aircraft track which was between build ups exceeding FL 400 but clear of cloud until flying directly over an undetected (relatively) smaller build up directly below and less than 20 nm away from the aircraft track. It was concluded that when the sudden severe turbulence occurred, the aircraft had probably been under the indirect influence of two of the three major convective systems in its vicinity and under the direct influence of another (developing) one below it. The latter would have been the source of both the upward air current which disrupted the flight path and the accompanying (dry) hail ejected from its cloud top. Industry guidance seen by the Investigation noted that turbulence is not only associated with flight inside a cumulonimbus-type cloud but also occurs in the clear air around them. This means that it is necessary to take action to avoid such clouds by a significant margin such as keeping at least 5000 feet vertically and 20 nm laterally from active convective cloud formations. The Investigation also noted that Airbus’ 2007 guidance on the optimum use of weather contained a reminder that tilt determines the range at which a convective cell return will disappear at a given range - e.g. a return disappearing at 40 nm with a -1° tilt has a top 4000 feet below the level of the aircraft - and advocated regular vertical scanning by varying the tilt. This guidance also included the advice that “efficient weather awareness” in the cruise was best achieved with a different range set on each pilot’s weather radar display, as a general “rule of thumb” using 160 nm (and a tilt setting of -1.5°) on the PM display and with 80 nm (and a tilt setting of -3.5°) on the PF display. These settings, in conjunction with the recommended 5000 feet vertical avoidance, would have given the flight crew a much better situational awareness of the actual turbulence risk ahead which it was concluded had been the consequence of flight through a “turbulence dome” containing just dry hail of