of the en-route phase of the given route does not exist”. In this latter respect, it was also observed that this particularly short sector was being carried out at unusually low altitudes relative to the terrain in the area and that the whole region was known for “intense meteorological phenomena” capable of significantly affecting aircraft flight paths. It was concluded that “the absence of a study of the en-route phase when carrying out the route study prior to starting flight operations meant that the threat represented by this terrain was not identified” which led to no risk management being implemented. Five potential Contributory Factors to the complete absence of situational awareness in relation to the proximity of the aircraft to significant terrain in the immediate vicinity of Mount Cameroon were identified as follows: The crew’s concern to avoid storm cloud masses and the reporting with the ATC, to the detriment of monitoring the flight path. The crew significantly deviated from the filed flight plan which made the safety altitudes mentioned therein obsolete.. The simultaneous use of both radars in Weather mode.. The representation of Malabo airport on a chart not to scale, which did not facilitate the identification of the position of the planned route with respect to the terrain.. The MORA safety altitudes or grid MORA not being displayed on the ND of the Boeing 777 involved.. The absence of any study of the en-route phase when the operator carried out the risk assessment prior to commencing the route between Douala and Malabo, leading to the risk of dangerous proximity to en-route terrain not being identified.. Safety Action taken by Air France was noted as having included improved flight crew access to weather information at Malabo and modification of Douala STAR plate to show the position of Malabo airport without use of an insert and at the correct scale distance from Mount Cameroon. The Final Report was initially published in the definitive French language on 3 August 2021 and this was followed on 20 April 2022 by an English Language translation. No Safety Recommendations were made.