After Air France had informed the French Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Agency (the BEA) of the event, the Cameroonian authorities were notified and delegated the Investigation to the BEA. Despite the fact that Air France in Paris was informed by the crew of the event on arriving at the transit stop in Douala before they proceeded to Paris as scheduled, continued flight crew duty was approved and CVR data from this Serious Incident was not protected. The Investigation was based mainly on FDR/QAR data and crew statements subsequently submitted. The Captain had a total of 18,035 hours flying experience of which 5,998 hours were on type and 12,600 hours had been in command on all types. The First Officer, who was acting as PF for the investigated flight, had a total of 5,076 hours flying experience of which 3,353 hours were on type. The Relief First Officer, who had a total of 15,116 hours flying experience of which 447 hours were on type, was occupying the central observer seat in the flight deck and the other supernumerary flight deck crew seat was being occupied by a member of the cabin crew who had accepted the Captain’s invitation to do so. Prior to taxiing out at Malabo with the First Officer designated as PF, it was reported that a “departure and arrival briefing” was completed by the crew. This was stated to have included a request by the Captain for the Relief First Officer to act as a vigilant general observer and monitor compliance with safety altitudes in particular. The presence of high terrain on the left side of the Malabo runway 22 climb out was also mentioned because documented company procedures required that a right turn must be made to take up the flight planned track to Douala rather than the FMS-specified left turn. Although the crew were generally aware of the presence of convective activity in the area, all the company Operation Control Centre could advise on was the expected arrival weather at Douala which was “considered acceptable” and the crew were “unaware of the precise meteorological conditions along the route prior to takeoff”. After an on-time departure, the planned right turn to take up the easterly track to Douala was made and the AP engaged. Having then observed numerous storm cells ahead on radar, although these were “not touching”, it was decided to turn left and head northeast away from the flight plan route. Both NDs were set to weather mode with the scale on the PM’s ND initially set to 20 nm before being progressively increased to 80 nm as the climb to cruise at FL090 continued and that of PF being initially set to 80 nm and then, as the top of climb neared, to 40nm. The crew reported having used the Douala STAR plate for their expected runway 30 arrival at Douala for en route navigation purposes (see the illustration below) which shows Malabo as an insert rather than in its actual position much further