repeated his instruction to the PF to stop climbing as FL 120 was passed and the aircraft was eventually levelled at FL 130. Tracking to join the Douala runway 30 ILS DME arc was continued, descent was subsequently commenced and the rest of the flight was uneventful. At no time was Douala ATC, who the flight had been working with since shortly after departing Malabo, informed of the emergency climb or the consequential failure to maintain their cleared flight level. A 3D depiction of the flight path near Mount Cameroon in the absence of situational awareness. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The flight path during the EGPWS activation. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The track during the EGPWS activation. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The subsequent statements of the flight crew indicated that although prior to departure, it had been agreed that the Captain would set his ND to terrain mode, he stated that during the climb to FL090, he had soon changed it to weather mode. He commented that during the pre-flight briefing, “little mention was made of Mount Cameroon, probably, according to him, because its presence was obvious for everyone”. He also stated that the presentation of this terrain on the STAR chart used for navigation “suggested that it was not a threat to the flight”. He added that his suggestion that the PF should make a right turn in order to join the DME arc for the approach to Douala had been based on his assumption that they were south of Mount Cameroon and added that “both co-pilots had had doubts before the turn was started”. When the EGPWS was activated, he had been “surprised” and once the climb was under way he had then become “afraid that there might be other conflicting traffic” which was what prompted him to ask the PF to “stop climbing”. He “attributed this fear to a recent simulator training session in which there had been an in-flight collision with another aircraft”. The PF First Officer stated that his initial refusal to turn right when the Captain suggested it was because of the presence of the red return to the right of track on his ND. He had subsequently commenced it “in order to avoid getting close to the red return ahead” which he had assumed was Mount Cameroon. He stated that this turn had been “started with caution due to doubts as to the exact nature of the return on their right” and shortly afterwards he “had heard the EGPWS annunciations and saw trees on the mountain while they were in the turn”. His (incorrect) recollection was that he had pitched up to 20°. He thought that the ND displayed red blocks up to around 13,000 feet and heard the Captain’s calls to stop climbing at 11,000 feet and then at 12,000 feet before they stabilised at 13,000 feet. The Relief First Officer stated that he too had been “surprised” by the EGPWS annunciations. Other relevant information documented during the Investigation