west. The chart used for en-route navigation. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The PF stated that when he saw a large red return on his ND ahead of the aircraft and another oblong red return to the right, both of which “seemed to be moving forward with the aircraft”, he had not understood what was causing it and so he had changed his radar to terrain mode which automatically changed the scale to 80 nm. After “six seconds”, he stated that he had then reset weather mode having concluded that “the return ahead of the aircraft was a ground return from Mount Cameroon" and that the oblong red return on the right of the route was a “false return”. Approximately ten minutes after takeoff with the aircraft 6nm north-west of Mount Cameroon, the Captain suggested making a right turn to pick up the ILS DME arc to runway 30 at Douala and the PF then changed the selected heading from 061° to 120° (see the ground track illustration below). Half a minute later at approximately 5000 feet agl, a four second EGPWS “TERRAIN AHEAD” caution was activated and both NDs automatically changed to terrain mode. The PF responded to the caution by increasing the selected heading to from 120° to 134° and 10 seconds after the EGPWS caution had started, with the height above terrain having decreased to a recorded 4,150 feet, a “TERRAIN AHEAD PULL UP” Warning was annunciated. The crew reported that their NDs had “turned red” and both the PF and the Observing Cabin Crew mentioned in their subsequent statements that they had “made out trees to the right of the aircraft” - the observing cabin crew subsequently noting that the trees had been visible because at that point the aircraft was clear of cloud and there was a full moon. The flight plan and actual ground tracks showing the EGPWS location in red. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The PF disconnected the AP, made a nose-up input and set maximum thrust. The A/T was disengaged five seconds after the climb commenced. During the eight seconds of the PULL UP Warning, the pitch attitude was only increased to a maximum of 15° rather than - as a required memory action - “until the stick shaker or buffet appears”. It was observed that both this and the continuation of the right turn had reduced the rate of climb which could have made the difference between a successful escape manoeuvre and terrain impact. The Relief First Officer “asked the PF to level the wings” but this was only done momentarily and the right turn was resumed and a new heading of 150° was selected. When the EGPWS Warning ceased as the aircraft approached FL 110, the Captain told the PF to “stop climbing” which, as the radio altimeter height continued to reduce, was ignored. When still close to the summit of Mount Cameroon, the clearance above terrain reduced to its minimum recorded value of 2,100 feet agl. The Captain