included the following: the Boeing FCTM recommended use of the terrain mode on at least one ND whenever the flight path is in subject to potentially hazardous terrain or obstacles during flight at night or in IMC or at all times in non-radar environments such as the airspace involved in the investigated event. The Air France FCOM merely “recommended adapting (ND) display use according to needs”.. Although the flight crew did not appreciate that they were about to encounter a very significant terrain hazard because they had no idea where they were, the simultaneous use of weather mode on both NDs was not the only problem, there appeared to have been a lack of sufficient understanding of returns presented in either weather or terrain modes.. Whilst the weather radar could filter out most ground returns when set to ‘weather’ mode it was still possible in certain circumstances for ground reflectivity to create red returns which look the same as those which would have been obtained from an active storm cell. It was noted that to differentiate between them is a simple matter but that any mode change from ‘weather’ to ‘terrain’ needs up to eight seconds to ensure that the terrain depiction is accurate. At a critical moment in the flight, it was noted that the First Officer had momentarily selected ‘terrain’ mode before almost immediately re-selecting ‘weather’ mode thereby gaining a false perception of the terrain ahead at that time.. None of the three pilots were aware that in terrain mode, the Boeing 777 radar only displays solid amber or red returns when the aircraft is below 2,000 feet agl and an EGPWS Terrain Caution or Warning is active or that such an activation automatically changes any ND display selected to weather mode to terrain mode. Or indeed that otherwise, the ‘passive’ terrain mode display is a dot pattern - red for terrain/obstacles more than 2000 feet above the aircraft, amber for those between 2000 feet above and 500 feet below the aircraft and green for those between 500 feet and 2000 feet below the aircraft.. None of the three pilots had considered the possibility that their deviation north of the flight planned route had invalidated the en-route safety altitudes given for it - the MORA (Minimum of Route Altitude) - which guarantees an obstacle clearance margin of at least 1000 feet.. Pilot full flight simulator training scenarios at Air France did not necessarily include reverting to a wings level attitude when an EGPWS warning begins during a turn so that responses like that of the PF First Officer in this event could be expected.. However, the root cause of this near CFIT event was the crew’s tactical decision to base off-route navigation on an arrival (STAR) chart which only showed part of the route. The Investigation did also note as context that when Air France commenced flying the Malabo-Douala route in 2008, their operational risk assessment covered only the two airports involved and observed that “a risk assessment