aircraft will come into conflict with another aircraft. Some medium term conflict detection tools are equipped with functionality for the controller to update the route of the aircraft should this not follow the flight planned route.. Short Term Conflict Probe (What-if). There are various forms of “What if” or level assessment tools available to probe the safety of an offered level change. Generally, the controller inputs the intended clearance into the ATC system without actually communicating it to the flight crew. The ATC system processes the information and checks for conflicts. To some extent, this fulfils the role of scanning. The Operational Safety Study:Blind Spots has shown that this tool has the potential to prevent most losses of separation caused by Blind Spot except for scenarios of clearance not following the horizontal flight planned route as the existing probes are what-if tools for vertical manoeuvres. The advantage of the probe is that it is purely preventive barrier to be used before any instruction or clearance is given. This hypothetical character can also be considered by some controllers as a drawback and affect their willingness to use it.. Predictive Separation Alert Tool (e.g. STCA) with ATC intentions inputs like Cleared Flight Level (CFL). CFL allows the predictive STCA to identify conflicts much earlier and to identify them even before the crew start the execution of the conflicting clearance. The Operational Safety Study:Blind Spots has shown that this tool has the potential to prevent all losses of separation caused by Blind Spot. This barrier is less efficient in proactively identifying potential conflicts due to unplanned horizontal manoeuvres towards a proximate aircraft. The barrier may be affected by the consistency of inputting the Cleared Flight Level (CFL) information in the system. Unlike “What-if” tools however, it does not require additional controller input (a slight change of working habits may be required though, i.e. the controllers should input the clearances into the system before issuing them rather than afterwards).. Predictive Separation Alert Tool with flight crew intentions inputs. Some medium term conflict prediction systems have tactical update facility. The system starts with the FPL routing but updates it tactically when the aircraft deviates from that route. The display is updated according to downloaded aircraft headings and selected flight levels. The Operational Safety Study:Blind Spots has shown that this tool has the potential to prevent all losses of separation caused by Blind Spot. The barrier efficiency will depend on the proximity of the conflicting aircraft and will be triggered later compared with the STCA with CFL inputs. On the other hand, this barrier will not depend on the controller consistency in inputting the CFL into the system.. The following mitigation barriers could mitigate the consequences of a loss of separation due to inefficient detection of conflict with the closest aircraft: operational TRM – colleague warning;. Short Term Conflict Alert;. ACAS;. see and avoid;. providence (geometry of encounter).. These barriers are generic (i.e. not specifically designed to mitigate a particular risk). Their presence and effectiveness are