both foot brakes were applied. The right engine TLA was then reduced to IDLE. At almost the same time as the aircraft departed the left side of the runway, the maximum achieved groundspeed of 31 knots was reached and both thrust levers were selected to ‘MAX REV’. The aircraft eventually came to a stop 48 seconds after the thrust levers had been initially advanced above IDLE. FDR data showed that, in an apparent attempt to move the aircraft back towards the paved surface, two separate movements of the left engine thrust lever had then been made, first to 14° and then to 20° with the corresponding EPR reaching 1.16 but the aircraft did not move. The subsequent completion of AMM actions to check the continued integrity of the nose landing gear and steering system did not identify any abnormalities which might have been caused by this action but other damage to the aircraft did include minor damage to the fan blades of both engines caused by ingestion of FOD as well as damage to a landing light. In seeking to relate the reconstructed aircraft ground track with crew actions, Airbus facilitated engineering simulations which demonstrated that this ground track could not have been achieved by the recorded sequence of rudder and thrust inputs. The only way that it could have been achieved was by concurrent nose wheel steering tiller commands, which allow up to 7.5° of nose wheel movement either side of neutral at groundspeeds of up to 20 knots rather than the absolute maximum of 6° achievable by movement of the rudder pedals. Once the directional control difficulty had arisen, the only valid crew response was to reject the takeoff and it was noted from the CVR data that the Captain had initially ignored a call to abandon the takeoff from the relatively more type-experienced First Officer. The eventual use of reverse thrust and braking action was then so late as to make the runway excursion inevitable. It was also noted that the First Officer’s role as PM included monitoring the setting of takeoff thrust which the reading back of the takeoff clearance whilst this was happening would have compromised. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the Accident was "pilot failure to set takeoff power without first achieving initial stabilisation of both engine parameters as required by the aircraft FCOM and also the failure to safely reject the takeoff in a timely manner which resulted in a runway excursion”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: Failure of the airline to provide its pilots with clear and consistent guidance and training regarding company policies and procedures related to engine thrust stabilisation during a takeoff and the proper use of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).. Lack of Cockpit Resource Management (CRM) in task sharing and decision making.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO) should require all operators to provide clear guidance and training to pilots regarding