An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) of the Iran Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO). Data from both the SSFDR and the CVR were successfully downloaded and used to assist the Investigation. The prevailing weather conditions were benign with an almost negligible tailwind component and had no effect on the event. It was noted that the 52 year-old Captain, who had been PF for the departure, had a total of 10,100 flying hours which included 250 hours on type. The 33 year-old First Officer had a total of 2,100 flying hours which included 1,200 hours on type. It was established that the takeoff had been commenced from a standing start and that the Captain had begun setting the thrust for flex thrust takeoff whilst the First Officer was still reading back the takeoff clearance. To achieve this, he moved both thrust levers symmetrically and from the IDLE detent directly towards the FLX/MCT position without pausing to achieve thrust stabilisation at 1.05 EPR before continuing to complete the thrust lever movement to the FLX/MCT detent. It was noted that the 1.05 EPR Thrust Lever Angle (TLA) is approximately 9.5° to 10° whereas the FLX/MCT detent is at 33°. FDR data showed that, although four seconds after commencement of the initial forward movement of the thrust levers, there had been a very brief (2-3 second) pause, thrust did not stabilise during this pause and the initial difference between the thrust of the two engines after increase in thrust at comparable rates had produced a left engine EPR of 1.03 and a right engine EPR at 1.24. As the aircraft began to veer slightly to the left as a result of this thrust asymmetry (see the illustration below), a significant right rudder pedal input was recorded. At the prevailing low speed, this would not have had any corrective directional control via the rudder deflection but would, irrespective of any input to the nosewheel steering input via the tiller (not recorded on the SSFDR), have immediately led to a change in the nose wheel steering alignment to the right which corresponded to the time when “noise and vibration” was reported by the crew to have begun. It was considered that this would have been a consequence of the nosewheels skidding across the runway surface when aligned contrary to the direction of movement of the aircraft. As the groundspeed reached 15 knots, both TLAs were reduced slightly as was the right rudder input and the aircraft began to turn back towards the right and through the runway centreline. As the groundspeed passed 22 knots, the rudder pedal input was changed to a significant left turn and passing 26 knots, the right engine TLA was increased to over 40° (almost reaching the TOGA detent) whilst the left engine TLA was simultaneously returned to the IDLE detent. At this speed, the aircraft reached its closest to the right hand edge of the runway and a turn back to the left then commenced and