incident runway and was set up to generate a conflict alert when: An aircraft approaching the runway is within 1000 metres of the threshold and the. runway is not clear in 'normal' visibility. An aircraft approaching the runway is within 2 nm of the threshold and the runway is not. clear in LVP only. The speed of a departing aircraft' exceeds 40 knots and the runway ahead is not clear.. The Investigation found via discussions with ATC personnel at Manchester that the RIM system was susceptible to ‘spurious’ alerts, but nevertheless had been enabled during the incident and despite neither runway controller noticing, had activated under the third of the listed criteria. It was considered “highly likely” that the controller involved had “lost situational awareness at a critical time”. Once this had happened, it was noted that the first line of defence was procedures which would highlight to the controller that he had made a mistake. Since in this Case, these procedures “were not effective” it was concluded that “a review of the procedures and RTF phraseology/discipline would therefore be sensible” and noted that such a review was already in hand. It was also found that prior to the incident, NATS had recognised an increase in the number of runway incursions at Manchester and were undertaking a review of their local FPS procedures. Following the occurrence under investigation, it was noted that it had been decided to extend this review to all NATS airports so as to facilitate the establishment of a common NATS standard. In summary, the Investigation noted that the incident had occurred following a human error by a controller and accepted that even when procedures are continually evaluated to minimise the opportunities for such errors, they will still occur at times. It was observed that defence against this incident becoming an accident was the effective situational awareness displayed by the A321 flight crew, which had demonstrated the important of such awareness. It was decided that as the ANSP NATS had already taken appropriate measures to review, standardise and improve their procedures, no Safety Recommendations were necessary. The Final Report of the Investigation was published in November 2004