stabilisation height that everything else went unnoticed”. The aircraft commander stated that during the final approach, he had been focusing on the ILS GS display, which according to him was OK, and “had at no time looked at the ILS LOC”. The formally-stated Conclusions of the Investigation included the following: The aircraft was flying high and quickly in relation to the nominal approach path.. Owing to the absence of the recordings of the conversations in the cockpit during this incident, it has not been possible to clarify certain details of the incident, in particular the conducting of the pre approach briefing.. The attitude of the PIC was not in line with sound practice in terms of crew resource management in the cockpit.. The aircraft landed on a runway which had not been assigned to it (runway 35R instead of runway 35L).. The PIC failed to apply the instructions of Air France (AF) in the event of a serious incident, which meant that it was impossible to use the CVR data for the time in question.. The Probable Causes were determined as: A visual approach was not anticipated by the crew during their arrival briefing.. Cockpit resource management was inappropriate.. The aircraft deviated slightly from the nominal approach path.. The serious incident was due to confusion between runways by the crew during a visual approach.. Two Contributory Factors were also identified: The change of approach strategy was not discussed (between the pilots) either during the arrival briefing or subsequently.. The configuration of Casablanca airport presents a known risk of confusion between the two runways or between a runway and the taxiway.. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation, at its conclusion, as follows: that Casablanca Mohammed V Airport should remind air traffic controllers of the importance of how they respond and the action they take in the event of air incidents, in line with the regulatory requirements in force.. that the French DGAC should raise the awareness of the flight crews of French operators of the types of operational incident requiring application of relevant procedures, in particular those concerning preservation of flight recorder data.. that the French DGAC should raise the awareness of the flight crews of French operators serving Casablanca Mohammed V airport of the specific details of this airport, in particular in respect of the possibility of confusion between the runways between the runways and the taxiway.. A reminder was also issued in respect of an earlier Safety Recommendation which had been made: that the ANSP responsible for Casablanca Mohammed V Airport should carry out a Safety Study into the contributory factors which have led to incidents arising from confusion by landing aircraft crews of different airlines in the presence of two parallel runways and a parallel taxiway with no buildings in between.. The Final Report of the Investigation was issued in a French language version only on 22 August 2012 and is also available here on SKYbrary in an [unofficial English language translation].Editor's Note: