The Irish AAIU initially opened an investigation into the event on 30 July 2004 after notification from the Operator. On 2 September 2004, the Swedish Accident Investigation Board (AIB) was formally notified of this serious incident by the Irish AAIU and it was “agreed that the AAIU would undertake the investigation.” It was established that the aircraft commander, who was on his last working day for the Operator prior to a planned return to his native country, had been PF. Descent was commenced late for no apparent reason and this was not challenged by the PNF. The approach checks were reportedly completed at or before Flight Level (FL) 100 but by this time, the PNF had become concerned about the visually-evident proximity of the destination landing runway and the PF accepted that the aircraft ”was high above the standard profile “at this time. The Autopilot was already disconnected. A determined attempt to descend to reach the Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems-indicated vertical profile occurred during which it was found that nose down pitch had reached 12.3° and, with the use of side slip, contributed to rates of descent of up to 6,200 fpm. Flap extension was attempted as soon as limiting speeds were achieved but these speeds were then exceeded with the flaps deployed. Up to 270 KIAS was reached with Flap 5 deployed. All attempts by the PNF to influence the aircraft commander’s behaviour were to no avail and the latter subsequently admitted that he continued thinking that he would be able to “rescue the approach”. Despite the approach, touchdown was achieved in the TDZ of the dry landing runway at a speed of approximately 180 knots and the aircraft stopped at the end of the 2,878 metre long runway using manual braking and normal reverse thrust. The aircraft subsequently flew the return leg to London Stansted without any record of the flap exceedance being recorded in the aircraft Technical Log or the required maintenance inspection being carried out. In addition, neither pilot initially made any verbal or written report to the Operator about the event and it was discovered only through routine flight data monitoring. The Investigation noted that the aircraft commander accepted that, with the benefit of hindsight, he had been mentally unfit fly on the incident day because of personal concerns with which he was (understandably) preoccupied. The Investigation noted that: “(his) first mistake was in not calling in sick on the morning of the flight, or, indeed, earlier in his monthly roster. However…..this can be a difficult thing to do, a matter of ‘not letting the side down’ and, even more so, when it is for a very personal matter. This derives from the fact that, in aviation safety matters, heavy reliance is placed on pilots to be judge of their own day to day fitness to fly. However, this attitude can have significant consequences in ‘life event’ induced circumstances where personal judgement calls may not be sufficient to rectify a given situation. Clearly, such