a situation is a difficult call to make and one that is not restricted to the pilots’ profession only.” It was concluded on the available evidence that: “the behaviour of the PF on the descent to Skavsta Airport was irrational, contrary to all his Flight and Crew Resource Management training and inexplicable, even to himself at the time.” But noted also that “as the subsequent return flight to Stansted showed, he quickly recovered his professionalism and safely carried out his last flight for the Operator.” The formal statement of cause was: “This serious incident was precipitated by the temporary aberrant behaviour of the PF in disregarding the Operator’s SOP’s/CRM requirements and compounded by the inability of the PNF to counteract this behaviour in the unusual circumstances of the approach to Skavsta”. The 'Final Report of the Investigation was published on 19 September 2005 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: AAIU Synoptic Report No: 2005-018 Four Safety Recommendations were made in the Report and are reproduced below in full: The Operator develop a CRM training module, emphasising the insidious nature of stress as it affects the performance of a pilot’s flying capabilities. This should also include the recognition of pilot subtle incapacitation and intervention, to highlight the necessary level of assertiveness required, particularly on the part of first officers when the captain is the pilot flying. (SR No. 014 of 2005). The Operator reinforces to aircrew the necessity of a comprehensive briefing for all approaches, including visual approaches. (SR No. 015 of 2005). The Operator reinforces to aircrew the requirement to re-brief where the type of approach is changed, e.g. from ILS to Visual Approach, or other.. (SR No. 016 of 2005) The Operator reinforces to aircrew the necessity of reporting possible structural limit exceedances to ensure the continued airworthiness of an aircraft, regardless of how the exceedances may have occurred. (SR No. 017 of 2005).