An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS) but there was a four day delay in the initial notification of the event to the AAIS. CVR data relevant to the event had not been preserved, although DFDR data was made available by the aircraft operator when requested. It was found that the statements provided by the air traffic controllers involved could not be supported by any relevant recordings and the flight crew maintained in their statements that their take-off had been made as cleared from the runway. Also, since the GPS position data recorded by the DFDR was derived data, it could not be used to determine the ground track of the aircraft, which was instead achieved by synchronising radio transmissions made by ATC and the aircraft with other recorded flight data. It was found that the 44 year-old Captain had 4,079 hours total flying experience including 1,235 hours on type and had been acting as PF for the investigated departure. He was accompanied by a 39 year-old First Officer who had 1,049 total flying hours of which 182 hours were on type. A third type rated ATPL pilot was also present in the flight deck. He had 3,165 hours total flying experience including 388 hours on type and his status was described by the aircraft operator as "responsible for monitoring all activities in the cockpit". It was noted that this same "Observer Pilot" had also flown as an Observer with the same Captain on two sectors the day before the investigated flight. The TWR controller involved had "several years’ experience" at the Sharjah TWR and she was on duty for the first night shift of a five day duty cycle which had commenced five hours prior to the occurrence under investigation. It was established that the aircraft had taxied for departure after approximately a one hour turnround. The taxi and take-off occurred in good visibility without moonlight. Two controllers were on duty in the TWR, one of whom was the Supervisor. Both controllers were present in the TWR at the time. The 'line' controller was operating both the GND and TWR positions, wearing a headset and standing. After pushback from the gate, the controller using the GND frequency, issued a clearance to "taxi to Alpha, Alpha two zero, holding point Bravo two zero, runway three zero" which was read back incompletely as "Alpha to holding point runway three zero” without challenge from the controller. A change to TWR frequency was given and on checking in there, the First Officer advised that they would be "holding short of the runway three zero", which was acknowledged by TWR and, after a request to repeat this response was followed by the instruction from TWR to "hold short at Bravo two zero" to which the First Officer replied without challenge from the controller that they would "hold short of three zero”. Twenty seconds later, as the aircraft was about to turn left from taxiway 'A' onto taxiway