that which they would expect to see on an active runway.. The Sharjah 'Aerodrome Manual' had not been updated since January 2013 - prior to the very significant changes made the following year on account of the construction and opening of the new runway.. No 'Hot Spots' had been identified by the Aerodrome Operator after the inauguration of the new runway and the conversion of the old runway to an additional parallel taxiway designated as taxiway 'B'.. The centreline of the runway was 250 metres from the centreline of Taxiway 'B'.. The Aerodrome was not equipped with Surface Movement Radar (SMR) and the VCR was not equipped with aerodrome cameras and monitors.. Taxiway designation prior to the opening of the new runway was mostly by use of a single letter. For the new runway layout, many taxiways were given alphanumeric designations - for example, 'G' became A20, 'F' became A18 and 'C' became A6.. The displaced threshold markings of the former runway were still faintly visible through the painted area on taxiway 'B' and "signs of the previous runway imprint could be seen" (see the diagram below).. The AIP stated that the taxiway was 25 metres wide. This width was the distance between the yellow-painted edge lines limiting the taxiway width to just part of the 45 metre paved surface of the former runway.. All taxiway centreline lights and lead-in lights to the runway were green. However, at night, there was a difference in the shade of green and the level of brightness used for the centreline lead-on lights from taxiway 'A20' to taxiway 'B' and the similar lights at the opposite end of the runway from all other green taxiway centreline lights,. The two intermediate red stop bars at position 'BA' on the Bravo taxiway and in a similar position 'BG' at the opposite end of the taxiway had not been lit at any time during the night of the investigated event and there were no Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for their use.. Air Traffic Services at Sharjah were provided by a contractor - Serco Middle East.. Standard phraseology was not consistently used in communications between ATC and the aircraft prior to the unauthorised take-off.. The failure of the flight crew - specifically the First Officer - to read back clearances as given was not challenged by the controller.. Although the aircraft Captain had subsequently stated otherwise, it was considered that successive transmissions over a 43 second period that included the words “depart without delay”, “keep the speed up” and “expedite” could have influenced the flight crew in making the incorrect decision to turn and eventually take off from the taxiway.. At night during a full length take-off from runway 30, the only available controller reference point to visually ascertain where an aircraft is situated on the runway was the red stop bar at taxiway 'B14'. The holding points at the marked runway entry positions for entry from taxiways 'B20' and 'B19' were neither lit nor visible from the