TWR.. A controller seated at either the GND or TWR positions, is prevented from seeing taxiway 'A20' and the lead-on to taxiway 'B' by one of the metal strips which separate the window panes.. There was no mention in the Sharjah ATC procedures of one controller working both GND and TWR positions.. The aircraft operator had not performed a risk assessment to ascertain whether the changes associated with the opening of the new runway had introduced any new threats which might affect either the performance of its pilots or the continued safe operation of its aircraft in any other way.. Aircraft operator SOPs did not require flight crews to positively identify a take-off runway or specify what the "monitoring" duties of the Observer Pilot were.. ICAO Annex 14 was noted to suggest that "Existing taxiways wider than recommended in this Annex, can be rectified by painting taxi side stripe markings to the recommended width".. The Sharjah Operations Manual required that controllers should ensure that pilots involved in an incident requiring reporting action are aware of the incident and the consequent action.. Timely reporting of the investigated event to the GCAA AAIA Duty Investigator did not occur.. It was noted that during the Investigation, an Airbus A320 had made a similar turn onto taxiway 'B' from 'A20' when cleared to depart from runway 30 but on this occasion, the TWR controller had noticed the error immediately and intervened before a take-off was commenced. Only after this incident were ATC procedures changed to require that the red stop bar at 'BG' on taxiway 'B' must be lit whenever an aircraft is departing runway 30 from taxiway 'A20'. The Investigation reviewed some of the actual or attempted taxiway take-offs which had occurred at other airports and for which an independent Investigation Report had been published. These included attempted night taxiway take-offs by an Airbus A340 at Hong Kong in 2010 and by a Boeing 767 at Singapore in 2015 and an actual taxiway take-off in daylight by an Airbus A320 at Oslo in 2010. The formal statement of Cause of the event was that "most probably, the flight crew did not devote sufficient attention to the taxi route, or taxi route lighting and signage" and that "the flight crew misunderstood the air traffic control instructions and failed to identify that the aircraft had been aligned on a taxiway, instead of on the runway, resulting in a take-off from the taxiway". Eight Contributing Factors were also identified as follows: the Aircraft Operator Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) did not require verification by the crew that the aircraft is lined up on the correct runway before commencement of take-off;. the early take-off clearance given by ATC when the Aircraft was approximately 200 metres away from runway 30 holding point;. the urgency of the Air Traffic Controller for the Aircraft to depart;. the red stop bar lights at the CAT II/III holding point for runway 30 was already OFF;. the brighter green lead-on lights for taxiway Bravo