'A20' (see the first illustration below) the controller transmitted "cleared for take-off runway three zero, Bravo two zero without delay clear take-off, surface wind is one three zero degrees five knots bye bye” which was read back without challenge by the controller as "cleared for take-off runway three zero". The stop bar on B20 protecting runway access on the taxi route being taken was therefore switched off and a potential indication of the runway ahead which would have been visible to the crew as they approached what should have been the crossing of the Bravo taxiway as they taxied from A20 ahead onto B20 (see the illustration below). As the aircraft taxied on 'A20', TWR then said "...keep your speed up until you've cleared the runway" to which an immediate request from the aircraft to "say again" was followed by TWR transmitting "....without delay cleared take-off runway three zero surface wind one three zero degrees five knots bye bye" acknowledged by the aircraft as "cleared for take-off runway three zero...". Within a few seconds, the aircraft had begun to turn left onto taxiway 'B' but as it did so, its taxi speed slowed and with the aircraft still not fully on the taxiway centreline, TWR transmitted "... expedite please I’ve got traffic turning final" (this traffic was at 7nm at this time). The instruction was immediately acknowledged and as the aircraft completed its alignment on taxiway 'B', the engines began to spool up and a rolling take-off commenced with the engines reaching take-off thrust and ground speed 69 KCAS as the aircraft passed taxiway 'A18' (see the illustration below). Both the controller in position and the Supervisor became aware that the aircraft had commenced its take-off on taxiway 'B' at this point. By the time it passed the 'B14' intersection, DFDR data showed that it had been accelerating through 128 KCAS. They jointly made the decision to allow the take-off to continue, aware that the remainder of taxiway 'B' was sterile and being unsure how near to rotation the aircraft was. Once the aircraft was airborne, the crew advised that they were changing to Dubai as required and the controller acknowledged this without informing the crew of their error. ATC did "not immediately advise" the aircraft operator either and the flight crew were not made aware of the event until five days later - after the event had been reported to the GCAA AAIS. The flight crew subsequently stated that there had been "no doubt" during the take-off that they had been on runway 30 and the Captain stated that there had been "no pressure from the air traffic controller to depart". The Investigation highlighted a number of relevant circumstantial factors in respect of the error made by the crew which included the following: The Jeppesen aerodrome chart used by the crew was a correct representation of the aerodrome layout.. None of the three pilots on the flight deck noticed the clear differences between the lighting on taxiway 'B' and