There are no definitions for absolute icing severity in aviation forecasting. However, the relative qualifications light, moderate and severe are generally used (in respect of airframe icing risk only) in a way which has at least reasonable consistency regionally in the context of the type of forecast in which they are used. It is understood by most forecasters that a term like ‘light icing’ will be interpreted rather differently by a commercial transport flight crew and a private pilot wondering whether they are likely to be able to undertake their planned flight clear of all icing conditions. As a consequence, low level icing forecasts are usually presented in such a way that they are specifically accessible to pilots of light aircraft vulnerable to the effects of any icing. However, the forecasts provided primarily for commercial air transport will use moderate and severe icing in terms which reflect their likely significance to aircraft which are certificated for routine flight in ‘icing conditions’ because they are equipped with appropriate ice protection systems. This use of higher level forecast presentations by general aviation can produce misunderstandings about the icing conditions that might be expected, and sometimes lead to inappropriate flight planning. The point is that the relative forecasts of icing severity cannot and do not take account of their user and the aircraft they are flying, so the interpretation of forecasts is as much a matter of judgement as monitoring the apparent icing reality once in the air. With all the above caveats, a brief look at the usual ‘descriptions’ and ‘definitions’ of icing conditions used by forecasters may still be helpful. The descriptions all assume that an aircraft is certificated for “flight in icing conditions”. Light Icing is often described as conditions such that ‘no change of course or altitude is necessary and no loss of airspeed occurs. It has been more rigorously defined by some as a rate of ice accretion per hour on outer wing of between 0.25 inch and 1 inch (0.6 to 2.5 cm).. Moderate Icing has been typically described as ice accretion which continues to increase but not at a rate sufficient to affect the safety of the flight unless it continues for an extended period of time, but air speed may be lost. A definition based upon an ice accretion rate per hour on the outer wing of 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.5 cm). Severe Icing has been variously described as ice accretion: in which either the icing rate or ice accumulation exceed the tolerance of the aircraft; which continues to build and begins to seriously affect the performance and manoeuvrability of an aircraft; at a rate such that ice protection systems fail to remove the accumulation of ice and ice accumulates in locations not normally prone to icing; such that an immediate exit from the condition is necessary to retain full control of the aircraft.. in which either the icing rate or ice accumulation exceed the tolerance of the aircraft;. which continues to