left engine fan cowl doors which had opened. Next to the row 14 left side window which had been broken, a large gouge impact mark which was consistent in shape with a recovered piece of one of the three fan cowl latches which secure the inner and outer fan cowl doors closed could be seen (see the illustration below). No window, aircraft structure or engine material was found inside the cabin. Overall, collateral impact damage to the airframe attributable to the ejected debris was assessed as “significant” and was evident on the left wing leading edge (see the illustration below), the fuselage side and on the left horizontal stabiliser. It was also subsequently found that although the fan case had not been penetrated from the inside, it did have a hole that corresponded to a fan blade impact mark. It was found that one of the 24 fan blades (number 13) in the CFM56-7B left engine had caused the engine to fail when it fractured at its root, a failure referred to by the Investigation as a ‘Fan Blade Out’ (FBO) event. The cause of the fracture was identified as low cycle fatigue, the same cause as that which had previously been identified in an August 2016 (non injury) uncontained engine failure to a Southwest Boeing 737-700 with the same engine type installed for which a substantive report of the NTSB Investigation has still not been released. The fatigue crack in both cases had initiated in part of the blade root known as the dovetail which remained within a slot of the fan disc. The other 23 fan blades showed evidence of trailing edge impact damage, tears and missing material and some also had leading edge tip curl or distortion. Upon completion of the in-situ engine inspection in the current case, these remaining fan blades were removed from the hub and subjected to an ultrasonic inspection which did not find any cracks. It was established that the failed engine fan blade set had accumulated in excess of 32,000 cycles since new and had last been overhauled in October 2012, 10,712 cycles prior to the failure under investigation. However, metallurgical examination of the failed blade indicated that “the crack had likely initiated before this overhaul”. At the time it was performed, the overhaul had included a Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection (FPI) which was intended to detect any cracks but had not done so for “unknown reasons”, although it was concluded that at this point, the crack would “most likely not have been detectable” using FPI. It was noted that, the crack had also gone undetected during a subsequent on-wing fan blade visual inspection which had been routinely carried out as part of an OEM-recommended fan blade re-lubrication aimed at keeping in-service fan blade loading within the predicted range and “preventing wear on the fan disc and the fan blade dovetail coating”. The Investigation found evidence that some of the fragments of the failed blade had been ejected forwards into the intake and