CFM 56-7B engines with 30,000 or more flight cycles since new to detect cracking using the instructions provided in the CFM SB 72-1033 and if any unserviceable indication as specified in that SB is found, the affected fan blade is to be replaced before further flight.. on 20 April 2018, the EASA issued EAD 2018-0093E with the same requirements for blade inspection and action on findings as the FAA EAD.. The following 7 Safety Recommendations were made upon completion of the Investigation: that the Federal Aviation Administration require Boeing to determine the critical fan blade impact location(s) on the CFM56-7B engine fan case and redesign the fan cowl structure on all Boeing 737 next-generation series airplanes to ensure the structural integrity of the fan cowl after a fan-blade-out event.. [A-19-17] that the Federal Aviation Administration, once the actions requested in the first Safety Recommendation are completed, require Boeing to install the redesigned fan cowl structure on new-production 737 next-generation-series airplanes.. [A-19-18] that the Federal Aviation Administration, once the actions requested in the first Safety Recommendation are completed, require operators of Boeing 737 next-generation-series airplanes to retrofit their airplanes with the redesigned fan cowl structure.. [A-19-19] that the Federal Aviation Administration expand the Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 25 and 33 certification requirements to mandate that airplane and engine manufacturers work collaboratively to (1) analyse all critical fan blade impact locations for all engine operating conditions, the resulting fan blade fragmentation, and the effects of the fan-blade-out-generated loads on the nacelle structure and (2) develop a method to ensure that the analysis findings are fully accounted for in the design of the nacelle structure and its components.. [A-19-20] that the Federal Aviation Administration develop and issue guidance on ways that air carriers can mitigate hazards to passengers affected by an in-flight loss of seating capacity.. [A-19-21] that Southwest Airlines include the lessons learned from the accident involving Southwest Airlines flight 1380 in initial and recurrent flight attendant training, emphasising the importance of being secured in a jumpseat during emergency landings.. [A-19-22] that the European Aviation Safety Agency expand certification requirements for transport-category airplanes and aircraft engines to mandate that airplane and engine manufacturers work collaboratively to (1) analyse all critical fan blade impact locations for all engine operating conditions, the resulting fan blade fragmentation and the effects of fan-blade-out generated loads on the nacelle structure and (2) develop a method to ensure that the analysis findings are fully accounted for in the design of the nacelle structure and its components.. [A-19-23] The Final Report was adopted by the NTSB on 19 November 2019 and subsequently released on 18 December 2019.