An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. Relevant data from the FDR and CVR were successfully downloaded. ATC radar recordings of engine debris falling to the ground were also available and, having been moderated with the recorded wind velocity in the area of descent, it was possible to identify areas where debris could be and some of it was recovered. It was noted that the 56 year-old Captain had been employed as a pilot at Southwest for 24 years following service as a US Navy pilot and had a total of 11,715 flying hours which included 10,513 hours on type. She had been a 737 Captain since 2000. The 44 year-old First Officer had been employed as a pilot at Southwest for 10 years following service as a USAF pilot and had a total of 6,927 flying hours which included 6,927 hours on type. He had been the designated PF for the flight until the emergency occurred, at which point the Captain had taken over in accordance with Company procedures. FDR data showed that the engine failure had occurred about half an hour after takeoff from La Guardia. It had been accompanied by a sudden roll from wings level to 41° left wing down before this was checked and the aircraft recovered to wings level. In the flight deck multiple warnings, alerts and failure indications had been displayed, including left engine fire and increased engine vibration and cabin pressurisation failure, the latter only later established as having been due to debris hitting and breaking one of the left side passenger cabin windows. The cabin crew subsequently reported that considerable noise and airframe vibration was being experienced in the passenger cabin. Following their immediate recovery of control, both pilots donned their oxygen masks, initiated an emergency descent and an emergency was declared to ATC. On request, ATC provided initial radar vectors towards Philadelphia and after coordination later cleared the flight there on a direct routing. ATC were advised that although the aircraft was being operated single engine, there was no longer an engine fire indication from the failed engine but that parts of it were missing and some passengers had been injured, one seriously. The fight crew reported detecting some ‘controllability problems’ and for this reason subsequently decided to make the landing with flap 5 set rather than the usual landing settings of flap 30 or 40. After the landing, which occurred on runway 27L some 17 minutes after the engine failure, the aircraft cleared the runway and was then stopped. The emergency services attended and confirmed that there was no continuing hazard and the passengers were subsequently disembarked to buses for transit to the terminal. Inspection of the failed engine found that parts of the left engine nacelle air intake and fan cowl doors were missing including the entire outer barrel, the aft bulkhead and the inner barrel forward of the containment ring (see the illustration below). There was also considerable damage to the remaining still-attached parts of the