to a landing at an appropriate multi-runway diversion airport. It was noted in respect of the response to the event by the three cabin crew that although they were aware of the imminent landing, all of them sat on the cabin floor for the landing instead of in their assigned crew seats, contrary to operator SOPs. The fact that neither of the two cabin crew assigned to the forward cabin station were at that location was of specific concern although it was accepted that there had been no actual consequence. It was accepted that this situation had occurred on a full flight with no opportunity for the necessary re-seating of passengers and that this had been a factor in what had occurred. It was also observed that the applicable cabin crew manual “did not discuss any actions to take if no seats were available for a passenger who needed to be re-seated” and further noted that there appeared to be no specific FAA guidance on the subject. The formally documented Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to, the following: This accident demonstrated the susceptibility of the fan cowl installed on (all) Boeing 737 NG-series aircraft to a fan-blade-out impact location near the radial restraint fitting and the effects of such an impact on the structural integrity of the fan cowl.. Given the results of CFM’s engine Fan-Blade-Out (FBO) containment certification tests and Boeing’s subsequent structural analyses of the effects of an FBO event on the airframe, the post-FBO events that occurred during this accident could not have been predicted.. The structural analysis modelling tools that currently exist to analyse a Fan-Blade-Out (FBO) event and predict the subsequent engine and airframe damage will allow aircraft manufacturers to better understand the interaction of the engine and airframe during an FBO event and the response of the inlet, fan cowl and associated structures in the aircraft’s normal operating envelope.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined as “a low-cycle fatigue crack in the dovetail of fan blade No. 13, which resulted in the fan blade separating in flight and impacting the engine fan case at a location that was critical to the structural integrity and performance of the fan cowl structure (and which) led to the in-flight separation of fan cowl components, including the inboard fan cowl aft latch keeper, which struck the fuselage near a cabin window and caused the window to depart from the airplane, the cabin to rapidly depressurise and the passenger fatality”. Safety Action taken in the immediate aftermath of the accident was noted as having been as follows: on 20 April 2018, CFM International issued SB 72-1033 applicable to all CFM 56-7B series engines recommending ultrasonic inspections of all fan blades on engines over 20,000 cycles and thereafter at 3000 cycle intervals.. on 20 April 2018, the FAA issued EAD 2018-09-51 which required, within 20 days of receipt, a one-time ultrasonic inspection (USI) of all 24 fan blade dovetail concave and convex sides on