An Investigation was carried out by the Indian DGCA. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were available. The cabin crew reported that during the excursion, there had initially been “commotion in the cabin for a couple of minutes (with) the (senior Cabin Crew) asking the passengers to fasten (their) seat (belts) and making an attempt to secure the cabin”. It was established that when the aircraft commander had left the flight deck with the intention of using the toilet, he had discovered that it was occupied and had immediately attempted to return. However, his door entry signal had not been answered and he had then activated the emergency flight deck entry system. By the time it was possible to get back into the flight deck as a result of this action, the overspeed warning was sounding and the aircraft was in a steep descent with thrust levers fully retarded. A recovery was then commenced. FDR data showed that whilst the commander was out of the flight deck and the maintaining FL 370 and Mach 0.76 with AP and A/T engaged, a nose-down and slightly left input had been made to the First Officer's control column which had activated CWS pitch mode. After a brief cessation, the pitch down input had continued with a consequent speed increase occurring until Mach 0.82, Mmo, was exceeded passing FL 349 when, with the pitch increasing through -13° and thrust levers at flight idle, the overspeed warning was anunciated. As the aircraft continued to descend and reached approximately -22° pitch down, a two second split in the column sensor force occurred as the commander took, and then retained, pitch control still with the AP engaged. disconnecting the AP shortly afterwards. With thrust restored, a recovery climb from the minimum level reached of FL 302 was continued back to FL370 with a maximum speed of Mach 0.89 occurring before airspeed began to decrease in the climb with AP now disconnected. The recorded time above Mmo was 37 seconds, the normal load factor during the excursion was found to have ranged from a minimum of -0.2g to a maximum 2.1g. The total duration of the excursion including the recovery climb to FL370 was nearly 7 minutes. It was noted that the commander had re-entered the flight deck at about FL 350 but had not then initiated the recovery “as per standard procedure”. As a result, a further 5000 feet of altitude had been lost. In particular, the AP was left engaged and the manual pitch input to cease descent had been abrupt, with the control column “yanked…..with approx 125 lb pull force in 2 second(s)”. It was established that the actions of the First Officer had been inadvertent and had begun when he had inadvertently pushed the control column forward whilst adjusting his seat. When the warnings began to activate, he stated that he had “got into (a) panic situation and couldn’t control the aircraft (or) open the cockpit door”. At one point,