On 15 December 1989, a GE CF6-powered Boeing 747-400 (PH-BFC) being operated by KLM on a scheduled international passenger flight from Amsterdam to Tokyo via Anchorage as KL867 was making its initial descent into Anchorage in day VMC when it entered a volcanic ash cloud. Almost immediately, ash dust entered the cabin air and the engines began to malfunction. An application of maximum thrust in an attempt to climb out of the cloud quickly led to the complete failure of all four engines. Restart attempts were eventually successful in restoring enough thrust to complete the flight with ATC assistance in respect of altitude and speed. No adverse consequences for the 231 passengers and 14 crew members on board were reported to have arisen as result of the event. However, a series of subsequent examinations of both the aircraft and its engines (the latter both on and off wing) subsequently disclosed extensive damage especially but not only to all the engines (which were replaced) and to the airframe, the avionics and the electrical systems. Editor's Note: This Summary article relies heavily on reliable and technically competent secondary sources, primarily presentations made by Boeing and US Geological Survey specialists at post-event meetings for which Agendas and/or proceedings were published and accessible. The reason for this exceptional action in the case of an event classified as an ICAO Annex 13 Accident by the investigating agency, the NTSB is that although a very comprehensive investigation was carried out and a correspondingly detailed 764 page long Final Report of that investigation was completed in 1991, and has been extensively referenced, it was never published. The extensive and directly associated “Docket” (which in the NTSB System supports all investigations) was (exceptionally) “not released” either. The released version of the Final Report which has just one page of text giving little more than a highly abbreviated factual account of the event was formally adopted by the NTSB on 30 June 1992 and is referenced at the end of this article along with the other sources used in its preparation.