to jet engine performance is the melting temperature of these materials. Glasses have a characteristic melting point of between 600°C and 800°C and crystalline particles melt between 1,100°C and 1,200°C. Since thrust settings above flight idle are likely to produce temperatures capable of melting these materials, it is extremely important to immediately retard thrust levers to idle (altitude permitting) if volcanic ash is inadvertently encountered. Reducing thrust to idle will also reduce compressor erosion damage. In addition to engine damage or flameout, volcanic ash has a significant effect on the engine's ability to start such that in severe cases, a restart may not be possible. Starting ability is also enhanced by decreasing altitude and by allowing the hot section to cool. However, in the event of an all-engine flameout, an immediate restart should be attempted. Flight crews should be made aware that engine acceleration during start at altitude is very slow when compared to ground starts. Also, volcanic ash damage due to eroded compressors and deposits on fuel nozzles will further increase the time taken for an engine to accelerate during an in-flight start. Compressor bleed (engine and wing anti-ice plus all air conditioning packs) should be on during restarts and during subsequent operation to maximize the engine surge margin. As a consequence of the above, Boeing, after consultation with the three large engine manufacturers, reiterated the importance of the following key generic points when responding to an inadvertent encounter with volcanic ash (an abbreviated rewording follows): Immediately reduce thrust to flight idle. This will lower the EGT, which in turn will reduce the debris build up on the turbine blades and hot-section components. EGT above idle will result in ash solids exceeding their melting point which is the main cause of engine malfunction/failure in ash clouds.. If engaged the A/T should be disengaged to prevent the system from increasing thrust above idle and due to the reduced surge margins, the number of thrust adjustments should be limited and changes made slowly with smooth thrust-lever movements.. Exit the ash cloud as quickly as possible and note that the shortest distance/time to exit may require an immediate, descending, 180° turn. Avoid any attempt to climb clear of an ash cloud.. Note that the engine stall margin is increased by maximising engine bleed air use so airframe anti ice and air conditioning should be on.. Engine continuous ignition should be on and if autostart is available it should be kept in the ‘on’ position.. EGT should be monitored and exceedance of limits avoided - if necessary, shut down and then restart.. In the event that an engine fails to start, try again immediately. Successful engine start may not be possible until airspeed and altitude are within the applicable air start envelope. If an engine is slow to accelerate, EGT will increase slowly too and remember that engines are very slow to accelerate to idle at high altitude, especially in volcanic dust and this may be erroneously interpreted as a failure to start