with the climb having reached FL 279 (position 3 on the illustration below) before an involuntary descent began. Two calls to ATC in quick succession advised of this and assistance in the form of “radar vectors” was requested. This call occurred only a minute after the crew had still been in VMC and had reported having the ash plume “in sight”. The PF reported having noticed the airspeed decaying, “initially at a normal rate (given the airplane's attitude), but suddenly very fast”. All airspeed indications were then lost as volcanic dust contaminated the pitot system and at the same time, a stall warning occurred and the stick shaker was activated although without any signs of buffeting. The PF “rather firmly put the nose of the aircraft down to avoid a stall” and initiated a turn to the left in a further attempt to exit the ash cloud. A FIRE Warning for the forward underfloor hold was annunciated but aware that this was triggered by optical sensing rather than heat detection and was likely to be a result of ash/dust rather than smoke, no action was taken. As the engines ran down, the generators tripped offline and all flight instruments were lost except for those powered by the batteries. During the time the engines were inoperative, the cabin pressure remained within limits so there was no automatic deployment of passenger oxygen masks. The crew stated that they had “elected not to deploy the masks manually because the passenger oxygen mask system would have been contaminated by volcanic dust in the cabin air”. After a total of seven or eight restart attempts, over a period of 4-5 minutes, engines 1 and 2 were finally restarted at approximately 17,200 feet (position 4 on the illustration below) and an emergency was then declared to ATC. After a further 3 minutes with just engines 1 and 2 running, several further attempts resulted in engines 3 and 4 also being successfully restarted (position 5 on the illustration below). Ash contamination of the pitot static systems had resulted in all air data systems becoming unreliable but the left side altimeter was still indicating correct values. The rudder ratio light was on indicating contamination of this system which had made the aircraft difficult to handle, especially during the period that only engines 1 and 2 were operating. An approximate speed reference was obtained from the inertial guidance ground speed once the veracity of this had been confirmed with ATC. The aircraft track shown against the limits of ashfall from the eruptions on both 14 & 15 December. [Reproduced from US Geological Survey Bulletin 2047] ATC then provided radar vectors for a wide right-hand pattern runway 06 and approved further descent to 2000 feet. After emerging from the overcast at around 5000 feet, the Captain reported that he had then had the runway continuously in sight. However, during the approach, the forward view of both pilots was impaired by the "sandblasting" caused by the volcanic ash such that they