deck windshields meant that they had to be replaced. The leading edges of the wings, winglets, and empennage were sufficiently ‘sandblasted’ to require replacement. Other parts protruding from the airframe such as antennae, probes, ice detectors and AoA vanes had also sustained sufficient damage to require replacement.. The pitot-static system was both damaged and heavily contaminated. The pitot probes and static ports had to be removed and replaced and the system purged of all ash contaminant.. The entire interior of the fuselage, apart from the area to the rear of the aft pressure bulkhead, had to be cleaned very carefully. This included all flight deck instrument panels, all circuit breaker panels, the whole passenger cabin including overhead lockers and the void above the cabin ceiling panels (including all systems within the latter) and the entire Environmental Control System (ECS).. The entire electrical and avionics systems were contaminated and had been exposed to possible overheating due to loss of cooling air and so all electrical and avionics units had to be replaced.. The smoke detection system was contaminated throughout and the entire system, including associated plumbing and ejectors, had to be replaced.. The fuel, hydraulic and potable water systems had to be cleaned and checked for proper operation.. All passenger cabin windows forward of the wing had been “sandblasted” and had to be replaced.. It was considered that “the absence of any thermal damage to the engines was the result of the combination of decisive and skilful actions of the crew and the responsiveness and built-in protection in the FADEC system”. The Investigation noted the existence of a Boeing Operations Manual Bulletin (OMB) 747-B2-4 which advised that if volcanic activity was encountered, retarding engine thrust to Idle would reduce the build up of ash-related deposits in the engines and improve the engine surge margin. However, the information available does not make it clear if this Bulletin was issued prior to or after the event under investigation. In any event, none of the evidence available indicates that the flight crew involved were aware of its existence prior to the event. A (published) Boeing paper presented following this event discussed the way in which significant ash ingestion into engines affects them and on that basis provided the justification for the guidance in the OMB quoted above. In part, this explanation was as follows: The nature of volcanic ash particles is such that molten deposits accumulate rapidly upon ingestion, reducing HP turbine inlet guide vane area and covering turbine airfoil cooling holes. Engine power loss occurring shortly after entering volcanic ash clouds has been attributed to compressor operating parameter changes. The nozzle guide vane throat area is radically reduced, causing the burner pressure (static) and the compressor discharge pressure (static) to increase rapidly. This event causes the engine to surge. In addition, considerable erosion of compressor blades occurs based on ash particle hardness and density as moderated by particle impact velocity (proportional to thrust setting). Volcanic ash contains materials of different compositions. Of importance