were both “only able to look forward with their heads positioned well to the side”. During the final stages of the approach, an "Equipment Cooling" overheat message was annunciated which the Captain elected to disregard because landing was imminent. Touchdown occurred 39 minutes after the loss of all engines and half an hour after they had all been successfully restarted. After completing the landing roll, the Captain cleared the landing runway and taxied the aircraft towards the assigned gate. On reaching it, he transferred control to the First Officer because his vision through the left hand windshield was impaired in such a way that he could not see adequately to perform the final part of the nose in parking procedure. It was found from a review of satellite data after the event that although the ash cloud encountered had been forecast to move north northeast at 60 knots, it had actually moved at a speed of around double that thereby leading to the aircraft entering it in a position much earlier than ATC had been led to expect. It was noted that ATC radar had “only been able to detect ash for 5-10 minutes after the eruption” at its initial maximum density prior to the expansion into a less dense ash cloud which was nevertheless still hazardous. Prior to the entry into the ash cloud, both PIREPS & ATC radar had indicated “either the presence of one of more ash clouds in the general area (north of Anchorage) and/or a large dispersion of the main ash cloud in a north easterly direction in the presence of a strong (100 knot) south westerly upper wind”. However, by the time ash cloud was encountered, the base of the overcast was around 5000 feet amsl and it was impossible for controllers to reliably detect the extent of the ash cloud with the available air traffic surveillance radar. In summary, the following, which cost in total around 80 million USD to rectify, was subsequently found: All four engines suffered extensive damage and had to be replaced. A detailed inspection of engine 1 found that, in the first stage of the HP turbine, ash had initially melted and then re-solidified on the leading edges of the nozzle guide vanes. The solid ash deposits extended along 75 percent or more of each leading edge with an average depth of about 1.5mm. A preliminary hypothesis suggested that the extent of the melted and re-solidified volcanic ash deposit on the high-pressure turbine nozzle vanes increased the operating-line pressure ratio of the compressors, resulting in engine surge. The repeated restart attempts then resulted in partial breakup of the deposit through "thermal shock”. This, in combination with the improved engine-surge margin at lower altitudes, facilitated the successful restart of all four engines.. The entire pneumatic system, the air conditioning system and the equipment cooling system were heavily contaminated by volcanic ash. Most of the pneumatic system had to be subsequently removed, cleaned and reinstalled.. The ‘sandblasting’ of both main flight