An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB which identified the event as an Accident. Whilst no reference was made by the NTSB to the downloading of either the CVR or the FDR, it is evident from reliable secondary sources that FDR data was certainly downloaded and analysed as were other relevant aircraft system data and that recorded ATC data was also accessed. The 51 year old Captain, who was recorded by the Investigation as occupying a “rear seat” in the flight deck at the time the ash cloud was entered, had a total of 13,000 hours flying experience of which just 100 hours were on the 747-400. Although this suggests that an augmented crew was operating the flight, no information is given on the other member(s) of the flight crew or which crew member was acting as PF during the events, it is nevertheless clear that at some early stage the Captain took over as PF for the remainder of the flight. Following an initial Mount Redoubt eruption episode the previous day, a new one began whilst the flight was en-route some 90 minutes prior to the subsequent entry of the aircraft into the ash cloud. By time it was subsequently confirmed that the ash cloud had reached 40,000 feet amsl and having rapidly extended 154 nm downwind from the eruption on a true bearing of 037° in the general direction of the inbound 747. In preparation for arrival at Anchorage, the flight was initially cleared to descend from FL 350 (position 1 on the illustration below) to FL 250 and based on sight of cloud ahead altered course to avoid it. As the flight approached FL 250, the crew reported that a thin layer of altostratus cloud had been encountered and when the flight reported “reaching FL 250”, ATC responded by asking if the crew had “good sight of the ash cloud at this time”. The response to this question was “yea, it’s just cloudy, it could be ashes. It’s just a little browner than the normal cloud”. However, having levelled at FL 250, it then “became very dark outside” with the flight crew subsequently reporting having seen “lighted particles” - St. Elmos Fire - pass over the flight deck windshields whilst becoming simultaneously aware of “brownish dust with a sulphurous smell” in the aircraft. Almost immediately (position 2 on the illustration below) the crew followed this with a transmission to ATC “we have to go left now...it’s smoky in the cockpit at the moment” which was approved immediately. Due to the presence of this dust, the flight crew donned their emergency oxygen masks and almost immediately, the Captain instructed the PF to begin a climb “to attempt to get out of the volcanic ash”. ATC were advised accordingly that the intention was to climb to FL 390 and that the aircraft was now in “black cloud”. After what appears to have been no more than 20 seconds of this maximum thrust climb, all four engines flamed out