An investigation was carried out by the German BFU. It was determined that the co pilot had been PF for the attempted landing and that the AP and autothrottle had been disconnected at 940 feet agl. After the second runway contact with the left wing down, the aircraft commander took and retained control except whilst giving a passenger briefing whilst the aircraft was being positioned for the second approach. Both flight crew reported being unaware of the wing ground contact. Contact with the runway was found to have resulted in damage to the wing tip fence, slat No. 5 and leading edge slat rail guides 11 and 12. These components were replaced before the aircraft was returned to service. The Findings of the Investigation included the following: Crew and flight operational aspects This was the first occasion on which the co-pilot had landed an Airbus A320 under such large crosswind influence.. The weather situation with unusually strong gusts was an exceptional situation for both members of the flight crew.. There was no basic training exercise, or simulator training and check procedure, in which real life situations could be practised.. The workload was very high for both members of the crew during the approach to Runway 23 and go-around. At times during the approach, the co-pilot almost reached the limit of her mental reserves for further actions and decisions.. In this instance it would have been appropriate to classify this landing as a "critical landing" within the meaning of the description given in (the Company Operations Manual) so that the Captain would have been personally tasked with making the landing as pilot flying (PF).. During the final approach to land the tower reported the crosswind as gusting up to 47 knots, and the aircraft continued the approach. In view of the maximum crosswind demonstrated for landing, a Go-Around would have been reasonable.. Aircraft (Lateral control) When the left main landing gear first touched the runway, the lateral control system condition (thus) met all the requirements for the transition from Flight Mode to Ground Mode, so the system switched from lateral Flight Mode to lateral Ground Mode even though the aircraft was once again in the air.. The aircraft was designed so that the effect of lateral controls (along the longitudinal axis) would reduce by about one half of full deflection as soon as one main landing gear touched down.. The reduced effect of controls was not documented in the system description and was unknown to pilots or the training department.. Manuals and type certification The crew did not interpret the wording given in the Operations Manual instruction “The steady crosswind and gust component for take-off and landing must not exceed the values specified in (the Operations Manual) Where no gust limit is specified, gust exceeding crosswind limitations must be considered whenever judged operationally significant.” as a flight operational limit. The gusts were not viewed as a limiting factor.. The aircraft certification method for setting the crosswind landing limits or guidelines,. respectively,