landings. The explanation in the system description for the transition logic Flight Mode/Ground Mode in the FCOM “The lateral control mode does not change until the wheels are on the ground, so there is no discontinuity in the control laws.“ should be rectified.Recommendation No.: 02/2010 The aircraft manufacturer of the Aircraft Type A320 and Series should remove the term maximum crosswind demonstrated for landing from the chapter Operating Limitations, also from the respective Flight Crew Operating Manuals (FCOM), all other flight operation instructions and information references, and place this elsewhere. The aircraft manufacturer’s flight operations documentation should incorporate the guidance that this value bears the character of ’Information’. The aircraft manufacturer should adopt a uniform presentation of maximum crosswind demonstrated for landing for the entire range of the same series of aircraft. The maximum crosswind demonstrated for landing should be described either as a dual value (average wind speed and gust) or as a single value (average wind speed including gusts). Manufacturers should make recommendations to air operators as to the suitable maximum crosswind component for landings.Recommendation No.: 03/2010 To EASA that: EASA should revise the Flight Test Guide Material requirements contained in the Certification Specifications CS 25.233 (Directional stability and control) and CS 25.237 (Wind velocities) to define and elucidate the term maximum crosswind demonstrated for landing. The definition adopted should make clear that this value has the character of ‘Information’, and that the same uniform terminology is adopted throughout all instruction documentation relating to flight operations. Air operators should be advised to set operational crosswind limits for their own specific operations. The value should be described either as a dual value (average wind speed and gust) or as a single value (average wind speed including gusts).Recommendation No.: 04/2010 EASA should initiate an amendment to EU No. 859/2008 (EU-OPS) requiring special operating procedures for the operation of civil aircraft by airlines engaged in public transport activities in the presence of extreme weather situations In addition to provisions and decision guidance air operators should establish an organizational structure or unit to provide assistance to crews for pre-flight preparation and in-flight support, when faced with defined (extreme) weather conditions. If necessary, the organizational structure or unit must take the decision to cancel a flight for reasons of weather. In this context, the pilot-in-command's power of decision should remain unaffected.Recommendation No.: 05/2010 EASA should place a contract with a suitable research institute (DLR, University or similar) to determine what measuring systems are suitable to detect the presence of near-surface gusts on airports, and how the resulting gust data and wind direction information should be processed and communicated to pilots. The results should lead to a process through which the information so obtained can be standardised and incorporated into the regulations governing air operations.Recommendation: 06/2010 To ICAO that: The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should amend Annex 3 to require the incorporation of GAMET and AIRMET meteorological services in Chapter 9, to ensure the optimum provision of meteorological information to crews engaged in