A delay in notification meant that it occurred only after maintenance intervention had begun but a Field Investigation was then commenced by the UK AAIB. The aircraft was not fitted with, nor was it required to be, an FDR but it was fitted with a 2 hour CVR from which useful data was downloaded. Further evidence was recovered from the avionics suite Maintenance Diagnostic System (MDS) function and important flight data was obtained from the TAWS which captured information around each of two activations which occurred and secondary radar data was also available. The aircraft concerned was approved for operation by either one pilot or two and for this flight, it was being flown single owner-pilot with one of their passengers occupying the co-pilot seat. The 73 year-old Pilot had a total of 4,400 flying hours of which 3,200 hours were on type and held an FAA Airline Transport Pilot's Licence (ATPL) and a valid Class 1 Medical Certificate. He had recorded a top grading during his most recent three day recurrent simulator check and his initial type conversion and all subsequent recurrent training had taken place at a simulator training facility owned by the aircraft manufacturer’s parent company. The control difficulties experienced were quickly attributed to the annunciated failure of a supplementary performance enhancement system - the ‘Active Technology Load Alleviation System’ (ATLAS). The Pilot had previously owned other Cessna 525s, all bought new, but the aircraft involved in this event had been purchased from a previous owner and the ATLAS system had been fitted during this previous ownership. In accordance with an approved STC, it had involved installing supplementary control surfaces designed to deflect symmetrically and automatically to alleviate gust loads. These consisted of wing extensions linked to control units in each wing which were wing fed by signalling of the output from two accelerometers in a system control unit - the ‘ATLAS Control Unit’ (ACU) - mounted near the aircraft centre of gravity. Shortly after takeoff from runway 08 at Bournemouth, the pilot engaged the AP and climbed ahead to 3,000 feet QNH. Ninety seconds after takeoff the flight was re-cleared to FL100 and, on receiving the correct read back, the flight was cleared to track direct to the ‘GWC’ VOR which required a right turn. No read back was received for this re-clearance nor to two subsequent transmissions. On selecting the new heading, the Pilot recalled sensing “light vibration” followed by the illumination of a button on the left of the instrument panel labelled ‘ATLAS’ which displayed in red “ATLAS INOP LIMIT 140 KIAS”. With the aircraft approximately 6 nm east of the airport, still at 3,000 feet QNH and with a recorded speed of 258 KCAS, the aircraft began to roll very quickly to the left, a movement that was recorded on ACT radar. As the roll continued through 45°, the AP automatically disconnected. The Pilot stated that his instinctive response - the application of full right aileron and full right rudder - was insufficient