to regain control and that despite retarding the thrust levers to idle and using both hands on the control column, the aircraft had continued descending. Recorded TAWS data showed that a ‘Bank Angle’ Alert had been triggered as the aircraft exceeded a 60° angle of bank. This angle of bank then peaked at 75° with 9° nose down pitch after some 19 seconds of roll. The rate of descent peaked shortly afterwards at 4,500 fpm t/min with an airspeed of 235 KIAS and a minimum altitude of 2,300 feet. The data also showed that the normal acceleration had reached +2.65 g. During the upset, the Pilot stated that he had “pressed the illuminated ATLAS button and re-set the ATLAS main CB to no effect”. Forty seconds after the un-commanded roll had begun, the Pilot advised ATC that he had an unspecified “problem”. Attempts by the controller to elicit more information were unsuccessful and they noted that “the pilot sounded breathless and strained, and his transmissions were incomplete and difficult to decipher”. Although the pilot had not declared an emergency, the controller, believing that he had sounded “extremely shaken”, advised him to join left hand downwind for Runway 08, and instigated a full emergency procedure. The Pilot stated that it had taken all his strength to lift the aircraft’s nose, reduce its airspeed, and recover the bank angle to around 30° left wing down. Mode ‘S’ radar showed that, after the TAWS data record had stopped, the aircraft had climbed at up to 5,500 fpm to reach 3,200 feet during which time its airspeed had reduced to 144 knots, a loss of approximately 90 knots, before the aircraft entered a descending left turn towards downwind. After descending from 900 feet to 300 feet QNH during the downwind leg, the aircraft turned on to base leg above a sports field. The Pilot subsequently stated that “continuous full right aileron and some right rudder” had been required to achieve and maintain the required track until landing, although as airspeed was reduced, less right rudder was required and lateral control could be at achieved 150/200 feet agl. The Pilot described this tight turn as being achieved by varying right rudder deflection. Using this method, he had been able to make a continuous turn towards a 1 nm final, just to the right of the runway extended centreline before lining up and, once over the runway, applying full flap and touching down. The Controller stated that during the final turn, the aircraft had appeared to be “on its side” and that he and several colleagues had believed the aircraft would crash short of the runway. It was found that two sets of the Normal and Emergency/Abnormal Checklists for the aircraft type were on the flight deck, one set on each side. These did not contain corresponding procedures for the optional ‘ATLAS’ modification. During subsequent interview, the Pilot indicated that at the time the upset occurred, “he was aware of the presence and basic functioning of