attach and earth the electrical connector PCB contained in the TCU box were loose inside the box and had caused an internal short circuit. This had then driven the TCU actuator to the extend hard stop, a movement which under aerodynamic load was likely to have occurred before the unit was electrically de-powered by the fault detection circuitry within the ACU. The Cessna 525 AFM was approved by the FAA and published by Cessna. The introduction to its ‘Section 5 Supplements’ was found to state that the section included “amended operating limitations, operating procedures, performance data and other necessary information for ... airplanes equipped with specific options” and that aircraft operators should refer to relevant supplements “to ensure that all limitations and procedures appropriate for their airplane are observed”. It was further stated that “a non-FAA Approved Log of Supplements is provided for convenience only”. The ATLAS AFM supplement (AFMS) was approved by the EASA and published by the Design Organisation (DO). Because the certification was approved by means of an STC, it was not included in the basic AFM but was “provided to ATLAS purchasers for them to install in their AFM”. The relevant parts of the ‘ATLAS inoperative procedure’ included in the AFMS were as follows. The AFM for the aircraft involved was found at the rear of the aircraft, rather than on the flight deck and contained pps 5-18 of the ‘ATLAS’ winglet AFMS, in reverse order, in the section entitled ‘White message procedures’. These pages included the sections on normal and emergency procedures. It was observed that “applicable regulations state that pilots should be familiar with their aircraft’s AFM (and that this) includes information contained within AFM supplements”. Section 6 of the aircraft’s AFM, which covered weight and balance, was found to contain an updated weighing form to account for the modification, an FAA ‘Major Repair and Alteration’ document and an ‘Equipment List Amendment’ relating to the ATLAS winglets, as well as a copy of the corresponding STC. The pilot involved in this event had not familiarised himself with this AFM material. The ‘ATLAS’ system was designed and manufactured in the USA but it was found that “at that time FAA workload meant it was not possible to certify the system quickly in the USA”. Since the FAA had a bilateral agreement with the EASA which allowed either regulator to approve and issue an STC originated by the other, the ATLAS ‘manufacturer’ identified a UK organisation with Design Organisation (DO) Approval and this company worked with the manufacturer to obtain the STC in Europe under the EASA CS-23. The FAA then approved the EASA-issued STC. Issue of the STC by the EASA required that a comprehensive flight test programme be conducted. This programme did not include the participation of representative operational pilots and the test pilot involved operated the aircraft as a single pilot with a safety pilot occupying the co-pilot seat. One of the responses of the EASA to the Investigation was to the effect