that pilot response to roll rate was instinctive and therefore the ‘ATLAS Inoperative in flight’ procedure must be followed immediately i.e. action contrary to a pilot’s instincts to control roll first was essential. The EASA stated that assessment of TACS failures such as the one which had occurred had been subject to what it considered “industry standard” reaction times - three seconds during cruise with AP engaged and one second for takeoff, climb and landing phases on the basis that a pilot could be assumed to “be monitoring more actively”. The general requirements of CS-23 were noted to state that an aircraft as modified or otherwise must “meet the requirements of CS 23.143 to 23.253 at all practical loading conditions and all operating altitudes not exceeding the maximum operating altitude … for which certification has been requested, without requiring exceptional piloting skill, alertness or strength”. The Investigation considered the fight test element of the certification process in considerable detail, including the hazard classification derived from it. It also considered the potential surprise / startle consequences of sudden-onset asymmetric failure of the ATLAS system. It was noted that the implications of a TACS failure had been described by the ‘ATLAS’ manufacturer Tamarack as "benign” and that “the other material it provided did not highlight the system’s capacity to influence the aircraft’s flight path or the implications of a pilot responding instinctively to uncommanded roll caused by its failure”. When the EASA became aware of the investigated event six days after it had occurred, it had issued an Emergency AD which required that all ‘ATLAS’-equipped aircraft should have the system deactivated and the movement of both TACS made impossible. The aircraft maximum speed was also limited to 140 KIAS and flight in icing conditions was prohibited. In response to the EASA EAD, the FAA followed with a similarly restrictive AD for such aircraft five days later. It was noted that in June 2020, the USA legislature began to progress an ‘Aircraft Safety and Certification Reform Act’ which required that “part of the certification process (shall) … review existing assumptions on pilot recognition and response, including response to safety-significant failure conditions, validate such assumptions with applicable human factors research and the input of human factors experts, and as necessary modify the existing assumptions (and) ensure that when carrying out the certification (ensure that) the cumulative impact that new technologies may have on pilot response are properly assessed through system safety assessments or otherwise”. The Findings of the Investigation included, but were not limited to the following: The ATLAS inoperative in flight procedure included a ‘warning’ that large aileron input may be required, and that airspeed reduction must be prioritised, but did not explain why. Providing this information might assist pilots to appreciate why a potentially counter-intuitive response was required, and to understand how quickly the handling difficulties might escalate in the absence of immediate airspeed reduction, making the circumstances less surprising when encountered. The warning did not fully describe the escalating nature of