TACS failures, possibly leading to aircraft upset; the possibility for high control forces and altitude loss; the expected reaction time for thrust reduction; and the possibly counter-intuitive nature of the required response, the first actions of which differ from conventional jet upset training. By comparison, the opening paragraph of the original aircraft’s ‘Jammed elevator trim tab procedure’ explained the intent of the procedure. It provided guidance on airspeed and control forces, and related these to throttle and speedbrake use.. The absence of a specific training requirement to support safe operation of an aircraft fitted with a Tamarack ‘ATLAS’ system was noted yet “training may be particularly valuable if a required response differs from other training or from a foreseeable instinctive response, or if it needs to be particularly prompt”. The EASA stated that regulations which came into force after the ‘ATLAS’ STC was approved “had the effect of requiring manufacturers to consider the impact of design changes on the pilot training required”. However, it was not clear that those regulations will result in adequate training in the case of the ‘ATLAS’ or similar systems.. The formally documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: The uncommanded left roll occurred because a short circuit in the left ATLAS Control Unit caused the associated control surface to fail in the fully deflected up position. The pilot, who had recently purchased the aircraft already modified with the ATLAS winglets, was not aware of the associated aircraft flight manual supplement, which was absent from the relevant section of his aircraft’s flight manual. The pilot’s instinctive response to the aircraft upset was different to that assumed by certification flight testing and the ATLAS inoperative emergency procedure. Some of those differences may be addressed by the ‘Aircraft Safety and Certification Reform Act of 2020’ which is underway in the USA. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the findings of the Investigation a follows: that the Tamarack Aerospace Group amend the ATLAS inoperative in-flight procedure to ensure actions are specified that are relevant in all anticipated flight conditions. [2020-027]. that the Tamarack Aerospace Group expand the information within the ATLAS inoperative in flight procedure to provide a level of detail consistent with other AFM procedures and to enable pilots to understand the significant and potentially escalating nature of TACS failures. [2020-028]. that the European Union Aviation Safety Agency determine the additional training it requires pilots to undertake in order to operate aircraft fitted with supplementary systems that influence flight path, where training on the original aircraft would not adequately prepare pilots for operating the modified aircraft in normal, abnormal or emergency situations. [2020-029]. that the Federal Aviation Administration determine the additional training it requires pilots to undertake in order to operate aircraft fitted with supplementary systems that influence flight path, where training on the original aircraft would not adequately prepare pilots for operating the modified aircraft in normal, abnormal or emergency situations. [2020-029]. Safety Action arising from the investigation findings was noted as including