the ATLAS winglets but not the extent to which they could affect the aircraft’s controllability”. This lack of awareness is discussed later. It was noted that four weeks earlier, whilst en route from Buffalo (USA) to Goose Bay (Canada), the same aircraft and pilot had experienced a previous un-commanded left roll accompanied by illumination of the same ‘ATLAS INOP’ message. The Pilot described that roll as “less severe” with a maximum bank angle around 50° reached and the ‘ATLAS INOP ‘message lit for only 3-5 seconds before self-extinguishing following which the aircraft behaved normally. He stated that “since the system functioned normally for the remainder of that flight and on four subsequent flights” he had not recorded it. The Investigation considered that the cause was likely to have been the same but that because the fault was intermittent, it was unlikely that any attempt to identify the fault after this initial occurrence would have been successful. It was noted that the aircraft had a valid C of A and had been maintained in accordance with the authorised AMM and its Supplements. The Tamarack ‘ATLAS’ modification had been made in November 2017 following which the aircraft had flown 190 hours. The present owner, who was in the process of transferring the aircraft to the Belgian register, had bought it in March 2019 with the most recent scheduled maintenance on the aircraft having taken place from 14 February until 7 March 2019, 14 flying hours before the flight under investigation. It was noted that the ‘ATLAS’ system which was the focus of the Investigation operated independently of all other aircraft systems. The modification requires that the original wing tips are removed and 22 inch extensions, incorporating the winglets, are attached in their place (see the illustration below). Active aerodynamic control surfaces referred to as ‘Tamarack Active Camber Surfaces,’ (TACS) are positioned in the horizontal section of these extensions. The ‘TACS’ are automatically activated in the event of high positive or negative g to unload the wing and keep the wing loading within the original envelope. The Cessna 525 wing with the Tamarack ‘ATLAS’ installed. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Any faults in the ATLAS system will result in the illumination of the ‘ATLAS’ PBSI. Pressing the illuminated PBSI once clears the ACU fault latch and if this reset is successful, the light will go out and the system will resume normal operation whereas if the detected problem remains, the light will remain on. Pressing the PBSI “three times within three seconds” will initiate a built-in test sequence which may result in fault rectification. By the time the AAIB Investigation commenced, a malfunction of the ATLAS system had already been identified as the suspected cause of the event. The left wing TCU was considered likely to have been the cause of the uncommanded left roll but the reason for this only became apparent after a very detailed investigation. The eventual conclusion of this was that a screw and washer which were supposed to