in order to allow aircraft to safely travel over the centreline during takeoff. Therefore, if the edge lighting is also recessed, then the crew may mistake it for a centreline lighting. If the lights are not recessed, they are normally raised (and frangible) and this may facilitate distinction.. Human factors. As with most occurrences, these are often cited as contributors. Their effect is normally not recognized until it is too late. Examples of these are: Flight crew divided attention/distraction/eyes inside (including due to workload and lack of familiarity with runway or airport). Fatigue increases the risk of human error.. Flight crew divided attention/distraction/eyes inside (including due to workload and lack of familiarity with runway or airport).. Fatigue increases the risk of human error.. Operational factors. Unlike the other two groups, these are conscious choices normally aimed at expediting traffic, e.g.: Issuing air traffic control clearance when taxiing or entering runway may distract the flight crew or increase their workload ultimately resulting in reduced situational awareness. This risk is often mitigated by imposing procedures on the timing of ATC clearances. For example, controllers may be required to issue clearances before the aircraft has commenced taxi or to ask the flight crew to report when ready to receive it. Immediate Тakeoff Clearances reduce the the crew’s time for conducting a thorough outside visual check and verifying runway alignment before initiating the take off roll. Intersection departures. The effect is similar to the displaced threshold mentioned above the difference being that intersection departures are used for operational reasons.. Issuing air traffic control clearance when taxiing or entering runway may distract the flight crew or increase their workload ultimately resulting in reduced situational awareness. This risk is often mitigated by imposing procedures on the timing of ATC clearances. For example, controllers may be required to issue clearances before the aircraft has commenced taxi or to ask the flight crew to report when ready to receive it.. Immediate Тakeoff Clearances reduce the the crew’s time for conducting a thorough outside visual check and verifying runway alignment before initiating the take off roll.. Intersection departures. The effect is similar to the displaced threshold mentioned above the difference being that intersection departures are used for operational reasons..