Always investigate instances of misperception reported to you by ATCOs. If equipment design appears to be a factor, seek guidance from the manufacturer through the appropriate level of management. Inform other ATCOs on your unit of the problem and discuss, as a team, possible solutions.. Always report instances of potential callsign confusion using the appropriate reporting system.. Stimulate an atmosphere in which colleagues are willing to take warnings from each other very seriously. It is virtually impossible to detect their own perception errors without input form an outside source.. Always take perception errors seriously. These errors are potentially unrecoverable and need special attention to support mitigation.. Do discuss any difficulty in interpreting equipment displays with your colleagues and report them to your supervisor or manager. It may be possible to adjust the equipment or develop a procedure to reduce the chance of error.. If you are able to think of a remedy to an equipment problem, discuss it with the rest of your team before implementing it as the new procedure may generate more problems. Always inform your supervisor of any new procedure you propose to implement.. Always report intermittent faults since these can reduce trust in the information a system displays and transmits.. Always use standard phraseology when passing a clearance. In this way, you reduce the chance of the clearance being misunderstood.. Listen carefully to read-back and correct any error. When error is detected, insist on a further read-back. Although a routine activity, this activity should not be shared with other tasks, particularly interruptions such as other R/T or phone calls.. If, even after a correct read-back, you suspect that a flight has not properly understood a clearance, extra vigilance may prevent a misunderstanding developing into a dangerous situation. Concentrate on this aircraft before doing other tasks.. Try to anticipate situations where the wrong aircraft may take a clearance intended for another - like situations with two aircraft with similar callsign on your frequency.. Always inform other pilots on frequency of potential callsign confusion and report the matter to your supervisor.. Develop sound habits when processing information. One good habit it to ‘Write what you say As You Speak and Read what you hear As You Listen’ - WAYSRAYL. Consult the strips when receiving and annotate the strips during transmission. Record the clearance given.. Whenever you suspect that a colleague may have a misperception of a situation or information, insist on pointing this out to the colleague concerned.. Do query unclear or incomplete transmissions, especially if you suspect they may have been blocked. This will also indicate to the pilot or other party that they have not been clear and may have an error in their perception.. Do use all information available to corroborate your mental picture. Never assume!. Use headsets.. Use intercom/telephone for coordination.. Do not accept phone calls when you are receiving the readback.. Always take colleague warnings or advice seriously, almost always they are trying to help you, not question your ability - develop effective