An Investigation was opened by the Accident Investigation Division of the Civil Aviation Department of the Government of the Hong Kong SAR and transferred to the newly established Air Accident Investigation Authority (AAIA) in 2018. Recorded FDR and CVR data relevant to the Investigation was unavailable but the aircraft operator provided a flight animation based on QAR data and an annotated recreation of the aircraft ground track during the deviation. It was noted that the Captain, who had been PF for the sector concerned, had a total of 31,970 flying hours which included 14,070 hours at the operator on type variants. The First Officer had a total of 11,898 flying hours which included 77 hours on type at the operator and previous experience on the Embraer ERJ170/190 and the CL65. A more senior First Officer who had a total of 15,932 flying hours which included 982 hours on type at the operator and previous experience on the Lockheed 382 and the Embraer 120 was designated as the Relief First Officer (RFO) and occupied one of the supernumerary crew seats on the flight deck for takeoff and climb. A fourth company pilot who was not type rated on the 747-8 was occupying the other flight deck supernumerary crew seat as a passenger. When the crew boarded the aircraft, the RFO started to do the upper-deck pre-flight duties while the junior First Officer carried out the external pre flight check. On completing the external check, the junior First Officer, who had no previous experience of operations out of Hong Kong, returned to the flight deck and “assumed the right seat as the PM”. Although the Captain had assumed that the RFO, who had previous experience of Hong Kong operations, would therefore take the First Officer’s seat for the departure, he “accepted the arrangement without comment”. Noting that runway 07R could be expected for departure, the Captain prepared for the ATIS-advised RNAV 1 SID ‘RASSE 3A’ (see the illustration below) and gave a corresponding preliminary departure briefing to the First Officer. He had already loaded the company-filed flight plan, which did not include the expected SID, in the FMC. The PM did not carry out an independent verification of the route. The crew then attempted to obtain a Data Link Departure Clearance but eventually received a voice clearance from ATC for a ‘RASSE 1E’, a Radius-to-Fix (RF) SID with which the crew were unfamiliar and which was only intended to be offered to operators based in Hong Kong but given because the flight was operating under a Cathay Pacific callsign. Also, according to the relevant Jeppesen Airport Briefing Page consulted by the crew, any approved aircraft planning to fly an RF SID must explicitly request this which, since the crew involved were not familiar with such SIDs, was not done. The RASSE 3A SID. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The RASSE 1E RF (Radius-to-Fix) SID. [Reproduced from the Official Report] When the Captain selected and programmed the RASSE 1E SID in the FMC,