that the Boeing 747 Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) included a recommendation that the ND terrain display be used during night operations and/or on departure as a means to enhance terrain/situational awareness. The Cause of this Serious Incident was recorded as “modification of the RF SID RASSE 1E while programming the SID into the FMC by overwriting waypoint PORPA thereby making PORSH the first active waypoint”. Three Contributory Factors were also documented: CRM - assignment of the First Officer's duties and lack of communication amongst the crew on the subject.. The crew accepted the RF SID RASSE 1E with which they were not familiar.. The SID course and the first active waypoint were not verified.. Safety Action taken by Atlas Air whilst the Investigation was in progress and known to it included, but was not limited to, the following: Company Jeppesen pages have been created for Hong Kong Airport to highlight procedures and threats.. A ‘must read’ Operations Bulletin was issued to prohibit the modification of RNAV procedures.. A “Release Remark” was included in all Hong Kong departure flight plans requiring contact with dispatch for an airport specific briefing.. The Flight Crew Operations Manual (FCOM) was revised to require that: all approaches/departures must be retrievable from the FMC Navigation Database and waypoints cannot be added or deleted. ND Range must be increased prior to takeoff to verify first fix/waypoint and track altitude and speed as required. One pilot must display ‘TERRAIN’ on the ND at any airport where terrain represents a potential safety issue.. all approaches/departures must be retrievable from the FMC Navigation Database and waypoints cannot be added or deleted.. ND Range must be increased prior to takeoff to verify first fix/waypoint and track altitude and speed as required.. One pilot must display ‘TERRAIN’ on the ND at any airport where terrain represents a potential safety issue.. Two Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that Atlas Air should not permit crew modifications to any SIDs. [08-2021]. that Atlas Air review their FCOM to ensure that discrepancies between the flight plan and the ATC route clearance do not exist prior to takeoff. [09-2021]. The Final Report was published in September 2021.