the initial waypoint of the (conventional) RASSE 3A SID, the ‘flyover’ waypoint PORPA was after brief discussion, mistakenly deleted so that the routing was an unrestricted turn direct to the new waypoint PORSH. At this time, both pilots had their NDs (Navigation Displays) selected to the ‘Airport Moving Map’ mode for taxiing purposes and did not change their NDs to the MAP mode to show the SID track as entered. Had they done so, it would have appeared as shown in the right hand illustration below, which would have alerted the crew to the erroneous input. It was also noted by the Investigation that the Warning on the RASSE 3A chart about not turning towards RAMEN before crossing PORPA was not replicated on the RASSE 1E RF SID because “radius-to-fix capability will ensure aircraft flying a RASSE 1E SID tracks overhead PORPA”. The RASSE 1E SID correctly entered (left) and with waypoint PORPA incorrectly deleted (right). [Reproduced from the Official Report] There was no discussion about the departure amongst the crew during the subsequent taxy out or whilst they were completing the ‘Before Takeoff’ Checklist and the ‘Takeoff/Departure Review’. Both operating crew recollected having changed their NDs to ‘MAP’ mode as the aircraft was turning onto the runway and both had simultaneously increased the display range. Both the unusually angular depiction of the initial legs of the SID and the immediate deviation of the first leg to the right at the end of the runway would have easily gone unnoticed when viewed at a MAP mode scale suitable for en route use. Once the aircraft became airborne, the almost immediate commencement of a right turn towards the first active waypoint, PORSH did not lead to any crew response and climbing through approximately 1,800 feet QNH, the Captain asked the PM to select AP1 to command as the aircraft continued towards the high ground at Lo Fu Tau. ATC then informed the flight that it was off track and instructed it to turn left to resume the SID and the Captain began to make a HDG Select change whilst leaving VNAV mode engaged. Soon afterwards, ATC advised the flight of terrain to the right of the aircraft and instructed it to expedite the climb to 5,000 feet QNH. Almost immediately, an EGPWS ‘TERRAIN, TERRAIN PULL UP’ (Mode 2A) Warning occurred and the Captain immediately disconnected the AP “and increased pitch and thrust”. The aircraft subsequently passed over the terrain with a clearance of approximately 670 feet and subsequently re-established on the SID track and continued without further event. It was noted that no other air traffic was affected by the track deviation which is depicted in the illustration below. The aircraft track towards and over terrain with height annotations.[Reproduced from the Official Report as supplied by Atlas Air] It was noted that Atlas Air SOPs did not required that the TERRAIN page was superimposed on the MAP display mode for the Before Takeoff Checklist and Takeoff/Departure Review. It was also noted