The key reason for the introduction of ASMT is to monitor safety related indicators, in order to improve the current safety performance. Possible uses of the ASMT include: Safety monitoring and safety performance;. Analysis of technical issues;. Analysis of undesired events;. Training support;. Support to validation of operational concepts.. In this case, the end goal is the identification of safety issues, in order to inform the definition of safety improvement actions. Detailed objectives may include: Analysis of events distribution;. Trend analysis: Identify unexpected variations; Verify whether the safety targets have been achieved; Detail the target to be achieved regarding the objectives for the next period; Formulate an expectation for possible future directions of the safety objectives;. Identify unexpected variations;. Verify whether the safety targets have been achieved;. Detail the target to be achieved regarding the objectives for the next period;. Formulate an expectation for possible future directions of the safety objectives;. Identification of hotspots;. Validation of operational changes;. Correlation analysis.. This class of objectives groups the objectives aimed at identifying technical issues at a systemic level in order to support the definition of technical improvement actions, including: Analysis of surveillance anomalies;. Analysis of SNETs performance;. Trend analysis;. Identification of hotspots.. This objective aims at providing investigators additional opportunities to become aware of undesired events (e.g. marginal losses of separation that could occur unnoticed, level busts etc.) and to facilitate the collection of data related to safety occurrences. This class of objectives groups the use cases aimed at supporting training of ATC personnel. ASMT, in fact, can be a useful tool to review events and support ATCO training, since patterns identified in single events can be used as examples of typical situations in which safety margins are compromised. Again, data shall be de-identified according to ASMT CONOPS provisions, at the level deemed the most appropriate to ensure that no attribution of blame shall be possible. It includes: Replay of occurrences suitable for training purposes;. Support to risk awareness campaigns;. Analysis of occurrences.. This class of ASMT usage groups the objectives aimed at supporting validation of new/changed operational concepts (new airspace structure and/or operational procedures), e.g. in the context of real time simulations and includes: Collection of safety data in simulated environments;. Collection of data about the performance of new or modified safety nets;. Support to measurement of KPI in the validation process.. These are the objectives aimed at sharing the results obtained by analysing the ASMT data. The basic principle is to share specific results and sets of data with organisations that are external to the ANSP, following the principles of Just Culture. This means that no attribution of blame shall be possible through the review of the data which, for this reason, shall be de-identified at the level that is deemed the most appropriate. An ASMT Agreement has been developed with regard to the Just Culture principles. This Agreement is signed by EUROCONTROL and the ANSP and is reinforced during the deployment by the development of an ASMT policy. It