out”. There was uncertainty about whether the announcement had been made by a member of the crew or not but the passenger nearest the exit advised that he had assessed the situation and contemplated how long it would take to disembark via the normal exit. As he examined the instructions on the emergency exit, he had heard another passenger telling him to “do it, do it”. He had then opened the exit and the slide had deployed. He had assisted some passengers onto the slide before going down it himself. The member of Cabin Crew nearest to door 3R stated that "when the emergency exit was opened, he was not certain whether an evacuation had been commanded or not, but that on observing cabin crew members (from the off-going crew) helping passengers at the bottom of the slide, he continued to direct passengers to the emergency exit and down the slide, until it became apparent that cabin crew in the forward part of the aircraft were directing passengers to door 1L". The statements of other members of the cabin crew suggested that PA announcements had been made by the Cabin Manager, along the lines of "don’t panic, leave your bags, move to the forward door on the left hand side of the aircraft". It was not clear how many passengers had used door 3R to leave the aircraft with estimates ranging up to 100 but 20-30 being the most mentioned. It was noted that the Operator had a formal SOP for 'Rapid Disembarkation' which specified use of steps or airbridge as directed and required that a specifically worded PA should first be made by the Flight Crew and that this should then be followed by another specifically worded and more detailed PA made by the Cabin Crew. This SOP was not followed. Whilst the Investigation was in progress, the Operator replaced this SOP with a new one for 'Controlled Disembarkation' which did not prescribe any form of words to be used for the Flight Crew-only announcement. In respect of the latter, it was considered that in the absence of this, flight crew obliged to make such an announcement "might bear this incident in mind" when deciding how to word it. It was noted that: The opening of the exit could have been avoided had a member of cabin crew, aware of the intention to carry out a rapid disembarkation, been positioned at the exit.. The Operations Manual required cabin crew to be in the vicinity of doors while on the ground and a reminder of this procedure had been issued to crew only ten days before the incident.. This incident served as a further reminder of the benefits of having cabin crew close to doors while on the ground.. It would not have taken much time to inform the cabin crew, by interphone, of the planned rapid disembarkation and instruct them to take positions by the exits. Such action would have prevented both an undesirable opening of an emergency exit