An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The FDR did not contain relevant data and was not downloaded and although the CVR was successfully downloaded, the recording did not contain any relevant conversations or the Captain's PA announcement because both had taken place beyond the range of the flight deck area microphone and use of the PA system from the Cabin was not otherwise recorded. The Investigation noted that the hydraulic fluid leak which had led to the decision to disembark all the passengers without delay had been from a main landing gear actuator which was an on-condition component and was subsequently found to be beyond economic repair due to multiple defects. The primary concern of the Investigation was the confusion amongst passengers as to what action was expected of them by the 'leave the aircraft' PA. It was found that the aircraft was operating what was supposed to be a direct London Stansted to Tenerife flight which had been delayed when the aircraft which was originally intended to operate the flight became unserviceable before departure. The delay at Stansted was such that it was not possible for the crew available there to operate to Tenerife and back so they were instructed to fly the aircraft and its passengers to Gatwick where another crew would take over whilst the passengers remained on board. It was the 49 year-old replacement Captain (who had 13,470 total flying hours including 9,250 on type), whose attention was drawn to a hydraulic leak and to smoke coming from the main landing gear which was still warm from the recent arrival at Gatwick whilst carrying out his pre-flight external check. He had then returned to the aircraft forward vestibule and made a PA which he later recalled as being “Ladies and Gentlemen, we need to clear the aircraft immediately; there is smoke on the left hand side”. He stated that when the passengers did not appear to react to this announcement, he had made a further announcement saying “Move, come this way!” The Cabin Crew were aware of the hydraulic leak but were not pre-warned that the Captain was going to make a disembarkation announcement of any sort and the SOP in place did not require this. Shortly after the Captain had made his PA(s), he reported having been advised by one of the cabin crew by interphone that the door 3R emergency exit had been opened and the slide had deployed. When subsequently interviewed, the two passengers who had been seated together next to door 3R, the emergency exit immediately aft of the right wing, stated that their view forward was restricted by toilet compartments on both sides of the cabin immediately in front of their seat row. Their respective recollections of the PA were that it had not been preceded by any identification of who was making it and had been “smoke on the left side, get out, get out, get out” and “we have smoke on the left hand side, get