The three classes of parallel approaches are depicted in the diagram below with more detailed descriptions following. Simultaneous parallel dependent approaches are an ATC procedure permitting approaches to airports having parallel runway centerlines separated by between 2,500 feet and 9,000 feet. Separation between aircraft is achieved by "staggering" the aircraft, as depicted in the diagram below, at a specified minimum diagonal distance corresponding to the runway centreline separation. Simultaneous Independent Approach is a system permitting simultaneous ILS/RNAV/GLS approaches to parallel runways with centerlines separated by 4,300 to 9,000 feet utilising No Transgression Zone (NTZ) final monitor controllers. Simultaneous independent approaches require NTZ radar monitoring to ensure that separation between aircraft on the adjacent parallel approach course is maintained. Staggered radar separation procedures are not utilised. Aircraft position is tracked by final monitor controllers who will issue instructions to aircraft observed deviating from the assigned final approach course. As is the case for parallel runways separated by more than 9000', aircraft turning onto final approach will be provided 3 miles radar separation or a minimum of 1,000 feet vertical separation from aircraft joining the approach for the other runway. The assigned altitude must be maintained until intercepting the glide path, unless otherwise cleared by ATC. Aircraft will not be vectored to intercept the final approach course at an angle greater than thirty degrees. The final NTZ monitor controller has the capability of overriding the tower controller on the tower frequency. Pilots will be instructed to contact the tower frequency prior to the point where NTZ monitoring begins. Aircraft observed to overshoot the turn−on or to continue on a track which will penetrate the NTZ will be instructed to return to the correct final approach course immediately. If required, the final monitor controller may cancel the approach clearance, and issue missed approach or other instructions to the deviating aircraft. If the deviating aircraft fails to respond to such instructions or is observed penetrating the NTZ, the aircraft on the adjacent final approach course (if threatened), will be issued a breakout instruction. Radar monitoring will automatically be terminated when visual separation is applied, the aircraft reports the approach lights or runway in sight, or the aircraft is 1 mile or less from the runway threshold. Final monitor controllers will not advise pilots when radar monitoring is terminated. The above procedures are depicted in the following diagram: Simultaneous Close Parallel PRM Approach is a system allowing independent ILS to runways with centre line spacing of less than 4300' but not less than 3000'. Simultaneous Offset Instrument Approach (SOIA) is a procedure used to conduct simultaneous approaches to runways spaced less than 3,000 feet, but at least 750 feet apart. PRM is an acronym for the high update rate Precision Runway Monitor surveillance system which is required to monitor the No Transgression Zone (NTZ) and is necessary to conduct simultaneous close parallel approaches. PRM is also published in the title as part of the approach name for the Instrument Approach Procedure used to conduct Simultaneous