found that his ankle was dislocated and broken in two places”. After recovery from surgery, he was discharged from hospital a week later. The member of cabin crew who sustained the minor injury reported having injured his shoulder when falling against a bulkhead during the turbulence. The question of when it is generally appropriate for the seat belt signs to be on was briefly discussed and it was recognised that “flight crew must balance the need to ensure the signs are on prior to any significant turbulence with the need to ensure they are not on unnecessarily” since it could be frustrating for passengers if the signs were routinely on for extended periods in what then turned out to be smooth conditions. The determining feature of the atmospheric situation in which the un-forecast Clear Air Turbulence (CAT) had occurred was a low pressure centre over northwest Turkey around which winds of up 65 knots were circulating (see the illustration below) in the southeast quadrant which the flight was transiting. The operational flight plan provided to the crew corresponded to this with the forecast wind velocity for OLUPO given as 202° at 63 knots and showed a gradual change to easterly over the next 300 nm. It also gave an upward vertical shear rate expected to increase from 1 knot per 200 feet at OLUPO to 4 knots per 200 feet over the next 300 nm as the flight passed to the north of the low pressure centre. The Captain stated that in his experience, he had found that “shear values in single digits do not normally indicate significant turbulence”. SIGMETs which were valid at the time of the event had been issued for the presence of thunderstorms in the area but these had made no explicit reference to turbulence. A satellite-derived image showing cloud top heights at the time of the turbulence (see the illustration below) showed that “there was a large area of cloud with tops between 30,000 ft and 35,000 ft across the area in question”. The Captain reported that subsequent to the encounter, the crew had “used a charting application on their tablet devices which showed en route weather layers, forecast winds and areas of turbulence” and found that it “did not show any turbulence in the area”. However, it was found that at that time, the aircraft operator only approved uploading of data to the tablet when the aircraft was on the ground, so the finding was unsurprising. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the turbulence encountered was caused by a rapid wind shift prior to which no information was available to the flight crew, either in the pre-flight paperwork, from the weather radar or visually to forewarn the flight crew that they were approaching an area of turbulence and so the seatbelt signs were off when it occurred. Safety Action: since the event, Virgin Atlantic Airways has approved flight crew use of the onboard WiFi system to update the meteorological application in flight so