An investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant recorded data was available from the FDR but that on the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that the relief First Officer was acting as PF at the time of the event and the 54 year-old Captain, who had a total of 18,062 hours flying experience including 5,722 hours on type, had just returned from his rest period, as PM. The flight was in clear and smooth air at FL360 at M 0.82 with the seat belt signs off as it approached an area over the central Black Sea which was shown on the forecast significant weather chart which the crew had obtained prior to flight as likely to be affected by isolated embedded cumulonimbus clouds with tops at FL320 (see the first illustration below). The Captain reported that as the flight approached the waypoint ‘OLUPO’ just prior to reaching this area of forecast convective cloud, (see the ground track followed on the illustration below), he had seen “a single ‘non-threatening’ cloud on their track which was not showing on the aircraft weather radar”. At this time he stated that although there were cumulonimbus clouds on the horizon, there were no other clouds in their immediate vicinity. The aircraft was then cleared from ‘OLUPO’ direct to waypoint ‘ODERO’, located at the border between Turkish and Bulgarian airspace, and following this track took the aircraft clear of the single cloud. However, as the flight passed north abeam of this cloud, a sudden onset of “moderate to severe turbulence” occurred. The First Officer reported having seen the speed trend arrow “indicating +40 knots and the speed increasing rapidly” and in response had immediately selected a lower Mach number and extended the speed brakes to prevent an overspeed. The Captain “recalled seeing the wind shifting from a 40 knot tailwind to a 20 knot headwind in 2-3 seconds”. The worst of the turbulence lasted for around five seconds and was followed by light turbulence which continued for six minutes until clearance to climb to FL380 was given. QAR data showed that the reported turbulence had caused “vertical acceleration varying between +0.64 g and +1.56 g” as the airspeed had increased to M 0.86 and the aircraft rolled +/- 5°. It also confirmed that the seat belt signs had been switched on 1 minute and 49 seconds after the onset of turbulence. The serious injury occurred to a passenger who was waiting to use the toilet in the rear galley who recalled that he had “suddenly found himself lying on the floor not knowing what had happened”. He stated that his right ankle was extremely painful and had swelled up within a few seconds. He was initially assisted back to his seat before being moved to a different seat with more space and was provided with an ice pack and painkillers. Nevertheless, his ankle continued to be extremely painful and after a priority approach at London Heathrow, he was hospitalised where “it was