Some aviation workers, such as pilots and air traffic controllers, have to maintain a “Medical Category” to maintain the privileges given through a “licence”. Such medical categories need to be issued by approved practitioners, and/or through approved medical centres. Medical examinations are periodic e.g. annually or biannually; therefore, during the working year aviation employees will become ill and consult their family doctors who are not necessarily aeromedical specialists, and it is these doctors who will issue prescriptions. This places the responsibility onto aviation workers to assess their own ability to operate safely, both whilst ill and whilst being treated. The flight safety aspects of medication involve an assessment of risk. Some disorders are minor and treatment may be more detrimental to flight safety than the disorder itself. On the other hand, more serious illnesses might not be acceptable without adequate treatment. Some diseases have such potentially adverse effects on flight safety that, whether treated or not, the diagnosis is disqualifying. However, as medical science advances, diseases in this latter group are becoming less frequent, as are the performance limiting side-effects of medicines. Often the requirements of holding a licence include the need to inform a qualified medical examiner, and also the employer, of any illness and consequent medical treatment; especially if the worker considers that it may affect their performance. In considering whether a licence holder should continue to exercise licence privileges while on medication, at least the following questions should be asked[1]: Particular attention needs to be paid to impacts and side-effects on the following areas: To support workers in fulfilling their responsibilities and to ensure adequate supervision, employers need to provide education and support resources. Information on medicines and their effects, in relation to aviation, can be found in the ICAO Manual of Aviation Medicine[1]. With adequate support and supervision it is possible for pilots and air traffic controllers etc. to continue working safely, even in critical areas. For example, in some countries it is acceptable for pilots to fly with illnesses such as depression, whilst taking psychoactive medicines that affect cognitive abilities, provided a suitable supervisory programme is maintained.