Systemic solutions: Ground ATM communication system technical solution for detection and alerting, for example by re-inserting the ‘noise’ on the frequency to alert the controller that a USiT had taken place. Airborne radio anti-blocking devices. Optimising and limiting frequency coupling in terms of both time period and number of coupled frequencies. As an ATCO: Use good R/T practices (as recommended by Doc-4444). Be vigilant and have in mind that for many reasons (e.g.: Call Sign Similarity, expectation bias…), several pilots might consider a clearance to apply to them. Monitor for overlapping or garbled transmissions and immediately ensure that the instruction/clearance is received by its recipient only if overlapped and garbled readback is detected. Monitor for erroneous or lack of readback. Monitor for erroneous manoeuvring of aircraft. Before reading back and eventually applying any instruction, it should make sense in the context of the current flight. Although the efficiency of this barrier is highly dependent on the environment and traffic configuration, it is understood that if the instruction or the communication itself is unclear, the pilot and ATCO will in most cases question the instruction/request.. Be aware of the fact that coupled frequencies might increase the chance of simultaneous transmissions. The transmissions made on the Frequency 1 will be retransmitted after a variable (short) delay on Frequency 2.. As a pilot: Use good R/T practices (as recommended by Doc-4444). Question the instruction/clearance if unsure that you are its proper recipient. Inform the ATCO of blocked transmission as soon as you identify it. Allow some time as appropriate to monitor the transmission exchange upon the initial contact in order not to block the RT exchange. Keep a good situational awareness; try to note similar sounding callsigns (if exist on frequency). Editor's Note ^ Frequency coupling is a facility allowing 2 or more frequencies to be operated as a single one. All users will receive transmissions made on all coupled frequencies (F1 and F2 are coupled, TX made on F1 are retransmitted after a variable (short) delay on F2). This functionality is required when sectors are merged (or coupled), when military a/c using UHF frequency are operating within a sector (applicable only to some countries/ANSP).