of Civil Aviation responded to the above two Safety Recommendations made in the Preliminary Report by taking action to develop CASR Part 121 regulations and guidance material for implementation of a URPT programme in Indonesia and amending the CASR Part 170 reference to ICAO Annex 11 subchapter 5.2 in respect of the error in triggers for emergency response phases.. Boeing response following the accident included the following: issued a Flight Operation Technical Bulletin (FOTB) on Airplane Upset Prevention and Recovery. issued an updated Multi Operator Message (MOM) on the potential for latent flap indication system wiring failure and its impact on the A/T function with advising operators to perform an inspection within 250 flight hours of its date of reissue. began work on an SB to provide additional guidance on the flap synchro inspection. issued a revision to the 737-300/-400/-500 Maintenance Planning Document (MPD) requiring repetitive inspections of spoiler and aileron deployment and associated position sensors. Began work on an SB to address a pending FAA AD which subsequently introduced a requirement for an initial inspection of the spoiler deployment and aileron position sensing system within 250 flight hours of issue and further tests of this system at intervals not exceeding 2,000 flight hours.. issued a Flight Operation Technical Bulletin (FOTB) on Airplane Upset Prevention and Recovery.. issued an updated Multi Operator Message (MOM) on the potential for latent flap indication system wiring failure and its impact on the A/T function with advising operators to perform an inspection within 250 flight hours of its date of reissue.. began work on an SB to provide additional guidance on the flap synchro inspection.. issued a revision to the 737-300/-400/-500 Maintenance Planning Document (MPD) requiring repetitive inspections of spoiler and aileron deployment and associated position sensors.. Began work on an SB to address a pending FAA AD which subsequently introduced a requirement for an initial inspection of the spoiler deployment and aileron position sensing system within 250 flight hours of issue and further tests of this system at intervals not exceeding 2,000 flight hours.. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) responded to the issue of the updated Boeing MOM recommending 250 hour one-off inspection for flap indication system wiring failure which, if present, could cause A/T malfunction by issuing AD-2021-08-14 which mandated both initial and recurrent inspections to confirm system integrity. Three new Safety Recommendations were issued based on the findings of the completed Investigation as follows: that Sriwijaya Air consult the DGCA prior to modifying any flight operation procedure and also obtain an NTO from the aircraft manufacturer prior to modifying any existing aircraft manufacturer’s flight operation procedure. [04.O-2021-01.03]. that Sriwijaya Air increase the amount of data retrieval in the Flight Data Analysis Programme so as to improve the ability to monitor flight operations safety performance. [04.O-2021-01.04]. that Sriwijaya Air emphasise the hazard reporting program to all employees to encourage hazard reporting. [04.O-2021-01.05]. The 202 page Final Report of the Investigation was released on 10 November 2022.