low. Acquisition and analysis of safety data was found to be generally poor which it was concluded indicated that “the Sriwijaya Air Safety Management System (SMS) has not been implemented effectively”. The Immediate Response to the Accident. The applicable emergency response procedures once the aircraft was no longer in contact with ATC were found to have been in accordance with the State Civil Aviation Safety Regulations Part 170. However, whilst this regulation was “adopted from ICAO Annex 11 subchapter 5.2” it was found that this had been done without use of the alternative word ‘or’ against each of the alternative triggers to initiate the three successive stages of an emergency (Uncertainty, Alert and Distress) which was contrary to the Standard described in Annex 11. The Airworthiness Context. A very detailed airworthiness investigation found that the 27 year-old aircraft had experienced various intermittently recurring A/T system faults since its entry into service at the operator in 2012. It was found that almost half these faults had been followed by release to service after cleaning of the electrical connectors. Other actions had involved the replacement of the suspected faulty A/T components but when the Investigation examined the previously installed components no fault was found with them. A replacement of the right hand engine occurred during this time but reports of A/T problems continued after this. Some involved the A/T system being unable to move right thrust lever because of friction or binding within the mechanical system. In the accident flight, the right thrust lever did not move to in accordance with the targets selected on the MCP and so “the left thrust lever continued move backwards to compensate the engine thrust required to capture the selected speed and rate of climb” which resulted in the recorded thrust lever asymmetry. The failure of the right thrust lever to retard was eventually attributed to friction or binding within the mechanical elements of the system. However, the delayed disengagement of the A/T as the thrust lever asymmetry increased was found to be the result of an incorrect secondary flight control position input. Given the contribution of the delay in A/T disconnection to the undetected development of the thrust symmetry, this aspect was further considered. It was found that the aircraft had not flown between March and December 2020 and that during this time various maintenance work had been performed. Between release to service after this work and the departure of the accident flight, there had been only three pilot reports of an A/T problem although seven asymmetric thrust lever events were recorded on the QAR, none of which had been the subject of a pilot defect entry in the Technical Log. It was considered noteworthy that one of these asymmetric thrust lever events which had occurred on 15 March 2020 and had resulted in the aircraft rolling up to 41⁰ to the left was likely to have been the result of a delay in the triggering of automatic A/T disconnection and that “the accident flight