Captain was in command of this flight”. The component of the A/T Computer which activates A/T disconnection was noted to be the ‘Cruise Thrust Split Monitor’ (CTSM) which monitors engine thrust and aircraft roll input for thrust asymmetry. Examination of QAR data for both the accident flight and the 15 March 2020 flight and the accident flight showed that a malfunction in CTSM activation had in both cases been “possibly due to the right flight spoiler position signal value read by the A/T Computer (being) too low to activate the CTSM”. It was not possible to determine why this would have occurred but multiple sources that could have been the cause were identified including “a mis-rigged or erroneous spoiler sensor, a mis-rigged spoiler actuator or a sheared/damaged spoiler linkage”. The aircraft operator stated that flight spoiler sensor rigging had never been performed on the aircraft while being operated by them since “it never met the requirement to do so”. Six Contributing Factors to the Accident were identified as follows: The corrective maintenance processes of the A/T problem were unable to identify the friction or binding within the mechanical system of the thrust lever and resulted in the prolonged and unresolved of the A/T problem.. The right thrust lever did not reduce when required by the AP to obtain selected rate of climb and aircraft speed due to the friction or binding within the mechanical system, and as a result, the left thrust lever compensated by moving further backward which resulted in thrust asymmetry.. The delayed CTSM activation to disengage the A/T system during the thrust asymmetry event due to the undervalued spoiler angle position input resulted in greater power asymmetry.. The automation complacency and confirmation bias might have led to a decrease in active monitoring which resulted in the thrust lever asymmetry and deviation of the flight path not being monitored.. The aircraft rolled to the left instead of to the right as intended while the control wheel deflected to the right and inadequate monitoring of the EADI might have created assumption that the aircraft was rolling excessively to the right which resulted in an action that was contrary in restoring the aircraft to safe flight parameters.. The absence of the guidance of the national standard for the UPRT, may have contributed to the training program not being adequately implemented to ensure that pilots have enough knowledge to prevent and recover from an upset condition in an effective and timely manner.. Two Safety Recommendations were issued in the 10 February 2021 Preliminary Report of the Investigation as follows: that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation includes a requirement for UPRT in the Civil Aviation Safety Regulation (CASR) and develops guidance to increase the effectiveness of UPRT. [04.R-2021-01.01]. that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation reviews the requirements for notification of the rescue coordination centre in the CASR 170 to ensure that the requirement is in accordance with the standards contained in ICAO Annex 11. [04.R-2021-01.02]. Safety Action The Directorate General