the upset caused by uneven thrust with the AP and A/T engaged had not been recognised by the pilots despite clear evidence of progressive reduction in aircraft pitch attitude and rate of climb, the heading reversal away from the initial turn towards the approved and selected weather avoidance heading and the especially the changing roll attitude. These changes would have been clear from their Electronic Attitude Direction Indicators (EADI) but there was no reference to these by either pilot and it seems they were not referred to as the flight continued in automated flight in VMC. Additional evidence of abnormality would also have been available from the increasing disparity in engine thrust shown by both the indicated engine thrust difference and the corresponding TLA positions. Despite these cues, it seems that the EGPWS BANK ANGLE Alert was the first time the potentially hazardous situation was recognised. It was considered possible that at this point the Captain may have “assumed that the aircraft was rolling excessively to the right and deflected the control wheel to the left to recover it (but) the control wheel activation to the left created more roll tendency to the left which was counter to restoring the aircraft to safe flight parameters”. Overall, it was concluded that the pilots should have had enough time to recognise the thrust lever asymmetry and deviation from the intended climbing right but had failed to identify the flight anomaly before it developed into an upset condition. It was suggested that not identifying the anomaly “could have been due to reduced active monitoring because of pilot automation complacency and confirmation bias that aircraft was performing the right turn as commanded”. Non-recognition of the upset condition meant that correct recovery inputs were not applied. It was noted that Sriwijaya Air was exclusively a Boeing 737 operator with a fleet consisting of two 737-900ERs, thirteen 737-800s and six 737-500s including the accident aircraft. The Company OM (D) included a requirement for Upset Recovery Training to be included as part of recurrent pilot training every two years. The FCTM was found to refer pilots to the corresponding ICAO publications “for detailed information on the AUPRTA”. Operational Oversight. It was found that the Sriwijaya hazard reporting system was only really used by some ground handling personnel and contained few reports from pilots or maintenance personnel and no hazard reports by dispatchers. It was concluded that the situation was likely to indicate that the importance of the system “had not been emphasised to all employees (resulting in) hazards not being identified and properly mitigated”. It was explicitly noted that the list of hazards in the Hazard Identification Risk Analysis System did not include the ability to maintain the Flight Data Analysis Programme which was sub-contracted to another AMO. A three month period during which no data were downloaded had been attributed to “lack of human resources and equipment” with no documented resolution and this period excepted, the proportion of flights for which data was analysed was generally