selected heading of 075° but after a further 8 seconds and passing 10,450 feet, the bank angle had returned to zero although the heading had only reached a maximum of 046° towards the selected heading. As the left engine thrust continued to decrease - having reached an N1 of 59.3% with a TLA of 17.6° - and the right engine N1 and TLA remained unchanged - the aircraft began a turn to the left. Six seconds later, with the rate of climb continuing to reduce and now less than 1000 fpm, the First Officer called “set standard” (i.e. barometric subscale to 1013 hPa). As the left engine N1 and TLA continued to decrease to 49% and 13°, the left turn continued and the angle of bank continued to increase. A re-clearance to FL130 was given and acknowledged and the latter was the last recorded radio call from the flight. A few seconds later, the climb ceased at a maximum of around 10,700 feet and the aircraft began to descend. As the Captain was recorded saying “130” followed by the First Officer repeating this, an EGPWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ Alert was annunciated - the recorded bank angle had reached 37° to the left and the left engine N1 and TLA were continuing to decrease - through 35.1% and 9.3° respectively - whilst the right engine N1 and TLA remained unchanged at climb thrust. The Captain briefly activated the control column stabiliser trim switch which disconnected the AP and the aircraft rolled left to an angle of bank of “about 49°” in response to a four second deflection of the control column of up to a recorded 18°. A couple of seconds later, this was rapidly reversed to a recorded control wheel deflection 33° to the right with corresponding aileron deflection recorded. A/T disconnection followed as the left TLA reached the flight idle position. Ten seconds later, the right thrust lever was moved to flight idle and 8 seconds after this, the FDR recording ceased. The ATC radar target of the aircraft disappeared from the controller’s display and the controller reported the last radar position and the non-response of the flight to calls made during the observed descent to their supervisor. The response to this report was slow. It was 15 minutes after the aircraft had disappeared from the radar display before ATC informed the State SAR organisation, an hour after target disappearance before the INCERFA phase was declared and two hours after target disappearance before the DETRESFA phase was declared. The wreckage of the aircraft was subsequently found on the seabed at a depth of approximately 16 metres about 80 metres southeast of the aircraft’s last known (ADS-B) position. It was spread over an area of about 80 by 110 metres. An examination of the weather conditions in the area where it appeared control had been lost found that there had been “no significant development of cloud” along the aircraft flight path. The Operation of the Aircraft. The available evidence indicated that