Alerting service is part of air traffic service (ATS) and is therefore provided by ATS units (e.g. area control centres, flight information centres, etc.). The main task is to promptly notify the appropriate organizations (e.g. Search and Rescue (SAR) units) about the situation and provide relevant information about the aircraft in distress. The ATS units themselves do not provide SAR service. Alerting service is provided to: All aircraft provided with Air Traffic Control Service;. All other aircraft having filed a flight plan or otherwise known to the air traffic services (as far as practicable);. Any aircraft known or believed to be the subject of unlawful interference.. Information about aircraft in a state of emergency is normally collected by the relevant area control centre (ACC) or flight information centre (FIC). It is then forwarded to the appropriate rescue coordination centre. If the aircraft is under the control of an aerodrome control tower or an approach control unit, this unit would notify the appropriate ACC or FIC. Nevertheless, if required by the urgency of the situation, the aerodrome control tower or approach control unit would first alert all appropriate local rescue and emergency organizations able to provide immediate assistance. If a flight operates through more than one FIR or control area, and its position is in doubt, responsibility for coordinating alerting service rests with the ATS unit of the FIR or control area: within which the aircraft was flying at the time of last air-ground radio contact;. that the aircraft was about to enter when last air-ground contact was established at or close to the boundary of two FIRs or control areas;. within which the aircraft’s intermediate stop or final destination point is located: if the aircraft was not equipped with suitable two-way radiocommunication equipment; or was not under obligation to transmit position reports.. if the aircraft was not equipped with suitable two-way radiocommunication equipment; or. was not under obligation to transmit position reports..