Requirements: An operator shall not operate an aeroplane by day in accordance with VFR unless it is equipped with: a sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight; whenever two pilots are required the second pilot’s station shall have separate instruments as follows: ... A sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight; (IR-OPS CAT.IDE.A.125&CAT.IDE.A.130),(EU-OPS 1.650). a sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight;. whenever two pilots are required the second pilot’s station shall have separate instruments as follows: ... A sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight; (IR-OPS CAT.IDE.A.125&CAT.IDE.A.130),(EU-OPS 1.650). An operator shall not operate an aeroplane in accordance with IFR or by night in accordance with VFR unless it is equipped with: two sensitive pressure altimeters calibrated in feet with sub-scale settings, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight; These altimeters must have counter drum-pointer or equivalent presentation. Whenever two pilots are required the second pilot’s station shall have ... A sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight and which may be one of the 2 altimeters required ... above. ... these altimeters must have counter drum-pointer or equivalent presentation. (IR-OPS CAT.IDE.A.125&CAT.IDE.A.130), (EU-OPS 1.652). two sensitive pressure altimeters calibrated in feet with sub-scale settings, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight; These altimeters must have counter drum-pointer or equivalent presentation.. Whenever two pilots are required the second pilot’s station shall have ... A sensitive pressure altimeter calibrated in feet with a sub-scale setting, calibrated in hectopascals/millibars, adjustable for any barometric pressure likely to be set during flight and which may be one of the 2 altimeters required ... above. ... these altimeters must have counter drum-pointer or equivalent presentation. (IR-OPS CAT.IDE.A.125&CAT.IDE.A.130), (EU-OPS 1.652). These altimeters must be entirely independent so that the failure of any component in one system does not affect the other system. In modern flight decks the EFIS altitude displays are completely different to conventional altimeters, usually featuring a vertical altitude tape on the right hand side. Modern aircraft are also fitted with comparators which warn the pilots of any discrepancy between the output of the primary altimeters. A third independent standby altimeter is also fitted to assist in the gross resolution of any difference between the primary instruments, although this 'Standby Altimeter' is not required to be as accurate as the two principal altimeters.