from Montserrat earlier that morning, the aircraft had been refueled and then remained parked on the apron during a subsequent period of heavy rain - 42mm had been recorded over a 2 hour period. Elimination of other possibilities led to the conclusion that the water must have been rain water which had entered the right wing tank during this period through the fuel filling access despite the filler cap being in place. Whilst it was noted that no pre-flight water in fuel contamination check had been carried out prior to the accident flight, none was required. Examination of the filler caps found that both were of a modified type designed to be used with a modified filler neck - but although a modified neck had been fitted to the left wing tank, such a neck was not fitted to the right wing tank. The effect of this was that although the cap would appear to fit satisfactorily, it would not always seal properly, with corrosion of the type which it was found had led to the (non approved but effective) replacement of the left wing tank filler neck following the acquisition of the aircraft in 2009 possibly contributing to the vulnerability. It was proved by experiment that "water could leak past the cap seal and into the tank, although the leakage rate tended to vary each time the cap was re-seated such that it was sometimes possible to achieve an effective seal". It was considered likely that on the basis of the rate of fuel use, water only began to be drawn into the fuel line leading to the engine once the aircraft rotated for take off, which would fit with the initially normal climb observed. It was noted that a modified fuel suction filter which would "appear offer an improved appear to offer an improved tolerance of water in the fuel system in comparison with the original design" had been available since 1968 but had only been mandated by the Australian authorities. It was found that after a 1984 fuel contamination fatal accident to a BN2 Islander in Puerto Rico, the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB) had issued a Safety Recommendation to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that this modification should be mandated but "the FAA, following consultation with the UK CAA, did not accept the recommendation". It was noted that neither the non-approved filler neck fitted to the left wing tank or the mis-match between the pre-mod filler neck and the post mod filler cap fitted to the right wing tank had been detected by the ASSI Survey carried out in 2009 after the pre-delivery maintenance in Canada in 2009 or at any of the subsequent ASSI Audits. In respect of the tail wind take off beyond the fact that it was contrary to AFM limits, it was considered that either windshear associated with the cumulonimbus cloud (west of the landing threshold) or the prevailing wind gradient "may have caused the accident aircraft to experience performance-reducing shear