Senior staff from the Eastern Caribbean Civil Aviation Authority (ECCAA) attended the accident site upon notification and began an Investigation immediately. The accident site was recorded as being approximately 140 metres to the right of take off runway 07 (see below). The UK AAIB was appointed as an Accredited Representative since UK was both the State of Design and Manufacture of the aircraft and (through its registration in a British Overseas Territory) the State of Operator. It was noted that Fly Montserrat was the trading name of Montserrat Airways and that the accident aircraft had been introduced into service in 2009 after a refurbishment at a Canadian MRO. Following this refurbishment, an audit of the airworthiness of the aircraft by the regulatory oversight agency Air Safety Support International (ASSI, a UK CAA subsidiary) had taken place without any significant findings. The accident flight was the fourth sector of the day on the route for the aircraft and the second for the 31 year old-pilot who was believed to have not less than 500 hours total flying time (there were inconsistencies in the flight time recording in his log book). The amount of the total time which had been on the accident aircraft type was not reported. Shortly before the aircraft departed, the airport had been briefly shut to VFR traffic because of "Cumulonimbus (Cb) activity and heavy rain" but had just removed this restriction. The runway in use for take off, 07 because of a large Cumulonimbus cloud on the climb out in the other direction, was accepted by the pilot despite a wind check given by ATC with the take off clearance which was equivalent to a 10 knot tailwind component, significantly greater than the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) limit of 5 knots. Witnesses described the initial climb as normal until about 200 to 300 feet agl then "the aircraft then appeared to ‘sink’, losing a small amount of height without yawing or rolling, before yawing to the right, then rolling to the right, and pitching nose down into an incipient spin to the right". Witnesses described this incipient spin continuing until the aircraft struck the ground "in an extreme nose-down, right-wing-low attitude". The sole surviving passenger "recalled that the stall warning sounded, and its accompanying red light (which was mounted on the right-hand side of the instrument panel and in his line of sight) illuminated throughout this period and until impact". It was established that at impact, the left engine had been running but the right had not and the right propeller was not in the feathered position. It was concluded that "the as-found positions of the engine and propeller controls suggested that no attempt had been made to shut down the right-hand engine or feather its propeller". The Investigation found that the right engine fuel system had been contaminated by a significant quantity of water which it was considered would have been sufficient to have been caused the engine to stop. It was noted that after arriving