in its climb, as it flew from relatively weaker westerly winds at the surface into relatively stronger winds aloft". It was considered that the reports of eyewitnesses that the aircraft had appeared to ‘sink’ before it rolled and yawed, would be consistent with negative wind shear whereas an into-wind takeoff would have reduced the chances of this. The Investigation formally documented the following Causal and Contributory Factors: Causal Significant rainfall, and anomalies in the aircraft’s fuel filler neck and cap, led to the presence of water in the right-hand fuel tank. Shortly after takeoff, the water in the right-hand fuel tank entered the engine fuel system causing the engine to stop running. Control of the aircraft was not retained after the right-hand engine stopped. Contributory No pre-flight water drain check was carried out; such a check would have allowed the presence of water in the right-hand fuel tank to be detected and corrective action taken. It is possible that performance-reducing windshear, encountered during the downwind departure, contributed to a reduction in airspeed shortly before the aircraft stalled. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the European Aviation Safety Agency take the appropriate measures to ensure that all Britten-Norman Islander and Trislander series of aircraft are equipped with the latest standard of fuel suction filters.. that All authorities with Britten-Norman Islander and Trislander series of aircraft on their register take appropriate measures to ensure that all these aircraft are equipped with the latest standard of fuel suction filters.. that Fly Montserrat should in the future, ensure that a dialogue with any previous employer (of a prospective or appointed pilot) should take place and that references should be obtained. The Company should in future examine the training records of low time pilots from their professional pilot training.. The Final Report was published by the ECCAA on 15 October 2015.