that would have occurred if the aircraft was being used as anticipated by Bombardier. The failed flap flexible drive shaft was subject to a detailed inspection every 2,400 flight hours which meant that instead of an inspection every 4.8 years based on the assumed typical utilisation, it would only occur every 8.7 years. It was also noted that although Bombardier had identified that corrosion of flap flexible drive shafts and actuators due to internal contamination was a significant in-service issue on the Challenger-derived Canadair Regional Jet series aircraft and in 2007 had issued a 2007 SB to address this, they had not issued similar SBs for the Challenger 600 series aircraft.. It was established than when flap 20 was selected on the initial approach, the flap flexible drive shaft which connects the two flap actuators for the left hand inboard flap panel, had failed. A detailed examination of this shaft found two puncture holes in the protective outer casing under the data plate which, by allowing the cavity to “breathe” with repeated changes in altitude, had allowed contaminants and condensation to enter which had, over time, led to corrosion. It was also suspected that moisture ingress into the drive shaft casing from the drive shaft to flap actuator interface had also contributed to significant corrosion of the ends of the flexible drive shaft core.. Bombardier maintenance recommendations for the Challenger 605 were found to be based on an average annual utilisation of 500 hours, much higher than the 275 hours average utilisation of the operator involved. The consequence of this was that routine maintenance predicated on accumulated flight hours or flight cycles were typically being completed with a calendar time that was approximately twice as long as the intervals that would have occurred if the aircraft was being used as anticipated by Bombardier. The failed flap flexible drive shaft was subject to a detailed inspection every 2,400 flight hours which meant that instead of an inspection every 4.8 years based on the assumed typical utilisation, it would only occur every 8.7 years.. It was also noted that although Bombardier had identified that corrosion of flap flexible drive shafts and actuators due to internal contamination was a significant in-service issue on the Challenger-derived Canadair Regional Jet series aircraft and in 2007 had issued a 2007 SB to address this, they had not issued similar SBs for the Challenger 600 series aircraft.. Aircraft handling during landing Despite the cautionary remarks included in the flap failure QRH procedure (reproduced in the panel below), the operator’s pilots had not received any explicit training or guidance on the important difference between aircraft handling during a normal touchdown and a flapless one. On the contrary, most procedural advice implied that handling during a flapless landing was similar to that for a normal landing. Improper landing technique during a flaps failure can generate nose gear loads sufficient to cause structural damage. To prevent this after main gear touchdown, gently lower the nose to the runway and apply