after a second or so, the aircraft pitch attitude was reducing at 19° per second. The Captain responded by making “significant nose-up input on the control” in opposition to the stick pusher but despite this, the nose gear then hit the runway with a negative pitch rate of at least 15°/second. Both engines were at approximately 55% N1 and decelerating at this time and the engines were continuing to decelerate, before reaching flight idle 7½ seconds later with the aircraft at 65 KCAS. Once at taxi speed, instructions to clear the runway and taxi to their allocated parking position were given. The crew reported being unaware that the rear fuselage had contacted the runway during the post touchdown pitch up and that as a consequence the 33 cm long fuel drain mast had broken off. There were five further aircraft movements on Runway 17R before the presence of FOD on the runway was reported to ATC by the crew of a landing aircraft some 17 minutes after it had broken off. The crews of two aircraft on approach were advised of this report and both continued to a landing after which an airport vehicle recovered the carbon fibre composite drain mast 23 minutes after it had been left on the runway. Damage to the aircraft in addition to loss of the drain mast included significant abrasion damage to the lower skin of the tail fairing and significant structural damage to the lower forward fuselage. The latter included deformation of the right lower fuselage skin adjacent to the nose landing gear and damage to several frames in the lower forward fuselage as well as deformation of both the left and right nose landing gear upper torque box structure. The initiating event was the flap system failure but the landing accident only happened after the landing was not conducted in accordance with the guidance contained in the applicable QRH drill. The Flap System failure It was established than when flap 20 was selected on the initial approach, the flap flexible drive shaft which connects the two flap actuators for the left hand inboard flap panel, had failed. A detailed examination of this shaft found two puncture holes in the protective outer casing under the data plate which, by allowing the cavity to “breathe” with repeated changes in altitude, had allowed contaminants and condensation to enter which had, over time, led to corrosion. It was also suspected that moisture ingress into the drive shaft casing from the drive shaft to flap actuator interface had also contributed to significant corrosion of the ends of the flexible drive shaft core. Bombardier maintenance recommendations for the Challenger 605 were found to be based on an average annual utilisation of 500 hours, much higher than the 275 hours average utilisation of the operator involved. The consequence of this was that routine maintenance predicated on accumulated flight hours or flight cycles were typically being completed with a calendar time that was approximately twice as long as the intervals