An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian Transportation Safety Board (TSB) assisted by data downloaded from the FDR and CVR of the aircraft involved. It was noted that the Captain who was acting as PM for the flight involved and had been working for the operator for 15 years had a total of 10,186 hours flying experience including 5,024 hours on type, the latter recorded as having been accumulated over 4½ years. The First Officer had joined the operator in 2017 and had a total of 1,055 hours flying experience including 82 hours on type having gaining his type rating two months earlier. He had completed line training on type whilst paired with the same Captain as on the investigated flight 2½ weeks earlier and had been specifically assessed as proficient in respect of the flap configuration exercise during his training. When flaps 20 was selected during the initial approach into the Calgary area, a ‘FLAPS FAIL’ caution was immediately annunciated on the EICAS with FDR data indicating deployment to a recorded 1° before failing. The corresponding QRH procedure was actioned although the PM did not read out the content of supporting ‘CAUTION’ notes integral to the procedure. ATC were advised of the flap system status and requested and received delaying radar vectors. A brief for a flapless approach to the assigned runway 17R which at the ELW required a VREF of 155 knots A visual approach to the runway was subsequently flown with the crew confirming to ATC on request that no assistance from the RFFS was required. The AP was disconnected at 1000 feet agl followed by disconnection of the A/T (required by the QRH procedure but not mentioned by the First Officer). The runway threshold was crossed at VREF + 10 KCAS and main gear touchdown occurred approximately 900 metres after this at a recorded 154 KCAS followed by the nose gear 2½ seconds later. Two seconds later, with the control column approximately 2° forward of neutral, the thrust reversers were selected to maximum. About 4.5 seconds after this deployment with reverse thrust increasing through approximately 60% N1, the aircraft nose began to pitch up and the nose landing gear lifted off the runway. About 12 seconds later, as the recorded pitch attitude and angle of attack were increasing through 13° and 22° respectively, reverse thrust was deselected and a forward input applied to the control column. The pitch attitude and angle of attack briefly continued to increase as the aircraft simultaneously banked approximately 3.5° to the right and the left main landing gear briefly left the runway surface. As the pitch attitude increased to a recorded maximum of almost 17° and the angle of attack peaked at almost 29°, the aircraft’s rear fuselage struck the runway and the aft fuselage fuel dump drain mast broke off the aircraft and fell onto the runway at its intersection with Taxiway U. Less than a second later, the SPS (Stall Protection System) activated the stick pusher function and