reached the 2400 flight-hour maintenance interval.. The Challenger 605 flight simulator used for recurrent training did not accurately represent the zero-flap handling characteristics of the aircraft when the thrust reversers are deployed, nor was it required for certification. As a result, the flight crew was inadequately prepared to prevent, or recover from, the nose pitch-up that occurred when the thrust reversers were deployed.. The pilot monitoring did not read the cautions included on the flaps fail checklist out loud to the pilot flying during the completion of the Quick Reference Handbook procedure. As a result, information critical to the safe operation of the aircraft was not brought to the attention of the pilot flying.. Insufficient pressure was applied to the control column to maintain the nose on the runway while using maximum reverse thrust; as a result, the nose pitched up, the aft fuselage contacted the runway, and the aircraft transitioned to a partial weight-off wheels state.. When the left main wheel left the runway surface and the angle of attack reached 28.9°, the stick pusher activated and commanded a rapid nose-down pitch input. As a result of this rapid nose-down pitch, the forward section of the aircraft was damaged when the nose wheel contacted the runway.. Five Findings as to Risk were also formally recorded as follows: If manufacturers implement product improvements on one fleet of aircraft but do not implement them on all similar fleets, there is a risk that some aircraft will not benefit from product improvements, potentially affecting their reliability.. If aircraft procedures do not provide explicit information detailing unusual flight control inputs that are required during abnormal procedures, flight crews might apply insufficient or incorrect flight control inputs, thereby increasing the risk of an adverse outcome.. If aircraft rescue and fire fighting is not put on standby when a flight crew is performing an abnormal procedure, it increases the risk of a delayed response should aircraft rescue and fire fighting assistance be required.. If companies do not have policies in place that define the roles and responsibilities of all crew members on board an aircraft, and if passengers and flight attendants are not briefed on an abnormal aircraft condition, there is an increased risk that the passengers and cabin will not be adequately prepared in the event of an emergency situation.. If airports rely only on physical inspections of aircraft movement areas, there is a risk that foreign object debris will not be identified and removed in a timely manner, which could lead to damage to equipment and aircraft, and injuries to persons.. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated event prior to the completion of the Investigation was noted as having included the following: The Canadian Pacific Railway Company conducted a comparison of reduced flap landing procedures in the AFM and QRH and as a result amended some company procedures to better address differences between the caution / warning notes published in the two documents.. The TSB issued an Air Safety Information