brakes only after nose wheel touchdown. Before selecting reverse thrust, ensure that [the] nose wheel has touched down and nose down elevator has been applied.. Despite the cautionary remarks included in the flap failure QRH procedure (reproduced in the panel below), the operator’s pilots had not received any explicit training or guidance on the important difference between aircraft handling during a normal touchdown and a flapless one. On the contrary, most procedural advice implied that handling during a flapless landing was similar to that for a normal landing. Improper landing technique during a flaps failure can generate nose gear loads sufficient to cause structural damage. To prevent this after main gear touchdown, gently lower the nose to the runway and apply brakes only after nose wheel touchdown. Before selecting reverse thrust, ensure that [the] nose wheel has touched down and nose down elevator has been applied.. Improper landing technique during a flaps failure can generate nose gear loads sufficient to cause structural damage. To prevent this after main gear touchdown, gently lower the nose to the runway and apply brakes only after nose wheel touchdown.. Before selecting reverse thrust, ensure that [the] nose wheel has touched down and nose down elevator has been applied.. Whilst cautions in the AFM and FCOM clearly explain the hazard of the nose pitching up and that it can be controlled with the elevators and specify the order in which reverse thrust should be selected, they provide very little pressure information. The FAA Operational Evaluation Report was noted to describe the amount of pressure required as “significant” whereas the AFM and FCOM say only to “ensure nose down elevator is applied”. The caution in the QRH procedure also provides order advice, but very little pressure information and unlike the AFM and FCOM text, this caution does not explicitly explain the hazard of the nose pitching up.. The pilots involved had coincidentally recently undergone training in a Level ‘D simulator which included a flapless landing exercise and it was considered that they may have remembered this as a “benign event” which it would have appeared to be because such simulators do not accurately replicate the behaviour of the Challenger 605 after the nose wheel touches down on the runway nor are they required to. Such a recent training experience was considered very likely to reinforce the expectation that a successful flapless landing would be not much different from a normal one based on the “knowledge reinforcement” principle.. Six Findings as to Causes and Contributing Factors were formally recorded as follows: Moisture entered the flap flexible drive shaft casing, likely through the undetected puncture holes and the drive shaft casing to flap actuator interface, which led to the subsequent corrosion and failure of the inner drive shaft.. As the occurrence aircraft’s actual annual utilization was approximately half of that expected by the manufacturer, the calendar time interval between maintenance inspections increased. As a result, the corrosion that developed was not detected because the shaft had not yet