An Investigation was carried out by the French BEA. Although not a mandatory requirement, it was found that the aircraft had been fitted with a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) which, whilst damaged, was successfully downloaded and provided very useful information, validated in respect of time using two sources of radar returns from the aircraft. It was established that the flight had taken off from the 1300-metre long runway 12 at Annemasse at 0838 Local Time. A number of witnesses saw it take off and they all described a high nose up attitude just after take off followed by a steep bank to the right and then to the left followed by a loss of altitude. The flight lasted only 16 seconds and within 3 seconds of the aircraft becoming airborne, an Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) Bank Angle Alert had been activated, followed two seconds later by the Stall Warning horn sounding. Thereafter, two further EGPWS Bank Angle Alerts and two further Stall Warnings had been activated, the final stall warning continuing until impact. Both engines had remained at the take off thrust setting until impact. It was concluded that the low height alone would have made it impossible to achieve stall recovery and regain control so that ground impact was inevitable. It was found that the pilot, an employee of ‘Global Jet Luxembourg’, flew the accident aircraft exclusively for the benefit of its owner. He had intended to fly from Paris Le Bourget to Geneva the previous day but had been not been able to secure an arrival slot at Geneva and so had instead flown to Annemasse, following which the aircraft was parked on the apron there overnight with the intention being to position to Geneva first thing the following morning. It was noted that the combination of a temperature of around - 2°C and the very high humidity which prevailed at the aerodrome the previous evening and on the morning of the accident would have led to [[Ice Formation on Aircraft |frost or ice deposits forming on the wings]]. It was also noted that the OAT during the cruise on the flight from Paris the day before had been around - 40°C, which would have led to the fuel in the wing tanks reaching very low temperatures. It was therefore considered that the cold-soaked fuel in the wing tanks (which were about 75% full prior to the accident flight) could well have kept the temperature of the wing surfaces at a temperature lower than the external air temperature and thus increased the extent of frozen deposits. However, there was no ground de-anti icing service available at Annemasse, nor was this required since only private flights operated from there. It was considered that the behaviour of the aircraft just prior to the loss of control “was consistent with a stall due to contamination of the wings with frost or ice - steep uncontrolled banking immediately at lift off and impossibility of establishing an adequate climb speed” despite