the use of the correct take off speed and configuration. It was established that the effects of a stall had occurred before the activation of the stall warning device at angles of attack lower than the design threshold for such activation and it was considered that this was “typical of the behaviour of a contaminated wing profile”. It was noted that the behaviour of the aircraft “was comparable to those of many accidents around the world caused by icing contamination on the wings, leading to a stall then a loss of control on takeoff”. It was also noted that aircraft which have wings with a short chord length or a swept leading edge or which lack leading edge slats are more specifically sensitive to the effects of ground ice and that all three of these characteristics apply to the accident aircraft type. It was considered that the layer of ice present on the wings was likely to have been thin and therefore difficult to detect with the naked eye, especially as the wings were white. Alternatively, it was considered equally possible that the pilot had detected frozen deposits but considered them to be insufficient to have any consequences for the intended departure. A pilot who flew the same aircraft type and who knew the accident aircraft pilot told the Investigation that the latter usually put his aircraft in a hangar overnight when he knew that he would be flying the next morning and the weather was cold. At Paris Le Bourget and Geneva, the usual places visited by the aeroplane, he was able to use a dedicated place in a hangar and so only occasionally needed ground de-anti icing before a flight. The Investigation considered that not all existing recurrent pilot training requirements in respect of wing icing were conducive to the maintenance of adequate risk awareness. The potential for installation of systems for the automatic detection of frozen deposits adhering to wings prior to take off was also noted, as was the ICAO Recommendation in both Annex 14 and in Doc 9640 ‘Manual of Aircraft Ground De-icing/Anti-Icing Operations’ that ground de/anti icing facilities should be available at all aerodromes where there is a risk of such icing. The Investigation formally concluded that the Cause of the Accident was: “The pilot’s insufficient appreciation of the risks associated with ground-ice led him to take off with contamination of the critical airframe surfaces. This contaminant deposit then caused the aerodynamic stall of the aeroplane and the loss of control shortly after lift-off.” Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that EASA, in coordination with national civil aviation authorities, make changes to the training requirements for pilots so as to include periodic reminders on the effects of contaminants such as ice on stall and loss of control on takeoff. [2014-005]. that EASA, in coordination with the FAA and the other non-European civil aviation authorities, study the technical and regulatory means to put in place in order to