An Investigation was carried out by a Commission established by the Czech Air Accident Investigation Institute (AAII). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Quick Access Recorder. It was established that the pilots for the flight were both qualified as Training Captains on the ATR42/72 with the pilot occupying the left hand seat acting as PF and the pilot occupying the right hand seat being designated as commander. The PF was operating under supervision as part of the training required to complete the Czech Airlines "Test Flight Qualification Course". It was all noted that there were "six other crew members" on board the aircraft but their roles as "crew members" were not stated, although it was noted that the incident flight was also the 'handover flight' to a new operator. It was established that the first full stall occurred during the first prescribed function test of the Stall Protection System (SPS), with the ICING AOA switch selected on in non-icing conditions so as to carry out the initial test of the system with a greater safety margin. This test was commenced at FL160 in VMC after an earlier climb to FL250. The aircraft altitude was kept essentially constant and with the power to idle, a slow speed reduction was set up in clean configuration. However, when SPS activation did not occur at around the anticipated speed for it in icing conditions, speed reduction was allowed to continue even below the anticipated speed for SPS activation in normal conditions. As the aircraft reached 7 knots below the latter speed, a full stall occurred but the pilot response was contrary to that required in that the control column was moved rearwards rather than forwards and the flaps were not selected to 15°. The effect of this action/inaction by the PF was a further reduction in airspeed, a rapid left roll to almost 90° bank to the left and a rapid descent. The commander quickly intervened with a significant forward movement of the control column and additional right aileron and recovery to controlled flight was achieved at FL138. A further similar SPS test was initiated soon afterwards as the aircraft climbed through FL157, again with the ICING AOA switch on, this time with an increased rate of speed reduction. Again SPS activation did not occur at any time and the speed reduction was continued to the onset of a full stall although this time, the actions in response were correct and the wing drop was less marked and the height loss small. Two further similar manoeuvres with the ICING AOA on followed but both were terminated without SPS activation and without reaching a fully stalled condition. The remainder of the planned function testing was then completed. It was established that the incident flight was the second flight since the aircraft had been repainted at a specialist contractor in Ostrava, 150 nm from Prague. After this work, the aircraft had been returned to Prague but no