Stall Warning fault or alert was reported to have occurred during this flight. Recorded data showed that both AOA vanes had adopted a fixed position from soon after the aircraft climbed above the prevailing freezing level until soon after it descended below it during the return to Prague after completion of the flight test activities. This provided an explanation for the absence of any SPS activation during the tests. The data also showed that the AOA vanes had been blocked during the earlier Ostrava-Prague flight. Both AOA vanes were removed from the aircraft and were found to be contaminated with water but functioning normally on the Prague-Ostrava flight prior to the repainting. The aircraft manufacturer concluded that "the AOA sensors were contaminated with water particles sprayed during cleaning of the aircraft before or after repainting". The Investigation concurred with the opinion of the aircraft manufacturer and noted that "occurrence of water inside the AOA sensor may be attributed to the technological procedure used in removing the original coating of the aircraft". It was further observed that "given the demanding nature of the repainting technology, it was impossible to clearly determine at which stage of the process water had penetrated the sensor; whether it was because of insufficient protection of the critical place or due to water penetrating the protected place". However, it was noted that water will not penetrate the AOA sensor during the normal operation of the aircraft and that past experience, such as the 2008 accident to an A320 in France (A320, vicinity Perpignan France, 2008) has shown that this may happen when aircraft are pressure washed without adequate protection of the AOA sensors. In respect of the crew progressing their system testing to the onset of a full stall, the Investigation noted the opinion communicated by the aircraft manufacturer that such action was inappropriate and that "verification of the physical threshold of aircraft stall is carried out by the trained test flight pilots of the manufacturer during certification test flights". This opinion was continued with the statement that "during test flights the test pilots of individual operators should not travel at a speed lower than the Stick Shaker activation speed (and) such speed limit must be determined before each test flight for the respective aircraft weight and configuration". In respect of the Czech Airlines procedures for airworthiness function flights, the Investigation noted that they "did not stipulate the minimum speed for the respective weight and configuration under which the aircraft speed shall not drop in the case of inoperability of the Stall Protection System or its part, i.e. the speed at which the test is to be terminated was not specified" whereas "during the low speed test flight the crew was intentionally reducing speed until the stall speed in spite of the Stick Shaker/Stick Pusher not being activated at the expected speed with an effort to identify the system activation threshold". The formally stated conclusion of the Investigation as to Cause was as follows: "The aircraft stalled