This method is based on an assessment of how much time the controller needs to perform all necessary tasks. The threshold is normally set at 40-45 minutes. The spare time (15-20 minutes) is used as a buffer against abnormal situations and forecast inconsistencies. Unlike the other two methods, this one is tied to the controller and will therefore be constant for all sectors. This does not mean that all sectors can handle the same amount of traffic. Rather, the forecast calculation is made in a way that automatically adjusts to the airspace and trafffic specifics. For example, a shorther sector would require more frequent communication (shorter interval between the initial and final call). Also, having the same number of aircraft in a smaller volume would likely generate more conflict situations which will require more time to be dealt with. The tool collects data from various sources and creates a fast time simulation to discover specific events (e.g. conflicts, flights passing through restricted areas or weather phenomena, departing and arriving aircraft, etc.). These events are then processed through a special "virtual ATCO" model that calculates the amount of time to perform the necessary actions. These values are then summed up and if the total exceeds the threshold, either the sector configuration needs to be changed or restrictions need to be imposed. An example of the method with breakdown into categories The main advantage of this method is that it takes into account a large number of factors (e.g. weather, military activities, flight vertical profiles, local procedures, etc.) and therefore produces a very accurate forecast. Additional benefit is that the forecast is self-adjusting, i.e. no recalculation of capacities is necessary in case of sector reshaping, traffic flow changes, etc. as long as the model remains valid (i.e. there are no factors unaccounted for). A potential disadvantage is that the forecast is as accurate as its input data. Therefore, wrong (or missing) estimates, weather forecast, etc. will result in an inaccurate assessment of the situation. Another factor to be considered is that as the operational environment is constantly evolving, new factors may emerge or some of them may need to be reconsidered, e.g.: New types of flights may need to be accomodated (e.g. supersonic, UAVs, etc.). New controller tools may reduce the time to perform certain tasks (thus allowing the controller to do more things which is essentially a capacity increase). A technology may become so widespread that it significantly impacts the provision of ATC (e.g. CPDLC may reduce voice communication and space-based ADS-B or other Surveillance systems may lead to reduced separation minima). Procedural limitations on controller interventions (e.g. restricted use of direct routing) would result in the need of more time to come up with a solution to a situation. Therefore, this method requires closer monitoring and more frequent adjustment in order to deliver the expected benefits.