Capacity is expressed in maximum aircraft that are handled per time unit, usually one hour (e.g. 40 aircraft per hour). This value takes into account various factors such as sector size and shape, applicable procedures, expected traffic flows, nearby aerodromes, seasonal variations, etc. Therefore, different sectors would normally have different capacities and a particular sector may be assigned different values (e.g. a winter and a summer one). For example, reducing the size of a sector would also reduce its capacity. However, the combined capacity of two smaller sectors will be greater than the capacity of a bigger sector of the same size (e.g. a "big" sector may have a capacity of 40 aircraft per hour while if it is split into two, each of the smaller ones will have 30 for a total of 60). The main advantages of this method are that it is universal - can be used for ATC sectors, runways, etc.. simple - only requires the entry time of each aircraft (hence the name of the method). easy to implement - even older systems can quickly calculate a relatively accurate medium term (e.g. 12 hour) forecast based solely on the flight plans. An example of the method A major drawback is that the method does not appreciate traffic distribution. For example, if the sector capacity is 40 aircraft per hour and the actual entry count is 31 for the first hour and 30 for the second one, at first glance it would seem that the sector can safely accomodate 30% more aircraft. However, if the traffic is concentrated at the centre of the period, that there would a peak of very high worload (overload) surrounded by two prolonged periods of incativity that (see the diagram below). This effect can be addressed by having overlapping counts, e.g. one at 10:00 (up to 11:00), a second one at 10:30 (until 11:30), a third at 11:00 (until 12:00) and so on. While this approach will detect the problem in the diagram above, the inherent weakness of the method is only mitigated (not eliminated) and there would be other situations where temporary overloads would remain undetected. Adding calculations at shorter intervals would further alleviate the issue but this would be achieved by sacrificing the simplicity of the method. Additionally, more precise forecast will be needed to correctly calculate the entry times. Another factor that is not considered is the traffic pattern. All aircraft contribute equally to the calculation regardless of their time spent in the sector (1 or 20 minutes) or their vertical profile (i.e. an aircraft descending from FL 410 to FL 150 is considered as equal to another that is maintaining FL 360) or the attention they will require from the controller (e.g. due to conflicts with another aircraft). In order to overcome these weaknesses, capacities are calculated in such a way as to include a buffer. For example, if it is considered that 45 aircraft can be safely handled per hour if the traffic flow is smooth