Capacity is expressed in maximum number of aircraft on the frequency (e.g. 20 aircraft at the same time). An aircraft is considered to be on the frequency from the estimated time at the sector entry point until it reaches the sector exit point. If the number of aircraft exceeds a pre-defined threshold, a change of sector configuration or traffic restrictions will be necessary. As with the previous method, the threshold accounts for various factors and may vary depending on the sector (or other circumstances). An example of the method This method requires a more complex calculation as it needs a forecast for each flight's time in the sector which needs to account for the aircraf speed (i.e. type) and route in addition to the entry time. The advantage of the method is that it provides a much better idea about the timing of peak traffic loads which effectively eliminates one of the major drawbacks of the entry counts method. However, each aircraft is still treated in the same way regardless of its actual impact on the workload. It should be noted that high traffic does not necessarily mean heavier workload. For example, a situation with many aircraft flying at cruising levels could be handled with ease while another one with just a few can be much more demanding (see picture below). While there are only four aircraft in the picture on the left, each of them needs to pass through a lot of levels and is potentially conflicting with all the others. The task is much more demanding compared to the situation on the right despite involving half the number of aircraft As is the entry counts case, this effect is mitigated by incorporating a buffer. For example, the threshold can be set to 20 aircraft if transit overflies are expected and lowered to 14 if a lot of departures and arrivals are expected (all numbers are for indicative purposed only). Another issue with the method is that due to the high frequency of traffic update (usually 1 minute as opposed to 20-30-60 minutes in the entry counts case), it is possible to have very short periods (e.g. 5 minutes or less) when the traffic exceeds the threshold. It is obvoiusly impractical to add a sector for such a short time as the added workload of opening and closing it would be higher than the workload caused by the additional aircraft. To alleviate this issue, a second (higher) threshold can be added with more sophisticated rules, e.g.: If the traffic exceeds the lower threshold more than X times during a Y-minute period, then the situation is considered as an oveload. If this happens X times or less, then the traffic can be safely handled.. If the higher threshold is exceeded, then the situation is considered as an oveload.. An example of the method with two thresholds While this does not eliminate the issue with short traffic peaks, experience has shown that even a one-minute penetration of the higher threshold would