design of the RESAs at the airport was not in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and the Investigation considered that “there (was) a possibility that the aircraft might have stopped inside the safety area had the (RESA) been lengthened by 50 metres in accordance with the (latest regulatory requirements)”. It was also noted that the terrain around the runway was “significantly steeper than prescribed in ICAO Annex 14 SARPs and so promulgated in the AIPs entry for the airport. It was further noted that when renewing the airport’s technical and operational approval four months prior to the accident, CAA Norway had required improvement of the safety area by October 2008 but that no compensatory measures were required during this dispensation period prior to the improvements being made. The Conclusions of the Investigation were that: “the event was a consequence of “the accumulated effect of three factors - the aircraft design, the airport and operational factors, which, seen as a whole, may have been unacceptable at the time of the accident” and. “On its own, the failure of the spoilers to extend would not have caused a runway overrun. The aircraft might have stopped within the landing distance available with a good margin if optimum braking had been used”.. the excursion could have been prevented by relevant simulator training, procedures and a better system understanding related to failures of the lift spoilers and the effect that it has on the aircrafts’ stopping distance.. Further detailed findings on survival aspects included the following: “in principle, all those involved had a chance of surviving the accident resulting from the excursion” but this prospect had been compromised by the rapid development of the fire and availability of only two exits - the left side flight deck sliding window and the rear left door - and the un-openable reinforced flight deck to cabin door which prevented cabin occupants evacuating via the flight deck.. the inaccessible location of the crash scene and the prevailing circumstances at it meant that although the Rescue and Fire Fighting Services arrived in the vicinity promptly, they were unable to play any useful role during the critical initial minutes after the crash.. Non compliance of the airport with State regulatory requirements and the notified difference from ICAO Annex 14 SARPs in relation to the airport safety area and adjacent terrain “contributed to a significant extent to the severity of the accident. and complicated the fire and rescue work. More generally, and in respect of the consequences of an airworthiness deficiency which it was considered did not inevitable lead to a fatal runway excursion, the Investigation considered that: reverted rubber aquaplaning will not occur, or will be significantly reduced, on grooved runways.. RFFS access to potential crash sites needs more attention in future assessments of safety areas and unobstructed areas in the immediate vicinity of Norwegian airports.. Runway excursions (by this aircraft type) “could be prevented by a better understanding of the system influence to each other related to failures of