An Investigation was carried out by the Accident Investigation Board Norway (AIBN). Both the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) were recovered but upon examination were both found to have been heat-damaged beyond their design tolerance so that only the FDR yielded any information at all and that was of only limited use to the Investigation. It was noted that the aircraft commander was familiar with the airport, had qualified on the aircraft type in 2004 and served as a First Officer but had only five months command experience prior to the accident. It was determined that the approach and touchdown flown with the aircraft commander as PF had been essentially normal but that none of the six lift spoilers which are designed to provide a significant element of deceleration on an aircraft not fitted with thrust reversers actually deployed when selected after landing. It was noted that neither the aircraft manufacturer nor the aircraft operator “had prepared specific procedures stating how the crew should act in a situation where the lift spoilers did not deploy” and that “the pilots had not trained for such a situation in a simulator”. Non-deployment of the spoilers was immediately observed by the absence of expected and routinely-monitored annunciations but it was found that the aircraft commander had not associated this with the unexpectedly poor deceleration and had assumed that the cause was a fault with the brakes. Therefore, after initially selecting the alternate braking system to no better effect, he had applied the emergency brakes. It was noted that these brakes do not have anti-skid protection and the severity of their application had been such that the wheels locked leading to the initiation of reverted rubber aquaplaning on the un-grooved damp runway surface. Directional control was lost during attempts to avoid the aircraft overrunning the end of the runway and it was found that the aircraft had left the end of the paved surface at a ground speed of approximately 15 - 20 knots and slid down a steep slope which began almost immediately. The uneven nature of the terrain and the abrupt stop at the bottom of it caused serious damage to the airframe and it was considered probable that leaking fuel was immediately ignited due to an electrical short circuit. It was evident from a video recording commenced soon after the fire started that the No 2 engine of the aircraft had continued to run for in excess of five minutes after the aircraft came to rest and this had increased the severity of the fuel-fed fire by causing the air turbulence in the vicinity and thus increasing the supply of oxygen to the fire. The landing runway LDA was noted as being 1200 metres followed by a paved Runway End Safety Area of 130 metres and then by just 4 metres of grass before the commencement of an uneven and rocky slope averaging a 30° gradient. It was established that at the time of the accident, the