concluded that in the sample year (2004) “the annual incapacitation rate was 0.25%". It also found that cardiovascular and cerebrovascular conditions were the cause of 50% of recorded incapacitations. The Recommendations in ICAO Annex 1 relevant to the medical risk of pilot incapacitation were considered by the investigation and opportunities for increasing regulatory awareness of the incapacitation risk were noted. The Conclusions of the investigation included the following: The First Officer managed the flight deck efficiently after the Captain's incapacitation and whilst intending to carry out the landing as soon as possible, "he did not put himself under stress to perform a hasty approach". His actions "were in accordance with the Operator’s Operations Manual, Part A, for pilot incapacitation and reflected good airmanship".. The Cabin Crew members who had assisted the First Officer had responded as per the Operator’s 'Operations Manual, Part A' and the 'Safety and Emergency Manual'.. Crew resource management (CRM) "was practiced well in taking appropriate actions at proper times without putting the flight into a situation of increased risk".. Medical data collection is a challenge when studying medical issues. The confidential nature of medical information may impede the collection of accurate data in a reasonable time. Medical condition data, especially for impairments rather than incapacitations, are rarely evaluated and categorised by a person who has adequate knowledge of medical implications.. Although the incident aircraft was equipped with both left and right hand nose wheel steering tillers, it had remained on the runway for over half an hour only because the pilot seated in the right hand seat was not authorised by the Operator to taxi the Aircraft.. The Cause of the Captain’s incapacitation was the embolic event (stroke) that resulted in loss of consciousness. Three Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: The Captain suffered from antiphospholipid syndrome disease which led to the embolic/stroke event.. No additional information on the captain’s medical history, except his hypertension, was made available to the medical examiner, such that no further medical treatment was prescribed to mitigate the possibility of an embolic event.. The regulatory requirements current at the time of the incident did not enable the medical check to discover a specific syndrome or disease, and subsequently to reduce the possibility of a pilot incapacitation event by taking the necessary medication or therapy.. Safety Action taken by the GCAA during and as a result of the Investigation to enhance the requirements for medical assessment of pilots applying for the renewal of Class 1 Medical Certificates included, in addition to the existing requirements for resting ECGs, that "extended cardiovascular assessment" must be undertaken when clinically indicated and that "estimation of serum lipids, including cholesterol" must be part of the first certificate-renewal examination after reaching the age of 40. Six Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Ethihad Airways should review the policy, assisted by appropriate risk assessment that prohibits taxiing an aircraft from the right hand seat, especially in emergency or abnormal situations. (SR 59/2015). that Ethihad Airways should ensure