An investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. FDR and CVR data were successfully downloaded in support of the Investigation. It was a noted that the 44 year-old Captain had accumulated 12,297 flying hours including 4,930 in command of which 332 were in command on the A320. The 57 year-old First Officer had accumulated 13,069 flying hours of which 84 were on the A320. Both pilots had P2 only ratings on the A330 and A340. It was established that the Captain had been acting as PF. While 7nm south of the destination airport and in receipt of radar headings from APP towards an ILS approach to runway 31L with the AP engaged, the Captain's speech tone changed and within 30 seconds he had become incoherent. A minute later, the First Officer observed that he was slumped in his seat, leaning to his left and "appeared to be making involuntary movements" whilst "gasping for breath and making unusual noises". Since the Captain was "unresponsive", the First Officer disengaged the AP and took over control of the aircraft. Initial difficulty was caused by the Captain's involuntary pressure on the right rudder pedal which "put the aircraft into a 10 degree sideslip" and resulted in lateral acceleration of up to 0.26g. However, after the bank angle had reached 21ยบ, straight and level flight was recovered. ATC was advised of the situation, a MAYDAY was declared and the cabin manager was called to the flight deck to be appraised of the situation and assist in securing the Captain clear of the controls with his seat in the fully aft position. A second member of the cabin crew assisted in administering oxygen from a therapeutic set brought from the passenger cabin and made a cabin PA in Arabic and English to see if there was a doctor on board but there was no response. Both cabin crew stayed in the flight deck for landing in order to monitor the Captain's condition and continued restraint and to continue to administer therapeutic oxygen. The First Officer then engaged both APs and ATC continued to provide vectors to the ILS in accordance with requests made by the First Officer. Once on the ILS LOC, the APP controller transferred the aircraft to TWR who were advised that once landed, the aircraft would be stopped on the active runway to await assistance as prevailing operator procedures did not permit the aircraft to be taxied from the right hand seat. The APs were disconnected at 850 feet agl and twelve minutes after the First Officer had taken over control, an uneventful landing was accomplished on runway 31L. The aircraft was brought to a halt on the runway to await towing, TWR transferred the aircraft to GND and the aircraft engines were shut down. A few minutes later while awaiting the arrival of the emergency services, it became apparent that the Captain "had partially regained consciousness and appeared to be responsive and communicative". About 30 minutes after