the aircraft had landed "paramedics arrived at the aircraft and entered the flight deck in order to evaluate the captain’s condition" after which it was decided that he could remain on board while the aircraft was towed to the gate. On arrival there, the Captain was the first person to disembark and was taken to the hospital for further checks and observation. Most of the investigation was concerned with establishing the cause of the Captain's incapacitation in the absence of any prior symptoms during the incident flight or any detection of risk through the routine processes used to establish pilots' medical fitness. It was noted that the Captain had been "in an unconsciousness state for about twenty minutes". After regaining consciousness, the Captain had "asked questions that indicated that he could not remember what had happened to him". He thought that he had been asleep and wondered why he had not been woken up. At this time, the aircraft had already landed and the Captain offered to taxi the aircraft, but the First Officer "preferred" to await the requested tow. Following recovery from unconsciousness, the Captain "exhibited no abnormal indications, except headache and pain in the lower back, similar to muscular pain". Medical investigations concluded that the Captain had Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome (APS) which had led to a stroke which had caused him to lose consciousness. It was noted that this syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which cell damage causes small unwanted blood clots to form in the body's arteries and veins. It was noted that persons at risk of this disorder may be clinically predisposed to its onset without showing or being aware of any symptoms and that diagnosis of APS requires a history of health problems which can be related to the presence of the specific cell damage origin and can occur at any age. Statistics of US origin were found which indicated that "one third of strokes occurring in people under the age of 50 are due to APS". The Captain's medical history was examined and it was found that two years prior to the investigated incident he had been diagnosed with hypertension and appropriate medication had been prescribed. During his licence renewal application four months prior to the incapacitation, he had declared his medical history of hypertension and that he had been prescribed medication to control the condition. However, this disclosure occurred 20 months after diagnosis and it was noted that when made, the disclosure had not triggered any further medical examinations. It was found that during the year following the incapacitation, the Captain had not suffered any further episodes, loss of consciousness or seizure and continuous monitoring of his propensity to suffer blood clotting had indicated that his condition was stable. The investigation noted the publication of two studies which had examined the causes of pilot incapacitation, one based on UK data and the other on US data. The UK CAA Study included incapacitation events affecting professional pilots both on and off duty and