following: The Marseilles ANSP introduced a ban on visual approaches in situations where any aircraft has a transponder failure and a ban on any takeoff without a transponder. In such circumstances, an inbound aircraft which has a transponder failure must be held clear until the runway circuit is free.. Airbus Helicopters - introduced a requirement to inform ATC in the event of a transponder failure in flight and thereafter follow the published VFR tracks scrupulously with prior ATC clearance to be requested if any need to leave a published altitude, for example due to turbulence, arises.. Air France - temporarily suspended visual approaches at Marseille until safety action taken by the ANSP and Airbus Helicopters had restored their confidence in the operational safety of such approaches. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DNSA (the French ANSP) establish a procedure so that when justified by the density and/or complexity of traffic in the airspace, spatial and temporal segregation measures are implemented by the air traffic control for any flight with a transponder failure until it can be safely integrated in the traffic. [FRAN2018-011]. that the DNSA ensure that the Marseille-Provence controllers are informed of the performance restrictions or limitations of their display equipment and in particular, the primary radar. [FRAN2018-012]. that the DNSA assess the need for an extension of the action detailed in recommendation FRAN2018-012 to other air traffic units.[FRAN 2018-013]. that the DNSA ensure that procedures are implemented in the Marseille-Provence tower and approach units so that flights are managed as part of a shared traffic sequencing strategy. [FRAN 2018-014]. that the DNSA study the implementation, at Marseille-Provence, of work methods to safely sequence traffic on one of the two parallel runways. [FRAN 2018-015]. Two Safety Lessons relevant to aircraft operating in Class ‘D’ airspace and identified as a result of the Investigation were as follows: Approach Speed:. It is important that crews adopt speeds compatible with the “see and avoid” principle when manoeuvring in airspace where both IFR and VFR flights are permitted. Accuracy of Position Reports:. It is essential for safety that crews provide accurate and reliable reports and that any change to the flight path is indicated to air traffic control. The Final Report in English translation was completed on 22 January 2019 and published on 28 February 2019. The definitive French language Final Report was completed on 19 December 2018 and published in French on 21 December 2018.