the APP controller had coordinated in the normal way with the TWR controller to obtain his acceptance for the A319 visual approach, this communication and approval did not occur within any overall strategy to ensure the organisation of all traffic and each controller had thus sequenced the traffic in their own sector “without really taking into account the traffic in progress or expected in the adjacent airspace”. It was also noted that the ANSP OM did not specify any local restrictions on runway use, leaving “the choice of runway assignment strategy to the duty controllers and the tower manager”. The Investigation particularly noted in the context of the investigated conflict that there are no restrictions in runway assignment for VFR flights which “is done according to the traffic and the needs of the tower controllers regardless of the inbound sector of a VFR flight”. It was observed that “whilst such a practice allows a certain flexibility", it can also, as in the present case, lead to flights crossing paths on the final approach centrelines, by applying the “see and avoid” principle which “does not always guarantee safety” and “can also lead to aircraft overtaking each other on the parallel centrelines at small distances and may cause, in addition to a possible wake turbulence problem, a feeling of insecurity among the users”. It was found that the TWR frequency was busy for 80% of the time between the arrival of the Cougar on frequency and the completion of its landing and it was noted that this “very high degree of congestion” had delayed both the Cougar crew and the A319 crew from establishing initial two way contact with the TWR controller. In addition, “an examination of the radio exchanges established that the use of non-standard phraseology, in French, also largely contributed to increasing the time spent on the frequency”. It was considered that “this can be explained by a propensity for French parties to talk more without there being a real need or added value for the traffic management, sometimes even to the detriment of the precision and conciseness of the messages”. The cause of the loss of a primary radar return from the Cougar was initially its entry into a hover which was not known to ATC. The fact that this then led to a period of almost 4 minutes until returns reappeared well after the hover had been discontinued was attributed by the Marseille ANSP technical department to a series of circumstances which were a consequence of the radar configuration rather than as a result of any malfunction of it. It was noted that some patchiness in primary radar cover in the vicinity of Marseille which particularly affected helicopter movements had been identified by a study by the DGAC (French CAA) in 2006, but that this finding had not been brought to the attention of controllers. The Investigation also identified the fact that the crews involved in the investigated event were all based at Marseille. The consequence of this