“base effect” was summarised as follows: On an airport such as Marseille with dense traffic, the wish to optimise traffic and keep it fluid may lead the various actors to operate with lower safety margins. Progressively, skills are developed, habits created and the levels of mutual trust between operators are re-enforced. Locally-based crews, for example, become familiar with the terrain and may be less vigilant with respect to the path or speed adopted. The controllers may also monitor the flying of these paths to a lesser degree and reduce internal coordination. These habits also lead to less formal language being adopted on the frequency with more implicit elements or digressions. This event thus underlines the fragilities in the current approach practices at the airport. Adaptations which work well on a daily basis may be deficient on an unplanned event occurring, if there is not a real awareness of the associated risk and of the need to switch to another mode of operation. Here the risk caused by the Cougar transponder failure was probably underestimated. The excessive confidence in the primary radar (in the absence of information about its limitations) as well as confidence in the crew reporting (reinforced by the fact that it was a professional crew) may have led the controllers to overestimate the possibility of knowing the position of the aircraft. Four Causal Factors were identified in combination as having led to the near collision as follows: No segregation measures being taken by the air traffic control with respect to the Cougar which had to operate without a transponder, in dense airport traffic where the compatibility of IFR and VFR traffic is based on traffic information and visual contact between crews.. Non-compliance with the aerodrome circuit altitude by the Cougar crew.. Cougar crew not advising that they were bringing the helicopter into hover and an inaccuracy in their position reports which meant that the controller constructed an erroneous mental representation of the situation and thus provided unsuitable traffic information.. Controllers not being given information about the existence of zones where primary radar returns are not displayed.. Five Contributory Factors were also identified: The absence of an overall sequencing strategy for inbound VFR and IFR traffic.. Work load which did not allow the tower controller to sufficiently anticipate the arrival of the HOP (A319) flight.. Excessive flexibility in the management of parallel runways.. Very busy tower frequency due to the density of the traffic and the use of non-standard phraseology which did not allow the HOP flight crew to contact the controller and meant that they did not obtain traffic information in due time.. Possible overconfidence between the Tower controllers and the Cougar crew, professionals based at the same airport, which may have led to less rigorous practices in providing accurate position reports and in the use of these reports for traffic management.. Safety Action taken as a result of the event whilst the Investigation was in progress was noted to have included but not been limited to the