and after its completion the A319 crew reported that a helicopter had just flown right to left across and below their track in ‘dangerous’ proximity. The TWR controller then told the Cougar crew (at blue position 10), who were still discussing only the location of the light aircraft they were to follow on their 31L visual approach, that in the absence of radar contact, it was difficult for him to provide traffic information. He informed them of the presence of an A319 at the MS reporting point on final for runway 31R but the Cougar crew did not reply. The Investigation established that the time of non reply coincided with their visual acquisition of the light aircraft they had been looking for followed a few seconds later by their first sighting of the A319 to their north with separation now increasing from the earlier unseen minimum of 0.19 NM horizontally and 240 ft vertically. The TWR controller then cleared the A319 to land on 31R and advised the Cougar crew that he now regained radar contact on their aircraft and subsequently cleared them to land on 31L. The effect of the temporary loss of a primary radar return from the Cougar when its single transponder had failed earlier in its flight created a situation which ATC resolved by relying on its position reports to separate it from other traffic which was also manoeuvring visually. The TWR controller was aware of the failure of the Cougar’s transponder earlier in the flight but initially had primary radar returns from it. When these were lost in the vicinity of the ‘EA’ reporting point, the TWR controller considered that despite this now total loss of radar contact, its reported position at the ‘EA’ reporting point meant that it “could be integrated in the traffic, even with respect to the visual approach in progress”. His assessment of the situation was that the Cougar approach could be fitted in between those of the A320 and the A319. Then, still without primary radar contact he accepted the subsequent report from the Cougar that it had reached the ‘MS’ reporting point on the 31R extended centreline at face value given that it was from a locally-based professional crew. This report and a desire to fit in departures from runway 31R led him to alter his initial plan to make the Cougar number 2 for 31R behind the A320 and ask it to continue to final for 31L, positioning number 2 to the light aircraft in a left hand circuit. However, since the ‘MS’ position report was incorrect and the Cougar was still east of both final approach tracks, its flight path to a 31L final then took it across the final approach track for 31R and into conflict with the A319, whose crew did not see it until after it had passed below them. It was noted that the failure of the transponder on the Cougar meant that no anti-collision system was triggered. The Investigation considered that although