final in order to position behind it which the pilot read back. Half a minute later, the A319 crew reported visual contact with the A320 ahead to APP and were advised to expect visual final behind that traffic. At this time, the TWR controller asked the Cougar crew to report on final 31R behind the A320 and advised them of the light aircraft downwind for the parallel runway (31L). Meanwhile, the APP controller was clearing the A319 (now in red position 3 on the illustration) to make a left hand visual approach to runway 31R subject to the A320 ahead being in sight. The Cougar had, unknown to the controller, begun to hover (blue positions 3 and 4) at an altitude of approximately 1850 feet at which point, its primary radar return ceased. When the TWR controller realised this and advised the crew, they reported that they were at the ‘EA’ reporting (shown on the above illustration) when they were in fact almost 2nm southwest of it. Ten seconds later, the APP controller advised the A319 crew that they could turn base at their discretion and transferred the flight to TWR. The A319 crew called TWR on left base (red position 5) and confirmed contact with the number 1 traffic (the A320). The tower controller did not reply but cleared the A320 to land and the asked the Cougar crew if they were visual with the light aircraft on final for 31L. The Cougar crew replied (at blue position 6) that they were not and stated that they were at the ‘MS’ waypoint (on the illustration and on the 31R extended centreline at 3.9nm) whereas their position was actually 2nmm east northeast of it. The TWR controller, based on this erroneous position report asked the Cougar crew to “make a small dog leg to the left” for runway 31L and position behind the light aircraft which had just passed the ‘MS’ reporting point and confirm visual contact. CVR data from the Cougar showed that for the next 1½ minutes, conversation between the Cougar crew members were solely concerned with the search for visual contact with the light aircraft. During this time, with the Cougar still northeast of the 31R extended centreline (at blue position 7), the TWR controller again reminded its crew to report visual with the light aircraft who responded with a request for its position and were advised that it was established on a long final for runway 31L. With the A319 at red point 8 on the illustration immediately above and approximately 20 seconds from crossing the Cougar’s fight path, the A319 crew, having received no response to their initial call on the TWR frequency, again called and reported that they were “arriving on final for runway 31R”. The TWR controller responded by asking them to report short final for 31R and advised of two aircraft on the parallel approach, a light aircraft followed by a helicopter. During this transmission the A319 crossed the Cougar’s flight path