Accordingly, ESARR 2 Advisory Material has been structured as follows: - EAM 2/GUI 1 - Severity Classification Scheme for Safety Occurrences in ATM defines two Severity Classification Schemes to be used when analysing ATM related occurrences One that allows the classification of occurrences according to the severity of their effect on the safe operations of aircraft and occupants; and One that allows the classification of occurrences according to the severity of their effect on the ability to provide safe Air Traffic Management Services,. One that allows the classification of occurrences according to the severity of their effect on the safe operations of aircraft and occupants; and. One that allows the classification of occurrences according to the severity of their effect on the ability to provide safe Air Traffic Management Services,. to be applied to the Safety Measurement of ATM and support the implementation of ESARR 2. The full text of EAM 2/GUI 1 can be viewed here. EAM 2/GUI 2 - Publication and Confidentiality Policy (Under Review) defines the rules for the sharing and publishing safety information, and for addressing confidentiality issues. More specifically, it addresses the confidentiality of the shared safety information, by considering the use of de-identification of information, security access means and legal instruments. It also specifies the type and level of information that could be released to the Public, in order to demonstrate the levels of safety being achieved in aviation.. EAM 2/GUI 3 - Mapping between the EUROCONTROL Severity Classification Scheme & the ICAO AIRPROX Severity Scheme aims to ensure that ESARR2 Implementation is consistent with related ICAO SARPs and best practices (Doc. 4444). To reinforce this consistency, and to clarify further the ESARR 2 “Severity Classification Scheme” (see EAM 2/GUI 1), a mapping with the ICAO AIRPROX scheme has been included in the document.. The full text of EAM 2/GUI 3 can be viewed here. EAM 2/GUI 4 - Explanatory Material on ESARR 2 Requirements provides guidance about the provisions established in ESARR 2, illustrated by explanatory material that includes a rationale, as well as documenting the most significant implications for Regulators, but also for service-providers and for Investigation bodies.. The full text of EAM 2/GUI 4 can be viewed here. EAM 2/GUI 5 - Harmonisation of Safety Occurrence Severity and Risk Assessment provides support guidelines to State organisations in order to harmonise the reporting, assessing and subsequent analysis of safety occurrences in compliance with the EUROCONTROL ESARR 2 Severity Classification scheme (see EAM 2/GUI 1). The document contains a core text followed by a summary annex containing guidelines on the developed mark sheets. It also includes components and information that should be appropriate to the development of training courses on ESARR 2.. The full text of EAM 2/GUI 5 can be viewed here. EAM 2/GUI 6 - Establishment of ‘Just Culture’ Principles in ATM Safety Data Reporting & Assessment is derived from the research of existing best practices and in particular from the conclusions and recommendations of EUROCONTROL’s “Safety Data Reporting and Data