An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The aircraft type is required to have an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) but it was found during the Investigation that the accident aircraft was one of a fleet of aircraft of this type operated by Cobham which had been exempted from this requirement by the UK CAA and neither was fitted. Although this “severely limited the ability of the Investigation to determine the exact sequence of events”, a careful analysis of radar data with cross reference to aircraft performance information enabled the Investigation to reconstruct the aircraft trajectory with a reasonable degree of confidence. It was noted that the prevailing weather conditions had been benign and established that the take off from runway 23 had used the full length of the runway with a calculated V1 of 141 knots. A “large bird” had been seen by the PF flying towards the aircraft before passing down the side of the aircraft “sufficiently close that the commander considered a birdstrike inevitable”. ATC were advised of the rejection and, when it became apparent that maximum braking was not going to prevent an overrun, the aircraft was intentionally steered to the right to avoid impacting the Instrument Landing System (ILS) and lighting arrays. After crossing the 119 metre stopway and the remaining 60 metres of the runway strip onto the grass Runway End Safety Area, the aircraft landing gear sank up to the axles into the soft ground and came to a stop 233 metres beyond the end of the runway paved surface. The largely intact remains of a single carrion crow weighing approximately 450 gram were recovered from the runway and it was considered that it may have hit the main landing gear. No evidence was found that indicated any relevant aircraft unserviceability had prevailed at the time of the accident take off and it was established that “assuming the correct crew actions and timing (following the decision to reject the take off) performance modelling indicates that the decision to reject the takeoff was made at a speed such that the equivalent V1 was 150.2 KIAS”, some 9 knots above the V1 actually applicable to the take off. Crew recollections on this point conflicted, with the First Officer stating that he had called V1 at the correct indicated speed and the Captain, acting as PF that he had rejected the take off prior to any V1 call and would not have decided to do so after hearing that call. It was estimated that had the decision to reject the take off been made using the correct V1, then “the aircraft would have stopped about 100 metres before the end of the runway". The rate of deceleration on the stopway and subsequent runway strip was reviewed and it was found that it had been only about half as much as on the runway surface due to the different surface material and contamination of the surface by loose debris. Had it