had the same friction as the runway, it was estimated that the aircraft would have entered the grass RESA at 6 knots rather than the 50 knots which it was estimated had occurred. The Investigation concluded that whilst runway 23 friction characteristics “would have remained above the minimum required levels” following the measurements recorded at the most recent periodic check, “limitations in existing continuous friction measuring equipment makes the measurement of friction characteristics at runway ends and stopways impractical”. The effect of this was that friction figures for these areas were not available to the Investigation. It was noted that “the CAA, with others, is currently undertaking research into friction measurement capability in order to address this problem”. The reason for the CAA exemption from the requirement for the aircraft to be fitted with a CVR and an FDR was examined. It was noted that it had been applied for and approved because of “perceived difficulties and cost in retrofitting the recorder systems required when weighed up against the expected remaining life of this particular fleet” and had been granted on an annual basis from 2009 onwards. However, the Investigation noted that “a significant part of the cost of retrofitting an FDR system is associated with providing additional wiring and interfacing to the existing aircraft systems to capture the required parameters” and found that that since exemptions had begun, the aircraft covered by it had been retrofitted with a modern avionics suite which “would significantly reduce the cost of interfacing to the majority of the required parameters should an FDR system be retrofitted.” It was further noted that “discussions with the appropriate maintenance organisation did not identify any significant obstacles to retrofitting a modern CVR”. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Durham Tees Valley Airport takes action to ensure that, in accordance with the requirements of CAP 683 – The Assessment of Runway Surface Friction Characteristics, the surface of the Runway 23 stopway has friction characteristics not substantially less than those of the associated runway. [2013-004]. that the Civil Aviation Authority cease to grant Cobham Leasing Limited exemptions from the Air Navigation Order flight recorder requirements for their Falcon 20 fleet. [2013-005]. Safety Action as a result of the overrun by the aircraft operator to variously improve and correct Operations Manual content in respect of rejected take offs and by the CAA to review its policy and requirements on Stopways was noted. The Final Report was published on 13 June 2013.