to the planned FL 170 cruise altitude and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. FDR data showed that the lowest airspeed reached during the episode was 149 KIAS and the highest just over 190 KIAS. An analysis of the FDR data during this episode by the manufacturer led to them concurring with the view that the rapid variation in pitch attitude and AoA had been caused by the turbulence and confirming that the stick shaker activations had all been triggered by momentary exceedance of the 5.9° AoA threshold and that the aircraft had not entered an aerodynamic stall. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) detailed in the Aircraft Manufacturer’s AOM and the Company OM relevant to flight in turbulence and icing conditions were reviewed and it was noted that these include but are not limited to use of IAS mode at not less than 160 KIAS as normal in icing conditions and a requirement that speeds below 160 KIAS in such conditions should not occur with the AP engaged. They also state that it is advisable to increase speed up to but not beyond the turbulence penetration speed of 190 KIAS up to FL 210 (and up to but not beyond Vmo -30 knots above that level) “when encountering more than light turbulence” in order to achieve a greater margin over the stick shaker trigger AoA and thus reduce the occurrence of transient activations. It was also found that the SOP for recovery from a Stall Warning is not included in the Emergency and Abnormal Checklist and is provided in the ‘Flight Procedures Training Section’ of the AOM and states that the response should be a call to set Maximum Continuous Power and an immediate decrease in pitch “by approximately 5 degrees” whilst “not hesitating” to trade altitude for speed whilst avoiding an “unnecessary dive”. It was noted that none of this guidance or the related procedures had been followed and that the prescribed response to a Stall Warning had not occurred. In particular, at no time had engine power been increased to the Maximum Continuous Power (MCP) setting to assist recovery. It was also noted that whilst it was permitted to disregard activations of the stick shaker which lasted “less than one second”, this could only be done if at or above the 160 KIAS ‘Clean Manoeuvring Speed’ which in two of the three activations in this episode, it was not. It was observed that “increasing the airspeed when the aircraft encountered turbulence, as recommended in the AOM, might have avoided this event because it would have increased the AoA margin over the stick shaker”. The crew commented that “they were fully aware of the stall procedures (and that) the lack of the trigger call ‘Stall - Max Power’ from either pilot in response to the stall warnings meant neither recognised the situation as one which required the (prescribed) actions”. They also “noted how quickly the ice built up on the aircraft” during the encounter. The Investigation noted that