A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. Relevant recorded data was available from the FDR but that on the CVR had been overwritten. It was noted that the 34 year-old Captain had 6,638 total flying hours of which all but 251 hours were on type. The experience of the First Officer, who had only “very recently” completed his conversion to type, was not documented. It was noted that the forecast chart provided to the crew by the Operator’s ‘flight planning contractor’ prior to the flight was a Significant Weather Chart which covered the whole of Europe between FL 100 and FL 450 which indicated that moderate icing and turbulence could be expected en route between FL 100 and FL 180. This chart did not show the position and expected movement of surface weather fronts but a UK-only low level forecast chart not presented to the crew but based on the same data source (see below) showed that the sector could be expected to take place in the vicinity of an active occluded front with moderate convective turbulence and icing likely between FL080 and FL 100. An aftercast made by the UK Meteorological Office conceded that the investigated event had occurred in an area and within a time period where there had been an (un-forecast) high probability that severe icing would occur. Initially, light turbulence in cloud was experienced but as the aircraft climbed through FL 100 with the AP engaged in IAS mode set to 163 KIAS and the recorded OAT -5°, light turbulence was encountered and the aircraft began pitching up and down in order to maintain the selected speed. The turbulence continued and increased but shortly after restarting the climb after briefly levelling at FL103, it began to intensify more quickly. Airframe ice accretion began to occur rapidly and pitch attitude increased to 6.3° nose-up as the AoA increased in one second from just over 0° to in excess of +5.9°, the trigger for stick shaker activation, and the latter occurred and the AP disconnected. The First Officer then attempted to accelerate the aircraft by reducing the pitch attitude but although this was quickly reduced to 2.8° nose-up, it then increased again to 13° nose-up in 4 seconds as the AoA varied rapidly, at one point dropping to -7°. The AP was then re-engaged but airspeed and pitch attitude continued to be erratic and 13 seconds later, after a rapid pitch up to 5.6° accompanied by a similarly rapid AoA increase to peak at a recorded 6°, it disconnected again. The aircraft then briefly levelled off as both pitch attitude and AoA rapidly increased with the recorded AoA peaking at 6.3° triggering a third stick shaker activation. The First Officer responded to this by manually initiating a rapid descent from FL 110 to FL 105 to increase airspeed. The AP was then again re-engaged for a third time but as this coincided with a sustained reduction in turbulence, it was possible to resume the climb