because of events in the worldwide Saab 340 fleet in which aircraft encountered a stall without any prior stall warning, a 2014 AD had mandated modifications to the stall warning system within 18 months. This modification had increased the stall warning speed trigger thresholds to compensate for possible wing ice accretion on the wings and had involved the trigger AoA for stick shaker being lowered from 12.1° to 5.9°. This “Ice Speed” function is activated by switching on the engine anti-ice system but remains live even when the engine anti-ice system is selected off until a separate switch is also selected off since the engine anti-ice system must remain on for five minutes after exiting icing conditions. It was found that introduction of this modified system had been accompanied by a very significant increase in UK-reported Saab 340 stick shaker events and noted that the EASA had asked Saab to “review the system architecture and logic to look for any possible adaptation which would address the safety concerns associated with the repeated warnings”. As a result, it was noted that EASA is now expected to mandate a minor change to use of the “Ice Speed” function by allowing it to be switched off independently of the requirement to keep the engine anti ice system on for five minutes after exiting icing conditions. The formally-documented Conclusion of the Investigation was as follows: After encountering severe icing, probably associated with a CB, the Saab 340 stall warning system functioned as it was designed to by alerting the crew, through the stick shaker, of an AOA in excess of 5.9°. The crew actions did not initially address the problem sufficiently and the stick shaker occurred again. Following the third activation of the stick shaker the crew descended the aircraft to regain a safe airspeed. Although maximum power was not set, the aircraft did accelerate and the crew were able to clear the icing and turbulent conditions before continuing their flight without further incident. Safety Action taken by the Operator as a result of this event was noted as the introduction of a new OFDM event which identifies when the AP disconnects due to AoA exceedances. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 March 2018. No Safety Recommendations were made.