the investigated accident, the failure of the aircraft crew to provide an accurate head count to RFFS personnel upon exiting the aircraft was of concern and needed to be addressed. Unclear policies regarding runway friction measurements. La Guardia and other airports operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey were not using continuous friction measuring equipment (CFME) to assess runway friction after snow removal operations when relevant documentation stated that they would do so. As a result, the Port Authority’s policies regarding CFME use during winter operations need clarification, especially given that the FAA promotes CFME as a valuable tool for airport operators to detect trends in runway conditions during such operations. Unclear policies regarding runway condition reporting. FAA guidance on airport winter safety and operations states that NOTAMs describing runway surface conditions must be “timely” and be updated any time a “change to the runway surface condition” occurs. At the time of the accident, the current NOTAM was 2 hours old and since then snowfall had continued and accident runway had been closed for snow clearance prior to reopening. Flight crew access to updated information on current runway surface conditions was thereby unnecessarily limited to reports from preceding aircraft. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to have been "the Captain’s inability to maintain directional control of the airplane due to his application of excessive reverse thrust, which degraded the effectiveness of the rudder in controlling the airplane’s heading". Two Contributory Factors were also identified: the Captain’s situational stress resulting from his concerns about stopping performance. the Captain's attentional limitations due to the high workload during the landing, which prevented him from immediately recognising the use of excessive reverse thrust.. Safety Action taken by Delta Airlines as a result of the accident included a reduction of normal reverse thrust for dry runways to 1.3 EPR and a new procedure for all non-dry runways requiring a mandatory initial use of idle reverse with a "methodical and gradual" increase to not more than 1.3 EPR permitted only after verification of both reverse thrust symmetry and alignment with the runway track. A re-formulation of landing distance tables using idle reverse thrust was also carried out and a "safety management system safety risk assessment" of the use of reverse thrust usage was initiated. A total of 14 new Safety Recommendations were made at the conclusion of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should collaborate with Boeing and US operators of MD-80 series airplanes to: conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder blanking. [A-16-20]. conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and. identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder