airplane should have come earlier in the sequence of events and before the request from ARFF personnel to evacuate". The use of reverse thrust was closely examined using FDR data. It was found that although both pilots were aware that the "target" Engine Pressure Ratio (EPR) for reverse when landing on a contaminated runway was 1.3, EPR values were found to have exceeded 1.6 for about 5 seconds whilst the airspeed was under 130 knots, the left engine reaching a maximum of 2.07 and the right engine reaching a maximum of 1.91. Boeing data showed that, "with reverse thrust above 1.6 EPR and an airspeed under 146 knots, the rudder had limited directional authority" so that during the 4.5 seconds between the beginning of deviation from the runway centreline and time that the thrust reversers were stowed, the rudder had been "blanked" by the effect of the thrust reversers so that rudder input was unable to control heading. Once the thrust reversers were stowed and rudder authority was restored, it had been possible to reduce the extent of the displacement. The possible causes of the initial deviation to the left - the slightly asymmetric application of reverse thrust, a suddenly increased crosswind component and the application of braking during the landing roll - were examined and it was concluded that it was unlikely that any single event or environmental factor would have been able to create the effect which prevailed on its own and that a combination of these factors probably favoured the initiation of a deviation. The Investigation compared FDR data from the previous landing aircraft, also Delta MD88, and that although the first aircraft had also recorded a significant exceedance of the "target" 1.3 EPR (reaching 1.82 and 1.53), it had remained on the runway centreline throughout its landing roll. Simulations using the two sets of wheel braking coefficients showed that both indicated "medium" braking action had prevailed and it was therefore concluded that "although the runway was contaminated with snow, runway friction when the accident airplane landed was sufficient for stopping on the available runway length". It was noted that contrary to Delta guidance to MD-88 pilots to "consider delaying thrust reverser deployment until nosewheel touchdown so that directional control would not be affected by asymmetric deployment", the accident aircraft Captain had "deployed the thrust reversers almost simultaneously with the main landing gear touchdown". Landing flight data from 80 other Delta MD88 landings was examined and it was found that target EPR for both dry runways (1.6) and contaminated runways (1.3) were regularly exceeded. Over half of those on non-dry runways had maximum EPRs for both engines above 1.3 (although none went as high as those on the accident aircraft) and nearly half of all the reviewed landings recorded at least one engine maximum EPR in excess of 1.6. Also, it was found that in none of the other landings in which at least one engine registered above 1.6 EPR had the reverse thrust been applied as