airports certificated under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 139, direct airport certification safety inspectors to ensure, before or during the airports’ next scheduled annual inspection, that policies and procedures for friction measurement during winter operations are accurately and adequately described in the airports’ Airport Certification Manual and Snow and Ice Control Plan. [A-16-28]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should revise Advisory Circular 150/5200-30D, “Airport Field Condition Assessments and Winter Operations Safety,” to provide more precise guidance regarding (1) the need to issue notices to airmen (NOTAM) in a timely manner and (2) the specific changes to runway surface conditions that would prompt the issuance of updated NOTAMs. [A-16-29]. that Boeing should collaborate with the Federal Aviation Administration and US operators of MD-80 series airplanes to: conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder blanking. [A-16-30]. conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and. identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder blanking. [A-16-30]. that Boeing should explore the possibility of incorporating an alert in MD-80 series airplanes to aid pilots in preventing engine pressure ratio exceedances. [A-16-31]. that US operators of MD-80 series airplanes should collaborate with the Federal Aviation Administration and Boeing to: conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder blanking. [A-16-32]. conduct a study to examine reverse thrust engine pressure ratio (EPR)-related operational data, procedures, and training and. identify industry-wide best practices that have been shown to be effective in reliably preventing EPR exceedances to mitigate the risks associated with rudder blanking. [A-16-32]. that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey should, after consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration, clarify its policies regarding continuous friction measuring equipment use during winter operations and ensure that this information is included in the Airport Certification Manual and Snow and Ice Control Plan for each airport operated by the Port Authority. [A-16-33]. In addition, one previously issued (2009) Safety Recommendation was reiterated: that the Federal Aviation Administration should revise Advisory Circular 120-48, “Communication and Coordination Between Flight Crewmembers and Flight Attendants,” to update guidance and training provided to flight and cabin crews regarding communications during emergency and unusual situations to reflect current industry knowledge based on research and lessons learned from relevant accidents and incidents over the last 20 years. [A-09-34]. The Final Report was adopted by the Board on 13 September 2016 and subsequently published.