repeated it. The Captain promptly responded - FDR data showed that the reversers were stowed within 2.5 seconds - but the aircraft had already begun to deviate left and it became apparent that directional control could not be achieved by right rudder input or differential braking and the aircraft left the side of the runway at a distance of 975 metres from the runway threshold. As the excursion progressed (see the diagram below) the First Officer shut down both engines "to prevent any further thrust from pushing the airplane into Flushing Bay" and the Captain subsequently stated that the nose of the aircraft had broken through a fence on the perimeter sea wall and that "both he and the First Officer could see the water below" as the aircraft came to a stop. It was found that electrical power was no longer available (the aircraft batteries had been damaged during the excursion) which precluded normal crew communications. At some point, the captain went into the passenger cabin and asked the senior cabin crew to "assess the exits". After a few minutes, the First Officer used his cell phone to call company dispatch, which transferred the call to the La Guardia TWR and he advised the final head count (taken from the pre-take-off ACARS Report which did not include two infants) and the fuel quantity. The flight crew completed "those parts of the evacuation checklist that could be done without power" and according to the First Officer, a firefighter approached the window on (his) side of the flight deck and told him through a partially opened window that "everyone should evacuate the airplane via the right overwing exits due to fuel leaking from the left wing". The First Officer advised the Captain accordingly and the latter then told the cabin crew to "begin evacuating the passengers from the right overwing exits and the tailcone exit". ATC were initially not aware of the excursion due to the poor visibility from the TWR and reports from airport personnel nearer to the scene lacked an adequate description of the aircraft location but did promptly communicate to ATC to the effect that the runway was "closed". Emergency vehicles did not leave their station until 4 minutes after the aircraft had stopped and did not reach the aircraft for a further 4 minutes. It was concluded from available timed video evidence that the evacuation had not begun until about 12 minutes after the aircraft had come to a stop (and about 6 minutes after passengers were first told that an evacuation would be necessary) and that a further 5 minutes elapsed before the last of the passengers had left the aircraft. Prior to the commencement of the evacuation, there was considerable evidence of both confusion amongst the cabin crew and lack of assertiveness on the part of the flight crew. It was concluded that "given that the airplane was stopped off the runway at an unusual attitude and with damage, the Captain’s decision to evacuate the