rapidly as was the case with the landing under investigation. A total of 14 previous events in the USA over the 20 year period 1995 -2015 involving loss of directional control during landing by MD-80 series aircraft were also examined. All but one had occurred on a contaminated runway and a clear majority had involved use of reverse thrust which exceeded 1.3 EPR. The formally documented Conclusions of the Investigation included the following in respect of the causation and immediate aftermath of the accident: Uncertainty about the runway conditions at LaGuardia Airport led to some situational stress for the Captain.. Although the runway was contaminated with snow, runway friction when the accident airplane landed was sufficient for stopping on the available runway length.. The circumstances associated with the landing, including the snowier-than-expected runway, short runway length, and body of water off the departure end of the runway, likely exacerbated the captain’s situational stress and prompted him to make an aggressive input on the thrust reversers.. The Captain was unable to maintain directional control of the airplane due to rudder blanking, which resulted from his application of excessive reverse thrust.. Even though the First Officer promptly identified rudder blanking as a concern and the Captain stowed the thrust reversers in response, the airplane’s departure from the left side of the runway could not be avoided because directional control was regained too late to be effective.. The flight and cabin crews did not conduct a timely or an effective evacuation because of the flight crew’s lack of assertiveness, prompt decision-making, and communication and the flight attendants’ failure to follow standard procedures once the Captain ordered the evacuation.. Other Conclusions related to prevention of a recurrence included the following: A solution to reliably limit reverse thrust engine pressure ratio values could benefit all pilots of MD-80 series airplanes.. A callout when reverse thrust exceeds 1.3 engine pressure ratio during landings on contaminated runways could help avoid rudder blanking and a subsequent loss of directional control.. An automated alert could help minimize the possibility of reverse thrust EPR exceedances during the landing rollout.. This accident demonstrates the continuing need for objective, real-time, airplane-derived data about runway braking ability for flight crews preparing to land with runway surface conditions that are worse than bare and dry.. By not using its continuous friction measuring equipment during winter operations, LaGuardia Airport did not take advantage of a tool that would allow the airport to objectively assess the effectiveness of snow removal operations on contaminated runways.. The airport winter operations safety guidance provided by the FAA is not sufficiently clear about the timing and need for updated runway condition reports, which could result in flight crew uncertainty about possible runway contamination.. This and other accidents demonstrate the need for improved decision-making and performance by flight and cabin crews when faced with an unplanned evacuation.. The flight attendants were not adequately trained for an emergency or unusual event that involved a loss of communications after landing, and the flight