blanking. [A-16-20]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should encourage US operators of MD-80 series airplanes to implement the best practices identified in Safety Recommendation A-16-20 and participate in an industry-wide monitoring program to verify the continued effectiveness of those solutions over time. [A-16-21]. implement the best practices identified in Safety Recommendation A-16-20 and. participate in an industry-wide monitoring program to verify the continued effectiveness of those solutions over time. [A-16-21]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require operators of MD-80 series airplanes to revise operational procedures to include a callout when reverse thrust power exceeds 1.3 engine pressure ratio during landings on a contaminated runway. [A-16-22]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should continue to work with industry to develop the technology to outfit transport-category airplanes with equipment and procedures to routinely calculate, record, and convey the airplane braking ability required and/or available to slow or stop the airplane during the landing roll. [A-16-23]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should, if the systems described in Safety Recommendation A-16-23 are shown to be technically and operationally feasible, work with operators and the system manufacturers to develop procedures that ensure that airplane-based braking ability results can be readily conveyed to, and easily interpreted by, arriving flight crews, airport operators, air traffic control personnel, and others with a safety need for this information. [A-16-24]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 operators to provide: guidance that instructs flight attendants to remain at their assigned exits and actively monitor exit availability in all non-normal situations in case an evacuation is necessary and flight attendant training programs that include scenarios requiring crew coordination regarding active monitoring of exit availability and evacuating after a significant event that involves a loss of communications. [A-16-25]. guidance that instructs flight attendants to remain at their assigned exits and actively monitor exit availability in all non-normal situations in case an evacuation is necessary and. flight attendant training programs that include scenarios requiring crew coordination regarding active monitoring of exit availability and evacuating after a significant event that involves a loss of communications. [A-16-25]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop best practices related to evacuation communication, coordination, and decision-making during emergencies through the establishment of an industry working group and then issue guidance for 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 air carriers to use to improve flight and cabin crew performance during evacuations. [A-16-26]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should clarify guidance to all 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121 air carriers to reinforce the importance of: having precise information about the number of passengers aboard an airplane, including lap-held children, and making this information immediately available to emergency responders after an accident to facilitate timely search and rescue operations. [A-16-27]. having precise information about the number of passengers aboard an airplane, including lap-held children, and. making this information immediately available to emergency responders after an accident to facilitate timely search and rescue operations. [A-16-27]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should, for