was reported that the odour continued to be present although no stronger. A further flashlight-assisted check through the fire curtain access by the Flight Engineer did not find any change in odour intensity or any visible smoke or haze. Then, as the aircraft descended through 3,600 feet, a main deck cargo smoke warning was annunciated on the flight deck followed about a minute later by a similar warning for the lower cargo compartment. The Captain instructed the First Officer and the Flight Engineer to don their oxygen masks "if they had not already done so" and almost immediately the flight was cleared for a visual approach to runway 27R and transferred to TWR. On initial contact, the Captain "reported that the cargo smoke indicator had illuminated and requested that emergency response equipment meet them upon landing". Less than a minute after the APP controller had cleared the aircraft for an approach to runway 27R, TWR issued a landing clearance for runway 27L without drawing attention to the change and the change was not noticed or read back by the Captain. Meanwhile, the Flight Engineer was actioning the 'Lower and/or Main Cargo Compartment Smoke or Fire Checklist and had reached the item which required him to close the cargo air SOV which required him to go back onto the main deck. On his return, he advised that "when he opened the door of the access panel to the cargo air shutoff valve, black smoke billowed out of the access panel". The First Officer called for the landing checklist and, as it was being actioned, TWR queried the apparent approach to 27R and when it became clear the change had not been heard, re-cleared the aircraft to land on 27R and advised the attending RFFS of this. Three minutes after the appearance of the cargo smoke warning, the aircraft landed on 27R. Immediately after touchdown, the Flight Engineer reported smoke entering the flight deck and once the aircraft had come to a stop, the First Officer called for an emergency evacuation and the Captain and First officer conducted the Emergency Evacuation checklist. All three flight crew successfully evacuated the aircraft in the presence of thick black smoke using the emergency slide at the L1 door. The TWR controller's late reversion to the originally-anticipated runway, 27R, did delay the arrival of the emergency services on the scene but they still arrived there as the flight crew were evacuating the aircraft. It was noted that the attempted change of landing runway to 27L contrary to the crew expectation on account of their approach clearance had occurred because 27L was "the runway designated for emergencies". The Captain and the First Officer both reported attempting to retrieve the NOTOC (Notification to Captain) from its usual location before leaving the flight deck but were unable to find it and could only advise RFFS personnel that the cargo included Hazardous Goods. Thirty five minutes later, the NOTOC was located by a member of the RFFS team where it