in fire resistant containers and/or in restricted quantities at any single location on the aircraft. [A-07-104]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration should, until fire suppression systems are required on cargo-only aircraft as asked for in Safety Recommendation A-07-99, require that cargo shipments of secondary lithium batteries, including those contained in or packed with equipment, be transported in crew-accessible locations where portable fire suppression systems can be used. [A-07-105]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration should require those aircraft operators that transport hazardous materials to immediately provide consolidated and specific information about hazardous materials on board an aircraft, including proper shipping name, hazard class, quantity, number of packages, and location, to on-scene emergency responders upon notification of an accident or incident. [A-07-106]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration should require commercial cargo and passenger operators to report to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration all incidents involving primary and secondary lithium batteries, including those contained in or packed with equipment, that occur either on board or during loading or unloading operations and retain the failed items for evaluation purposes. [A-07-107]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration should analyse the causes of all thermal failures and fires involving secondary and primary lithium batteries and, based on this analysis, take appropriate action to mitigate any risks determined to be posed by transporting lithium batteries, including those contained in or packed with equipment, on board cargo and passenger aircraft as cargo; checked baggage; or carry-on items. [A-07-108]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration' should eliminate regulatory exemptions for the packaging, marking, and labelling of cargo shipments of small secondary lithium batteries (no more than 8 grams equivalent lithium content) until the analysis of the failures and the implementation of risk-based requirements asked for in Safety Recommendation A-07-108 are completed. [A-07-109]. that the Cargo Airline Association should work with its member airlines and other groups, such as the Air Transport Association, major aircraft manufacturers, and the Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Working Group, to develop and disseminate accurate and complete airplane Emergency Response diagrams for ARFF personnel at airports with cargo operations. [A-07-110]. The Final Report of the Investigation was adopted by the NTSB on 4 December 2007.