on visible evidence of smoke or fire or an alert activation in the flight deck and there was no guidance on when to apply the fourth, the 'Fumes Evacuation Checklist', especially in the absence of any environmental effects which could have compromised the ability of a flight crew to continue their tasks normally. It was also noted that increasing both air conditioning packs to maximum flow as required in the 'Fumes Evacuation Checklist' would have increased the airflow through the cabin and evacuated any smoke more quickly thus reducing the contamination and both inhibiting the ability of the flight crew to identify the source of the odour and reducing the chances of smoke detectors detecting the presence of smoke. This same action would have also supplied additional oxygen to the smouldering fire. Although Boeing was understood to be updating the fire, smoke and fumes Checklists for most of its aircraft types to cover the observed deficiency, it was noted that there was no intention to do this for older types like the DC-8. Smoke and fire detection system test certification requirements Because the first flight deck warning of smoke did not occur until around 20 minutes after the fire is likely to have started, the detection system did not perform in accordance with the performance standards established by the FAA which require "smoke detector system activation within 5 minutes of fire initiation". The Investigation found that the certification of the DC8 smoke detection system did not take any account of the effect of a loaded cargo area on smoke detection within it, nor was it required to. It was considered that with cargo containers loaded, the incoming airflow would be primarily directed outward and downward towards the floor and that the containers would also create a barrier which any smoke would have to pass before entering an open space in which it could be sensed by the smoke detection system. Fire suppression system requirements It was noted that the accident aircraft was not required to be equipped with a fire suppression system and as a direct result, it was possible for a smouldering fire in one of the cargo containers to develop into a substantial fire that burned through the container and ceiling liner while the aircraft was airborne. Whilst it was recognised that there was a realistic prospect of such systems soon being required, it was noted that FAA flammability tests on primary lithium batteries i.e. lithium-metal (non rechargeable) batteries have shown that Halon is not an effective means of suppressing fires involving these batteries. Therefore, although requiring fire suppression systems on all-cargo aircraft would reduce the risk of fire involving most cargo items, including secondary (rechargeable) lithium batteries, it would have no effect on the risk of a primary lithium battery fire so that additional and specific mitigation of this risk would be needed. Cargo aircraft emergency exit requirements ARFF personnel did not properly deploy their "High-Reach Extendable Turret with Skin-Penetrating Nozzle (HRET/SPN) which prevented them gaining access