had been stowed by the Flight Engineer after it had fallen to the floor from its usual position. The RFFS reported that as the aircraft was evacuated, there was no sign of fire, just thick black smoke coming from the open L1 door and from the air conditioning outflow valve in the tail. On boarding the aircraft, RFFS personnel pulled back the smoke curtain and were able to see smoke - but no fire - on the main deck. All of the lower cargo compartments were opened but no smoke or fire was observed in any of them. The L4 and R4 doors were also opened and these accesses were used to off-load some cargo and commence water extinguishing action. Use of a thermal imaging camera did not locate any hot spots. Attempts to open the main cargo door were not successful but about 40 minutes after the aircraft had been evacuated, RFFS personnel opened the right forward over wing hatch and saw flames for the first time just aft of the hatch opening between the tops of the cargo containers and the cabin ceiling. Concerted attempts to locate and contain the fire followed but were not successful and two hours after the evacuation, the first fuselage burn-through occurred in the fuselage crown aft of the wings. The fire was not brought under control for a further two hours by which time the aircraft had been destroyed. Examination of the debris found the remains of some declared hazardous materials but these were intact, undamaged and in their original outer packaging - authorized and properly labelled fibreboard boxes. A number of other hazardous materials were also found in the debris but none of these had been declared as such and thereby manifested. It was not possible to attribute the fire origin to any particular cargo item although it was possible to conclude that the fire "most likely originated in (main deck) container 12, 13 or 14" and that it had originated as a smouldering fire which had only breached the container where it started shortly before the cargo smoke warning had appeared on the flight deck. It was concluded that the performance of the flight crew in response to the emergency had not contributed in any way to the accident outcome. In particular, the decision to continue on track to destination after the initial detection of a smell of smoke was "not inappropriate" given the absence of any other abnormalities and the absence of any flight deck alert annunciations. A series of 'Safety Issues' based on relevant 'inadequacies' which were identified during the Investigation included the following: Guidance and Checklists relating to in-flight fire and smoke The Investigation found that UPS guidance and checklists covering smoke, fire, or fumes in the absence of a flight deck warning were not adequate because neither UPS nor Boeing provided information which was specific to this circumstance. The UPS DC8 OM contained four checklists covering fire, smoke or fumes but three of them were predicated