An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and CVR were both recovered from the wreckage and most of their data were successfully downloaded. The flight crew was established as having been led by a 59 year-old Captain with 25,000 hours total flying experience which included 16,000 hours in command on type. The 40 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the accident flight, had 7,500 hours total flying experience which included 2,100 hours on type after earlier turboprop experience. The 61 year-old Flight Engineer, who had previously flown in the USAF and subsequently held a professional pilot licence, had 9,000 total flying hours including 2,000 as a flight engineer of which 430 were on type. Since no evidence was found to indicate that the fire had been of electrical origin, the Investigation concentrated on the cargo as the likely source of ignition. It was noted that the aircraft main deck had been configured to accommodate 18 cargo containers and that there had been a further 4 cargo compartments on the lower deck - see the illustration below. A "smoke curtain" was installed between the forward crew galley and the main deck cargo area as a smoke barrier. A closable opening in this curtain provided access to the cargo area but with cargo containers loaded, it was not possible to walk aft into it. The aircraft cargo configuration. [Reproduced from the Official Report] It was established that 25 minutes prior to the eventual landing at Philadelphia when the flight was some 50 nm south west of Washington DC, the crew had first begun to detect an unusual odour. Both the First Officer and the Flight Engineer reported that the odour had "smelt like wood burning" and the latter went to the fire curtain and shone a flashlight into the main deck cargo area but could see no visible smoke although the same odour was slightly more obvious. On return to the flight deck, he reported this and opined that the odour "did not smell electrical in nature". All three flight crew stated that "unusual odours of non-threatening origin such as flying over forest fires or emanating from unusual cargo were a relatively routine occurrence". Over the next few minutes, the Captain and the Flight Engineer reported having tried to identify the source of the odour "by conducting several emergency checklist steps, including increasing the bleed air flow and checking the bleed air switches" and as the aircraft descended through approximately 18,000 feet about 65 miles from destination, "the CVR recorded the Flight Engineer stating that he had set the air conditioning packs to maximum flow and turned off the recirculation fan". The Captain stated that he had considered diverting to another airport soon after the odour was first detected but that he had decided to continue as planned "because there was no evidence of a problem such as the illumination of the cargo smoke warning lights". The aircraft was cleared to descend to 6,000 feet and it