to the seat of the fire using the main cargo door as access and as a way to remove containers for access"'. Partly as a result of this, the fire continued until the aircraft had become a hull loss. This problem had been observed in a previous similar accident and it was considered that it could be attributed to insufficient attention to personnel training.. When investigating the fact that emergency services personnel were not familiar with the operation of the accident aircraft's main cargo door even though the airport has substantial cargo operations, it was found that they had not been provided with any familiarisation training on cargo aircraft. Although it was noted that this has since been introduced at Philadelphia, it was considered that a similar deficiency may still exist at other airports where it would be relevant.. A review of the DC-8 Emergency Response diagrams that UPS provided to the Philadelphia emergency services after the accident found that they were neither accurate nor complete.. Noting that all the flight crew had used the L1 door and slide to evacuate the aircraft in preference to the flight deck window rope exits, that a forward floor level emergency exit was not required on cargo aircraft and that, although the accident aircraft was only certificated to carry up to a maximum of 7 occupants, some wide body all-cargo aircraft were certificated to carry up to 27 occupants, it was considered that emergency exit designation for at least one forward door on all-cargo aircraft would be appropriate.. Procedures for the dissemination of Hazardous Materials information Following the occurrence of the accident, there was a delay in retrieving the only copy of the NOTOC from the aircraft and the attending emergency services personnel were not provided with equivalent information by UPS. Although this procedural failure has since been resolved in respect of UPS operations, it was considered that since the same problem has previously occurred after other accidents, it is likely that it may still persist in the case of other aircraft operators. It was noted that the prevailing US regulations only required aircraft operators to provide NOTOC-equivalent information to emergency responders "on request" and that UPS had not provided the information they held at their Flight Control Unit "because they did not receive a request for it, therefore, they were not obligated to volunteer it, as stipulated by the Regulations". Transport of lithium batteries on board aircraft Although the Investigation was unable to establish whether lithium batteries played a role in fire, it was noted that such occurrences on commercial aircraft were continuing to occur and that many incidents involving lithium batteries due to be loaded onto aircraft, on board aircraft or during and after unloading were exempt from reporting requirements. It was likely that their true extent was not being recorded and thereby relevant fire prevention lessons were not being learned. It was considered that only with full awareness and proportionate investigation of all incidents, could appropriate regulations be applied to