lithium battery carriage on transport aircraft and that current requirements did not fully achieve this. The Probable Cause of the Accident was determined as "an in-flight cargo fire that initiated from an unknown source, which was most likely located within cargo container 12, 13, or 14". Two Contributory Factors to the loss of the aircraft were also identified as: the inadequate certification test requirements for smoke and fire detection systems.. the lack of an on-board fire suppression system.. One Safety Recommendation was issued on 25 September 2006 whilst the Investigation was in progress: that the Federal Aviation Administration should amend Federal Aviation Administration Order 7110.65, 'Air Traffic Control', to require that, when amending a runway assignment, controllers provide a specific instruction to the pilot advising of the runway change. For example, “UPS 1307, change to runway 25L, cleared to land.” [A-06-65]. Upon completion of the Investigation, the FAA Response to this initial Safety Recommendation was classified as "Open - Unacceptable Response" since action to implement the proposed change had yet to be taken. On completion of the Investigation, a further 14 Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that the Federal Aviation Administration should provide clear guidance to operators of passenger and cargo aircraft operating under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 121, 135, and 91K on flight crew procedures for responding to evidence of a fire in the absence of a cockpit alert based on the guidance developed by the 2004 smoke, fire and fumes industry initiative. [A-07-97]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should ensure that the performance requirements for smoke and fire detection systems on cargo airplanes account for the effects of cargo containers on airflow around the detection sensors and on the containment of smoke from a fire inside a container, and establish standardized methods of demonstrating compliance with those requirements. [A-07-98]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that fire suppression systems be installed in the cargo compartments of all cargo airplanes operating under 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 121. [A-07-99]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should provide guidance to aircraft rescue and fire fighting personnel on the best training methods to obtain and maintain proficiency with the high-reach extendable turret with skin-penetrating nozzle. [A-07-100]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require airport inspectors to ensure that Part 139 airports with cargo operations include cargo aircraft in their aircraft rescue and fire fighting aircraft familiarisation training programs. [A-07-101]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require cargo operators to designate at least one floor level door as a required emergency exit and equip the door with an evacuation slide, when appropriate. [A-07-102]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require all emergency exits on cargo aircraft that are operable from the outside to have a 2-inch contrasting coloured band outlining the exit. [A-07-103]. that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration should require aircraft operators to implement measures to reduce the risk of primary lithium batteries becoming involved in fires on cargo-only aircraft, such as transporting such batteries