An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB supported by FDR data. It was noted that the 42 year-old aircraft Captain, who was PF for the incident flight, had 905 hours flying experience on the aircraft type out of 8919 hours in total. It was found that the lightning strike had occurred when there were only "weak returns of cumulonimbus cloud activity" which had been avoided by manoeuvring the aircraft proactively and primarily visually. The context and likely nature of the incident lightning strike was assessed using remote sensing evidence of strikes in the general area and it was concluded that it was most likely to have been of relatively low power and of cloud to ground origin. At the time of the strike, the aircraft was in receipt of radar vectors to position the aircraft downwind and descending, briefly in IMC, with a low engine thrust setting. It was reported that the left engine had begun to show over temperature within a few seconds of the strike and had then indicated an un-commanded run down without any of the usual warnings or cautions being seen. A MAYDAY call had been made and Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) drills for both engine failure and single engine approach had been completed whilst continuing as intended with the approach to destination. Superficial damage attributable to the strike was evident on the left side of the fuselage, extending "from just aft of the flight-deck windshields to a point above the junction of the wing trailing edge and the fuselage". It "took the form of marks on longitudinal skin joints and a row of rivet burns, initially low down on the fuselage side, then continuing aft at a higher level above the wing" with considerable damage evident "on the composite right wing tip fairing". None of this was considered to have constituted an "identifiable hazard". Examination of the left engine by borescope found no damage and both FADEC units for this engine were removed, bench tested serviceable without any rectification being required and successfully returned to service with no subsequent abnormalities reported. It was noted that a reduction of N2 below 53.5% (below which recovery is not possible) results in the active FADEC Unit initiating a shutdown sequence and found that this was the cause of the run down in this instance. It was concluded that the un-commanded reduction in both the N1 and N2 of the left engine which culminated in automatic engine shut-down 11 seconds after the strike "was consistent with a compressor stall” initiated “by the loss of mass flow through the engine”, caused directly by the aero-thermal effects of the lightning strike at the engine intake. It was found that FADEC logic of the engine involved "had, by design, no surge recovery features and the surge prevention logic was unable to re-establish stable running conditions during the length of time which passed between the lightning strike and the eventual auto-shutdown of the left engine". It was also considered that the