A transponder (XPDR) is a receiver/transmitter which will generate a reply signal upon proper interrogation; the interrogation and reply being on different frequencies. (ICAO) Transponders first came into use to enable military authorities to identify friendly aircraft, which transmitted a coded signal when interrogated by military radar. This was known as IFF (Identification Friend or Foe). Subsequently, transponders have come into widespread use in civil as well as military aviation. It is now standard practice to allocate a specific transponder code to each aircraft flying in controlled airspace so that the ATCO can readily identify a specific aircraft on a crowded radar screen, using SSR (Secondary Surveillance Radar). By international agreement, 2000 is used for aircraft which have not been assigned a transponder code, although in some parts of Europe, 7000 is used for this purpose. Details of standard codes in different countries may be found in national Aeronautical Information Publications (AIPs). Special codes are used in emergency, as follows: hi-jack (7500);. loss of communication (7600); and,. general emergency (7700).. Currently there are systems such as Airport Surface Detection Equipment–Model X (Airport Surface Detection Equipment, Model X (ASDE-X)) and Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System (Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System) which use transponder returns from both aircraft and of airport service vehicles with installed transponders to improve safety and efficiency the surface movement control. A number of large airports have included information in the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcasts when the transponder is required to be active for taxi operations. Furthermore at certain airports, a locally-optimised mix of available technologies, i.e. airport Multilateration, Surface Movement Radars and Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B), enables A-SMGCS systems and integrated airport operations. This could include the availability of suitable display of surveillance information on a consolidated display in the form of a moving map in flight decks and in surface vehicles.