An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB). No flight data or voice recorders were installed in the aircraft and there was no regulatory requirement for them to be fitted, so the Investigation was based on the crew statements, ATC radar recordings and site inspection. It was noted that the Captain was a Portuguese national who had a total of 6,878 flying hours of which 3,540 hours were on type and that the First Officer, who had been PF for the landing, was a Spanish national with a total of 1,001 flying hours of which 274 hours were on type. Earlier in the day, the aircraft operated by the same flight crew had taken three passengers from Geneva to Lille with the expectation being that in the evening, a return flight to Geneva with the same three passengers on board would be made. However, when it became apparent that there had been sufficient snowfall at Geneva to cause a consequent temporary closure of the runway there, the return flight was instead re-planned to Bern, where the forecast was more favourable. Both pilots stated that they had been familiar with that airport. The fight was uneventful with the Bern TAF for the ETA indicating light winds, a ceiling of 4,500 feet, surface visibility 5000 metres and no precipitation. The ATIS current 25 minutes prior to landing gave similar conditions with no cloud below 11,000 feet aal but with shallow fog present. Snow was present either side of the landing runway 14 but the runway surface was reported as being completely clear of snow with braking action “good” over the full length of the runway. The TWR controller subsequently clarified that the reported shallow fog was only present over the first 230 metres of the 1530 metre LDA for landing runway 14, which was 30 metres wide and had runway edge lights but no centreline lighting. TWR also advised that the runway lighting had been switched to maximum brightness. An ILS approach was flown and after reporting established on the ILS LLZ, they were cleared to land and when acknowledging this whilst at 5000 feet QNH (approximately 3,300 feet aal), the crew added that “they already had full view of runway 14”. Recorded radar data showed that between 7 nm and 3½ nm from touchdown, the aircraft groundspeed had been approximately 205 knots which, with the maximum wind speed below 2300 feet aal having been at the most 3 knots, would have been close to the corresponding airspeed. Thereafter, speed was reduced to reach 160 knots passing 1000 feet aal and further reduced over the next 0.4 nm to just under 140 knots, the final recorded ground speed data point. The crew stated that the AP had been disconnected “shortly before reaching the DA” and that “the entire approach was stabilized, had proceeded without any problems and the view of the runway was not restricted”. Their statements also said that “the aircraft touched down at a normal