rate of descent, perhaps slightly to the left of the middle of the runway (and) that subsequently, the aircraft suddenly yawed slightly to the left around its vertical axis as if the runway was slippery and ended up on the left-hand side of the runway, perhaps in the snow to the left of the runway” after which the Captain had taken over control and steered the aircraft to the right to the middle of the runway. Inspection of the aircraft on stand after disembarkation of the passengers found that the doors of both main landing gears and the left flap were damaged and that all wheels and the underside of the fuselage and wings were “covered in mud” which was also present on both the inlet and exhaust of the left engine. A subsequent inspection of the runway found that six runway edge and taxiway lights had been damaged, some having been “completely torn off” their mountings. Immediately after the landing, a further measurement of the friction coefficient along the full length of the runway was carried out and confirmed that the corresponding braking action was still “good”. The runway inspection which had found the damaged lights also found wheel tracks in the snow adjacent to the left hand edge of the runway. When measured, these were found to match the separation of the landing gear on a Cessna 525. The first evidence of wheel contact with the snow, described as no more than “a slight imprint in the snow”, was assessed as attributable to the left main landing gear in the final stages of the flare prior to touchdown. It began with approximately ½ metre beyond the edge of the runway approximately 530 metres beyond the landing threshold [position 1 in the illustration below]. This track increased its deviation from the runway edge to 2 metres before temporarily ceasing after approximately 40 metres and then restarting in the vicinity of taxiway ‘B’, this time with the wheel firmly on the ground and making an imprint on the frozen ground underneath the snow. This track was then joined by those of the nose gear [position 2] and finally the right main gear [position 3] before all tracks made a sharp turn to the right and onto the runway approximately 850 metres beyond the landing threshold [position 4]. It was noted that the crew account of the landing position did not match the available evidence. It was also noted that whilst the operator’s OM specified that an approach made under “visual flight rules conditions” should, once fully established on the glideslope, be made at “less than 170 KIAS”, the available data indicated that on becoming fully established, the airspeed was still in excess of 200 knots. The OM also specified that the speed should be VREF +10 (which was 115 KIAS for the approach concerned) once within 4 nm of the runway threshold whereas at this point it was still over 200 knots. Even passing 1,000 feet agl, the speed was