An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. It was established that the First Officer as PF and that at the time the flight crew briefed for their approach they based it on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) current at the time, which had given a wind velocity of 360° /11 knots, a temperature of PS01 and the runway state as wet. They were only made aware of the possible surface contamination when on base leg for the ILS when ATC APP advised that the runway was now covered in “slush mixed with hail to a depth of 2-3mm.... you can still see the white lines through the slush.” Although the flight crew had acknowledged this, they had no recollection after the event of receiving this information. During the descent the flight crew had also received an Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) Stall Protection System (SPS) warning due to the sensing of airframe ice accretion and in accordance with SOPs had added 6 knots to the calculated approach speed making it 130 knots with 120 knots as the Reference Speed (Vref). Then, during the final stages of the ILS approach to Runway 27, the TWR controller gave spot winds as the wind veered and increased. At touchdown the wind velocity was 020° / 23 knots which was equivalent to a tailwind component of 10 knots and a crosswind component of 21 knots. The aircraft floated down the runway, touching down at a speed of 120 knots between 500 and 600 metres from the threshold. Brake applications were ineffective and the First Officer transmitted that they were 'going off the end of the runway' just before the aircraft left the paved surface at a ground speed of 74 knots. The overrun area was a field covered in snow over a soft surface which produced significant retardation and the aircraft stopped with the wheels up to the axles in mud 130 metres from the end of the runway. The Investigation noted that the flight crew had briefed for the Flap 22 approach on the basis that the ATIS conditions they heard meant that a landing distance of 1,730 metres. was required compared to the LDA of 1841 metres. However, by the time the aircraft landed, with a 10 knot tailwind component and with a 6 knot increase in approach speed because of the SPS warning, it was calculated during the Investigation that the required landing distance was actually 2,150 metres. However, under prevailing definitions, the runway surface was not considered to have been ‘contaminated’ for aircraft landing performance purposes. It was also noted that the applicable State Regulations for airport operators extant at the time included the remark stated that “where contaminant remains, runway condition reports shall not contain readings taken directly from friction measuring machines”. In relation to reduced crosswind limits on runways assessed as having less than dry runway braking action, it was noted that although “many airlines' performance tables provide a direct correlation between type