An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). It was noted that the 28 year-old Captain had accumulated 2860 total flying hours which included 2000 hours on the incident type of which 707 had been in command. The 46 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the sector, had accumulated 2995 total flying hours which included 1100 hours on the incident type (and his only multi crew operating experience). It was established that the event had begun with a sudden noise described as a ‘pop’ and arcing at the top of the right hand windscreen in the vicinity of the windshield heating electrical terminal block. Almost immediately, it was reported that a "torch like fire occurred at the terminals making a loud hissing sound." Both pilots donned their oxygen masks and the Captain declared an emergency. The First Officer then transferred control to the Captain and discharged a fire extinguisher on the terminal block. The fire was reported to have then ceased momentarily but the arcing continued and the fire re-ignited. The First Officer discharged the extinguisher for a second time and it again momentarily extinguished the fire but again it flared back up and continued for an unreported amount of time. The fire subsequently ceased but a considerable amount of smoke was still being produced. The Cabin Crew was pre-briefed that an emergency evacuation would be carried out after landing once the engines had been shut down and the propellers had stopped rotating. The remainder of the flight and the landing were completed without further incident and the emergency evacuation was accomplished in approximately 30 seconds with no injuries to crew or passengers. The AFS responded and confirmed there was no continued fire. The right windshield was found to have sustained "burning and charring damage in the area of the terminal block" and the inner glass ply was fractured. Some burning and charring damage to the interior trim adjacent to the forward upper edge of the windshield was also evident. It was found that the windshield involved had been fitted to the aircraft at build more than 17 years previously. This was noted to far exceed the average life of 8.2 years reported by the windshield manufacturer. There were what were regarded as "typical signs of aging with ample evidence of moisture ingress into the laminate around the edges of the windshield" but these were within the published limits and it was concluded that they had not contributed to the failure. The fire damage and a melted power wire precluded determining if there had been any pre-existing damage to the power wire prior to the incident or identify any other root cause of failure. Examination of maintenance records confirmed that the Operator was in compliance with all recommended inspections specified by Bombardier and the most recent inspection occurred more than 2 years and 3,500 flight hours prior to the incident with no findings. It was noted that in the CMM, windshield manufacturer PPG "recommends