inspection of the windshields at intervals significantly less than (the aircraft manufacturer)" and this was considered a matter of concern by the Investigation. The windshield heat selector switch was found in the 'NORM' position after the incident so that power would have continued to be provided to the windshield heating system. Switching the selector switch to the 'OFF' position would have cut power to the circuit and stopped the arcing and fire. However, it was noted that no training or explicit guidance was provided to flight crew encountering windshield arcing, smoke or fire. The Investigation noted that "other aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing and Airbus, have specific checklists for flight crews in the event the windshield heating system fails" and that "although turning off the windshield heat may be considered intuitive, explicit guidance on how to respond […] would better prepare flight crews to act immediately". A search of all available data sources yielded 94 similar events since 2000 which had involved arcing, smoke, fire, or overheating at the windshield terminal block locations on other DHC-8-100/200/300/400 aircraft. Only one of these, a 2009 event involving the arcing failure of one of the power wires near the terminal block on a windshield installed in a DHC-8-300 aircraft was the subject of an independent safety investigation, which was carried out by the Canadian TSB. This investigation had also been unable to determine a root cause due to the effects of fire damage but noted that the fire had ceased as soon as the crew had switched off the windshield heat. Following this event, it was noted that DHC-8 maintenance schedule was amended to include a torque check of the windshield terminal block connections at each C-check (10,000 flying hours). The Investigation noted that the current design of DHC8 windshields "provides for connection of the windshield heat power wires to the terminal block using a ring terminal, screw, and lock washer". It considered that "these screw connections are susceptible to cross-threading, improper torque, loosening over time due to vibration, and incorrect hardware usage, all of which can lead to arcing at the terminal block" and that “where the cause of the arcing, smoke, or fire could be determined, many of the 94 reports found during (this) Investigation cited a loose connection at the terminal block or incorrectly installed/missing hardware". It was further noted that after some similar arcing events on the Boeing 757 in 2004, Boeing had "redesigned the corresponding terminal block on their aircraft to incorporate a pin/socket connector, instead of a screw to connect the airplane electrical system to the windshield heat system". It was formally concluded that the Probable Cause of the fire was "the arcing failure of the windshield heat power wire on the right windshield due to unknown reasons". A Contributory Factor to the severity of the fire was "the lack of training or guidance provided to the crew for selecting the windshield heat to off that would cut power to the circuit". On 11 March 2016, 5