The Accident was investigated by the Dutch Safety Board. It was established that having noted from the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) the presence of ‘slippery spots’ on the taxiway system the aircraft commander, who had noted an instruction from ATC to taxi via taxiway ‘V’ to Runway 36L, decided not to taxi via this taxiway, but via the parallel taxiway ‘VS’. He reported taking this decision because, among other things, the aircraft would then need to make fewer sharp turns. He observed that during earlier flights which he had made to Amsterdam, he had noted that he had always been able to choose between these two taxiways. The fact that taxiway ‘VS’ was at that time untreated, then led directly to the taxiway excursion and collision. A comprehensive review of the response of the Airport Authority to the known airside slipperiness by the Investigation, including the communicating of relevant information to ATC came to the conclusion that it had been inadequate. The investigation found that surface friction measurement and surface treatment against slipperiness airside were largely focused on Runways, a situation which it was considered also applied at other Dutch airports. The Investigation noted that both National and International regulations and procedures on the measurement of braking action / friction and the prevention of slipperiness on runways, taxiways and aprons “are virtually non-existent.” A particular concern of the Investigation in this respect was that the collision created a fire risk which might have needed a rapid response from the Airport RFFS who were delayed by the slippery surfaces around the airport even though they arrived at the accident aircraft within the maximum allowed three minutes. It was noted by the Investigation that at the place where the accident occurred ATC are required to give a positive instruction to aircraft crews in respect of taxiway use and although this was done just prior to the accident, it was common practice at this location for ATC to leave the choice of taxi route up to flight crew. It was also noted that although ATC had not been informed of specific slippery areas, they knew from their own observation that it was very slippery there and in consequence issued a specific taxi instruction to the accident aircraft, they did not explain their reason for doing so. The absence of a taxiway guidance system, which meant that all taxi routes were similarly illuminated, was also noted. In respect of the Aircraft Operator, it was noted that the flight crew did not communicate with one another about the decision to take a different taxi route to the one that had been instructed. It was also considered that the division of tasks and the communication between the two members of the crew was not optimal and not in accordance with the Crew Resource Management concept. More generally, it was considered clear that the Easyjet Quality System and Safety Management System had failed to recognise the risk of an accident such as the one which occurred.