The Conclusions of the Investigation, taken as published from the official report, were as follows: “The fact that the flight crew did not follow up the instructions from air traffic control and decided to follow another taxiway route led to the pilot flying not being able to keep the aircraft under control, due to the slipperiness on that other route. The decision to take another route can be explained, among others, by the common, though incorrect, practice to let flight crews choose which taxiway they use in connection with the illumination of the taxiway lighting of both parallel taxiways and the lighting of the aprons. The crew had not been informed and could not be aware of the nature and degree of slipperiness on the scene. The Dutch Safety Board does hold the view that Air Traffic Control the Netherlands must point out to its air traffic controllers that they should comply with existing procedures. The information of the ATIS was not correct, both in terms of phraseology and in terms of the actual situation. Moreover, it took too long before this not entirely correct information became available to flight crews. The accident with Easyjet shows that the (management) system regarding the entire chain of realisation of information reporting at the Schiphol airport up to and including the actions stemming from said reporting creates risks of human failure. Given the recommendations made in the past, the Dutch Safety Board deems that the parties responsible for the entire chain of information reporting to airmen at Schiphol could have done more towards taking their (joint) responsibility regarding the decrease of risks in the information reporting up to and including the subsequent actions as regards fighting slipperiness at the airport. Therefore, the Dutch Safety Board holds the view that there is a structural safety shortage. The Easyjet flight crewmembers did not consult with one another on the fact that another taxiway route had been chosen than the one instructed by air traffic control. It also appears from other events that the crew paid insufficient attention to all aspects of the work during this part of the flight. The assignment of tasks and the communication between the two flight crewmembers was not optimal and not compliant with the crew resource management concept. Finally, it appeared there were flaws in parts of the manual of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The 'snow and iciness control measures'-regulation was not subject to a risk assessment and to monitoring of safety objectives. The manner in which the friction was measured on taxiways and aprons turned out to be mentioned in a very concise fashion. This also appeared to be the case at the other airports in the Netherlands.” The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 23 March 2006 and may be seen in full at SKYbrary bookshelf: Investigation 2003133 - Loss of steering on a slippery runway Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation and are reproduced below as published in the Final Report: