The role of the State Focal Points has been established in the EACCC Rules of Procedure to facilitate the involvement of national competent authorities and the close cooperation of the corresponding structures at Member States level with the EACCC from an early stage of a crisis event. Therefore, through a wide consultation process the EACCC has developed guidance for the State Focal Points to assist them in preparation for future crises, and also build consistency in approach to crisis management across Europe. In broad terms, the State Focal Point is the individual(s) who will act as the conduit between the NM/EACCC and his/her State. Patently that individual needs to be suitably senior to command authority, and suitably experienced (in aviation preferably, but in crisis management if not) to engage at short notice with the EACCC. In the times of crisis the State Focal Point should ensure that the NM/EACCC is notified of major disruptions and crises in his/her own State, or region, share known and forecast information with the NM/EACCC, provide a link with internal structure at the national level and, where appropriate coordinate response and mitigating actions at the national level in accordance with national procedures, provide a link to enable consistent messaging in media lines at the national level, etc. Furthermore, as the work of the NM and the EACCC moves along in times of 'non-crisis', the State Focal Point should provide feedback to the NM in its follow up of actions/lessons learned from previous crises and exercises, be aware of measures to be taken at the national level in the event of a crisis, contribute to, and when required participate in, NM/EACCC organised exercises, establish and maintain relations with relevant expert organisations at the national level (e.g. nuclear experts), that could provide information sources/portals, etc. Following the 2010 volcanic ash crisis the ICAO Secretary General established ICAO International Volcanic Ash Task Force (IVATF) in 2010 and tasked it to propose enhancements to the ICAO guidance relative to volcanic ash. The task force held four meetings and completed its work in June 2012. One of the key deliverables of the IVATF was the Doc 9974 “Flight Safety and Volcanic Ash”. This document provides guidance which States may recommend to aircraft operators when there is forecast volcanic ash contamination, placing the responsibility for decision making on the operator, under the oversight of the State regulatory authority. The EACCC in consultation with its partners has been promoting the implementation of this approach. Moreover, the methodology set out in ICAO Doc 9974 has been used by EASA in their rulemaking process to establish standards in Europe. The EACCC has been playing a key role in promoting a harmonised application of the SRA approach across European states. Therefore, in 2012 Network Manager, in consultation with EACCC, addressed a questionnaire to European States on the progress of implementation of the SRA approach. At the time of writing of this article (March 2013) it appears that, despite some progress, Europe has not yet achieved