full harmonisation in respect of the application of the SRA concerning flight operations in volcanic ash events. A harmonised method would consist in leaving the responsibility for decision making to AOs based on their SRA as accepted by their national supervisory authorities (NSA). Moreover, States should not close their airspace due to volcanic ash contamination with the exception of the airspace in the immediate vicinity of a volcano. Finally, States should recognise SRAs of AOs registered in other States, as adopted by their NSA. As a result Network Manager will be requesting relevant bodies of EUROCONTROL and European Commission to propose guidelines in order to progress towards the implementation of a harmonised SRA methodology in Europe. To ensure high level of readiness for possible future crisis events, Network Manager in consultation with EACCC, is taking necessary measures particularly in two fields: developing crisis management awareness training and organising crisis management exercises. High level objectives of the crisis management awareness training, for all categories of participants, include awareness and understanding of the aviation crisis management arrangements in Europe, including the role of the EACCC, understanding their role and how they can support the aviation crisis management arrangements in Europe, awareness of how to access contact details of key players and relevant documents on the aviation crisis management arrangements in Europe and awareness of where relevant information on the crisis development may be found. In addition, the training should assist State Focal Points to understand their role in the aviation crisis management arrangements in Europe both in times of crisis and “non-crisis”, to understand their role at the national level and be prepared to perform their role both in the event of an aviation crisis in Europe and times of ‘non-crisis’. As mentioned above, to maintain its level of readiness the EACCC has been participating in ICAO VOLCEX volcanic ash exercises. In May 2013 EACCC will organise its first cyber attack exercise ‘CYBER 13’. It will consist of a simulated isolation of NM and some states from the AFTN network caused by a cyber attack. CYBER 13 will involve participation of the EACCC, State Focal Points, ANSPs, airlines, NM staff and a number of observer organisations like NATO, ENISA, CER etc. The main objectives of the exercise are to evaluate effectiveness of coordination between EACCC/NM and local state crisis management structures and similar structures in airlines, evaluate impact of such a cyber attack on the aviation network in Europe, evaluate State Focal Points’ roles and responsibilities in cyber incident response and recovery, contribute to establishing/maintaining a State Focal Point’s network of contacts at the national level with respect to IT security and identify possible mitigations to this cyber attack scenario. In future EACCC intend to organise similar exercises related to other possible threats such as nuclear emergencies, pandemics, etc.