Operations Controller. That and the subsequent communication by the Airport Movement Coordinator was perceived by the Ramp Supervisor as pressure to resume ramp duties.. Other finding: The Ramp Supervisor’s assessment that there would be a 45-minute break in thunderstorm activity was reinforced by the report by the Operations Controller of no lightning activity in the area in the preceding 30 minutes, and the supervisor’s perception of a reduction in local storm activity.. The Investigation resulted in the following Safety Message being formulated: "This occurrence reaffirms that perceived or actual operational requirements should not be allowed to compromise safety. When assessing if work can resume on the airfield in the face of potentially-hazardous weather conditions, local observations of those conditions should be an integral part of the decision-making process. The final decision to resume duties should remain with the responsible person at that location." Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated occurrence whilst the Investigation was in progress was recorded as including the following: Virgin Australia Airlines has: Enhanced its flight planning and weather training for all ground operations Airport Movement Coordinators, incorporating a specific Automated Thunderstorm Alert System training package. Commenced a trial of smartphone weather alert applications with key operational personnel across the domestic network. Commenced using wireless headsets at some airports. Aligned their manuals with other stakeholders’ extreme weather policy and procedures.. Enhanced its flight planning and weather training for all ground operations Airport Movement Coordinators, incorporating a specific Automated Thunderstorm Alert System training package.. Commenced a trial of smartphone weather alert applications with key operational personnel across the domestic network.. Commenced using wireless headsets at some airports.. Aligned their manuals with other stakeholders’ extreme weather policy and procedures.. Aerocare (the ground handling organisation involved) has made a number of changes to its adverse weather procedures which include: an increased emphasis on the fact that Ramp Supervisors have the authority to determine the cessation and recommencement of work activities. an increased emphasis on the risk of electrical discharge as a result of connecting a headset to an aircraft during storm activity. an increase in the minimum distance from storm activity at which headset connection takes place from 10 km (5.4 nm) to 18 km (9.7 nm). the provision of specific first aid and emergency response information in case of a lightning strike. enhanced guidance on the available weather-monitoring tools. the introduction of defined adverse weather phases as follows: Awareness - a forecast of adverse weather Watch - adverse weather within 30nm (56km) and approaching Alert - adverse weather within 10nm (19 km) and approaching Airside operational shutdown - adverse weather within 5nm (9km) and approaching Downgrade - adverse weather more than 5nm (9km) away and receding Cancellation - no thunderstorm activity forecast or observed locally. an increased emphasis on the fact that Ramp Supervisors have the authority to determine the cessation and recommencement of work activities.. an increased emphasis on the risk of electrical discharge as a result of connecting a headset to an aircraft during