An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that on the day of the occurrence, at about 1435 local time, all work on the ramp at the aircraft destination had stopped due to an electrical storm overhead. After about 40 minutes, with no further lightning activity observed on the weather radar, ground crew resumed their duties. However, soon after this, cloud-to-cloud lightning was observed and lightning struck the ramp behind a parked aircraft so all ramp work was again suspended. Thereafter, the Ramp Supervisor reported having been monitoring the situation so as to determine when it would be safe for staff to resume work. Whilst this suspension was in force, the A330 landed and during the landing roll the crew recalled seeing lightning strike the ground about 500 metres to the right of their aircraft. The aircraft was initially instructed to hold on the taxiway because of the suspension of ramp operations. After around 15 minutes, the Airport Movement Coordinator advised the Ramp Supervisor that Virgin Operations Control in Brisbane had been in contact to ask why ramp operations had not recommenced as "other airlines had already resumed their Perth operations". The Ramp Supervisor then spoke directly to Virgin Operations Control and was "questioned directly as to why staff had not returned to the ramp" and was informed that "Virgin’s Meteorological Officer said that there had not been any lightning activity in the area for the past 30 minutes". In response, the Ramp Supervisor said that lightning was still visible overhead and was then "told to discuss this with Virgin’s Meteorological Officer" but when the attempted transfer of the call was unsuccessful, the Supervisor "hung up and reviewed the Bureau of Meteorology weather radar images" which he had access to. After assessing these, he considered that a 45 minute break in storm cell activity might be imminent. Meanwhile, the Airport Movement Coordinator "received a number of additional calls from Virgin Operations Control about the resumption of ramp duties, which were relayed to the Ramp Supervisor". After "a discussion with other senior ground crew and observing a reduction in the local storm activity", he decided that work on the ramp could resume and gave priority to clearing the backlog of aircraft waiting to be unloaded. After about an hour holding position, this meant that the A330 was able to taxi to its assigned parking gate. Once the aircraft had arrived on stand, the Ramp Supervisor personally inserted the NLG chocks and then connected a headset to the flight deck intercom jack. Other ground crew a short distance away then saw lightning strike the tail region of the A330 and simultaneously engineers in the immediate vicinity of the aircraft reported observing a lightning flash to the rear-left of the aircraft. As the Ramp Supervisor pressed the ‘push-to-talk’ button and established contact with the flight crew, he received an electrical shock consistent with a high voltage electrical discharge and was seen to stagger from the aircraft