before collapsing unconscious on the ground. A second ground crew operative nearby was also subjected to the electrical discharge and sustained a burn injury but he did not lose consciousness. Both were taken to hospital for observation with the Ramp Supervisor remaining there "for a number of days before being released". A subsequent examination of the aircraft did not find any sign of the lightning strike entry or exit points nor any defects which might have accounted for the ground crew injuries. It was considered likely that a lightning strike to an aircraft on the ground would most likely normally be earthed via the landing gear. It was noted that "Whether an aircraft is electrically earthed or not, there is a high risk of injury" to any ground crew who may be in the vicinity of an aircraft which is struck by lightning and the risk increases significantly if direct contact is being made with the aircraft at the time. Aircraft maintenance personnel should be warned of this in the aircraft type AMM. In the case of the Airbus A330, this warning read: "Warning: do not touch connections to the aircraft, do not use headsets. Lightning strike and high discharge currents are very dangerous for personnel and can cause damage to equipment." The risk of a lightning strike was noted to not necessarily be affected by whether heavy rain is falling at the time and strikes may occur up to 10 nm from a storm cloud. It was found that Perth was within the coverage of two different short term thunderstorm forecasting systems - the Bureau of Meteorology's 'Automated Thunderstorm Alerting System' (ATSAS) and the commercial 'Global Positioning and Tracking System'. However, although both systems showed an increase in cloud-to-cloud lightning activity at the time of the observed strike, neither of these systems had detected any cloud-to-ground lightning strikes at or within a 5 nm radius of the airport at the time of the occurrence. Severe weather procedures detailed in the Virgin Australia Airport Airside Operations (AAO) Manual were found to specify a stop/shutdown whenever a storm was within 5 nm of the airport. During such periods, the thunderstorm and lightning safety subsection of the AAO Manual listed activities that should not be undertaken during lightning events. These included using any headset that was connected to an aircraft and not staying in open areas or underneath an aircraft. It was found that Virgin used a contractor to provide ground services at Perth, this contractor being one of the largest providers of such services in the country with similar operations at 15 other major airports. This contractor’s relevant procedures were found to be closely aligned with those detailed in the Virgin AAO Manual. The Perth Airport Operator required that airlines and their contractors should "ensure that their staff were competent in airfield and ramp occupational health and safety practices" and the airport’s policy and procedures did not incorporate any specific adverse weather practices or procedures and there was no thunderstorm/lightning warning