system at the airport to alert personnel working on the apron. The Airport Operator advised that they had no record of any previous injuries, serious or otherwise, attributable to aircraft lightning strikes. It was found that about 15 minutes after the A330 had landed, when there had been no lightning strike for a period of 30 minutes, the Ramp Supervisor had come under pressure to authorise the resumption of airside operations and had eventually agreed to this. He told the Investigation that "had he not felt pressured by the (Virgin) Operations Controller and Airport's Aircraft Movement Coordinator, he would most likely not have resumed work on the ramp at that time". The Investigation concluded that the available evidence pointed to the observed lightning strike having been to the tail of the aircraft rather than direct to the surface in that vicinity and that the serious injuries to the Ramp Supervisor appeared likely to be a result of such a strike discharging through the headset and the Ramp Supervisor to earth - a ‘contact’ strike. It was concluded that the less serious injury to the second ground crew member close by was probably the consequence of a ‘side flash’ strike. The Conclusion of the analysis of evidence available made by the Investigation was summarised as follows: "Virgin’s and the ground-handling organisation’s procedures provided for local observations to be taken into account when considering the resumption of ramp duties. However, the reliance by the Operations Controller on the Meteorological Officer’s advice that lightning activity had ceased affected the application of those procedures in this case. The conversation between the Controller and the RS, and then the Airport Movement Coordinator and the RS, resulted in perceived pressure by the RS to resume ramp duties. Given the report of lightning still being observed overhead, the decision by the RS to resume those operations increased the risk of a lightning strike and injury to ground personnel." The formally-documented Findings of the Investigation were as follows: Contributing factors: In combination, perceived operational pressure by the Ramp Supervisor, and their assessment that there would be a 45-minute break in thunderstorm activity, influenced the decision to resume work on the ramp during local thunderstorm activity.. Consistent with the observed lightning strike to the tail of the aircraft, connection of the headset to the aircraft during local thunderstorm activity resulted in a ‘contact’ strike to the Ramp Supervisor.. Other factors that increased risk: The Automated Thunderstorm Alerting System and Global Positioning and Tracking System data did not show cloud-to-ground lightning activity within 10 NM (19 km) of the airport prior to work resuming on the tarmac or at the time of the injuries. Despite the observed local conditions, the lack of recorded ground strikes prior to the incident may have created a false impression of a low lightning risk environment.. The Virgin Australia Airlines Pty Ltd Meteorological Officer’s report of no lightning activity in the area in the previous 30 minutes was communicated to the Ramp Supervisor by the