was controlled by the Temperature Limitation Thermostat (TLT), higher than usual. It was noticed whilst replacing the FAV and all the related components in the system, that not only the FAV and TLT but also the Temperature Control Thermostat (TCT), the Over Pressure Valve (OPV) and the Pressure Regulating Valve (PRV) were all extremely dirty. Bench testing by the OEM found that these parts were out of operating limits. It was noted that five separate engine bleed air system modifications had been published prior to the incident flight. In 2008, Finnair had decided to implement all these modifications as and when the components involved were removed for repairs. In the case of the Incident aircraft, six of the ten modifications (5 modifications per engine) had been completed. The Investigation was advised that, as a result of the investigated incident, the modification work schedule was to be expedited. The Investigation considered the aircraft commander’s decision not to declare an emergency was inappropriate. In that respect the Investigation took the following view: “The investigators want to highlight the fact that even if the causes of an atypical situation seem logical, an unlikely chain of events may conceal the root cause. It is important to keep the threshold for declaring an emergency as low as possible. An emergency can always be cancelled if it turns out to be disproportionate to the situation. The purpose of the legal and operational status of a declared emergency is to maximise the safety of aviation. The purpose of a MAYDAY call is to inform all possible parties, the air traffic control and any nearby aircraft of an occurrence that jeopardises the safety of aviation.” The Investigation concluded that the Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was: “Rising Cabin Pressure which, in turn, could have been the result of a failure of the Fan Air Valve (FAV) or Temperature Control Thermostat (TCT) grid filter clogging in the right engine's bleed air system. With the other system being inoperative for flight, the cooling capacity of only one system proved insufficient. The pre-cooled air was too hot, therefore the temperature sensor of the system worked as per its design and shut off the overheated system.” Two Safety Recommendations were issued as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the EASA oblige Airbus S.A.S. to compile all engine bleed air failure-related emergency procedures that pilots use, and display the complete set of instructions on the ECAM.. that the EASA oblige Airbus S.A.S. to amend the OEB in a manner that clearly segregates the procedures for prior to the flight and during the flight. Additionally Airbus S.A.S. needs to (ensure) that all the appropriate actions included in the OEB are in line with QRH.. Three other “observations and proposals” were made as a result of the Investigation The desirability for Serious Incident Investigation of access to CVR data for the complete flight was re-stated. The existence of an earlier SIA Recommendation on this subject was noted and described as including a