An Investigation was carried out by the Finland Safety Investigation Authority. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were successfully downloaded but as the two hour CVR had not been stopped until after the flight landed, data from the time of the incident had been overwritten. It was noted that the release to service with No 1 bleed air system inoperative was allowed under MEL procedures for up to 10 days. The incident flight was the eighth day of this ten day period and all flights since the beginning of this period had been uneventful. During the period, attempts to rectify the fault had been made but without success. It was also noted that raising an ADD for the fault did not place any operational restrictions on the conduct of flights, although the MEL did provide the flight crew with some instructions for precautionary action prior to the flight as well as actions to take during the flight. It was noted that the First Officer had been designated as PF for the flight and that the No 2 bleed air system had failed ten minutes after reaching cruise altitude, 48 minutes after take off. Shortly after the crew had noticed that the right engine bleed air pressure and the cabin pressure was fluctuating, an Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor (ECAM) ‘AIR ENG 2 BLEED FAULT’ had been annunciated because the temperature of the No 2 bleed air system had exceeded the maximum permitted temperature of 257° C and so the system had shut down. Recognising that a prompt descent would now be necessary, the aircraft commander had decided to take over as PF. He “did not deem it necessary to squawk 7700 (emergency) on the radar transponder as they were already maintaining continuous contact with the air traffic control”. A lower level was immediately requested from ATC and received (FL300), followed in time to maintain a continuous descent by re-clearance to FL200 and finally to FL100. After clearance to FL100 had been given, the ECAM Warning of High Cabin Altitude, which is triggered at a cabin altitude of 9450 feet and mandates an emergency descent, was annunciated and as per SOPs, both pilots then donned their emergency oxygen masks and the PF increased the rate of descent by extending the speed brakes. As the descent continued, the bleed air temperature in the No 2 system cooled and the crew were successful in their attempt to reset the system 2 so that normal cabin pressurisation was restored. Noting that the engine 2 bleed air temperature was remaining within its normal limits, the PF stopped the descent at FL 140 and, having assessed that there was sufficient fuel remaining to complete the flight to destination even at a lower level, ATC were advised that they would like to return to FL 250 for the remainder of the journey. Thereafter, the No 2 bleed air system temperature was observed to climb slowly until it almost reached its maximum permitted value during