the last 20 minutes of the cruise. Since the cabin altitude had remained below the level which would have caused the deployment of passenger emergency oxygen masks in the cabin and they had not had to be manually deployed, the aircraft commander advised ATC that he did not deem the occurrence to be an emergency. It was noted that the flight crew had not started the Auxiliary Power Unit (Auxiliary Power Unit) even though the Bleed recovery was not complete and it can independently supply an additional source of bleed air. The APU, which was serviceable for the incident flight, can provide bleed air up to FL 200. All that is required is that it is first started (for which there are no altitude restrictions) and its bleed air supply function is then selected. It was considered that once the situation stabilised, “the flight crew should have supplemented their actions by starting the APU as a backup system for cabin pressurisation” and noted that had they done so, the highest safe altitude without engine bleed air would have been FL 200 rather than FL 100. Because this action was not taken, it was considered that when the temperature of the operative bleed air system climbed very close to its maximum value in the 20 minutes prior to descent from the revised cruising altitude, “the probability of one more emergency descent was high”. It was noted that by design, the A320 ECAM does not annunciate the failure of a remaining operative bleed air system after the other has been disabled as a Dual Bleed Fault. In respect of continuing problems with bleed air system reliability on A320 series aircraft and pending improvements in the in-service “robustness” of these systems, Airbus were found to have published an “Operations Engineering Bulletin” (OEB) for the A320 fleet in March 2010 and recommended its distribution to flight crew. This provided crews with modified responses to related ECAM annunciations from those on the QRH. It was considered that all bleed air system emergency instructions should have been displayed on the ECAM. The situation which had actually prevailed where the flight crew had to read procedures from the MEL, the OEB and the QRH was considered unhelpful. A further degree of complexity involving the OEB was considered to exist because it included both pre departure flight crew instructions for reducing stress to a single operative bleed air system and additional procedures after an in-flight failure. The Investigation also noted, in passing, that “at the time of the event, the Airbus MMEL was erroneously referring, for crew awareness, to the OEB 203 in case of second bleed loss”. The fault in the No 2 bleed air system was subsequently found to have originated with the failure of the Fan Air Valve (FAV) which controls bleed air temperature by adjusting the volume of air passing through the Pre Cooler Exchange (PCE). This would have made the risk of a bleed air overheat, for which detection and system shutdown action