before visual flight conditions were achieved, but the crew did not discuss this, and the required SOPs were not followed.. The limiting airspeed for flight with gear down and for flight with flaps extended was exceeded but no corrective action was taken.. The crew began taxiing the aircraft in a wind which was stronger than the wind which blew (one of the Operator’s other Let 410s) onto its wingtip at IOM in 2007 and which exceeded the ground operation limit introduced after the 2007 accident.. Safety Action advised by the Czech Republic CAA as having been completed was noted as follows: The aircraft operator has increased the time allocated between crew report and the scheduled departure time to 60 minutes and incorporated this in OM Part A.. The aircraft operator has updated the crosswind limits in OM Part B. No details of the changes have been provided except a statement that the OM now offers guidance for taking off and landing in a crosswind, and that the EASA SIB 2014-20 has been taken into account.. The CAA of the Czech Republic has also stated that recent audits of the aircraft operator have focussed on hazard identification and safety risk management, with particular focus on operations in hazardous weather conditions.. It was considered by the Investigation that although these safety actions addressed “some of the factors identified in this report”, there appeared to be '“a number of issues concerning operational control and supervision which still require attention”. It was noted that whilst the Investigation had “highlighted certain of the operator’s policies and procedures which did not comply with regulatory requirements (it was) possible that there are areas outside the scope of this Investigation that may also require review”. One Safety Recommendation was therefore made: that the Civil Aviation Authority of the Czech Republic review Van Air’s operational processes, training and operator’s guidance to ensure that they are effectively compliant with the applicable regulations for commercial air transport operations.. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 8 March 2018.