the low pressure system expected to track across Northern Ireland, the Irish Sea and Northern England” during the forecast period. This chart “indicates that widespread moderate turbulence and occasional severe turbulence was forecast to the south of the warm front and therefore in the vicinity of the Isle of Man”. An aftercast from the Met Office stated that SIGMETs warning of severe low level turbulence had been issued for the area in which the aircraft was flown and it was “evident that the crew did not see these SIGMETs or the F215 chart, or other synoptic charts”. The Investigation found that due to the extreme surface winds, no other flights had attempted to land at either BHD or IOM during an extended period around the respective approaches made by OK-LAZ. Based on the Let 410 AFM, the Van Air OM Part ‘B’ (aircraft type specific) was found to state that the maximum demonstrated crosswind component was “20 knots at 90° to the direction of takeoff” and noted that the demonstrations on which this figure was reached “were made with both engines operating and lateral controllability on the ground was close to being limiting”. The OM did not include any other relevant crosswind limit or guidance and there was no evidence that Van Air crews were trained to handle the aircraft in crosswinds of more than 19.4 knots. The only other wind speed limitation in the OM was for ground operations, which assigned a 45 knot wind speed limit to Captains with more than 300 hours type experience and a 40 knot limit for Captains with less than 300 hours such experience. The actual prevailing wind for the purposes of these limits was to be calculated by “adding half of the gust factor to the stated steady wind speed”. The OM was found to briefly mention the concept of CRM but made no mention of various components of it “such as the evaluation and management of threats, problem solving and decision making”. It was noted that an approach could be flown with flaps set to 18º as occurred and that according to the AFM, the Vref was always 89 KIAS regardless of aircraft weight and that the maximum approach speed was 135 KIAS, which was the limiting speed with the landing gear selected down or with flaps set to 18º. The OM advised that the Vref should be “increased by not more than 15 knots by adding a value equal to half the headwind component in excess of 10 knots plus the full gust value, to give an ‘adjusted Vref’". The Van Air SOP required approaches to be stabilised by 1,000 feet aal in IMC and by 500 feet aal in VMC. The term “stabilised” was defined as “on the desired flight path in landing configuration with only small changes in heading and pitch required to maintain that path, a maximum sink rate of 1,000 fpm and with airspeed between Vref and Vref + 20KIAS (using the adjusted Vref where applicable)".