City (BHD), the crew stated that they had selected Belfast Aldergrove (BFS) and IOM as their alternates airports noting that at the former, the wind was forecast to be from 340º with a probability that it would temporarily increase to a mean speed of 33 knots but that runway 35 was available there. However, although the crew stated “they considered BFS to be their first alternate” they had “created their Operational Flight Plan (OFP) to show IOM as the only alternate”. The Ticket-Selling company for the flight, Citywing, “stated afterwards that BFS was its preferred commercial alternate, followed by IOM and then Dublin”. It was found that although the first TAF of the day for BHD had not been issued until after the time of scheduled departure from IOM, it did not appear, despite the almost one hour departure delay, to have been seen by the crew. It did indicate that the crosswind component for either direction of the only available runway would be close to 35 knots at times - in contrast to the BHD METAR seen earlier by the crew which had given the surface wind speed as of almost no operational consequence. It was noted that Glasgow Prestwick, where a runway direction close to the forecast wind direction and with much lighter forecast windspeeds than IOM, was not considered as a potential alternate. The departure to BHD was delayed for just over an hour because the forecast decline in the strong westerly surface wind speed did not occur as soon as had been expected and had been gusting up to 10 knots above the 45 knot ground manoeuvring speed limit. At the time of the eventual takeoff, the wind was broadcast by ATC as being from 290º at 21 knots gusting to 41 knots and the takeoff was uneventful. En route, the crew copied the BHD ATIS which stated that Runway 22 was in use with the latest surface wind as 320º at 25 knots gusting to 40 knots and the lowest cloud at 900 feet aal. When subsequently contacting BHD ATC, radar vectoring for an ILS approach to runway 04 was offered with the wind direction unchanged but the speed slightly increased. ATC were informed that one approach would be made but a go around would follow “if the approach was not stable”. The crew stated that they had experienced continuous moderate turbulence during the latter part of this approach but had “judged that the aircraft operator’s stable approach criteria were met until the aircraft passed over the runway threshold, when turbulence de-stabilised the aircraft and they initiated a go-around”. ATC confirmed that the aircraft had gone around from approximately 20 feet above the runway and were subsequently advised that a second approach would not be made and that the aircraft would return to IOM. No mention was found from the CVR data of any discussion of a possible diversion to BFS where the available runway 35 would have offered more favourable relative surface wind conditions.