“experience, knowledge and authority” required for the post and noted that his deputy (the First Officer who had acted as PF on the investigated flight) “also had very little operational experience”. The day before the flight under investigation had occurred, representatives of the UK CAA had met Czech CAA representatives and “requested that inspectors from the two NAAs perform a cooperative audit of the operator at IOM to confirm that safe operations could be guaranteed by the new management structure”. Following the investigated flight, the FCP was suspended and the Operator was directed to suspend UK Commercial Air Transport operations indefinitely. Both NAAs “agreed that a crosswind limit of 19.4 knots should have been applied for takeoff and landing” and the Czech CAA also confirmed that the ground operation limit (which had been introduced by the Operator after a previously investigated Serious Incident at the Isle of Man) was related to aircraft taxiing and was not a takeoff and landing limit. IOM operations by Van Air ceased and were not subsequently resumed. The Investigation concluded that the Primary Causal Factor was “the decision to land with a maximum crosswind component of 40 knots, which is approximately twice the maximum demonstrated (and limiting) certification value of 19.4 knots”. Nine Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: By only studying weather reports for six airfields and without referring to any meteorology charts, the crew had insufficient information to assess the prevailing weather conditions en route and the storm’s path.. The aircraft operator believed that a valid TAF could be disregarded upon the subsequent issue of a METAR that included a TREND forecast.. The aircraft operator did not provide adequate oversight to a flight in airspace affected by this storm. The aircraft commander did not refer to the available weather forecast charts and neither the Operator’s Operations Control Centre (OCC) nor the Flight Operations Manager (FOM) reviewed the situation with him, or suggested he seek guidance from the duty forecaster.. The fuel figures presented on the Operational Flight Plan (OFP) did not account for the correct level of contingency fuel and did not allow for a realistic alternate routing. The aircraft had sufficient fuel for the sector, but the crew did not have as much extra fuel on-board as they believed they had, and the OM offered little guidance on the carriage of extra fuel when there was a possibility of widespread, adverse weather conditions.. The OFP only showed navigational and fuel information for the second of two selected alternates. However, the two Belfast airports are in close proximity so the lack of navigational information for the routing to the first alternate may not have been problematic in this instance.. The CVR evidence, that evolving threats did not precipitate verbal discussion between the pilots, indicates they had not been effectively trained in respect to CRM, and to threat management in particular. The OM appeared to lack guidance concerning the evaluation and management of threats, problem solving and decision making.. The approach became unstable