It was also stated that passing 1,000 feet aal in IMC or 500 feet aal in VMC, the PM should annunciate this and also state ‘not stabilised’ if the stabilised approach criteria are not met at that point, “in which case the PF is to initiate a go-around”. It was additionally stated that “for the aircraft to be considered stabilised when crossing the runway threshold the maximum speed should be the adjusted Vref + 10 knots". The subject of crosswind limits for takeoff and landing was highly relevant to the circumstances being investigated. It was found that “in the view of the aircraft operator, there was no specific crosswind limit the crew needed to consider when deciding whether to operate”. However, it was noted that the OM Part A referred to a crosswind limit when it stated that “for planning purposes an aerodrome shall be considered below minimum if the steady crosswind exceeds the prescribed limitations” and considered that “other evidence from the AFM and the OM indicates that the maximum demonstrated crosswind component of 19.4 knots was limiting”. Whilst Van Air operated under a Czech AOC and the Czech CAA was therefore responsible for oversight of the Operator in accordance with EASA regulations, EU Regulations also require that Member States “cooperate with respect to the safety of operations in the territory of a National Aviation Authority (NAA) which is not the certifying authority”. However, since the Isle of Man is not in the EU, the ruling regulatory requirements are Foreign Carrier Permits (FCPs) for the operation of commercial flights to or from the Island. The UK has to provide a permit for commercial flights between the UK and any non-EU territory and the Isle of Man CAA separately requires such permits if foreign-registered aircraft are used to operate such flights. Both these requirements are “delivered by the UK CAA in co-ordination with the Isle of Man CAA” and VAN Air had been issued with an FCP “for its operation between the Isle of Man and the UK on behalf of the ticket-selling company” (Citywing). The UK CAA informed the Investigation that “following a number of operational incidents”, the Czech and UK CAAs had been co-operating to oversee this aircraft operator’s remote operations “in a trial sponsored by the EASA” to explore how ‘cooperative oversight’ might work and develop best practices for NAAs involved in the “oversight of organisations / persons certified by another Member State”. This trial was reported to have “identified shortcomings in management structure, operational procedures and in the way the operator’s crew were trained, particularly in threat and error management principles” and “although the oversight trial was completed once a programme to address these deficiencies had been agreed, the two NAAs continued to work together to secure further safety and compliance improvements by the operator”. To retain its FCP, Van Air had been required to submit monthly updates and through this process, the UK CAA had concluded that the Company’s newly-appointed Flight Operations Manager lacked the