The Captain stated subsequently that following the go-around, he had not asked ATC about the latest conditions at BFS, or whether other aircraft were landing there because he judged “the same sort of wind was prevailing at both BFS and IOM”. After levelling at FL070, the IOM ATIS was copied. This gave runway 26 in use, that it was wet and gave a surface wind as from 290º at 28 knots. The First Officer, remaining as PF, briefed for a flap 18º approach, a target Vref of 105 knots and noted “a slightly right crosswind” and was subsequently recorded as remarking that the wind would be “not so challenging” as it had been at BHD. However, soon after this ATC advised that the surface wind was now from 310º at a mean speed of 41 knots and ranging between 22 knots and 53 knots and asked if they wished to make an approach to which the Captain replied “of course”. The CVR data showed that “there was no discussion between the pilots regarding the change to the wind before the aircraft began descent in preparation for its approach at IOM” and without any further discussion, radar vectoring for an ILS approach to runway 26 was accepted with the First Officer continuing as PF. Shortly before vectoring the aircraft onto the ILS, ATC advised that the surface wind was from 310º with a mean speed of 43 knots and ranging from 23 knots and 63 knots. Once the aircraft was established on the runway 26 ILS, a landing clearance was given with wind advised as from 300º with the mean speed 41 knots and varying between 31 knots and 63 knots. Whilst this message was being received, the first of three EGPWS Mode 5 ‘Glideslope’ cautions was annunciated to which the PF immediately declared “1,000 feet stabilised”. The Captain stated that the runway had been in sight at 600 feet and approximately 35 seconds before the aircraft touched down ATC provided a final wind check of 300º at 48 knots varying between 32 knots and 63 knots. As ATC were “concerned for the safety of the aircraft and its occupants when it landed”, two RFFS vehicles were deployed facing towards the runway, approximately 200 metres from the Touchdown Zone (TDZ). As the aircraft made its approach, ATC, aware of the Van Air maximum ground operation limit and of a previous weather-related Serious Incident when another Van Air Let 410 had been blown onto its wingtip while taxiing in surface winds exceeding that limit, “discussed the situation with the Isle of Man Civil Aviation Administration” (CAA). The Investigation found four RFFS and two ATC witnesses who concurred that “as the aircraft crossed the threshold it seemed unstable and it rolled considerably, causing the tip of the left wing (the downwind wing) to tilt down until it seemed in close proximity to the runway, before the wheels made first contact (and that) the aircraft then bounced and rolled left again before touching down