A Field Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB on behalf of the Isle of Man Government. Relevant recorded data from both the FDR and 30 minute CVR were downloaded. It was noted that the 51 year-old Captain, who was a Hungarian national, had 7,800 total flying hours of which 2,200 hours were on type. The First Officer, who was PF for the flight was a Czech national, who was also the Deputy Flight Operations Manager for Van Air, had 1,052 total flying hours of which 509 hours were on type. It was established that the two pilots were based locally and had been rostered to report 30 minutes before the scheduled departure time of an early morning flight to Belfast City after which their next sector was to be a return flight to the Isle of Man with a scheduled time of arrival 1 hour and 35 minutes later. Both had arrived 45 minutes prior to STD and on arrival had been able to download TAFs and METARs for the Isle of Man, Belfast Aldergrove and Dublin, plus METARs only for Belfast City and Londonderry and a TAF only for Blackpool. A warning of north-westerly gales expected to affect the Isle of Man (IOM) from about half an hour after the scheduled return had been issued by the insular Meteorological Office and was also available to the crew at this time. The IOM TAF seen by the crew was the one valid from 0600 -1500 and gave the surface wind as soon veering to 310º and temporarily subsiding to a mean speed of 17 knots before beginning to increase to 33 knots gusting to 46 knots from 45 minutes after the scheduled departure time from IOM. The only wind limit considered by the crew in light of this information was the Van Air OM maximum wind speed of 45 knots from any direction for all ground manoeuvring. Crosswind components for takeoff and landing on the runway in use, runway 26, were not considered. It was noted that, somewhat unusually for most smaller European airports, the crew could, had they wished, discussed the weather outlook with a duty forecaster based at the airport. It was also noted that a replacement IOM TAF had been issued at 0800 for the remainder of the period to 1500 that gave the surface wind for the two hour period which included the time at which the returning aircraft landed back at the Isle of Man as from 310° with a mean speed 36 knots, gusts to 55 knots and the likelihood of moderate rain showers, but this was not seen by the crew and the aircraft left the stand on its delayed departure soon afterwards. In respect of a pre-flight assessment of the destination weather where runways 04 and 22 were available, the METAR seen by the crew during their pre-flight preparations gave the surface wind as from 230º at 9 knots. As no TAF was reported to have been available for Belfast