for a second time, on all three wheels”. These witnesses also stated that “after travelling along the runway for approximately 20 metres, the right main wheel was seen to lift off the ground and nearby RFFS witnesses estimated the left wingtip rolled to within one metre of the runway surface”. Concurrent CVR data indicated that the crew had been aware of this roll because, approximately nine seconds after touchdown, the PF was recorded as saying “ailerons… good… too much roll” although the Captain stated that he had thought that all the wheels remained on the ground and that the aircraft had responded to appropriate aileron control and that “he had no concern that the wingtip or the propeller might have been close to the ground”. After landing the commander took control and the First Officer said “taxi carefully with the wind” and ATC then gave the surface wind as from 300º at 47 knots and varying between 32 knots and 63 knots and asked if they wished to taxi or to hold on the runway. The crew responded with “we will try and taxi and if we can make it we will vacate, otherwise we need to leave the aircraft here” and accepted taxi instructions to the terminal but 45 seconds later, as the aircraft was leaving the runway, ATC transmitted “direction from Isle of Man CAA, hold position” and the crew complied. FDR data was found to show that the aircraft had passed 1,000 feet agl on the IOM approach stable at approximately 120 KIAS and descending steadily at around 1000 fpm. However, over a period of about 40 seconds beginning whilst the aircraft was still in IMC at approximately 850 feet agl, this descent had reversed into a climb which reached 950 feet agl before descent was re-established. During this excursion, airspeed was recorded as fluctuating between 113 KIAS and 146 KIAS. Then, passing 500 ft agl, the aircraft rate of descent had reduced to approximately 440 fpm and the airspeed had dropped to 107 KIAS before the aircraft had levelled at 390 feet agl. Thereafter, a generally increasing trend in airspeed was recorded as descent towards the runway was re-established. FDR data showed that airspeed during this final descent towards the runway had fluctuated between 125 KIAS and 148 KIAS. It was noted that when asked if he had considered taking over as PF for the approach to IOM after the wind speed had increased significantly, the Captain had stated that there would have been no advantage to him doing so despite his greater general and type flying experience, because “as PM he had oversight of what was taking place”. It was noted that on the morning concerned, “a deep low pressure system […] was centred in the vicinity of Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man”. The forecast chart aviation-relevant weather below 10,000 feet (see below) showed “a cold front approaching the Isle of Man and a slow moving trough following behind (with) the centre of