Whilst it was noted that this finding might have led to a Safety Recommendation directed to the aircraft operator to ensure that their EMB 500 pilots were better acquainted with use of the airframe de-icing system and its effect on the stall protection system, since they no longer operated the type this was not appropriate. It was noted that as the aircraft passed approximately 150 feet agl about 15 seconds prior to impact, the First Officer had begun to flare the aircraft and as pitch increased, the aircraft descended below the ILS GS. Neither pilot mentioned this and the First Officer was reportedly looking out and concentrating on reducing the speed Vref. The Investigation was of the opinion that “this shows that the Captain concentrated on the communication with the controller (to confirm the landing clearance) and was distracted from monitoring the actions of the First Officer”. It was considered that the continuously increasing AoA and the reduction in airspeed not only below the VREF but also significantly below the VMC specified in the AFM for flight in icing conditions (97 KIAS) had led to an aerodynamic stall such that recovery from the sudden roll movement and accelerated descent was no longer possible. It was noted that such “sudden roll movement with subsequent loss of altitude at an AoA, where normally the aircraft should still fly” was typical of stall behaviour with significant rime ice on the leading edges and clear (runback) ice on both the upper and lower wing surfaces as had clearly been the case. Whilst not directly contributory to the accident, the overall performance of the flight crew was assessed from the CVDR voice data to have lacked many of the features of effective CRM. The Investigation took the view that “the working relationship between the very experienced Captain and the First Officer who was at the beginning of her flying career, resembled more a relationship between a flight instructor and a student pilot” but that this reality had not been managed properly. Amongst other things, “the recording showing that the First Officer had been highly stressed during the approach, especially during the part where she flew the aircraft manually”. It was also noted that the recording “did not contain any indication that the pilots had discussed whether the First Officer had viewed herself capable of flying the approach, given that she was inexperienced on type and with flight in icing conditions”. It was considered that part of good CRM would have been the Captain observing his junior colleague and making a timely decision should a change of PF or special support during the approach have been appropriate. It was noted that a fatal loss of control accident almost two years later to the same aircraft type in the USA had been investigated by the NTSB and found to have also been the result of failure to activate the airframe de-icing system prior to making an approach in icing conditions in the context of a similar lack