considered to conclusively demonstrate that the aircraft had made its final approach whilst accreting ice on critical parts of the airframe with the airframe de ice system not operating. The German Meteorological Service (DWD) subsequently confirmed that “the prevailing closed stratus clouds had been supercooled and therefore carrying ice” and it was also noted that moderate icing conditions had been included in the forecast issued. Central Maintenence Computer (CMC) data which included activations of (and faults in) the airframe de icing system was accessed and it was confirmed that it had not been activated during the flight. Apart from the consequent absence of airframe icing protection, this also had the effect of making the stall warning system ineffective. With full flap extended and the ice airframe protection system switched off, an aural warning is generated if the AoA reaches 21° and the stick pusher operates if it then reaches 28.4° whereas with the same flap extension and the system switched on, the corresponding figures are 9.5° and 15.5° which were both exceeded during the final stages of the accident flight. The accident flight Captain said in his statement to the Investigation that “his reason for not activating the wing and horizontal stabilizer de-ice system was that he had not seen any ice accretion and further explained that the activation of the system would result in significant limitations of aircraft performance and there are discussions among pilots whereby the system should only be activated at ice accretion of at least 0.25 inches”. He also claimed, although there was no confirmation of it on the CVDR, that when the aircraft was in the cloud layer below 3000 feet, “he had checked the part of the left wing, about the outer third, which he could see from his point of view, for ice accretion and not seen any”. The Investigation was of the opinion that “with only a fleeting look at the wing it is possible that he could have overlooked the milky-white ice accretion on the silver-grey de-ice boots (but that) it cannot be ruled out that he did not take a look at all”. To show that either pilot looking at the wing leading edge when seated in the flight deck in flight could have readily observed ice of the leading edges, a photograph of this view was taken and another photograph of the wing as observed an hour after the accident taken from “a similar viewing direction” was superimposed on it to and showed that the remaining ice could still be easily seen. For a wider perspective on the Captain’s remarks, the Investigation looked at the CVDR data for previous flights by the aircraft and found that in a period of just over three months prior to the investigated accident, the engine anti-ice system had been in use on 22 occasions but during only 8 of these had the airframe de-icing system also been on and that “during 6 of the remaining 14 flights the OAT was less than 5°C”.