An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (BFU). The aircraft was not fitted with an FDR or a CVR and was not required to be but it did have a CVDR (Cockpit Voice and Data Recorder) installed from which relevant voice and flight data was recovered. In the case of the voice recording which contained a mixture of English and Dutch, an Investigator from the Belgian AAIU assisted with transcription into English where necessary (direct reference to any Dutch language exchanges quoted below will appear as translated into English). ATC radar data for the approach was also available. Both pilots held CPLs issued by the Belgian CAA. The 48 year-old Captain had a total of approximately 4,500 flying hours which included 800 hours and about 400 landings on type. The 22 year-old First Officer, who had been PF for the accident flight, stated that she had a total of approximately 260 flying hours which included 32 hours and about 20 landings on type. It was established that from about 45 minutes after takeoff, whilst still in the cruise at FL 390, the crew had tried several times to copy the destination ATIS but had not been successful. Ten minutes later, when approximately 140 nm from destination they began descent and two minutes later, the Captain advised that he considered it likely that runway 25R would be in use. However, a few minutes later, they were cleared for a runway 07L STAR and on subsequent transfer to Bremen Radar about 70 nm from destination, were re-cleared to fly direct to a twelve mile final for runway 07L at Schönefeld. Passing FL 200 the PF asked for the Descent Checks but was told by the Captain to wait whilst he copied the ATIS which included a cloud base of 1,400 feet, visibility 4,800 metres in mist with “moderate icing reported below 3,000 feet”. The two pilots “then conducted a two-minute approach briefing” during which details of the approach and go-around procedures were discussed. As the aircraft left FL 100, the First Officer again asked for the Descent Checks but was initially asked to “stand by” until after receipt of a re-clearance to descend to 4000 feet QNH, when they were completed. The Captain then said "landing speeds?" and the First Officer replied “set by me" (a VREF of 96 KIAS was subsequently found to have been written on the operational flight plan). The Captain then said "icing conditions?" and the First Officer replied “negative, no visible moisture" - which was true for the conditions at that time but not in respect of the ATIS weather received. Shortly afterwards, the Captain said "below ten thousand [...] temperature is not negative [...] I am going to wait a little with the anti-ice". The flight was re-cleared to descend to 3,000 feet QNH and for the ILS ‘Y’ 07. The Captain then requested that the PF keep the speed up saying that "ATC won't like it if you