of appreciation of its importance. Given the forgoing findings, the Investigation examined the FAA 2010 aircraft type ‘Flight Standardisation Board’ (FSB) Report and the equivalent EASA 2012 (before the accident) and 2013 (after the accident) ‘Operational Evaluation Board’ (OEB) Reports which included pilot training requirements. It was found that these documents identified the aircraft as in ICAO approach category ‘B’ and that their ‘Training Areas for Special Emphasis (TASE)’ for Initial Type Rating Training included “operation in icing conditions and the stall warning and stick pusher system”. It was noted that the aircraft had not flown a stabilised approach as required by SOPs and that the very inexperienced First Officer was quite likely to be (and apparently became) somewhat uncomfortable with the Captain’s willing acceptance of the request made by ATC to keep at least 170 knots to 4 nm in the prevailing conditions. It was also clear that the Captain became overloaded in the latter part of the approach due at least in part to this choice but showed no sign of having anticipated the potential consequences of it, having even offered to exceed 170 knots on acceptance. However, although a pilot is not obliged to accept such a request to “keep up the speed” (and must accept the possibility of a delay to the approach if declined), the Investigation examined the context of the ATC request made. It was discovered from DFS, the ANSP involved, that “controllers generally instructed approach speeds of 160 - 170 KIAS because pilots could easily adhere to them” but that the applicable section of the Manual of Air Traffic Services ( MATS) merely stated that “between 12 nm and about 4 nm from touchdown, instructed speeds should not be lower than 150 KIAS”. It was also noted that ICAO approach category ‘B’ to which the accident aircraft was assigned was for “small multi-engine aircraft with final approach speeds of 85 - 130 knots”. The Immediate Causes of the accident were formally determined to have been that: The crew conducted the approach under known icing conditions and did not activate the wing and horizontal stabiliser de-ice system, which was contrary to the applicable Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).. Due to ice accretion on wings and horizontal stabiliser and infringement of the required approach speed the aircraft entered an abnormal flight attitude during the flare phase and crashed.. One Contributory Factor was also identified as “the crew had insufficient knowledge of the connection between the ice protection system and the Stall Warning Protection System (SWPS)”. Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the DGAC Belgium should, as part of their oversight responsibilities, ascertain that the operator takes measures which ensure the consequent adherence to Standard Operating Procedures and the application of the criteria for a stabilised approach. [9/2018]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) should, in cooperation with the Brazilian aviation authority, the Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil (ANAC), ascertain that the aircraft manufacture of the EMB-500 renders