will slow down everything behind us". According to recorded radar data, the 07L localiser was intercepted at 3000 feet QNH at a range of about 13 nm upon which the controller requested 170 knots or more until 4nm and got the response that the current 175 KIAS would be maintained until 4 nm. The Captain then advised that he was selecting the engine icing on because of the ATIS information and the fact that once they left 3000 feet on the ILS GS they would be in a cloud layer with a sub zero temperature. Shortly after becoming fully established on the ILS, landing clearance was given with the spot wind “100°/4 now 090°7” with a request to vacate to the right after landing. The First Officer asked the Captain if she could reduce speed to 130 and was reminded that 170 or more to 4 nm had been requested and accepted and that “then you still have enough time to position the flaps - no problem". It was noted that in the five minute period prior to this exchange, the CVDR recorded eight ‘proactive’ reminders by the Captain to “keep high speed”. The Captain began to run the Approach Checks and on reaching the item “icing conditions" he said “it is still on". At around 4 nm, the Captain advised the First Officer that she could start to reduce speed and soon after, with the speed at 163 KCAS, she called for flaps 2 and 11 seconds later, with the runway in sight, she disconnected the AP. Passing 1000 feet agl at 151 KCAS with the aircraft well below the cloud layer which it had only been in for about 3 minutes, the Captain switched off the engine and windscreen anti-ice systems. At 800 feet agl, full flap was requested and set and the PF set the 96 knot Vref on the AFCS. By approximately 640 feet agl, the flaps were fully extended and the speed was reducing through 121 KCAS. As 500 feet agl was passed, the speed of the aircraft had settled at around 114 KCAS where it temporarily remained. The 500 foot call prompted the Captain to quickly voice some of the landing checks which had still not been completed and was recorded as saying “gear down three greens, flaps are full, landing clearance update” before asking the controller "just to confirm cleared to land?" During this radio call, at an altitude of about 250 feet agl, the airspeed began to decrease again. Immediately after the auto callout of the DA at 200 feet agl, the Captain, having had no response to his request for confirmation that a landing clearance had been given, repeated it and received this as the aircraft passed 162 feet agl with the speed decreasing through 106 KCAS. The aircraft then went slightly below the ILS GS and began to pitch up and over the next nine seconds, by which time the aircraft was at 30 feet agl, the speed decreased to