about 90 KCAS, the recorded pitch angle increased to about +6°and the recorded AoA to between 16 and 17°. The aircraft then “began to roll left and within two seconds reached a bank angle of 30° to the left (whilst) at the same time, normal acceleration decreased from approximately 1 g to approximately 0.8 g”. Two seconds later, the CVDR recorded impact noises before the recording ended. Both pilots subsequently stated that “during the flare above the threshold the left wing had suddenly dropped and touched the runway” after which the aircraft rolled right and the right main landing gear made a “hard” contact with the runway and fractured. The aircraft then slid towards the right edge of the runway and came to a stop approximately 447 metres past the displaced landing threshold just off the runway but still on its asphalt-surfaced margin. Subsequent examination of the aircraft found the outermost 2 metres of the left wing were bent upwards by about 10° and its lower surface, aileron and flap showed “scratch marks and deformations”. The right main landing gear had fractured and folded rearwards with parts of it penetrating the upper surface of the right wing and its wheel had been destroyed and part of the wheel rim was abraded. The right flap was deformed and parts of the flap track and its running channel had been abraded. The airframe was subsequently declared a hull loss due to the extent of the damage. Subsequent examination of the accident site (see below) showed that the left wing tip had made contact with the ground about 7 metres ahead of the displaced threshold about 4 metres left of the centreline. In the same area, rubber deposits made by the nose landing gear wheel were present about 4 metres ahead of the threshold and then 6 metres further on there were rubber deposits from the right main landing gear wheel. Photographs of the aircraft taken by some of those to first reach the accident site (see the first illustration below) showed that at that time, with the surface temperature at 0° C, there was still up to 10mm of ice on the aircraft nose and on the full length of both wing leading edges, on the leading edges of the horizontal stabiliser and on the front end of the landing gear assembly. Sometime later (see the second illustration below) there was still ice on the leading edge despite the temperature not being negative and when the BFU Investigation Team examined the wreckage three hours after the accident, they found leading edge ice accretion still visible and “about 4 cm wide, with a milky, rough, crystalline appearance and a slightly concave form with strongly developed feathering at the upper and lower edges”. In addition, they observed that “the upper and lower surfaces of the two wings showed a lamellar ice accretion (except that) there was no ice accretion on the left wing, where the impact had caused a bend”. The photographic evidence was