In his chapter of Integrated Models of Cognitive Systems, Richard W. Pew said that experimental psychologists during the early 1940s summarized results of their research with verbal-analytical models, physical models and mathematical models. “They began capturing their theories in computer models almost as soon as digital computers became available,” he said. By the early 1960s, some began to pursue “the idea of computer models in the context of simulations of human information processing and cognition more generally. “Three major threads to [HPM history since 1992] are manual-control models of human control in closed-loop systems; task networks models that fundamentally predict probability of success and performance time in human-machine systems; and, cognitive architectures that typically capture theories of human performance capacities and limitations — and the models derived from them tend to be more detailed in the representation of the substance of human information processing and cognition. … Cognitive architectures, evolved from psychological theory, are now the predominant HPM concept and well suited to integration with engineering models and data. Pew said, “It is in the cognitive architectures and hybrid models that modelers have sought to extend the range of applicability to situations where there are potential choices of ‘what to do next’ that are process-constrained rather than time-constrained, that elaborate alternative strategies, and that deepen the models to be more realistic with respect to internal perceptual and cognitive processes for which external-environment constraint is less useful.” In his chapter, Frank E. Ritter said, “Because cognitive models increasingly allow us to predict behavior and explain the mechanisms behind behavior, they have many applications. … Researchers in psychology and cognitive science are interested in them as theories. Researchers in human factors, in synthetic environments, and in intelligent systems are interested in them for applications and design.” In their chapter, Jerome R. Busemeyer, Eric Dimperio and Ryan K. Jessup said that the emergence of compute information processing in the 1950s enabled what HPM practitioner call the “cognitive revolution.” “Cognitive scientists realigned their attention on mental-processing mechanisms,” these authors said. “Short-term and long-term memory storage and retrieval were postulated and serial or parallel processes controlled flow of information.… However, motivation and emotion was foreign to computer systems, and it was eschewed by information processing [and decision-making] theorists.” In their chapter, Vladislav D. Veksler and Michael J. Schoelles also explained why involving human emotional states as a variable in cognition has been resisted. “The paradigm has shifted; the issue is not how to avoid affect in accounts of cognition but how to account for behavior as emerging from a cognitive–affective control system. … This may well represent the beginnings of the next generation mental architectures — fully embodied and more capable of modeling a wider range of the human experience,” they said. … “One of the main advantages of the integrated [HPM] approach … is that we have a formal or computational model that is able to derive precise predictions for cognitive and emotional interactions.