The EUROCONTROL Safety Culture Discussion Cards (Shorrock, 2012a, 2012b) are a practical resource to aid discussion about safety culture by any person or team within an organisation, in aviation and beyond. In the context of air traffic management, this includes staff and managers in air traffic operations (e.g. air traffic controllers, aeronautical information services personnel), maintenance staff, specialist staff and support staff (e.g. safety, quality, projects, human resources, legal, etc). The cards use the same concepts as the EUROCONTROL safety culture programme method, which has been used in over 30 air navigation service providers. The cards use everyday language to make the approach completely accessible, and can be used without the need for external support. The Safety Culture Discussion Cards are now available in Edition 2, in several languages. They may be used in accordance with the copyright statement included in the cards (see final card). Edition 2 English - low res. Edition 2 English - high res (without cropmarks). Edition 2 English - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 2 Spanish / Español - low res. Edition 2 Spanish / Español - high res (without cropmarks). Edition 2 Spanish / Español - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 2 Dutch / Nederlands - low res. Edition 2 Dutch / Nederlands - high res (without cropmarks). Edition 2 Dutch / Nederlands - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 2 Polish - low res. Edition 2 Polish - high res (without cropmarks). Edition 2 Polish - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 1 English - low res with 'Download at SKYbrary' ribbon. Edition 1 French / Français - low res. Edition 1 French / Français - high res. Edition 1 Spanish / Español - low res. Edition 1 Spanish / Español - low res with 'Download at SKYbrary' ribbon. Edition 1 Spanish / Español - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 1 Spanish / Español - high res with 'Download at SKYbrary' ribbon (with cropmarks). Edition 1 Portuguese / Portugál - low res. Edition 1 Portuguese / Portugál - high res. Edition 1 Portuguese / Portugál - high res (with cropmarks). Edition 1 Hungarian / Magyar - high res. Edition 1 Finnish / Finn - low res. Edition 1 Finnish / Finn - high res. Edition 1 Finnish / Finnish - high res (with cropmarks).