As a controller, one can expect that pilots who become aware of a bomb threat will request: To stop climb and/or descend if the aircraft is climbing.. Immediate flight level (FL) re-clearance, usually to lower FL. Landing at the nearest suitable aerodrome. Information about such aerodromes such as runway in use, runway length, runway surface, aerodrome elevation and approach aids and frequencies.. Bomb intimidation could be communicated by a passenger(s) already on board of the aircraft. Historically such threats were also caused by drunk and unruly passengers which were often pacified by members of the cabin/flight crew. In such cases law enforcement and medical response would be required after landing.. Other unexpected requests may also be made as a result of co-ordination with other agencies. A TWR/APP controller should expect the aircraft to be put into landing configuration earlier than usual and track miles should never be minimised unless this is expressly requested. Do not allow a missed approach to become necessary because of ATC reasons. Best practice embedded in the ASSIST principle could be followed (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time): A - acknowledge the bomb warning, ask for intentions and provide information regarding next suitable for landing aerodromes as necessary;. S - separate the aircraft and if necessary prioritise it for landing, allow long final if requested, keep the active runway clear of departures, arrivals and vehicles;. S - silence the non-urgent calls (as required) and use separate frequency where possible;. I - inform the supervisor and other sectors/units concerned; inform the airport emergency fire rescue services and all concerned parties according to local procedures; as tower controller expect airport authorities to execute their bomb threat emergency plan.. S - support the flight by providing any information requested and necessary such as type of approach, runway length and any additional aerodrome details, etc.. T - provide time for the crew to assess the situation, don’t press with non urgent matters..