Events on the SKYbrary database that involved jet efflux/blast or prop wash B77L, Frankfurt Germany, 2022On 4 September 2022, a Boeing 777F restarting its taxi out at Frankfurt after being obliged to stop part way round a turn to await a further clearance when changing from Apron Control to Tower used asymmetric thrust to break away when so cleared. This resulted in sufficient jet efflux to cause a number of unsecured freight containers to move and led to a minor injury to a ramp worker who fell trying to avoid being hit by one. Both the aircraft operator and the airport operator decided to strengthen their published thrust use procedures when taxiing on the Apron. B734, Aberdeen UK, 2005Significant damage was caused to the tailplane and elevator of a Boeing 737-400 after the pavement beneath them broke up when take off thrust was applied for a standing start from the full length of the runway at Aberdeen. Although in this case neither outcome applied, the Investigation noted that control difficulties consequent upon such damage could lead to an overrun following a high speed rejected takeoff or to compromised flight path control airborne. Safety Recommendations on appropriate regulatory guidance for marking and construction of blast pads and on aircraft performance, rolling take offs and lead-on line marking were made. On 4 September 2022, a Boeing 777F restarting its taxi out at Frankfurt after being obliged to stop part way round a turn to await a further clearance when changing from Apron Control to Tower used asymmetric thrust to break away when so cleared. This resulted in sufficient jet efflux to cause a number of unsecured freight containers to move and led to a minor injury to a ramp worker who fell trying to avoid being hit by one. Both the aircraft operator and the airport operator decided to strengthen their published thrust use procedures when taxiing on the Apron. Significant damage was caused to the tailplane and elevator of a Boeing 737-400 after the pavement beneath them broke up when take off thrust was applied for a standing start from the full length of the runway at Aberdeen. Although in this case neither outcome applied, the Investigation noted that control difficulties consequent upon such damage could lead to an overrun following a high speed rejected takeoff or to compromised flight path control airborne. Safety Recommendations on appropriate regulatory guidance for marking and construction of blast pads and on aircraft performance, rolling take offs and lead-on line marking were made.