was still 220 knots. After a further interval of 1minute 40 seconds, both aircraft were now at groundspeed of 220 knots and had passed BL542 and were outbound on the same 245° outbound track. The A320 was descending through 4,300 feet for 3000 feet just 1.2 nm ahead of the 737 which had levelled at 4,000 feet and a Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) conflict alert was activated . Almost immediately, the 737 crew saw an aircraft in front of them and called the T3E controller to report “traffic 2nm ahead” and their intention to turn left. The controller responded by apologising - according to the 737 crew doing so “several times”. As the 737 began to turn left, it passed 1.2 nm east of the A320 with 100 feet vertical separation. The 737 crew subsequently stated that having seen the Vueling A320 descending from above and travelling in the same direction within 1.5 nm, they waited until the vertical separation had reduced to approximately 500 feet and then “decided to turn left to avoid potential wake turbulence” and immediately informed ATC. The Investigation noted the view of both controllers involved in the handover of the executive controller position for the T3E sector that the briefing given and received had been “in their opinion, conducted correctly and that all of the necessary information was relayed to the oncoming controller”. Accordingly, the OM of the ANSP (ENAIRE) unit at Barcelona was reviewed with the following findings: The OM required that the oncoming controller should be made aware of the general situation in the sector, with particular emphasis on those aircraft that are or could be in conflict, whether or not they are on frequency. In an approach sequence or pre-sequence (as in this incident), the first traffic in the sequence is transferred to the next sector when it is ‘clear of conflicts’ i.e. when this traffic has no other aircraft ahead of it and will not pose a conflict to the other traffic remaining in the sector and on the frequency. However, it was observed that such action “does not necessarily entail establishing that the next traffic in the sequence is ‘clear of conflicts’, since the position of the traffic ahead could affect it”. Therefore, since the traffic ahead still in the sector, even if transferred to another frequency, could represent a conflict risk for the following traffic, information about it should be included in a summary of the general traffic situation given during a position handover. However, it was considered that since the traffic situation whilst the investigated conflict was accepted to have been ‘simple’, “neither the operational situation at the time of the handover, nor the fact that no mention was made during this handover of the presence of traffic that was still in the sector but no longer on the frequency, justified the oncoming controller’s failure to notice that this traffic could be of concern”. It was considered that the controller’s lack of awareness of the presence of