An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. The FDR and CVR were removed from the wreckage and their data was successfully downloaded. The aircraft Commander was acting as PF and was a Captain who had a total of 5,990 flying hours experience including 1,500 hours on type with approximately 400 of those in command. He had initially been employed by West Wind in 2010 and had been an ATR 42 First Officer between November 2015 and July 2017 at which point he was promoted to Captain on the ATR42. The Co-Pilot was also an ATR42 Captain and had a total of 15,769 hours flying experience which included 7,930 hours on type. He had initially been employed by West Wind as a BAe Jetstream 31 First Officer in 2000 before beginning to fly the ATR42 as a First Officer in 2005 before being promoted to Captain on it in May 2011. He had been rostered to act as a Co-Pilot because of the absence of an available First Officer. It was established with confidence that flight crew fatigue was not a factor relevant in the accident. The crew duty began with an uneventful flight from Saskatoon to Prince Albert which, after a one hour turnround, was followed by a flight from there to Fond-du-Lac. During the approach there, they encountered some in-flight icing, and activated the pneumatic boot leading edge de-icing system. However, neither this nor the anti icing system were capable of preventing ice accumulation on unprotected surfaces. The crew were aware of this but were unconcerned given that no handling anomalies were apparent and on that basis appeared not to have considered that any ice remaining from the flight followed by a turnround in significantly sub zero temperatures would be severe enough to have a significant effect on aircraft performance. In fact, FDR data showed that the effect of residual ice during the final stages of the earlier approach into Fond du Lac had already been to decrease lift performance by 10% and increase drag by 28%. The turnround at Fond-du-Lac before departure to Stony Rapids took almost an hour in sub zero air temperatures during which the right hand engine remained running at idle with its propeller brake on. With dew point and frost point temperatures very close to or the same as the air temperature, the conditions were highly conducive to ice or frost formation. These conditions, combined with what was likely to have been residual mixed ice already on the airframe and providing ice crystal nucleation sites, would have been certain to lead to additional ice or frost accumulating on the aircraft critical surfaces. Once the passengers had boarded the aircraft, the Co-Pilot carried out an external pre-flight inspection which, in the absence of the equipment necessary to facilitate an adequate inspection, was limited to a walk round and a look at the left wing from the top of the passenger door air stairs on what was a dimly lit apron without the use