of a flashlight. Although he remained unaware of the full extent of the ice and the continued accretion, on returning to the flight deck, he informed the Captain in command that he had seen more ice on the airframe than he had first expected and added that ice was also visible on the nearby overhead electricity lines. The Captain “responded in a way that indicated he was not concerned” in a short discussion that lasted only a few seconds. The Captain did not attempt to have the aircraft de-iced and was not challenged on that matter by the Co-Pilot. However, as context, it was found during the Investigation that company departures from remote airports, such as Fond-du-Lac, with some surface contamination on the aircraft critical surfaces “had become common practice, in part due to the inadequacy of de-icing equipment or services at these locations” and the past success of this approach to risk management had resulted in an unsafe practice becoming normalised. The aircraft taxied for a takeoff from runway 28, which although it involved a slightly longer taxi than for a departure from runway 10, was into wind despite that wind speed being light. The Co-pilot was in agreement with this decision and remarked that “with the amount of ice that was on the aircraft, he would rather have a couple of knots of headwind”. During the Before Takeoff Checks, it was decided that anti-icing set to Level 1 would be sufficient initially and when the aircraft was briefly stopped on the runway threshold, both pilots visually checked their respective-side spoilers which represented the last-chance to check for possible surface contamination before takeoff. Fond-du-Lac is an uncontrolled airport so once the Line Up Checks had been completed, an advisory broadcast was made to report that the flight was rolling for departure from Runway 28. FDR data showed that during takeoff, the combination of upper wing ice accretion which had remained on the aircraft after completion of the approach and the additional ice accreted during the turnround had resulted in decrease in lift performance of 25% and an increase in drag of 58%. Once airborne, with a positive rate of climb called, the Captain called for gear up but as the Co-Pilot moved the gear selector, the aircraft began an uncommanded roll to the left. FDR data showed that the Captain immediately responded by applying maximum right hand aileron which was followed by the left bank quickly transitioning to a right bank. The Captain responded to this with a partial left aileron input which was followed by the aircraft quickly reverting to left bank. An attempt to correct this second roll to the left was again followed six seconds after liftoff by a full right aileron deflection. These oscillations continued, and their severity began to increase. Two seconds later, as the aircraft was reaching a peak left bank of almost 33°, its pitch was increasing through almost 21° and the AoA through 18.4°, the stall warning was activated briefly. The