Captain responded by moving the elevator from 9.5° nose up to 14.5° nose down and shortly after this, the aircraft reached its peak height of 142 feet agl above ground at 107 KCAS. The Captain then called for maximum power and as the Co-Pilot complied, the airspeed began to increase. However within seven seconds, the stall warning sounded again accompanied by an EGPWS ‘BANK ANGLE’ Alert as the left bank increased through 40° with full right aileron applied. With the airspeed now 122 KCAS and a descent beginning, the left bank peaked at 63° and the aircraft, now 430 metres west-northwest of the runway, began to contact tree tops and the stall warning sounded again briefly. After just 17 seconds airborne, the aircraft collided with the ground in a 32° left bank and with approximately a 4° nose-up pitch. It then slid along uneven ground for a further nine seconds before coming to a final stop. By this time, it had rolled onto its right side, with the right wing touching the ground and the left wing tipped upwards. The crew shut down the engines and then called Company despatch by cellphone and the company emergency response plan was activated. The annotated ground track is shown in the illustration below. Although the left wingtip was missing, the remainder of the wing did not fracture or bend and both engines were still securely attached to the wings. However, the fuselage had been broken open by an almost complete transverse fracture just forward of the wing creating a V-shape opening. The main wing structure above the centre fuselage section had collapsed downwards and fuel leaked from it into this section whilst the main landing gear housing had been forced upwards in the same area. Although the Investigation team did not arrive on site until 22 hours after the accident, police officers who were on site some 8 hours after the accident took photographs of the wing and vertical stabiliser leading edge which showed the presence of ice and although ground icing conditions had persisted following the crash, it was considered that these pictures “provided some indication of the contamination present on the aircraft during the occurrence flight”. The Investigation concluded that the initial uncommanded roll to the left had been the result of asymmetric lift caused by the unevenness of the ice contamination. It was noted that the Captain had reacted as if the aircraft was an uncontaminated ATR 42 airframe with normal handling qualities and dynamic response characteristics whereas the ice contamination had led to diminished roll damping which created unexpected handling responses. It was determined that although there was sufficient roll control authority to counteract the asymmetric lift, the unexpected handling qualities and dynamic response had led to the roll disturbance developing into an increasing oscillation culminating in complete loss of control in the roll axis, an outcome which “corresponded with the known risks associated with taking off with ice contamination”. The annotated ground track of the flight from takeoff