Written guidance now requires that flights despatched to airports with insufficient de-icing capability should adhere to a series of new requirements including the following: Self-despatch in not authorised No despatch is authorised if active icing conditions on the ground or active frost are known or forecast No flight will be despatched to these locations without authorisation from the Operations Manager or their delegated substitute on a daily basis. Based on the official forecast of icing and turbulence and the expected freezing level, if the forecast freezing level is below 5000 feet amsl within a 30 nm radius of the destination, then the flight crew must ensure that no icing conditions will be encountered from departure to destination and there must be no known or forecast icing conditions or precipitation within 30 nm radius of the destination airport at the planned arrival time. Alternate airports must have at least Type I de-icing capability. Prior to landing, flight crew must do a visual inspection of the representative surfaces to ensure that no icing conditions have been encountered and the aircraft is free of any ice. If icing has been encountered, diversion to the alternate airport is mandatory. [Editors Note: ‘representative surfaces’ are not defined where mentioned in the Official Report] If surface temperatures are forecast to be positive and it is reasonable to expect any residual contamination to melt or sublimate, a landing may be made. Once on the ground, if the aircraft is found to be contaminated with ice, the Operations Manager or their alternate must be contacted to obtain instructions.. Self-despatch in not authorised. No despatch is authorised if active icing conditions on the ground or active frost are known or forecast. No flight will be despatched to these locations without authorisation from the Operations Manager or their delegated substitute on a daily basis.. Based on the official forecast of icing and turbulence and the expected freezing level, if the forecast freezing level is below 5000 feet amsl within a 30 nm radius of the destination, then the flight crew must ensure that no icing conditions will be encountered from departure to destination and there must be no known or forecast icing conditions or precipitation within 30 nm radius of the destination airport at the planned arrival time.. Alternate airports must have at least Type I de-icing capability.. Prior to landing, flight crew must do a visual inspection of the representative surfaces to ensure that no icing conditions have been encountered and the aircraft is free of any ice. If icing has been encountered, diversion to the alternate airport is mandatory. [Editors Note: ‘representative surfaces’ are not defined where mentioned in the Official Report]. If surface temperatures are forecast to be positive and it is reasonable to expect any residual contamination to melt or sublimate, a landing may be made. Once on the ground, if the aircraft is found to be contaminated with ice, the Operations Manager or their alternate must be contacted to obtain instructions.. An enhanced ATR aircraft