responsibility for the effective oversight of air carrier operational safety were also made as follows: If Transport Canada’s oversight guidance material for its inspectors is distributed among several different documents, and Transport Canada does not ensure that amendments to this guidance are received and understood, inspectors may not follow the latest guidance, and as a result, will not achieve the intended safety objectives.. Transport Canada’s inconsistent application of its own policies and procedures for the 2016 assessment and post-assessment corrective action plan verifications, as well as the ad hoc approach to enhanced monitoring, resulted in ineffective oversight of an operator that had a history of system-level (i.e. safety management system) and systemic (e.g. operational control) non-compliance issues.. In addition, the Investigation also resulted in a series of more general observations related to accident risk based on the findings made. These included, in summary, the following: It is essential that ground icing procedures clearly define how the need for such treatment should be established by flight crews, in particular in respect of what is required to achieve this for particular aircraft types with particular reference to the effective inspection of aircraft surfaces that are not visible from the ground. If a Safety Regulator does not maintain up to date and accurate risk profiles for the operators for which it has responsibility, unsafe operational practices may develop and persist. A means to trigger an enhanced monitoring process which can be applied to any detected new risk at operators must exist if regulatory oversight is to ensure that they are able to effectively manage operational safety.. Two Safety Recommendations were made in December 2018 as a result of findings from the then still-ongoing Investigation: that the Department of Transport collaborate with air operators and airport authorities to identify locations where there is inadequate de-icing and anti-icing equipment and take urgent action to ensure that the proper equipment is available to reduce the likelihood of aircraft taking off with contaminated critical surfaces. [A18-02]. * that the Department of Transport and air operators take action to increase compliance with Canadian Aviation Regulations subsection 602.11(2) and reduce the likelihood of aircraft taking off with contaminated critical surfaces. [A18-03]. Safety Action taken by West Wind Aviation as a result of the accident was noted at its completion as having included, in abbreviated summary, the following: A new and more effective risk assessment regime was implemented and a “Safety, Operations and Customer Experience Committee” was established to provide “corporate oversight of the safety culture and safety matters”.. All scheduled service and regular charter destinations have now been provided with equipment capable of inspecting and de-icing all of the operator’s aircraft types. Personnel at each of these locations are now required to complete a daily de-ice equipment inspection to ensure the serviceability of the equipment and an annual de-ice equipment quality assurance audit is now completed at the beginning of winter operations. All flight crews are also now provided with high-power, light-emitting diode flashlights to facilitate aircraft surface inspections..