FAA’s objective is to identify issues that underlie deviations from standards and correct them as effectively, quickly and efficiently as possible. The goal is to enhance the safety performance of individual and organizational certificate holders. Traditionally, bringing individuals and organizations back into compliance with the regulations meant taking enforcement action (often fines or other penalties). The Compliance Program allows for less stringent means, referred to as compliance actions (such as oral or written counseling, on-the-spot correct of a deviation, and/or additional or remedial training), to gain compliance when the entity that is out of compliance is willing and able to take corrective actions. FAA describes compliance actions as “non-enforcement methods for correcting unintentional deviation or noncompliance that arise from factors such as flawed systems and procedures, simple mistakes, lack of understanding, or diminished skills." A compliance action does not constitute a finding of violation. The program also: Identifies intentional or reckless behaviour as the highest risk to safe operation and acknowledges that it will require enforcement action;. Clearly distinguishes between the goal of achieving compliance and enforcement, which is one of a number of available tools;. Stresses the concept of voluntary compliance and the critical role of safety education and hazard identification;. Recognizes that the high level of safety in the NAS is largely based on, and dependent upon, voluntary compliance with regulatory standards; and. Is about using the best techniques to identify problems, correct the underlying causes and ensure that the problems remain fixed.. FAA believes that the Compliance Program approach will allow it to more effectively address inadvertent deviations, while saving FAA enforcement resources for intentional, reckless, criminal and uncooperative behaviour. Enforcement actions also may result from failure to complete corrective action and repeated noncompliance. Another goal of the Compliance Program is to foster an open, problem-solving approach that allows safety problems to be understood through an exchange of information and effective compliance. FAA recognizes that in many situations, enforcement can inhibit the open exchange of information with industry. However, through increased sharing of safety data among FAA organizations, industry, and international peers it will be easier to identify emerging hazards and predict associated aviation safety risks.