Although rare fume events, or CAQEs, do occur, and potentially could pose health issues to passengers and crew and safety of flight issues if crew were to become incapacitated. In a 2018 paper on “Cabin Fumes,” the International Federation of Air Line Pilots’ Associations (IFALPA), said, “When a fume event occurs, cabin air contamination can cause short-term physical effects which may compromise flight safety. Sufficient scientific concern exists requiring more studies in order to determine any short- and long-term effects of fume exposures.” IATA documentation says that while in most events, there is no impact on crew or passengers, “in some events, crew and/or passengers experience symptoms. … Health effects are usually short lived and resolve over hours to days. These can include Irritation of the eyes, nose, mouth or throat, shortness-of-breath, headache, nausea and abdominal discomfort and tiredness. Some crew who have been involved in CAQEs subsequently experience ongoing ill health and may link their symptoms to the exposure, however the research to date has not established any causative link.” On its website, the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority says that long-term ill health due to any toxic effect from cabin air is understood to be unlikely, although such a link cannot be ruled out. IFALPA maintains that it is “unclear” whether fume events cause long-term health effects. It is acknowledged that flight crew are exposed to minimal seal leakage even in normal operations. This may explain why only some of the crew experience symptoms whilst others remain asymptomatic after a fume event. Those whose “cumulative dose” exceeds a certain threshold may experience symptoms. There is concern, as yet unproven, that this may have cumulative long-term health effects. Genetic differences in metabolism may play a role in the cumulative effects.” The Global Cabin Air Quality Executive (GCAQE) is an organization focused on addressing the issue of bleed air contamination. GCAQE, whose members include numerous pilot and flight attendant labor organisations, maintains that possible long-term health effects include numbness in fingers and limbs, memory impairment, headaches, dizziness, nausea, breathing difficulties, chest pain, skin rashes, and weakness and fatigue.