unobstructed departure area for helicopters of little mass, plus the simultaneous use of runway 32 which runs in parallel with it, for take-offs and landings at only short lateral distance are part of an operating concept which is not error-tolerant and is inappropriate, and contributed to the occurrence of the serious incident". It was noted that the AIPs entry for Bern did not include a documented departure route from the helipad to point HOTEL or the other two helicopter designated helicopter reporting points and that "the departure route 'around the tower' used when there were north-westerly winds, was not prescribed or published" despite its use being "common practice" for locally based pilots. It was concluded that "the absence of mandatory departure routes from the helipads to departure points….. contributed to the dangerous convergence of the two aircraft and therefore to the occurrence of the serious incident." The Investigation determined that the Cause of the conflict was "that aerodrome control cleared a commercial aircraft to take off on runway 32 without ascertaining the position of the helicopter which the controller had shortly beforehand cleared to depart at its own discretion (with) the result…that a dangerous convergence of these two aircraft occurred with a high risk of collision." The following Contributory Factors were also identified: The absence of a defined final approach and take-off area (FATO) for helicopter flight operations.. The absence of fixed departure routes to departure points HE, H and HW.. The Investigation also concluded that "the checklists for operation of the Dornier 328-100 commercial aircraft unnecessarily occupy crews’ attention, because the latter have to perform checklist points whilst taxiing which could be carried out before taxiing" and that whilst it was neither causal nor contributory, it constituted a "Risk Factor". Safety Action taken as a result of the accident findings was noted to have included the submission by the airport owner to the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA) on 13 December 2013 of new visual approach chart which included the 'round the tower' route. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation (FOCA), in cooperation with the airport operator and Skyguide as air navigation service provider, should ensure the establishment of a final approach and take-off area (FATO) and the establishment of helicopter departure and arrival routes to waypoints HE, (W) and HW at Bern-Belp Airport. [No. 479]. that the Federal Office of Civil Aviation, in cooperation with Skyguide as air navigation service provider, the airport operator and users of Bern-Belp airport, should carry out a comprehensive analysis of operating procedures and take all appropriate measures to reduce complexity and systemic risks. [No 480]. The Final Report was completed on 21 January 2014 and approved by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board SAIB on 9 September 2014. ICAO AIRPROX Category 'A' was assigned.