An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss Accident Investigation Board (SAIB). Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Do328 DFDR but the aircraft Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been overwritten during the subsequent flight as had the data on the helicopter Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment. No radar recordings were available. It was noted that weather conditions were good and had played no part in the conflict and that the airspace involved was designated as Class 'D'. It was established that the Dornier, with the First Officer as PF, had received taxi clearance from TWR to follow parallel taxiway 'K' to wait on 'F' for a runway 32 departure (see diagram below) It was subsequently cleared to enter the runway at 'F' behind a departing DHC8 and to backtrack and line up. Another aircraft (a Helvetic Airways FOKKER F100, identified on the diagram as 'OAW980') also called for taxi at this time and was cleared in the opposite direction along taxiway 'K' to wait at 'C'. Soon after it reached there and stopped, the helicopter pilot, who was intending to undertake a local sightseeing flight and had two passengers on board, called TWR to say that he was on Helipad 1 and requested an ‘around the tower’ departure. The response was an immediate instruction "departure approved own discretion" via taxiway KILO ‘around the tower’ in the direction of the departure point HOTEL. The presence of the F100 on 'K' was not mentioned. The controller reporter seeing the helicopter lift off soon afterwards hover backwards onto 'K' before proceeding towards the stationary F100 "at an estimated speed of 50 knots". On approaching the F100, the helicopter turned right and flew around it before turning back towards 'K'. Approximately one minute after giving a departure clearance to the helicopter, the same controller cleared the Dornier for takeoff. As the helicopter turned left to regain 'K', it overshot which put it on a converging track with the (unseen) Dornier. Before the TWR controller was able to give an avoiding action instruction, it had already turned away to the right. The crew of the Dornier reported having noticed the helicopter as their aircraft was accelerating through "60 to 80 knots" during its take-off roll. They saw that it was "on the right, on a trajectory which was slowly converging with the centre line of runway 32". According to the aircraft commander’s recollections, his aircraft had overtaken the helicopter at approximately the same altitude just before passing taxiway 'B' at which point, the helicopter had just begun to turn right After considering all the evidence, the Investigation came to the conclusion that the lateral distance between the two aircraft at their closest point of approach was "approximately 80 to 100 metres" when at the same altitude. It was concluded by the Investigation that "the tight spatial conditions of taxiway 'K' which was used by fixed-wing aircraft to taxi to runway 32, and which was used in the opposite direction as an