An investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). FDR and 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were available to the Investigation. It was established that prior to departure from Seattle-Tacoma, the flight crew had noted that the SBY AH was unpowered and after cycling the SBY Power Selector and the Battery Switch, a number of related status messages were displayed on the EICAS. Maintenance personnel attended the aircraft, cleared the messages and “told the crew they were good to go" without making any technical log entry. Approximately 30 minutes after takeoff and just prior to levelling at FL370, it was reported that several flight deck lights had flickered, multiple EICAS messages had appeared, the Standby Power OFF light had illuminated and uncommanded disconnection of the AP and A/T had occurred. The Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) ‘STANDBY BUS OFF’ procedure had then been commenced by selecting the Standby Power selector to the BAT position. Although the QRH did not instruct the crew to divert to the nearest suitable airport, it indicated that the battery will supply bus power for approximately 30 minutes. The Battery DISCHARGE annunciation remained lit and the crew reported consulting the list of items lost if the standby busbar was not powered. The aircraft commander decided to continue the flight aware that the electrical systems were being supplied by battery power and there were initially no further developments. However, after over two hours further flight, battery power had depleted and numerous essential aircraft systems began to annunciate failure including the stabiliser trim, all the instrumentation at the left side pilot position, the thrust reversers and the anti-skid and others. The First Officer took over from the aircraft commander as PF and a diversion to Chicago O’Hare was initiated over western Michigan with advice to ATC that it would not be possible to fly an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach. It was found that only one R/T box remained operative and at about this time, the cabin crew had discovered that the PA and crew interphone had ceased to function and had passed a note under the locked flight deck door to that effect. The flight deck door was opened and the cabin crew had been advised of the diversion. As the aircraft slowed down in the descent, it became apparent that both main and alternate stabiliser trim were inoperative and with the landing runway 22R now in sight, an emergency was declared and the aircraft commander began to assist the First Officer on the flight controls. The crew advised that because the aircraft had become difficult to control in pitch, flap extension was stopped at 20°. Having touched down hard approximately [[Length:: 760 metres beyond the runway threshold, the crew found that in the absence of spoilers, thrust reversers and normal braking, the aircraft was not likely to stop before the end of the 2290 metre runway where there were known to be obstructions and so the aircraft commander attempted to veer