electrical replays and replacement of a TRU and one of the Busbar Control Units (BPCU). The Probable Cause of the event was determined as “the failure of an electrical relay due to eroded contacts and the flight crew's decision to continue a flight that was operating on battery power.” Two Safety Recommendations were made as follows: that Boeing should revise the 757/767 procedures and training which address an illumination Standby Power Bus OFF light, to include specific steps to take so that complete loss of battery power is avoided. These steps should include landing at the nearest suitable airport before the power is depleted and actions to take if landing is not possible.. (A-09-41) that Boeing should, once it has revised its procedures and training as per Safety Recommendation A-09-41 for addressing an illuminated Standby Bus Power OFF light without depleting the main battery, require all operators of 757/767 airplanes to adopt these procedures.. (A-09-42) The existence of another ‘open’ recommendation in respect of deficiencies in the American Airlines system for supporting continued airworthiness identified during a previous investigation (A-09-029) was also noted and re-iterated. Relevant Safety Action already taken was noted as including: American Airlines revising their emergency procedures for Left and Right AC BUS OFF Lights in their 757/767 Operating Manual.. The FAA issuing a SAFO on ‘The Effects of Aircraft Electrical Faults Resulting in Main Battery Depletion’.. Boeing identifying that the electrical system condition which occurred during this incident was also applicable to the Boeing 767 fleet.. Boeing issuing an Alert on the loss of all standby power following battery discharge.. Boeing issuing a revised and expanded ‘STANDBY BUS OFF’ procedure.. Boeing issuing an SB (757-24-0135) to define the addition of a relay and a wiring change which would enable power to be supplied to the battery charger during flight with the Standby Power Switch in the BAT position.. The Final Report of the Investigation CHI08IA292 was adopted on 21 October 2010.