the aircraft off the runway onto the adjacent grass. The aircraft finally stopped with the nose approximately 120 metres beyond the end of the runway abeam the extended centreline with 7 out of the 8 main gear tyres either burst or deflated. The crew were unable to shut down the engines and only after RFFS personnel had applied foam to the overheated right main landing gear and company maintenance personnel had boarded and succeeded in shutting the engines down had the passengers been able to leave the aircraft using portable stairs. During the flight after the occurrence of abnormal system indications and prior to the subsequent exhaustion of battery power whilst attempting to complete the scheduled flight, the aircraft commander consulted Company maintenance personnel at ‘Tulsa Tech’ via ARINC on two occasions. The summary of both conversations provided in the NTSB Report suggests that there was both a lack of understanding of the (relatively standard) architecture of the electrical systems and an inability to effectively communicate the actual electrical status of the aircraft. A willingness to delegate his authority in respect of whether to continue as originally planned or make an en route diversion was also apparent - although the invitation to give such advice was, unsurprisingly, not accepted during either exchange and was in any case proscribed by maintenance procedures. In respect of the root cause of the electrical malfunction, the Investigation established that the system failure indications and symptoms experienced would occur if the K106 electrical relay failed and erosion on the ‘B’ contacts of this relay, which would facilitate that, was found. Boeing advised that although the serial numbers of small parts are not recorded during production, there was circumstantial evidence that the faulty relay had been installed when the aircraft was manufactured. The battery/standby power system consists of the following buses: Hot Battery bus, Battery bus, Standby DC bus, and the Standby AC bus. The aircraft schematic diagrams show that when the standby power selector is in the BAT position, the main battery is the sole source of power for these busbars. In addition, the main battery charger is unpowered, and the battery will not be recharged. The purpose of battery power in all transport aircraft is to provide continued electrical power to essential services following the failure of supplies from the engine/APU driven generators or their substitutes, whereas in this case, none of those main systems were malfunctioning. The history of recorded defects relating to the subject aircrafts electrical system was examined and between May 2008 and the incident, it was found that there had been eleven Technical Log defect entries related to the BPCU/Ground Power which had been rectified by either resetting circuit breakers, replacing fuses, or replacing the BPCU, the latter being done three times. It was also found that between June 2008 and the incident, there had been 10 defect entries in respect of the Standby DC BUS which had been addressed by operational checks, replacement of bulbs, replacement of four different