The hazards and effects of landing an aircraft on a runway without clearance are essentially the same as for a runway incursion. Increased risk of collision for one or more aircraft on the ground is the predominant concern. When a collision occurs on the runway, at least one of the aircraft involved often is moving at high speed, which increases the probability and severity of injury, fatalities and major aircraft damage. The aircraft landing without clearance also can be at extreme risk of colliding with one or more vehicles travelling along the runway or crossing the runway, or striking people or objects. Investigations of accidents and serious incidents also reveal secondary risk factors for the flight crew or pilot of the landing aircraft. In the moments after realizing their lack of landing clearance, some have aborted the landing (including after touchdown) and initiated a go-around maneuver. These and other unbriefed/unexpected actions in some cases exacerbated risk factors or caused consequences such as a tail strike or the loss of separation with another aircraft in the aerodrome traffic circuit, EUROCONTROL has noted. Moreover, the startle factor produced by the pilot’s or flight crew’s sudden realization of the error can contribute to loss of control in flight. Hesitation to respond, inappropriate flight control inputs or unsafe over-compensation for the error have occurred — potentially leading to a runway excursion or to controlled flight into terrain (CFIT). The EUROCONTROL report on landing without clearance cites contributory factors from a relevant 1994 report by researchers at the U.S.National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Causal factors from 37 events reported to NASA’s Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS) included cases of pilots who attempted to communicate with ATC on the wrong frequency; pilots who did not realize they lacked the clearance to land until the aircraft was on the runway (or turning off the runway and changing to the ground control frequency; pilots who said high workload had contributed to failure to obtain landing clearance; and pilots more likely to forget to contact the tower controller for landing clearance if ATC instructed them to do so at a relatively long distance from the runway (i.e., at the outer marker or as far as 20 nm [27 km] from the threshold).