Final Approach Runway Occupancy Signal (FAROS) is an FAA-sponsored concept, which is now being deployed for operational evaluation in the USA. The concept is to inform the approaching aircraft (using PAPI or VASIS) that the runway is occupied.. Runway Status Lights (RWSL) is developed and deployed at major airports in the USA. It is a fully automatic advisory safety system which provides direct alerts to both vehicles and pilots independently of the normal traffic control system operated by ATC. When RWSL indications contradict clearances, pilots and vehicle drivers are expected to prioritize response to the status lights. The absence of RWSL indications however does not equate to an ATC clearance to proceed.. Advanced Surface Movement Guidance and Control System (A-SMGCS) is a modular system consisting of different functionalities to support the safe, orderly and expeditious movement of aircraft and vehicles on aerodromes under all circumstances. Higher levels of implementation deliver safety nets, conflict detection and resolution as well as planning and guidance information for pilots and controllers.. Runway Awareness and Advisory System (RAAS) is designed to improve flight crew situational awareness, thereby reducing the risks of runway incursion, runway confusion and runway excursions. It uses airport data stored in the EGPWS database, coupled with GPS and other on-board sensors, to monitor the movement of an aircraft around the airport. It also provides audio or visual advisories and warnings depending on the aircraft position.. Enhanced Vision System (EVS) is a technology which incorporates information from aircraft based sensors (e.g., near-infrared cameras, millimetre wave radar) to provide vision in limited visibility environments. Safety is enhanced, especially during approach and landing in limited visibility. Obstacles such as terrain, structures, and vehicles or other aircraft on the runway that might not otherwise be seen are clearly visible on the IR image..