draft NOTAMs which it was intended would be used at various stages of the work but there was no indication in the MWOP or the draft NOTAMs that the effect of those works on the final vertical profile from the from the MDA of the runway 21 LOC-only approach had been considered. It was found that the MWOP had been sent to the Operator’s Perth airport office and had not then been copied from there to the Operator’s Flight Operations Department in Indonesia. The latter advised that had they been aware of the plan, they would have issued a Flight Crew Notice to support pilot awareness. The Investigation also reviewed differences between relevant Australian regulatory requirements and the corresponding ICAO SARPs. ICAO Annex 14 specified at the time of the occurrence that “when a runway threshold is temporarily displaced from the normal position it shall be marked as shown …and all markings prior to the displaced threshold shall be obscured except the runway centre line marking, which shall be converted to arrows” (the illustrations referred to in this text are reproduced in the Investigation Report). The form of displaced threshold markings detailed in Annex 14 for temporary threshold displacement required a line of arrow heads pointing to a transverse line across the runway marking the position of the temporary threshold, with ‘continue’ arrows replacing the normal centreline markings on the closed section of runway. Only permanently closed runways or runway sections were required to be marked with crosses and in this case, 36 metre crosses were recommended. Australian requirements - which had been met by the Perth airport operator - required only that the position of thresholds temporarily displaced for “less than 5 days” should be indicated by arrow heads on either side of the runway and there was no requirement to obscure the permanent markings on the closed runway section. For the situation at Perth, crosses were required on the closed runway section but only ones of 6 metres rather than 36 metres. The difference between the visibility from the approach of the small and large crosses was compared by the Investigation - see the illustration below: The Investigation noted that although the Australian Regulator CASA had filed differences with ICAO in respect of the use of displaced threshold markings, they had not done so in relation to closed runway markings. In seeking to understand the factors that may have led to the inadequate recognition by the crew of the runway works and their resulting actions, the Investigation concluded that: it was unclear why the visual slope guidance provided by the temporary Visual Approach Slope Indicator Systems had not been followed.. although it might have been expected that on the second approach, the crew would have managed their final descent more diligently, the fact that they did not indicated that in this instance, the temporary markings used to alert pilots to the closed section of the runway were ineffective.. the relative complexity of the instructions given to the crew