when it became clear that they may be about land within the closed section of runway may have had unintended and confusing consequences.. the use of 6 metre crosses rather than the ICAO-recommended 36 metre ones to show an area of closed runway had increased the chances that a visual approach to the normal runway TDZ would be flown.. the ICAO-recommended obscuration of the permanent markings on the closed section of runway would have increased the likelihood that the crew would identify the displaced threshold.. the issue of a Flight Crew Notice by the Operator could have increased awareness of the NOTAM’d work.. It was concluded that “the permanent runway 21 threshold and touchdown markings were not required to be obscured and were clearly visible to the flight crew. Those markings continued to provide approach and landing cues to the normal touchdown zone, which was located within the runway works area. The use of 6m closed runway markings, in lieu of 36m markings as recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), increased the risk of a flight crew conducting a visual approach to the still-visible permanent threshold/touchdown area.” The formally stated Findings of the Investigation were as follows: There were two Contributing Safety Factors: The existing runway 21 threshold and touchdown markings were not required to be obscured and were clearly visible to the flight crew. Those markings continued to provide approach and landing cues to the normal touchdown zone, which was located within the runway works area. [Safety Issue]. The use of the 6 m closed runway markings in lieu of the recommended 36 m markings increased the risk of a flight crew conducting a visual approach to the permanent threshold/touchdown area. [Safety Issue]. There were four ‘Other Safety Factors: The combination of the instruction to go around with landing information, and high workload at that stage of the approach, may have momentarily confused the flight crew, with the effect that they did not assimilate and act on the instruction to go around.. The distribution system that was used by the airport operator to disseminate the Method of Working Plan (MOWP) did not ensure that all users of the airport were appropriately notified of the planned runway works. [Safety Issue]. There was no follow-up action taken by the airport operator to address the lack of responses from aircraft operators to the MOWP, as required by the receipt and acknowledgement system.. There was no evidence of any consideration in the MOWP of the effect of the runway 21 works on the final approach profile necessary from the MDA of the runway 21 localiser (LLZ) approach. [Safety Issue]. There was one Other Key Finding: The runway markings associated with the MOWP were in accordance with the Regulator’s Manual of Standards (MOS).. Safety Action in response to the Safety Issues raised above was noted to have included the following: The Airport Operator undertook a review of its distribution list and procedures, to ensure that future correspondence is dispatched via hard copy