An Incident was initially mis-reported by the Operator to the Canadian TSB as “a significant loss of altitude and overspeed due to wind shear”. No structural damage or system defects had been found to the aircraft during inspection after flight. However, despite the fact that a more detailed examination of the event then led to the elimination of wind shear as a factor, the TSB was not advised and the start of the eventual TSB Investigation was therefore delayed with “loss of information that could have helped determine the crew’s actions and the circumstances surrounding the incident”. The Flight Data Recorder (FDR) recording was available but the 30 minute Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) had been overwritten and provided no relevant information. It was established that the flight was a supervised flight which was intended to form part of the aircraft commander's ETOPS authorization. The supervising Training Captain was occupying the right hand pilot seat as co pilot and PM. The take off had been made at a very light weight from a contaminated runway 06 in low visibility conditions. The visibility would not have met the minimum requirements for the PF to operate as aircraft commander because he had only recently qualified as a Captain on the type. During the take off roll, the headset of the PM became temporarily disconnected and the Vr call was not made. As a result, rotation did not occur until 182 KIAS instead of the calculated 138 KIAS. The light aircraft weight, prevailing headwind component and the effect of full thrust required and used for the contaminated runway state meant that the calculated Vr was reached only 17 seconds after the start of roll. FDR data showed that the aircraft had initially climbed as cleared to 3000 feet QNH but with an extreme rate of climb which reached 6300 fpm and a pitch attitude which reached 19°. It was considered that this was partly a result of a lack of take off thrust reduction and premature flap retraction during the climb. To achieve a level off whilst flying manually, the PF had used the electric trim and the aircraft had stopped climbing at 3100 feet QNH before beginning a descent back to the cleared altitude. However, by this point, a significant out of pitch trim condition had developed and the aircraft had begun to descend, passing 3000 feet at 230 KCAS with a rate of descent of about 2000 fpm. The PM warned the PF that the aircraft was in a nose-down attitude but descent continued and speed increased. The PF ignored the descent but retarded the throttles so as not to exceed Vfe (maximum velocity flaps extended) but in doing so inadvertently pressed the ‘Go Levers’ which set TOGA thrust. Within a second of this activation, the slats began to retract and as soon as the PF let go of the throttles, they advanced. Speed continued to increase and the Training Captain made a second alerting call but, in the absence of corrective