trim despite the exceptionally high control column forces. As a result, the pitch trim was not used to reduce the control column forces.. Because of the proximity of the ground, the crew had little time to identify the problem, determine and consider the options, and coordinate their efforts. As a result, the effect of the time-related stress could have precipitated each pilot into incorrectly diagnosing the source of the problem.. The crew’s performance suggests that some elements of the company’s training program did not reach the targeted objectives regarding the coordination of crew members, the regulations concerning take-off limits, the recognition of an out-of-trim condition, the autopilot use and the understanding and application of abnormal procedures.. Formal findings of the Investigation related to Risk were as follows: The different definitions of a contaminated runway given to the pilots can create confusion when it comes to selecting take-off speeds, which can result in the selection of an inappropriate speed for the runway conditions.. The airport controller did not help the aircraft after the first PAN PAN message from (the aircraft). The controller’s lack of familiarity with the distress phraseology contributed to his reaction to the declaration of an emergency situation by the crew.. Tests in the flight simulator used by (Air Transat) indicated that the simulator could generate a negative transfer of training.. At a speed over 250 knots with neutral or nose-down trim, the control column forces are significantly less in the simulator than it should be. Therefore, the simulator setting can suggest that the control column forces can be overcome without using the trim system.. An image recording device would have made it possible to document the actions of the pilots and the environment in the cockpit, which were essential in evaluating the crew’s performance. More importantly, image recording would facilitate the identification of safety issues and consequently the corrective action needed to prevent future occurrences.. Other Findings as a result of the Investigation were that: The description of the occurrence submitted in Air Transat’s incident report was inaccurate and the TSB investigation was delayed.. Since the events related to the loss of control occurred 48 minutes before landing, the audio data related to the occurrence were overwritten. Important information to help understand the events was lost.. Only the procedure for sudden serious incapacitation of a flight crew member during take-off with missed calls is practised in the simulator. Therefore, the conditions surrounding subtle or incomplete incapacitation may not be recognized during another phase of flight.. Safety Action taken by Air Transat, ANSP Nav Canada, and A310 full flight simulator manufacturer was noted. The CAE action was to confirm and plan rectification to software in up to ten A310 simulators on respect of the modelling of the force gradient in the pitch control artificial feel unit. The Final Report of the Investigation was authorised for release by the TSB on 05 November 2010. No Safety Recommendations were made.