action, then announced that he was taking control. The recovery to the intended climb was initiated by disconnecting the A/T and rapidly reducing thrust to 45 per cent. The Vmo (maximum operating speed) of 340 KIAS was exceeded just before the slats reached full retraction and the first overspeed warning was annunciated. The aircraft speed and rate of descent continued to increase, the latter to 3900 fpm. At approximately 1450 feet agl, the Terrain Avoidance and Warning System (TAWS) activated a Sink Rate alert for four seconds and simultaneously, at a speed of 345 KCAS, a second overspeed warning began and continued for the next 30 seconds. Further activation of the EGPWS occurred over 8 seconds with successive alerts of "Don’t Sink", "Terrain" and "Sink Rate", the "WHOOP WHOOP PULL UP" Warning and, finally, a "Too Low Terrain" Alert. A minimum height of 995 feet agl was reached before the aircraft could be transitioned to a climb back to 3000 feet QNH during which the Vmo of 370 KCAS was reached.The total time in descent time was found to have been 54 seconds. As the aircraft climbed, the crew, still on the departure TWR frequency, transmitted a ‘PAN PAN’ call advising that ‘there was as a small problem on board’ and requesting continued climb to 10,000 feet which was approved. Once the flight crew were confident that there was no ongoing control problem, PAN status was cancelled. An inspection of the aircraft after completion of the flight did not find any structural damage or other defects. Overall the Investigation concluded that “the loss of pitch control occurred as a result of an abnormal take-off, a climb in which the aircraft’s performance was unusual, missed standard calls that were out of sequence, incorrect flight control adjustments, inadvertent engagement of the Go Levers, inaccurate situational awareness and a lack of application of the recommended procedure for pitch control difficulties”. It was also considered that “although the Captain pulled the control column with constant force as soon as the descent started, he did not recognize the aircraft’s out-of-trim condition”. In this context, it was noted that pilots normally use the electric trim intuitively to cancel any control column force being held manually. It was concluded that the prevailing workload may have overloaded the PF and contributed to his inaction in respect of pitch trim. In seeking a likely explanation for the failure of the PF to react to the out of trim descent condition that was the culmination of the initial high workload phase created by their own actions, the Investigation concluded that the singular focus of the PF on the increasing airspeed indication as the aircraft descended to the exclusion of any attention to the ADI was symptomatic of Somatogravic Illusion. The discussion of this subject in the Official Report was as follows: “Somatogravic Illusion occurs in conditions of poor visibility or in darkness when there is an absence of visual cues. Instrument-rated and experienced pilots are not immune to this illusion,