The integration of VLJ in ATM operations requires more attention by the air traffic controller (ATCO) and generates additional workload due to the different performance characteristics of VLJ compared to those of commercial aircraft. The integration may affect significantly the airspace capacity, the provision of air traffic services and the air traffic flow management. Differences in the operational performance of VLJ may generate a need for more coordination between ATS sectors/units with respect to entry and exit conditions of transfer of control. Both phone and system coordination may be affected. The ATCOs may be required to issue more clearances and instructions for vectoring, level change, speed control and direct routing in order to provide sequencing and separation between VLJ and other commercial traffic. More radio communication and more radio calls may be required by the ATCO in order to transmit the clearances and instructions to the aircraft. That could lead to greater operating frequency occupancy time. Additional coordination and the need for more instructions and clearances may cause increased ATCOs workload and reduced airspace capacity in the short term. This may not affect the declared capacity by the ATC unit or sector. It should be noted that most VLJ, due to their performance characteristics, use shorter take-off field lengths; this clearly increases the number of airports available to VLJs. It is expected that the VLJs will have the most significant impact at regional airports as well as at general aviation airports around major airports. This will constitute an additional source of workload for the controllers. The integration of VLJs may lead to difficulties for the ATCO to assess and reassess the situation. Situation awareness may be reduced and the risk that the controller fails to identify, or even misses a conflict situation may be increased. In such a case an increase of short term conflict alerts can be expected both in TMA and en-route sectors.