Various other forms of runway lighting may also be provided, especially if the runway is used for aircraft movements in less than ILS Cat 1 conditions, which require both Low Visibility Procedures (LVP) and, in most cases, specific forms of additional lighting. Runway Exit taxiways may be indicated by substitution of one or two of the white runway edge lights with blue ones.. Stopway Lighting may be used to show the extent of a stopway beyond the designated end of a runway. Red unidirectional edge lights visible only in the direction of runway use are provided at intervals until a further transverse line which marks` the end of the stopway.. Runway Centreline Lighting may be provided in which case it will extend for the full length of the runway, It will be white except in the event that colour coding is provided in order to indicate the approaching end of the runway. Such colour coded centreline lighting consists of alternating red and white lights beginning at 900 metres from the runway end and these change to continuous red lights for the last 300 metres of the runway.. Touchdown Zone (TDZ) Lighting must be provided on runways available for use in low visibility conditions so as to provide enhanced identification of the touchdown area. The method of provision is specified in ICAO Annex14 Volume 1 ‘Aerodrome Design and Operations’ and the lighting must extend from the landing threshold for either 900 metres or to the midpoint of the runway, whichever is the least.. Rapid Exit Taxiway Indicator Lights (RETILs) may be provided to indicate the distance to go to the nearest rapid exit taxiway. In low visibility conditions, RETILs provide useful situational awareness cues to assist in appropriate rates of deceleration and to allow flight crew to concentrate on keeping the aircraft on the runway centre line during the landing roll. They usually consist of six yellow lights adjacent to the runway centreline, configured as a three - two - one sequence spaced 100 metres apart with the single light positioned at 100 metres from the start of the turn for the rapid exit taxiway.. Caution Zone Lighting may be provided on ILS-equipped runways which do not have centreline lighting. It is provided by replacing the usual white edge lights with yellow` ones for the lesser of the last 600 metres or last one third of the lighted runway length available to provide a visual warning the approaching runway end.. Landing Threshold Wing Bars, which are green but may take various detail forms, are sometimes provided if it is considered that the threshold needs accentuating..