CPC which means that a corrupted memory event which occurred when the CPC concerned was in ‘standby’ during one flight may not become apparent until it next becomes the ‘active’ controller and descent mode is activated. Two potential causes for the bit corruption which it was deduced had occurred were considered possible. The first was a ‘Single Event Upset’ (SEU) in one of the memory cells of CPC1 and the second was data corruption caused by fatigue in the soldered joints in two particular integrated circuits (IC202 and IC703) on its main circuit board. Both of these mechanisms were noted as being a possible source of data processing malfunctions which, because of their intermittent nature, would be difficult to identify in service. It was recognised that the crew had been faced with a situation which had not been envisaged when the available information and guidance for cabin altitude control malfunctions were developed. Nevertheless, it was noted that they had detected the first signs of a problem early on and that it was evident that both pilots had “maintained good situational awareness” throughout. However, the early manual deployment of the passenger oxygen masks as a precautionary measure was “believed by the Investigation to have been unnecessary”. Overall though, with this sole exception, it was found that both pilots had followed all SOPs throughout and had implemented all necessary checklists, including the abnormal and emergency checklist, for the cabin pressurisation failure. The formal statement of Cause of the event was "the slow depressurisation of the cabin during descent due to the number one cabin pressure controller (CPC1) processing corrupt landing field elevation data". Two Contributory Factors were also identified as follows: Cabin Pressure Controller 1 (CPC1), as the system that was controlling the cabin pressure control system did not trigger an excessive cabin pressure warning while controlling the cabin towards the (relatively) higher altitude of the landing field elevation at a cabin altitude rate of 300 to 400 feet per minute. However, Cabin Pressure Controller 2 (CPC2) triggered the excessive cabin altitude warning when the cabin altitude reached the warning threshold. The landing field elevation used by CPC2 was 96 feet, which was approximately the destination airport elevation.. The corrupted memory of CPC1 was most probably caused either by a Single Event Upset (SEU) in one of the memory cells of CPC1, or by erroneous data caused by fatigue in soldered joints on the Integrated Circuits on the main board of CPC1.. Safety Action was taken as follows as a result of the Investigation: Airbus is developing a Cabin Pressure Controller that will avoid the issue of memory corruption or the submission of erroneous data to the CPC but no timescale for availability could yet be advised.. Etihad Airways introduced enhanced monitoring of Cabin Pressure Controller (CPC) performance until such time as Airbus make a more reliable CPC available.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Etihad Airways promulgate details of this Incident to all