An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector (AAIS) using DFDR and CVR data and data read from the Non Volatile Memory (NVM) in both Cabin Pressure Controllers. Data from the QAR, which recorded cabin differential pressure and cabin altitude, neither of which were recorded on the DFDR, were also accessed. It was found that the 52 year-old Captain had a total of 16,552 hours flying experience including 368 hours on type and had been acting as PF for the investigated flight. He was accompanied by a 27 year-old First Officer who had a total of 776 flying hours of which 446 hours were on type. It was established that during the flight climbing to and cruising at FL 370, the flight had proceeded normally. However, as it passed FL 283 in the subsequent descent a little over an hour after takeoff, the crew saw that the cabin altitude had begun to increase at about 300 fpm and decided to level off at FL 270 to see if this made any difference. It did not and cabin altitude continued to increase so the Captain decided to continue descent and with the aircraft descending through FL 257, he decided that the crew should don their oxygen masks as the indicated cabin altitude was still increasing and had reached almost 9,000 feet. The Captain then gradually increased the rate of descent in ‘open descent’ mode and passing approximately FL 220, the First Officer informed ATC that the flight “was performing an emergency descent due to cabin pressure failure and declared a PAN-PAN”. ATC approved descent to FL 110 and as it continued a warning of excessive cabin altitude appeared on the ECAM passing FL 192 as the indicated cabin altitude exceeded the 9,550 feet threshold for this warning with the aircraft about 45 nm west-south west of its intended destination. The corresponding checklist was run but the indicated cabin altitude continued to rise and, as the aircraft continued descent through approximately FL 164, the crew decided to deploy the passenger oxygen masks manually. After doing this and confirming that their interphone communications were unaffected, the Captain instructed the passengers to use the masks and the cabin crew then ensured that all passengers had done so. Once the aircraft had descended below FL 100, the crew removed their oxygen masks and ATC were informed that the emergency descent had been completed and cancelled the PAN-PAN. One minute later, the aircraft had reached FL 080 and ECAM excessive cabin pressure altitude warning ceased so having established from the cabin crew that the passengers were all ‘fine’, he briefed the Senior Cabin Crew Member ( SCCM) that passengers could remove their oxygen masks and that the problem encountered was over and that a normal landing could be expected. The crew selected manual mode on the cabin pressure control and subsequently saw that the cabin altitude was descending slowly. When below the 5000 feet TA, and descending as cleared to 3000