feet, the crew noted that the cabin altitude was a little higher than the aircraft altitude and on reaching 3000 feet ATC approved remaining at that altitude to allow it to ‘catch up’. Once the cabin altitude was lower than the aircraft altitude, the crew reset the cabin pressure control to automatic, but when this resulted in the cabin pressure beginning to rise again, it was returned to manual and the First Officer confirmed that he would ensure it reached zero for landing. The remainder of the flight was then completed without further event. A comparison of the recorded aircraft and cabin altitudes during the descent was made from the available data and is shown below. A review of maintenance action in respect of the aircraft’s cabin pressure system for the six week period prior to the investigated event found that there had been a series of problems with cabin pressure control but only some could be associated with the automatic control. A detailed assessment of all recent relevant maintenance intervention consequent upon problems reported with pressurisation control noted that they had followed the appropriate documented procedures. However, it was clear that despite this, these interventions’ actions had not been able to identify the root cause of reported cabin pressurisation problems, some of which may have been related to those on the investigated flight. A very complex technical investigation eventually confirmed that the warning of an excessive cabin altitude had been correctly identified (in accordance with system design) by the ‘standby’ no 2 cabin pressure controller (CPC2). The cause of the inappropriate cabin altitude control was found to have been the faulty performance of the ‘active’ cabin pressure controller (CPC1). Although ‘serviceable’, this controller had, on the flight involved, “not used the correct value to regulate the cabin altitude towards the (correctly input) scheduled landing field elevation of 96 feet” but had instead “used a corrupt landing field elevation of about 10,576 feet”. Since it was shown that the correct landing field elevation would have been received by CC1, it was considered that “the root cause of this event was within the control mechanism of CPC1” and isolation of the cause of this was then attempted. The focus moved to the “moving average filters” which are “commonly used for smoothing an array of sampled data”. This approach was taken because, in the case of the installed CPCs, “the chosen software implementation of moving average filters was (known to be) vulnerable to bit corruption in the memory cell, with a potential effect that could persist indefinitely” and one of these filters was central to the scheduled landing pressure logic. It was stated by the OEM that a bit corruption of the scheduled landing pressure “has a visible effect only in the descent mode” although this could take place earlier without having one, in which case it would be dormant until the affected CPC entered descent mode. Once a bit corruption occurs, it only remains present until the next reset of the