part in the fire or its effects and attention was focused on the cargo carried. It was established that all 58 tonnes of it had been loaded at Incheon in the period leading up to the departure. It had been distributed between 30 Pallets and 5 containers, with 24 of these 35 unit loads positioned on the main deck and the remaining 11 in the holds. Declared Dangerous Goods were included in the load and were all found to have been on two adjacent pallets towards the rear of the main deck. They comprised three shipments of Class 3 (Flammable) products, one of a Class 8 Corrosive liquid and one consisting of 258.6kg of Class 9 lithium-ion batteries for use in hybrid electric vehicles. The Class 3 shipments were a total of 1800kg of two different types of synthetic resin respectively used for etching integrated circuits and in the manufacture of LCD flat panel displays, 22kg of special paint used for damp proof insulation of electronic circuits and 3kg of a lacquer for use in seal inspection, the latter shipment only being in transit from San Francisco. The Class 8 shipment was 8kg of 'ammonium derivatives' some for use as an anti-static agent and the rest for preventing dust from attaching to paint and impurities from attaching to various other surfaces. The Lithium-ion batteries were in transit from Osaka All the declared Dangerous Goods items were found to have been packed and positioned in accordance with the applicable parts of the ICAO Dangerous Goods Regulations. After the two pallets containing them had been loaded onto the aircraft, the loadmaster notified their presence to the aircraft commander who had then “escorted the two dangerous goods pallets as they were loaded in ULD positions ML and PR” situated towards the rear of the main deck. The Investigation established that the origin of the fire had been in the vicinity of these two pallets but was unable to establish it with any more precision from the available evidence. The limited evidence of and potentially relevant to the flight crew response to the emergency was reviewed. It was noted that: The full flight simulator used for pilot training was configured as a passenger 747-400 so that realistic Fire Main Deck training for B747 freighters was not possible.. The QRH available to the crew was one covering procedures for all three variants of the type operated by Asiana and included two significantly different Fire Main Deck procedures, one for the 747-400 Combi and the for the 747-400F. It was concluded that the implementation of the QRH Fire Main Deck procedure had probably been "delayed" and that there was a possibility that the Combi Fire Main Deck procedure may have been followed instead of the Freighter one.. The crew failed to implement a procedure specific to the supernumerary oxygen switch which was specified in the Fire Main Deck procedure.. Although the crew had not temporarily stabilised the aircraft at 25,000 feet as recommended in the QRH