The accident occurred in international waters and the Investigation was carried out by the ARAIB (Aircraft and Railway Accident Investigation Board) of the State of the Operator, South Korea. No ULB transmissions were detected in the area where significant amounts of floating and submerged wreckage was found and recovered and, despite extensive searches, neither the FDR nor the CVR were found. Recordings of ACARS messaging, ATC radar and R/T communications with the aircraft were available. Some of the cargo was also recovered. According to ACARS transmissions, the ELT was activated but its signal was not received and it was found that was of a type which was inoperative in water. The 52 year-old Captain was found to have 14,123 total flying hours, which included 6869 on the 747-400. He had initially flown in the Air Force before joining Asiana as a First Officer in 1991. He had been promoted to Captain on the Boeing 737 in 1996 and transferred to the 747-400 in 2001. The 43 year-old First Officer had 5211 total flying hours and was also a former Air Force pilot, having joined Asiana in 2007. Most of his airline experience had been on the Boeing 767 and he had only recently transferred to the 747-400 fleet, where he had accumulated 492 hours on type. It was found that within about a minute of evidence that a fire warning had been annunciated, the First Officer had declared the emergency to ATC, requested decent to 10,000 feet and advised an intention to divert to Jeju. These actions were immediately approved without restriction and the descent was made rapidly. The reduction of altitude prevented re-establishing direct VHF radio communications with Incheon ACC and relay via another aircraft was used. With the aircraft at 10,000 feet, the Captain had advised ATC of the loss of rudder control and three minutes later, at 12,800 feet, the loss of "all flight controls". Half a minute later, the First Officer, in the final radio call, advised "the loss of altitude control and the impending ditching". Soon afterwards, it was concluded that a rapid increase in thermal energy produced by the fire had "caused some portions of the fuselage to separate from the airplane in midair" with an in-flight break up then following. A reconstruction of the vertical flight path based on radar and ACARS data sources is shown below: The available evidence showed that the fire had not spread aft of the rear pressure bulkhead but that about 3 or 4 minutes after the initial warning, smoke had "spread rapidly throughout the main deck cargo compartment" and "judging by the fact that a well defined soot trail was discovered on the exterior skin of the cockpit smoke evacuation shutter", smoke had then entered the flight deck. Since no evidence could be found of non fire-related structural failure, aircraft systems malfunction or inappropriate flight management /aircraft handling, attention turned to the cargo on board. The Investigation found no evidence that pre-existing airworthiness issues had played any