cargo compartment or that they are loaded on ULDs equipped with a fire extinguishing system or made of fire-resistant materials.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should develop a Technical Standard Order (TSO) for ULDs to ensure that ULDs used for loading flammable dangerous goods or lithium batteries classified as Dangerous Goods (ICAO TI Packaging Instructions 965-967, Section 1, 1A) are equipped with a fire extinguishing system or made of fire-resistant materials.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should prepare monitoring measures to ensure that manufacturers' personnel in charge of packing dangerous goods perform their duty only after receiving Dangerous Goods-related training in accordance with Table 1-1 "Training Syllabus for Trainees" and Table 1-2 "Minimum Training Hours by Duty Categories" under MOLIT Regulation for Dangerous Goods by Air Transport, Article 14 (Training).. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should revise related regulations to require Korean operators to produce a QRH that contains only the procedures required for the operation of each specific configuration of an aircraft type (i.e. passenger, cargo or combi configuration).. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should revise regulations related to simulator training to ensure that the flight crew can be realistically trained on non-normal procedures of a passenger, cargo or combi plane.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should monitor whether Korean operators add and run a recurrent simulator training program whose syllabus is not notified in advance to the flight crew as a means to improve their ability to respond to unexpected non-normal situations.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should study the correlation of fire with electrostatic energy that can be accumulated in the plastic wrapping used for pallets on the ground and during flight and develop standards for the use of such plastic wrapping.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should establish a communications network between Incheon ACC and Shanghai ACCs so that they can exchange flight information directly.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should restrict the use of frequency 128.375 MHz in the AIP so that aircraft on airways A593 and B576 can communicate with ATC on that frequency.. that the Boeing Company should seek feasible ways to improve B747 freighter systems, including the development of a visual means for helping pilots in the flight deck check the status of a cargo fire, including whether it is suppressed, extinguished, or spreading and to be able to determine whether a fire can be contained.. that the Boeing Company should conduct research to seek ways to equip a freighter's Class E cargo compartment with an active fire extinguishing or suppression system controllable from the flight deck as on the case of a Class C cargo compartment.. that the Boeing Company should ensure that its B747-400 FCOM contains specific information on the basis for the 25,000 ft requirement (in relation to fire risk mitigation), the effect of the fire suppression complying with the 25,000 ft requirement and strategies to be considered as to when to begin