Main Deck Fire Drill prior to continuing descent once appropriately near to the intended diversion runway, it was considered that it was unlikely that the outcome would have been any different. It was found that Boeing 747 Flight Crew Manuals "failed to specify the basis for the 25,000 feet requirement, the effect and concept of fire suppression at 25,000 feet and when to descend from 25,000 feet".. The formal determination of the Cause of the accident was that: "A fire developed on or near the pallets containing Dangerous Goods but no physical evidence of the cause of the fire was found. The fire rapidly escalated into a large uncontained fire, and this caused some portions of the fuselage to separate from the aircraft in midair, thereby resulting in the crash." Two Contributory Factors were also identified: Flammable materials like photo-resist (Class 3) were loaded in position ML, and flammable materials like paint, photo-resist, corrosive liquid, and lithium-ion batteries (Class 9) were loaded on one pallet in position PR.. It was difficult to contain a large scale of fire only by the fire suppression system of a Class E cargo compartment that was not equipped with an active fire suppression system.. A total of 20 Safety Recommendations were made by the ARAIB as follows: that Asiana Airlines should ensure that flammable liquid dangerous goods (Class 3) and lithium batteries (ICAO TI Packaging Instructions 965-967, Section 1, 1A) which bearing the "Cargo Aircraft Only (CAO)" label are segregated and loaded on separate ULDs.. that Asiana Airlines should load lithium batteries classified as Dangerous Goods (ICAO TI Packaging Instructions 965-967, Section 1, 1A) in a Class C cargo compartment.. that Asiana Airlines should produce and equip its aircraft with a QRH that contains only the procedures required for the operation of the specific configuration of an aircraft.. that Asiana Airlines should operate its simulators in such a way that their flight crew can be realistically trained on non-normal procedures for a passenger, cargo or combi plane.. that Asiana Airlines should add and run a recurrent simulator training program whose syllabus is not notified in advance to flight crew to improve their ability to respond to unexpected non-normal situations and give them more intensive training on non-normal situations.. that the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (MOLIT) (Office of Civil Aviation) should develop relevant standards for ensuring that flammable liquid dangerous goods (Class 3) and lithium batteries (ICAO TI Packaging Instructions 965-967, Section 1, 1A) which bear the "Cargo Aircraft Only (CAO)" label are segregated and loaded on separate ULDs (pallets, etc.).. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should develop loading standards which ensure that various kinds of flammable Dangerous Goods (Class 3) are not concentrated in a single ULD within an aircraft.. that the MOLIT (Office of Civil Aviation) should develop loading standards which ensure that flammable Dangerous Goods (Class 3) and lithium batteries classified as Dangerous Goods (ICAO TI Packaging Instructions 965-967, Section 1, 1A) are loaded in a Class C