a descent to land from that altitude.. that ICAO asks its Flight Data Recovery Working Group to deal with the following issues: address the weakness of a ULB in being vulnerable to heat. resolve problems faced when the ULB is obscured on a sea floor consisting of thick mud and sand. ensure that the framework will not be separated from the Crash Survival Memory Unit (CSMU) seek ways to install an ELT that can float to the water surface and operate, or be operable, whilst in the water. Develop a deployable ELT which broadcasts a GPS position. address the weakness of a ULB in being vulnerable to heat.. resolve problems faced when the ULB is obscured on a sea floor consisting of thick mud and sand.. ensure that the framework will not be separated from the Crash Survival Memory Unit (CSMU). seek ways to install an ELT that can float to the water surface and operate, or be operable, whilst in the water.. Develop a deployable ELT which broadcasts a GPS position. It is noted that Having been closely involved in this ARAIB Investigation and in response to its own factual findings in the context of both the loss of another Boeing 747F in the UAE to an in-flight cargo-source fire less than a year earlier (B744, vicinity Dubai UAE, 2010) and FAA responses to earlier recommendations following the DC8-71F fire at Philadelphia in 2006 (DC87, Philadelphia USA, 2006) which were deemed unsatisfactory by the NTSB, the Board issued the following three new Safety Recommendations to the FAA on 28 November 2012: that they should develop fire detection system performance requirements for the early detection of fires originating within cargo containers and pallets and, once developed, implement the new requirements. (A 12-68). that they should ensure that cargo container construction materials meet the same flammability requirements as all other cargo compartment materials in accordance with Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations 25.855. (A 12-69). that the FAA should require the installation and use of active fire suppression systems in all aircraft cargo compartments or containers, or both, such that fires are not allowed to develop. (A 12-70). The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 24 July 2015 and published on 5 August 2015.