with a Tail Strike Pitch Limit Indication during takeoff and landing had not been taken up. The Investigation noted that, in general, the risk of a tail strike during landing is increased as airspeed drops Although no CVR recording was available, it was concluded on the basis of other evidence that "Crew Resource Management principles were not in evidence during the event." It was considered that the Captain’s selection of auto brakes to medium for the landing was likely to have significantly constrained the risk of a runway overrun. It was noted that there was no published instrument approach procedure for the into- wind runway 12 and that the decision to land on runway 30 directly off an ILS approach with a tailwind had been made so as to avoid the need to make a circling approach at 850 feet agl over the sea at night. It was determined that the Primary Cause of the incident was "inadequate recovery handling of a bounced firm landing (deviation from recommended flying pilot technique)". It was further determined that there were eight Contributing Factors: High sink rate prior to and during flare;. Aircraft firm landing followed by a light bounce;. Crew momentary unawareness of aircraft position (in the air) and intentional column pulling action, trying to smooth nose wheel contact with ground;. The presence of a tailwind component during the flare phase above recommended 10kts limits;. Aircraft’s centre of gravity at a slightly backward position but this factor is of marginal contribution only;. The decision to land on damp runway 30, with tailwind component marginal to the maximum permitted (10kts), instead of a circling to land to the actual runway (12) in use or the decision to discontinue the approach via a go-around procedure;. A bounce recovery at night (with less visual references) characterized by taking place very close to the ground (less than 20 feet) hence allowing for a very short reaction time from the PF and little control effectiveness of the aircraft (throttle retarded and normal configuration to land);. The existing take-off / landing certification standards, which were based on the attainment of the landing reference speeds, and flight crew training that was based on the monitoring of and response to those speeds, hindering crew to detect degraded landing speed and sink rate.. Four Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Portuguese Civil Aviation Authority (INAC), issues a Circular of Aeronautical Information (CIA) defining the procedures to be adopted by the operators in order to ensure the rapid preservation of CVR (Cockpit Voice Recorder) and FDR (Flight Data Recorder) recordings after an accident or serious incident, in accordance with the obligations in EU-OPS n°859/2008 and European regulation n°996/2010 (article 13.3). [RS 01/2014]. that NAV Portugal implements a RNAV approach to runway 12 at LPPD airport (Ponta Delgada) covering the various operationally relevant entry sectors and subsequently, [the text after this appears to be missing from the English language translation] [RS 02/2014]. that SATA International