An Investigation was carried out by the GPIAA. It was found that as a result of the tail strike, the aircraft had sustained substantial structural damage which, in terms of ICAO Annex 13 (would have) "adversely affected the structural strength, performance and flight characteristics and required major repair and replacement of the affected components" and was beyond the level of repair covered by the Structural Repair Manual. After a temporary repair at Ponta Delgada, the aircraft was ferried out of service to Lisbon where permanent repairs were made. The aircraft DFDR was successfully downloaded but the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) CB was not tripped following the event and the relevant recording was consequently overwritten. The DAR was downloaded by the Operator and analysed as part of their Flight Data Monitoring programme. It was concluded that the prevailing weather conditions had been "within the applicable operating limitations" and noted that the tailwind component for the landing had been 7 knots (maximum 10 knots) and the crosswind component 15 knots. Both the 59 year old male Captain acting as (PM) and the 42 year old female First Officer (PF) were noted to have both had substantial experience on the aircraft type. It was considered unlikely that either pilot had been affected by fatigue. It was found from examination of the recorded flight data that a stabilised approach had been flown and it was considered unlikely that either pilot had been affected by fatigue. The ELW of 103 tonnes was well within the MLW of 157 tonnes and it was noted that the runway 30 LDA was 2248 metres. It was established that the descent and subsequent stable ILS approach to runway 30 was flown with the AP2 and the FD engaged. The applicable Vapp was 132Kts and the Reference Speed (Vref) was 126kt. At the applicable DH for the ILS approach of 241 feet, the AP was disengaged. Below 20 feet agl at a slightly high rate of descent, "there was a short flare followed by a light bounce (which registered 1.5g) with spoilers extended." In line with the "aircraft's natural aerodynamic tendency (there) was an increase in the pitch attitude in conjunction with a pulling force exerted on the control column" at a relatively high rotation rate of 3ยบ/ second which continued until pitch attitude reached nearly 15ยบ.This exceeded the 13.2ยบ pitch angle at which a tailstrike would occur as the main landing gear shock absorbers became fully compressed during the second and final touchdown. During interview shortly after the event, both pilots were noted to have stated that the Captain had taken control of the aircraft just after the first bounce "in an attempt to correct profile by holding the nose up in order to avoid a hard nose wheel contact" but "this version of the event was contradicted in a later interview", when both pilots stated that Captain had taken over as PF when the AP was disengaged. It was noted that the available option of installing modified PFDs