An Investigation was carried out by the Aviation Accident and Incident Directorate (AAID) of the Rwanda Ministry of Infrastructure in accordance with the principles of ICAO Annex 13. Despite attempts to establish which company was operating the aircraft at the time of the flight and who was employing the flight crew, this could not be definitively established. The only evidence of an AOC was one issued by the Tajkistan Ministry of Transport to an operator based in Dushanbe called ‘Waypoint Airways’ but no evidence could be found to confirm that this operator was active and all attempts to establish contact with the Civil Aviation Authorities in Tajikistan were unsuccessful. It was noted that the externally visible aircraft registration was the Tajikistan registration EY-724 whereas the flight deck identification plate showed the registration 5Y-CIG (Kenya) and the operator of the aircraft as ‘Transafrican Air’. It was noted that an Investigation by the Kenyan authorities into a 2018 event involving the same aircraft when showing the external registration 5Y-CIG had recorded the operator at that time as Transafrican Air, although the same source showed the aircraft painted in the livery of an operator trading as ‘Lyca Cargo’ and based in Cotonou (Benin). Prior to departing Nairobi on 13 November, the aircraft had not flown since 5 November when it had flown Entebbe-Nairobi-Juba-Nairobi. The holder of the aircraft CofA issued by the Tajikistan authorities was found to be a US-headquartered company called ‘Zone 4 International’ which had a base at Entebbe in Uganda. This company was also named on the aircraft Certificate of Registration as the aircraft owner with ‘Waypoint Airways’ as the operator. Both pilots were DR Congo nationals and although it appeared that whilst both had formerly held licences issued by DR Congo which were the basis of licences issued by the Tajikistan Civil Aviation Authorities, the latter licences were invalid. The DR Congo authorities stated that they “did not recognise” the number of the licence carried by the Captain and added that they had never issued an ATPL to a person of that name. They also said that they had suspended the First Officer’s DR Congo licence in June 2017 “due to irregularities found on his file”. The age and flying experience of the Captain, who was acting as PF for the investigated flight, could not be ascertained by the Investigation. The First Officer stated that he had a total of 2,300 hours flying experience of which 1,600 were on type. The Flight Engineer who was a national of both Argentina and Bolivia also had a licence issued by the Tajikistan authorities, in his case based on a licence originally issued by Bolivia. He stated that he had a total of 11,000 hours flying experience on type and also stated that the investigated flight was “his first flight for Zone 4 International”. It was concluded that the absence of valid flight crew licences alone meant that the flight had been operated unlawfully with “serious discrepancies” also present in respect of