runway near to where the runway had been re-entered. An access panel on the No 2 engine was also found to be damaged. Examination of the left hand edge of the paved surface found that this had also been damaged. It was found that Meteorological Office recorded weather radar data confirmed that a heavy rain shower had cleared the airport shortly before the 727 touched down with just light rain continuing briefly before stopping altogether as reported by witnesses. An inspection of the runway surface shortly after the investigated landing found that the entire TDZ was covered with “a substantial layer” of accumulated rubber deposits from the tyres of landing aircraft. Although the airport operator stated that high-pressure water blasting using specialised equipment was periodically used to remove such deposits, it was not possible to find out on what basis this action was taken. Based on the available evidence, the Investigation considered various factors which might have caused or contributed to the runway excursion and concluded as follows: Pilot proficiency could not be assumed in the absence of any relevant evidence which could indicate this.. Elements of a rushed/unstabilised approach were detected in a descent which was conducted 0.5° below the 3° ILS GS and an approach speed 10-15 knots above the applicable VAPP.. Prevailing weather conditions, including an 11-14 knot crosswind component, were not considered to suggest that the approach and landing should have been “problematic for a well-trained and proficient crew”.. Flight Management during the final stages of the approach could not be assessed in the absence of FDR data but it was considered that “since the flight came in low and fast and was drifting left of the runway centreline”, a go-around should have been initiated. It was also considered that damage to the tailskid mechanism was “a clear indication of an incorrect crosswind landing technique, resulting in an unusual high pitch-up and right roll attitude upon touchdown” which would have impaired forward visibility and corresponds to the pilots’ statements that they both “suddenly lost visibility during touchdown”.. Viscous aquaplaning due to the combination of standing water, worn tyres and excessive surface rubber deposits was considered to have been extremely likely given the crew report of a soft/smooth touchdown on a surface with considerable rubber deposits which was further contaminated by standing water after the recent cessation of moderate to heavy rain. It was noted that the fact that all main gear tyres were “worn to the minimum acceptable limit” would have magnified the effect of this contamination. It was also calculated from the available evidence that despite one main gear travelling in mud, the calculated deceleration during the landing roll had been abnormally slow which itself could be taken as an indication of reduced wheel brake effectiveness.. Rudder blanking (due to disruption of the airflow upstream of the rudder when reverse thrust is selected) was considered a possible factor in reduced directional control immediately after touchdown but it was not possible to be sure given that