directional control would have also been compromised by the initially excessive nose up attitude.. Two Causal Factors were formally documented as follows: The crew not conducting a go-around when the aircraft had drifted to the left of the centreline on short final approach.. Lack of proficiency of the Captain and First Officer resulting from: not being in possession of valid licences for the operation of the aircraft non-adherence to basic safety and quality standards by the aircraft operator Zone 4 International LLC deficient oversight by the Civil Aviation Authorities in Tajikistan, Uganda and Kenya.. not being in possession of valid licences for the operation of the aircraft. non-adherence to basic safety and quality standards by the aircraft operator Zone 4 International LLC. deficient oversight by the Civil Aviation Authorities in Tajikistan, Uganda and Kenya.. Contributory Factors were also identified in respect of the decision to continue for landing when a runway excursion became unavoidable because of: an incorrect crosswind landing technique.. subsequent skidding due to viscous aquaplaning once the aircraft was on the ground.. Seven Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the Rwanda Civil Aviation Authority (RCAA) and the Rwanda Airports Company (RAC) develop and implement a proactive method to assess the legitimacy of operators and their adherence to basic safety standards before allowing them to dispatch flights to destinations in Rwanda.. that the Rwanda Airports Company (RAC) conducts regular rubber removal and have periodic friction tests for runway 10/28 at Kigali International Airport. that the Investigation Authorities of Tajikistan and Kenya, in order to warrant effective drawing of safety lessons, ensure proper response to incident and accident notifications by the State of Occurrence as laid down in the ICAO Annex 13. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of Kenya and Uganda verify the legitimacy of the AOC of an operator under their authority which operates an aircraft that is listed on a foreign Air Operator Certificate.. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of Kenya and Uganda, in the event that an operator under their authority operates an aircraft carrying the registration of a foreign State, establish an agreement that regulates the oversight responsibilities between the State of the Operator and the State of Registration in accordance with Article 83 of the Chicago Convention.. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of Tajikistan and Kenya resolve the discrepancy between the external Tajik registration mark EY-724 and the Kenyan registration 5Y-CIG on the identification plate in the cockpit of the Boeing 727 with MSN 21 19011.. that the Civil Aviation Authorities of Kenya and Uganda resolve the ambiguity about the question of whether Zone 4 International (with a base in Entebbe, Uganda) or Transafrican Air (based in Nairobi, Kenya) is to be considered as the operator of the Boeing 727 with MSN 19011.. The Final Report of the Investigation was completed on 17 November 2021 and subsequently made available online.