all other regulatory requirements for the operation of transport aircraft on international flights. No data was available from the CVR or FDR since “Zone 4 International did not maintain a flight data analysis programme for the aircraft” but they had supplied detailed data from a GPS-based area navigation system which was installed on the aircraft which had provided data relevant to the Investigation. ATC R/T transcripts and a reliable eyewitness account of the landing were also available. It was established that during a Cat 1 ILS approach to the 3,500 metre-long 45 metre-wide runway 28 at Kigali, the flight had been cleared to land by the APP controller because of the TWR controller’s inability to see the aircraft on short final due to poor visibility in moderate rain. The aircraft subsequently touched down approximately 1000 metres beyond the runway threshold close to the left hand edge (see the illustration below). The left hand main landing gear (only) then departed the runway and then the 7.5 metre paved runway shoulder and travelled parallel to it across taxiway ‘C’ before returning to the runway. The initial aircraft ground track before (thick red line) and after (thin red line) touchdown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The aircraft left main gear was outside the marked runway width for 1,005 metres and off the adjacent paved runway shoulder for 577 metres. As taxi speed was reached, ATC advised the crew that “several” runway edge lights had been damaged and on request from the crew advised that the spot wind was 010°/14 knots (compared to the wind check given with the landing clearance which was 020°/11 knots). The aircraft was cleared to taxi to its allocated parking stand where all the cargo on board was unloaded with no evidence that the cargo had shifted during flight found. In subsequent interviews, all three flight crew stated that the visibility during most of the approach was adequate with the runway in sight but at around touchdown they “were suddenly caught by heavy rain and crosswind from the right (and) as a result lost visibility and control of the aircraft”. The touchdown on the wet runway was reported to have been “soft or smooth” with no delay in deploying the spoilers and thrust reversers. It was noted that the ATC windshear warning system had been activated about ten minutes prior to the previous aircraft, a DHC8-400 landing during a short period of heavy rain. However, by the time the 727 landed, this had changed to “light rain” although with standing water observed on the runway which had, according to a member of the airside operations team who was parked clear of but adjacent to the runway, “splashed up” when the 727 touched down. Soon afterwards, the rain stopped altogether. Upon examination of the aircraft, damage to all six of its tyres caused by collision with a total of 15 elevated runway edge lights was found. The aircraft tailskid mechanism sustained significant damage with part of it found on the