Operators should cater to safe crosswind limitation for the type of aircraft operations in view of the narrower strip width. The ATC Controller needs to caution the pilots in this regard. Suitability of RFF Vehicles for the Type of Terrain. Presently, at Mangalore airport, there are two types of RFF vehicles, namely ‘Agni Shatru’ and ‘Panther’. The newly inducted Panther RFF is bulky in size and it can only be used for fire fighting within the periphery of airport. However, it cannot be used for similar role outside the periphery of airfield due to narrow and winding access roads of this hilly terrain. It is, therefore, recommended that a mix of small and agile RFF vehicle along with heavier RFF vehicle is made available to cater to all types of contingencies. AAI should examine the feasibility of introducing Rapid Intervention Vehicle (RIV) at such airports. Continuity Training of RFF Crew Including Simulators. Due to operational constraints, the RFF crew lack opportunity of practical training and crash drill on actual aircraft. On the other hand, recurrent training for all activities related to aviation is required to enhance the level of professional skill and flight safety. It is, therefore, recommended that the RFF crew should be sent for training on simulators on regular intervals. In this connection, more number of simulators, large scale aircraft models and training films should be made available regionally. Follow up Action on Obstruction Surveys. In view of increasing construction activity across the country, there is a need to carry out obstruction survey more frequently. Other than informing the Operators regarding new obstructions, actions such as painting and installing obstruction lights should be followed up with urgency. At Mangalore, AAI needs to liaise with authorities of State Government to complete the pending action of painting of water tank and pruning of trees, in the vicinity of airport. Aerodrome Risk Assessment and Condition of Roads outside the Perimeter. Most of the recent accidents indicate that these occur during the landing and take-off phases with large number of runway excursions. Since Mangalore is a Table Top airport, Risk Assessment and mitigation would indicate that it is necessary to build adequate access roads outside the perimeter of Mangalore airport. AAI needs to take up the matter with the State Government in this regard. Sixteen Recommendations to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) Post Accident Initial Actions. There is a need for the DGCA to designate in co-ordination with Airports Authority of India, a post holder at each airport who will be the Single Point of Contact in case of an aircraft accident. Such official should initiate immediate actions required to facilitate investigation, while the search and rescue operations are still underway. All immediate actions need to be initiated and properly recorded till the arrival of Inspector of Accident, who will be appointed by DGCA. It is recommended that the initial actions should include video recording of the wreckage for better understanding of the situation, while the rescue operations are underway.