There is also a need to bring out a Check List enumerating immediate initial actions. This Check List should be available at all airports and incorporated on the DGCA website. Aviation Medicine Specialist in the Initial Team. There is a need for including a Specialist on Aviation Medicine in the initial team of DGCA officials, who visit the site of accident, especially in the case of fatalities/injuries. The Aviation Medicine Specialist should liaise with the local Police Authorities for implementation of Air Safety Circular No 03/84 issued by DGCA, Govt of India. He should also liaise with local Medical Authorities for the post mortem, especially those of flying crew. This will ensure a thorough autopsy including post-mortem Xrays that can help in corroborating the cause of the accident and establishing the cause of injuries/fatalities. Also this Specialist will ensure timely toxicology investigation to rule out consumption of alcohol or other drugs. Aviation Medicine Specialist should also be facilitated to go through personal effects of the deceased/injured flight crew and interview their family and colleagues. This will help to investigate the possibility of self-medication and any life stress events that may have contributed to the cause of the accident. Inclusion of Experts of Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS), Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS). There is a need to instruct the BDDS, BCAS to send their experts to the crash site immediately to investigate the possibilities of any explosive material carried on board the aircraft and also to rule out sabotage, if any. Revision and Distribution of DGCA Air Safety Circular No 3 of 1984. There is a need to revise the DGCA Air Safety Circular on “Action required by Police authorities in case of aircraft accidents” issued to District Police Officials, through State Governments. Inclusion of a specific requirement to analyse post mortem samples of the flight crew for several common prescription drugs is considered essential. There is also a need to widely circulate the revised Circular to all the District Police Officials. The official designated as the Single Point of Contact should also liaise with the local Police Officials regarding the actions required to be taken by them, as per current circulars. There is a requirement to create a separate link for Aircraft Accident Investigation on the DGCA website and to include all relevant circulars and manuals on this link. This will facilitate referral by all officials including Inspector of Accident, Airport Directors, Police officers and Doctors. Revision of AIC 28 of 1992 FDTL for Flying Crew. There is an urgent need to revise the currently used AIC 28 of 1992 regarding FDTL of flight crew. The revised FDTL needs to incorporate issues such as clarification on neighbouring countries as well as change in time zones while operating on international routes. There is also a need to incorporate due allowance for the effect of flying during Window of Circadian Low (WOCL). In view of rapid growth of Civil Aviation in the country, there is also a need to