a Standard Operating Procedure to be followed for the following:- a) Unstabilised approach and actions to be taken by the First Officer, in case the PIC does not initiate a timely ‘Go Around’. b) Identification of False ILS Glide Slope and procedure to be followed for a safe landing. In view of a number of points raised by Operators and Participants during the Public Hearings, DGCA needs to clearly and unambiguously bring out the limits, which do not warrant any Operational Incident Reports (OIR) to be raised or punitive action to be initiated against the pilot for following incidents: a) Hard landing. b) Go Around. CAR, Section-5, Series ‘F’ Part II, Issue I dated 13th September 1999 needs to be amended to remove any ambiguity regarding the exceedence limits. Avoidance of Verbal Instructions Towards Reporting of Flight Safety Incidents. No verbal instructions should be issued either by the officials of DGCA at New Delhi or from Regional Offices of DGCA regarding various limits, which if exceeded, warrant either an OIR or punitive action against a pilot by the Operator and/or DGCA. Applicability of Regulations to Foreign Airlines Operating in India. DGCA needs to ensure applicability of all Indian Regulations to the Foreign Airlines operating within Indian airspace. There is a need to audit their activities periodically, while operating in India. Safety Management Training for Executives. In view of rapid growth of aviation in India, both commercial and private, there is a need to ensure that various Executives as well as Post Holders undergo specialised training in Safety Management. This will enhance the necessary awareness amongst senior management, thereby ensuring that requisite importance is given to Flight Safety. In this connection the newly introduced Safety Management System (SMS) by DGCA also needs to be implemented by all operators. Publication of Flight Safety Journal. Since DGCA is a repository of all the current information on Flight Safety, a centrally published Journal on matters of Flight Safety will greatly help in spreading awareness on safe operations. DGCA has information on periodic initiatives by International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and has access to data on worldwide accidents/incidents. The recommendations from such data can be shared with the operators through this journal. The publication could be monthly/bi-monthly and could incorporate a variety of issues which have bearing on Flight Safety, such as Meteorology, Aviation Medicine, new ATC procedures etc, to name a few. The proposed Flight Safety Journal could also include ‘Good Show’ in respect of crew members as well as technical, ATC and all other personnel connected with aviation for an ‘individual action’ which might have resulted in avoiding an accident/ incident. One Recommendation to the Ministry of Civil Aviation Setting up of Indian Civil Aviation Safety Board. The Court of Inquiry also recommends setting up of an independent Indian Civil Aviation Safety Board (ICASB), on the lines of National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB), USA. This independent body will help in focusing on all the flight safety related issues, so as to make