First Officer, functioning as a team. In addition, airline should ensure a system whereby relevant details about the personal particulars and flying experience of the Captain and First Officer are available to each other, before commencing a flight together. This would help the flight crew in establishing a quick rapport. Flow of such information would be possible after computerisation and networking of activities at all bases, from which AI Express operates. Employment of Foreign Pilots. There is a need for Air India Express to carry out a detailed check into background of Foreign Pilots, prior to issuance of FATA by DGCA. Emphasis should be laid especially on flight safety issues for the entire flying career, as well as anomalies during training, if any, from all the previous employers. There is also a need to examine medical history of Foreign Pilots in its entirety. The airline should conduct pre-employment medical examination for all Foreign Pilots similar to Indian pilots. While proposing the employment of Foreign Pilots, Air India Express should justify such an employment. Yearly Training Plan and quantifiable targets achieved in upgrading Indian pilots to PIC, should accompany such proposal. Air India Express could re-consider terms and conditions of employment of foreign pilots. Encouraging foreign pilots to stay in India with families, rather than the current practice of serving six weeks followed by a two weeks vacation abroad, is considered most desirable. This would enhance ‘ownership’ and a sense of belonging amongst the foreign flight crew. In addition, this would increase effective utilisation of these pilots, reduce FDTL issues and need to reacclimatise after their vacation. Further, such longer stay within India would reduce the possibility of upsetting crew schedule and the uncertainty, should the foreign pilot not return after his vacation. In turn, it would also reduce the anxiety amongst foreign pilots regarding their continued employment and renewal of FATA. Crew Scheduling. Computerisation of crew scheduling should be ensured by the airline at the earliest in accordance with CAR Section 3, Series ‘C’ Part II (Revised 2009) issued by DGCA. This non-compliance had also been brought out by the DGCA Audit carried out from 30th October to 3rd November 2007. In multi-base operations, adequate number of flight crew (including Standby flight crew) should be based permanently at all such bases. Instead of moving the crew repeatedly to other bases, the permanent basing will allow unhindered operations of scheduled flights from all bases. Pre-flight Medical Check. Air India Express should ensure 100% Pre-flight medical check of all flight crew prior to commencement of a flight/ series of flights. The Operator should provide a suitable designated space for conduct of such pre-flight medical examination in privacy. All doctors performing such examination including those employed on contract basis should be suitably trained for the same. In addition, a random check for alcohol by use of Breathalyser should be conducted by the doctor as required vide CAR, Section-5, Series-F, Part-3, Issue-I dated 13th November 2009 issued by DGCA. Role of Airline Doctors as