spelt out in the Handbook on Medical Assessment of Civil Flight Crew in India, available on the DGCA website, should be adhered to. The airline should encourage short-duration training in Aviation Medicine for all doctors. This will aid in early recognition of fatigue and importance of rendering correct advice regarding flying with minor sickness including with medication. Aviation Medicine Specialist. The Airline should consider employing a full-time Specialist in Aviation Medicine. Such specialist should conduct initial and refresher training of flight crew and cabin crew in sleep physiology, circadian disruptions and methods to reduce effects of fatigue (including controlled rest in seat and use of prescription medication for sleep induction and alertness enhancement). This specialist may, in addition, be utilised to conduct regular classes in Aviation Medicine including Hypoxia, Spatial Disorientation and Aviation Psychology. In addition, such a specialist should be utilised to counsel the flight crew on their regular licensing medical examination and measures to be adopted to increase wellness and thereby a full and healthy flying career. Thirteen Recommendations to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) SOP on Watch Hours. There is a need for AAI to bring out SOP on actions to be completed prior to opening the ‘Watch Hours’ at all airports. The procedure should clearly bring out various activities which need to be completed prior to declaring an airfield ‘operational’ viz timely manning of Air Traffic Control Tower after having carried out inspection of runway, communications and other facilities including readiness of crash and fire tenders. It is recommended that after completion of inspection, the ATC Tower Controller takes his position at least 30 minutes prior to opening of watch hours. Avoidance of Downward Slope in the Overshoot Area Particularly on Table Top Runways. As per worldwide data published by ICAO, most of the accidents occur during landing and take-off phases, with a large number of runway excursions and aircraft overrunning into the Overshoot Area. Considering the large momentum of these aircraft, a downward slope in the overrun area can worsen the outcome. It is therefore recommended that such downward slopes as obtaining in Mangalore, be brought to the same level of the runway surface. This also needs to be ensured at all table top airports in the country. Need for Frangible Structures on the Overshoot Areas. It is mandatory for all structures protruding above the Runway Safety Areas, to be frangible. These would include approach lights in the overshoot and undershoot area, signage, ILS Localiser Antenna mountings etc to name a few. At Mangalore, the ILS Localiser Antenna is mounted on a concrete structure. Although, this structure is in-frangible, as recommended at Para 4.2.2 above, once the downward slope of overshoot area for R/W 24 is brought to the same level of the runway surface, this concrete structure will also get embedded in the ground. Maintenance of RESA. Maintenance of RESA at Mangalore needs improvement. There were not only a number of shrubs growing all over, but some of the Approach Lights had their