An Investigation was carried out by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB). It was established that the aircraft had been on a VOR/LOC approach to runway 34 (see procedure plate below) with the First Officer as PF and the AP engaged. It was established that the aircraft had been cleared to descend to 3000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings. Passing about 3,300 feet QNH, the AFDS had automatically changed from vertical navigation (VNAV) speed (SPD) mode to VNAV path (PTH) mode in recognition of the FMC altitude limitation of 3,000 feet, this being the runway 34 VOR initial approach altitude. As the aircraft was at this point 440 feet below the FMC-calculated vertical profile, the AFDS had commanded a pitch-up to regain this profile. Although this was in full accordance with the normal function of the automation engaged, the aircraft commander advised the Investigation that “he had not observed this type of AFDS behaviour before” and had therefore led him to believe that the VNAV mode was malfunctioning. In response, he had changed the MCP altitude to 2,000 ft and selected FLCH mode. The Investigation considered that these actions “were symptomatic of ‘automation surprise’ on (his) part, probably due to a lack of AFDS mode appreciation”. In response, the MCP altitude was reset to 2000 feet and then, following the selection of the FMC Mode to FLCH to ensure that descent continued, briefly back to 3000 feet before this was replaced by 970 feet, the MDA being used for the approach. This latter figure was higher than the MDA published on the approach chart because of a combination of Notice To Airmen advice that it was temporarily raised to 920 feet and because, according to the Operator, the pilots would have added approximately 50 feet to the MDA due to a requirement associated with flying a Constant Angle Non-Precision Approach (CANPA). With the target airspeed set to 190 knots and Flaps 1 selected, the autothrottle (A/T) reduced engine thrust to Flight Idle and the aircraft intercepted the inbound procedure track. Upon being advised that the crew had the airfield in sight, the TWR controller cleared the aircraft for a visual approach subject to it being “... established on the PAPI and inside the circling area”. It was noted that the latter condition would have been satisfied once within 5.3 nm of the runway threshold. However, with descent now continuing unchecked, shortly after the flight crew had disconnected the AP at an altitude of 1284 feet when still about 7 nm from the runway threshold (and therefore over 1300 feet below the procedure vertical profile and only 850 feet aal), the TWR controller had observed both visually and on radar that the aircraft was low on the approach and asked the flight crew to ‘check altitude’. Four seconds later the controller had instructed the crew to “climb go-around carry out missed approach runway 34” and the flight crew had responded ‘climbing’. The lowest altitude reached of 984 feet (equivalent to 550 feet