aal) was recorded a few seconds later, when the aircraft was 6.4 nm from the runway threshold, a point at which the procedure vertical profile altitude was 2420 feet, After 30 seconds had elapsed since giving the initial go around instruction, and having observed that although the aircraft had stopped descending, it was still at an altitude of only 1,167 feet, the TWR controller asked the flight crew to confirm that they were going around. The flight crew had replied “we are climbing….we are maintaining 1,200 copy” to which the controller had responded by re-iterating the instruction to carry out a missed approach and received the response “on visual approach”. The controller then responded “negative, missed approach runway 34, climb to 4,000 feet” and the flight crew reported that they were “climbing to 4,000 feet” and subsequently did so. The track of the aircraft and some of the key events on the approach are shown on the diagram below. A second runway 34 VOR approach was subsequently completed uneventfully with the aircraft commander as PF and using LNAV and VNAV modes. It was noted that in the 6 months preceding the investigated event, the aircraft commander had operated into Melbourne on four occasions, making non-precision approaches to runway 34 on two of them. The Operator advised that use of the CANPA method was recommended in order “to minimise flight crew exposure to error, minimise the risk of controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) and to assist with the achievement of a stabilised approach” and that simulator training included the conduct of CANPAs using VNAV. The Operator further advised that “where an approach became unstable, or an aircraft descended below a minimum altitude constraint, a missed approach was to be executed”. The Investigation noted that: FLCH mode as used for the first approach is known to generally result in higher rates of descent than are required for an approach and “was therefore not recommended due to the increased the risk of inadvertent descent below the required vertical flight path”. On the first approach, the premature descent had taken the aircraft not only well below the below the correct vertical profile but also below the applicable Segment Minimum Safe Altitude (SMSA) which until 5nm from the runway threshold was 1950 feet.. While the flight crew did arrest descent, following the first instruction to go around, it was noted that the time delay between the tower controller’s initial go-around instruction and selection of go-around thrust was about 50 seconds. Although on this occasion, the tower controller had issued the go-around instruction because the aircraft was unusually low on the approach, had that instruction been issued to ensure separation from either other traffic or terrain, a delay of 50 seconds could have resulted in a more hazardous situation.. It was noted that in 2007 an ATSB Investigation had been carried out into another premature descent by a Thai Airways International Boeing 777 whilst on a non precision approach - on that occasion an NDB approach