but two-way communication was ineffective. By the time the affirmative response was received, the 737 was 3.1nm from the C212 and about to level at 10,000 feet. The clearance to drop was then cancelled but when the C212 crew responded that all parachutists had left the aircraft, the controller then issued a corresponding “traffic alert” to the 737. The crew of the latter advised that they already had the C212 in sight and had begun a right turn, although they at no time saw any parachutists. The C212 crew reported being unaware of the 737 behind until they had heard the traffic alert issued to it and had subsequently seen it once it had made the right turn below. One of the parachutists reported seeing the 737 about 2000 metres away and below and the last of the five to jump reported having passed through the same altitude as the 737 in free fall with separation estimated as 2000 metres. The diagram below illustrates the way the loss of separation occurred. The Investigation reviewed the applicable ANSP (Airservices Australia) procedures. It was found that controller “instructions did not document any procedures to assure separation between jet aircraft departing on the Sydney-Richmond track and parachute operations at Richmond.” It was also found that although Safety Regulator CASA, through the Manual of Air Traffic Services (MATS), required that the 1nm radius drop zone for Richmond should be supplemented by a further 1nm buffer zone, “Airservices….did not consider the buffer was a requirement”. It was also found that a commitment by Airservices which had followed findings of previous investigations to ensure that en route controllers received regular training in “compromised safety recovery techniques” had not been delivered in respect of two of the three ACC controllers involved. The Investigation identified four Contributing Factors in respect of the Incident, two of which were classified as Safety Issues to be resolved by the ANSP Airservices Australia: The Sydney Departures South trainee and on-the-job training instructor maintained the 737 tracking via Richmond and established vertical separation underneath the C212 parachuting aircraft, unaware that a parachute drop clearance had been issued.. The Sydney Approach West controller, who was responsible for three air traffic control positions at the time of the occurrence, was experiencing a period of high workload.. There was no documented procedure for assuring the separation of aircraft departing from Sydney from parachute operations at Richmond, increasing the likelihood that Sydney Terminal Control Unit controllers would have differing expectations as to their control and coordination requirements in respect of these operations. [Safety issue]. Local and national air traffic control procedures did not prescribe the means for controllers to indicate in the air traffic control system that a parachute drop clearance had been issued. [Safety issue]. It was also concluded that there had been three other factors that increased risk, all matters relating to the ANSP: The Sydney Approach West controller and the Sydney Departures South trainee controller had not completed compromised separation recovery training.. The cancellation