torsion box thickness was also noted from the remaining portion of the White blade. Additionally, dis-bonding of the pitch control arm was found. In the light of all these findings, the Investigation had concluded that the manufacturing process for AW139 tail rotor blades should be reviewed and that "further static, fatigue, dynamic and aerodynamic tests and analyses would be required to determine the cause of the breakage of the White blade and the subsequent detachment of the tail rotor and tail gearbox assembly". Since this action would clearly require reference to "proprietary and confidential manufacturing, design and certification data" held by AgustaWestland, ENAC (as the Competent Authority responsible for the Production Approval held by AgustaWestland) and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) (as the Type Certification Authority) which was not available to the Investigation, two corresponding Safety Recommendations (see below) were issued to ENAC and EASA respectively on 21 November 2011. In responding to these Safety Recommendations and to later requests, it was noted that these agencies and AgustaWestland had subsequently provided the information necessary to complete the Investigation. A joint review by EASA/ENAC of the interim findings of the Investigation and information from those into the other two accidents confirmed what were considered to be the main factors underlying the documented tail rotor failures: Manufacturing defects inside the straps (waviness, porosity and delaminations) at maximum acceptable values as a result of the assessment variability.. Torsion box thickness reduction.. Pitch control arm disbonding caused by over shimming of elastomeric bearing installation and manufacturing quality lapses which had the potential to cause an increase in the level of strain in the area of the failure.. This review also made the following significant findings: Other production issues (under dimensions of the strap cross sections, dislodging of the filler between the two straps), although representing non conformities to the drawings, had no direct effect on the failure pattern.. In the production specification of the straps, there was no specific limitation for the presence of combined defects (combination of waviness, porosity and delaminations).. The integrity of the torsion box could not be checked in an effective way after the production phase. At the conclusion of a meeting with AgustaWestland lasting from 8 - 13 September 2011, EASA identified the following actions as necessary to reducing the risk of further tail rotor failures: A review of the current contents of AgustaWestland Technical Specification STAP106, in relation to the maximum allowable defect and inspection criteria given the occurrence of in-service events.. The establishment of an inspection procedure for in-service tail rotor blades.. An internal review of the production inspection records of the in-service blade straps, aiming at identifying any blades that might have been delivered with strap defects in excess of those acceptable per AgustaWestland Technical Specification STAP106 as result of possible variability related to the comparative radiographic assessment.. Taking into account the flight cycles accumulated by the blade failure in the Brazilian AW139 accident, an analysis of in-service occurrences, to confirm the installed service limit for