the Operator had chosen to equip the helicopter with both crew and passenger life jackets sufficient for the maximum occupancy of 14. It was noted that the AW139 tail rotor had four glass-fibre composite blades designated in sequence in the direction of rotation as the Red, White, Blue and Yellow blades. Each of these blades was connected to the tail rotor hub via a spherical elastomeric bearing. The pitch of the tail rotor blades was adjusted through a linkage attached to a pitch control arm bonded to the root of each blade. An elastomeric bearing was used to transmit loads between the hub and each blade whilst providing some freedom for the blade to move in flap, in lead-lag, in pitch or any combination thereof. Blade damper attachment lugs allowed dampers to each blade. These features are shown in the diagram below. It soon became evident that the loss of the tail rotor had been precipitated by functional failure of the assembly. As a result, "fracture analysis of vertical fin broken parts and (in particular) the separation of the White blade at the root area became the key elements" in the Investigation. However, when the broken portion of the White blade could not be recovered, it became clear that the evidence from analysis of the small portion of the White blade remained and other available wreckage parts would be critical. During the Investigation, two similar AW139 helicopter accidents occurred: On 2 May 2011, an AW139 Helicopter in Qatar had just completed the Engine Power Assurance check and was about to taxy for a passenger flight when the commander heard a loud bang from the back of the helicopter and severe vibration was sensed through the pedals. It was found that the tail rotor had separated from the tail fin and dropped to the ground. One of the tail rotor blades was subsequently found detached and recovered from some distance away. The engine was shut down, a fire in the tail fin was promptly extinguished by ground personnel and the occupants left the helicopter.. On 19 August 2011, an AW139 helicopter in Brazil was climbing through approximately 1800 feet when a hydraulic system failure was reported. The helicopter subsequently crashed into the sea and all on board were killed. Part of one of the tail rotor blades was found to have broken off between the blade root and the fork.. It was noted that AgustaWestland's initial response to the Hong Kong accident was that "no corrective actions…had been considered necessary" in respect of the AW139. But after the Qatar accident occurred 10 months later, that position began to be reconsidered. By this time, examination of samples from the Blue and Yellow blades plus the remaining section of the White blade had indicated that these blades "did not comply fully with AgustaWestland's specifications in the root end area" with "manufacturing discrepancies including undersize and high level of voids of the upper and lower straps of the blade samples" were found. Reduction of