An Investigation was carried out by the Civil Aviation Department of the Government of the Hong Kong SAR. Recorded data relevant to the Investigation was recovered from the Multi-Purpose Flight Recorder (MPFR) and the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR). It was noted that the two pilots both held ATPL(H) licences issued by the Civil Aviation Authority of the Macao SAR and had considerable helicopter experience although relatively little of this had been on the AW139, the 45 year old commander, who had been PF for the accident flight, having only 377 hours on type. It was established that passing 350 feet, both pilots had heard "a loud bang" from the rear of the helicopter after which airframe vibration had occurred. The commander simultaneously found that he had no authority on the pedal controls and deduced that the tail rotor of the helicopter had failed. He immediately put the helicopter into autorotation and instructed the First officer to shut down both engines. A MAYDAY call was made on the Company frequency and a controlled ditching was achieved in a level attitude with a low forward speed at touchdown. On contact with the water, all four emergency floatation bags inflated automatically. The helicopter initially remained floating in a slightly nose down attitude and both pilots exited the flight deck via the emergency exit windows on their respective external doors. The commander then opened the right side passenger door from the outside and both pilots assisted all the passengers to evacuate from the helicopter. Everyone was rescued from the water "within minutes of the accident" by the first two vessels on the scene, a nearby fishing boat and a commercial harbour pilot boat. All the passengers were taken to hospital for medical examination and six were then admitted to be treated for minor injuries such as bruising or dizziness before being discharged later the same day. It was concluded that the evacuation had been "conducted in a timely manner without delay, allowing all the passengers to evacuate from the helicopter before it capsized" which occurred about 18 minutes after the ditching, a time confirmed to be compatible with certification requirements. The capsize was due to the failure of the right forward floatation bag. The buoyancy provided by the partially-deflated left forward floatation bag was sufficient to ensure that the overturned helicopter remained in a floating condition. It was concluded that it was the slightly out of balance condition of the helicopter on the water caused by the weight of the missing tail that had resulted in overload and damage to the two forward floatation bags. It was noted that since the flight between Hong Kong and Macao on which the accident helicopter was used did not go more than 10 minutes flying time from land at normal cruise speed, the carriage of life jackets was not required under the prevailing regulations. It was observed that these regulations were in line with ICAO Annex 6 Part III as effective at the time. However,