Safety Recommendations were made during and as a result of the findings of the Investigation on 21 November 2011 as follows: that the Ente Nazionale per l'Aviazione Civile (ENAC) should, jointly with AgustaWestland, review the manufacturing process of the AW139 tail rotor blades to determine the causes of the discrepancies identified in the QinetiQ Report and evaluate their effects.. [2011-3] that the European Aviation Safety Agency should require AgustaWestland to perform static, fatigue, dynamic and aerodynamic tests and analyses on AW139 tail rotor blades so as to minimise the possibilities of tail rotor blade failure which could have been caused by one or the combination of these effects.. [2011-4] It was noted that a number of "Useful or Effective Investigation Techniques" in the area of forensic engineering had been employed during the central airworthiness element of the Investigation in order to fully understand the failure characteristics of the blade which fractured and so precipitated the accident: Optical Microscope - A type of microscope which uses visible light and a system of lenses to magnify images of small samples.. Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) - A type of electron microscope that images the sample surface by scanning it with a high-energy beam of electrons in a raster scan pattern. The electrons interact with the atoms that make up the sample producing signals that contain information about the sample's surface topography, composition and other properties such as electrical conductivity.. Image Analysis - The extraction of meaningful information from images; mainly from digital images by means of digital image processing techniques.. 3-D X-ray Tomography - A quick and non-destructive method to produce three dimensional images that correspond closely to serial sections through an object. Sequential contiguous images are compiled to create three-dimensional representations that can be manipulated digitally to perform efficiently a large array of measurement and visualization tasks.. Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) - A thermoanalytical technique in which the difference in the amount of heat required to increase the temperature of a sample and reference is measured as a function of temperature. Both the sample and reference are maintained at nearly the same temperature throughout the experiment. Generally, the temperature program for a DSC analysis is designed such that the sample holder temperature increases linearly as a function of time. The reference sample should have a well-defined heat capacity over the range of temperatures to be scanned.. Burn-off Test - A method to determine the fibre volume of the composites being investigated.. The Final Report was completed on 2 June 2014 and published the following month. It confirmed that "ENAC and EASA, along with Agusta Westland, have taken necessary safety actions on Safety Recommendation 2011-3 and Safety Recommendation 2011-4 respectively" and that "all the safety actions have been accomplished and no further safety actions are envisaged."