the blades of the earlier of 1500 cycles / 600 hours introduced by an EASA AD issued on 25 August 2011 which mandated the provisions of AgustaWestland Alert Technical Bulletin BT139-265 of even date.. On other matters, the Investigation noted that: The prompt response of the commander and his skills in controlling the speed and attitude of the helicopter contributed to a controlled touchdown of the helicopter during ditching.. The benign prevailing weather and water surface conditions had no bearing on what happened.. In the light of the transmission of the MAYDAY call on Company Frequency rather than to ATC, it was noted that the Operator had since changed its procedures to require that both COM radios should be on the appropriate ATC frequency "during the significant phase of departure, between take-off and levelling off in the cruise".. The Conclusion of the Investigation was that the failure of the tail rotor White blade had led to tail rotor imbalance which had created static overload of vertical fin structure at a magnitude high enough to sever the tail rotor assembly from the fin so that directional control of the helicopter was no longer possible. The Investigation formally documented the Causal Factors for the accident as: The failure of the white blade (which) was most probably caused by disbond of (the) pitch control arm and the reduction of torsion box stiffness at the blade root radii area which, when associated with manufacturing strap defects at maximum acceptable values in production specification, caused inter-laminar radial stress (ILRS) to exceed the maximum allowable limit, resulting in matrix delamination onset and then propagation under inter-laminar shear stress (ILSS) and complete failure of the blade.. The reduction in torsion box stiffness at the white blade root radii area was most probably caused by manufacturing quality lapses and the lack of effective way for checking the integrity of the torsion box after production.. Disbond of the pitch control arm could have been caused by over shimming of elastomeric bearing installation.. Safety Action taken during and as a result of the Investigation began after the Qatar accident and initially consisted of an EASA Emergency AD mandating an Alert SB issued by Augusta Westland relating to tail rotor blade inspections (36% of inspected blades were faulty) and the introduction of a new blade life limit. After the Brazilian accident, additional limits on blade life based on another Alert SB issued by AgustaWestland were mandated in a second EASA Emergency AD. Subsequently, AgustaWestland made a large number of changes to the Product Specification for manufacture of the tail rotor blades and finally introduced an improved blade which "fully restored the original tail rotor blade safe life". It was noted that in respect of the blade failures which had occurred "the EASA Continuing Airworthiness Team concluded that there could be a possibility that tail rotor blades installed on AW139 fleet could contain defects and flaws in excess of those assumed during the static and fatigue tests performed for the certification". Two