that the airplane was on the correct runway before takeoff". Two Contributory Factors in the accident were identified as having been: the flight crew’s non-pertinent conversation during taxi which resulted in a. loss of positional awareness. the Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to require that all runway crossings be authorised only by specific air traffic control clearances.. A total of eleven Safety Recommendations were made a result of the Investigation as follows: On 12 December 2006, two Recommendations were made: that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that all 14 CFR Part 121 operators establish procedures requiring all crew members on the flight deck to positively confirm and cross-check the airplane’s location at the assigned departure runway before crossing the hold short line for takeoff. [A-06-83]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that all 14 CFR Part 121 operators provide specific guidance to pilots on the runway lighting requirements for takeoff operations at night. [A-06-84]. On 10 April 2007, four Recommendations were made: that the Federal Aviation Administration should work with the National Air Traffic Controllers Association to reduce the potential for controller fatigue by revising controller work-scheduling policies and practices to provide rest periods that are long enough for controllers to obtain sufficient restorative sleep and by modifying shift rotations to minimise disrupted sleep patterns, accumulation of sleep debt, and decreased cognitive performance. [A-07-30]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should develop a fatigue awareness and countermeasures training program for controllers and for personnel who are involved in the scheduling of controllers for operational duty that will address the incidence of fatigue in the controller workforce, causes of fatigue, effects of fatigue on controller performance and safety, and the importance of using personal strategies to minimize fatigue. This training should be provided in a format that promotes retention, and recurrent training should be provided at regular intervals. [A-07-31]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require all air traffic controllers to complete instructor-led initial and recurrent training in resource management skills that will improve controller judgment, vigilance, and safety awareness. [A-07-34]. that the National Air Traffic Controllers Association should work with the Federal Aviation Administration to reduce the potential for controller fatigue by revising controller work-scheduling policies and practices to provide rest periods that are long enough for controllers to obtain sufficient restorative sleep and by modifying shift rotations to minimize disrupted sleep patterns, accumulation of sleep debt, and decreased cognitive performance. [A-07-32]. On completion of the Investigation, a further five Recommendations were made: that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that all 14 CFR Part 91K, 121 and 135 operators establish procedures requiring all crew members on the flight deck to positively confirm and cross-check the airplane’s location at the assigned departure runway before crossing the hold short line for takeoff. This required guidance should be consistent with the guidance in Advisory Circular 120-74A and Safety Alert for Operators 06013 and 07003. [A-07-44]. that the Federal Aviation Administration should require that all 14 CFR Part 91K, 121, and 135 operators