had not previously demonstrated difficulty with airport surface operations" and the Captain specifically as someone who managed the flight deck well, followed SOPs and displayed good CRM. More generally, "Comair Captains described CRM training as good (and) Comair First Officers stated that they had no difficulties speaking up if they felt rushed or had concerns with the conduct of the flight". One Comair Training Captain stated that "when First Officers have not spoken up during line checks after a Captain has made an error, it was because of a lack of situational awareness rather than a hesitancy to speak up". Also, the Principal Operations Inspector (POI) for Comair stated that "there had not been a crew interaction problem during the 5 years that preceded the accident". The possibility of fatigue being a factor in flight crew performance was examined but it was concluded that "even though (they) made some errors during their pre-flight activities and the taxi to the runway, there was insufficient evidence to determine whether fatigue affected their performance". However, it was considered that the various instances where SOPs were disregarded, such as the Captain's abbreviated initial taxi briefing and the failure of both pilots to operate a sterile flight deck, were likely to have "created an atmosphere.....that enabled the crew’s errors". Safety Action taken as a result of the accident and known to the Investigation included but was not limited to the following: On 27 August 2006, a NOTAM was issued to announce the closure of Lexington runway 08/26 and the placing of lighted “X” markings at each end of the runway with effect from 29 August 2006. (The runway remained closed until 1 November 2006 when the new taxiway A7 access to runway 22 was opened.). With effect from 8 September 2006, Comair arranged for a note to be attached for every fight release for operations into or out of Lexington warning that published airport diagrams for the airport "may not accurately reflect actual airport signage and markings" and as a consequence to "exercise extreme caution during all ground operations, utilize high threat taxi procedures (and) if unsure of position or taxi clearance clarify with ATC or request progressive taxi instructions". (This note was removed from flight releases with effect from 3 November 2006 after the new taxiway A7 had been opened and the current Jeppesen aerodrome chart accurately reflected the airport configuration).. On 1 September 2006, the FAA issued Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) 06013 entitled "Flight Crew Techniques and Procedures that Enhance Pre-takeoff and Takeoff Safety" which discussed techniques, procedures, and items for consideration for training programs that emphasise safe operations in the pre-takeoff and takeoff phases of flight. It also referred to existing FAA guidance on ground operations, such as AC 20-74A (NB: this Circular was cancelled on 30 July 2012) and stated that flight crews should "confirm, using the challenge and response technique, that the aircraft is actually positioned on the assigned runway by reference to the heading indicator" and specifically recommended