runway 22. However, it was considered that neither of the accident aircraft pilots had sufficient experience of operations into and out of the airport to allow them to have memorised taxiway identifiers and routes. From the controller's perspective, it was acknowledged that since the two aircraft that had departed from runway 22 ahead of the accident aircraft had already taxied correctly to and held short of runway 22 without any special instructions being given, there was no reason why the controller might have anticipated that the Comair pilots would have had any difficulty doing the same thing. He stated that he did not routinely monitor compliance with taxi out routing or takeoffs once he had given clearance and on this occasion, once the take off clearance had been given, he had decided to work an administrative task which needed to be completed before he could go off shift. His shift had begun at 2330 the previous evening and had followed an 8 hour morning shift ending at 1430 earlier in the day. Although he reported having been fully rested prior to the previous days early shift, between the end of this shift and the beginning of the night shift he reported obtained only around 2 hours sleep which was therefore all he had slept in the 24 hours preceding the accident. The possibility of the controller being affected by fatigue in any way that might have had a bearing on the accident was examined but although it was found that he "was most likely fatigued at the time of the accident" not least on account of the evident sleep deficit, no evidence of such an effect was found. There was also no evidence to suggest that the controller's working of both the tower and radar positions in light traffic conditions had resulted in any consequence relevant to the accident. In terms of the pilots, it was concluded that during the 50 second stop at the runway 26 holding point, both of them had been under the impression that they were at the runway 22 holding point. However, it was considered that this stop should have provided the pilots "ample time to look outside.....and determine the airplane’s position on the airport". From that position, they "would have been able to see the runway 26 holding position sign, the “26” painted runway number, the taxiway A lights across runway 26 and the runway 22 holding position sign in the distance". However, despite the "numerous cues" that the aircraft had not been on the right runway, including but not limited to the complete lack of runway lighting and the presence of continuous painted edge lines restricting the available width to 23 metres compared to the normal 46 metres, neither pilot had noticed anything until it was too late to reject the takeoff. It was noted that performance of both pilots on the day of the accident was at odds with the observations of their peers who described them both as "competent pilots who