and then completed the Before Takeoff Checklist. With the aircraft still at the runway 26 holding point, the First Officer then reported to ATC that the flight was ready to depart (using the identification “Comair 121" instead of [5]191) and the controller responded, "Comair 191.....fly runway heading, cleared for takeoff". Neither the First Officer nor the Controller included the runway number in their transmissions. Without delay, the Captain began to taxi the aircraft across the holding point and turned left so that it was, according to FDR data, aligned on about 226°M, the runway 26 centreline, and stopped. Whilst he was doing this he called for the Line Up checklist which was complete by the time the aircraft had stopped. The Captain was recorded as saying "all yours" and the First Officer responded with "my brakes, my controls" and the takeoff roll began a few seconds later. Eight seconds before the standard "100 knots" call from the Captain, the First Officer was recorded saying "(that's) weird with no lights” to which the Captain responded "Yeah". 7 seconds after the 100 knots call, at a recorded speed of 131 knots - 6 knots ahead of the planned V1 and 11 knots ahead of the planned VR - the Captain called " V1, rotate" followed almost immediately by "whoa" upon which the First Officer immediately pulled his control column fully aft at a rate of about 10° per second - about three times the normal rate. The aircraft hit a 4 foot high earth bank about 80 metres beyond the end of runway 26 and became temporarily airborne after impact but reached less than 20 feet agl before impacting a tree about 275 metres beyond the end of the runway at the maximum recorded forward speed of 137 knots. The CVR recording ended soon afterwards, with three seconds having elapsed since impact with the earth bank. The controller subsequently stated that before issuing the takeoff clearance, he had checked that runway 22 was clear but had not checked the aircraft position or then monitored the takeoff roll. After hearing a sound, he reported having looked up and seen a fire to the west of the airport and had immediately activated the crash alarm and advised of an aircraft accident, indicating to the airport operations that "a Comair jet taking off from runway 22" was located at the west side of the airport just beyond the end of the runway. The aircraft was quickly destroyed by a combination of the effects of obstacle impact and the post crash fire which quickly began. The fuselage had separated into two main sections, and both wings had separated from the fuselage. None of the exits had been opened. The first two airport personnel to reach the crash site reported having located the fuselage almost 10 minutes after the crash had occurred and were able to extricate the First Officer from the wreckage after which he was taken directly to hospital in one of the available vehicles.