An Investigation was carried out by the NTSB. The FDR and 30 minute CVR were recovered from the wreckage and almost all of the potentially useful data they contained were successfully downloaded. The recording intervals for two parameters did not comply with the applicable regulations in a way that the Board had found in other regional jet investigations and a previous Safety Recommendation on this subject was re-iterated and re-classified whilst this Investigation was in progress. No evidence was found that either the prevailing weather conditions or any related lack of aircraft airworthiness had been relevant to what happened. However, it was noted that the attempted takeoff had occurred about an hour prior to sunrise in the absence of any moonlight. It was found that the 35 year-old Captain had done all his multi crew flying with Comair, having joined the Company a little over 5 years prior to the accident as a First Officer and had been promoted to Captain in January 2004. He had 4,710 hours total flying experience which included 3,082 hours on type. The 44 year-old First Officer had joined Comair a little over 4 years prior to the accident and had 6,564 hours total flying experience which included 3,564 hours on type. He was acting as PF for the accident flight sector. It was noted that both pilots had departed from Lexington on a few previous occasions including at night, but also that at the time of the accident, the airport was close to completing a "multiyear construction project" which had involved changes to the taxiway access to runway 26. Whilst the accident aircraft was being prepared for departure and during its taxi out and attempted takeoff, the ATC facility was staffed with just one controller covering Tower and Radar positions. He had been working at the airport for 17 years and was approaching the end of his rostered night shift at the time of the accident. It was established that having called ready to taxi with the taxi and takeoff briefings completed, the flight was instructed to taxi to the 2135 metre-long runway 22 - an instruction which authorised the aircraft to cross the landing threshold of the intersecting 1067 metre-long VFR/day-use-only runway 26 without stopping (see the illustration below). Both pilots had the heading bugs on their respective PFDs and MFDs set to 227°, the runway 22 centreline. FDR data indicated that the Captain, who taxied the aircraft from the parking position until it was lined up on runway 26, had initially stopped the aircraft at the runway 26 holding point. During that short taxi - just over two minutes - the CVR record showed that in addition to completing the Taxi Checks and beginning the Before Take Off checks, the two pilots had, for a period of 40 seconds, engaged in "non-pertinent conversation" contrary to the Comair requirement for a sterile flight deck during taxi out and take off. Once stopped, the First Officer had made a welcome PA to the passengers