Two ARFF vehicles arrived soon afterwards and began to "knock down" the fire which was brought under control within about 3 minutes, but no other occupants could be rescued. The aircraft manufacturer provided the Investigation with accelerate-stop performance calculations for runway 26 assuming maximum braking which showed that to stop before reaching the end of the runway, deceleration would have had to have begun at a speed not above 103 knots. In addition, it was calculated that the aircraft would require more than the available length of runway 26 to reach the V1 speed calculated by the crew. It was found that a NOTAM advising of the closure of the previous taxiway A access to the full length of runway 22 beyond runway 26 and the re-designation of the previous taxiway A5 as the new continuation of taxiway A had been in effect for a week when the accident occurred. However, the crew had the current Jeppesen chart which showed the previous access with taxiway A continuing from the 26 threshold to runway 22 with a 45° left turn rather than a 90° one and the changes were not mentioned in the flight release paperwork or on the ATIS. In the absence of the latter, the Investigation concluded that "the controller's direct communications with the pilots" should have highlighted this. Nevertheless, it was noted that "even though discrepancies existed between the airport chart and the external cues available to the pilots.....the chart depicted the paved taxiway and runway surfaces at the time of the accident". The Investigation reviewed the crew actions prior and during the taxi out in detail. Prior to taxi, Comair Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) required that the Captain should conduct a pre-taxi briefing and that for any first flight of a flight crew such as this one, that briefing must be a detailed one, given with both pilots having the appropriate airport diagrams available and with explicit attention given to any runway crossings. Contrary to this, the Captain gave this briefing as "Comair Standard", an option only available for subsequent flights in a same-crew sequence. However, it was noted that despite this, there had then been "multiple and more salient cues...to aid the flight crew while navigating to the runway" given that the taxi route was "relatively simple" and the crew were aware it was only a short taxi. Nevertheless, it was considered significant that when giving the takeoff briefing soon after this, the First Officer did "not brief that the taxi to runway 22 required crossing runway 26" and the Investigation "was unable to determine why this was so". It was considered possible that "the simplicity of the taxi and the use of only one taxiway might have led him to assume that it was unnecessary to include this additional information". Other pilots indicated that they too would brief this "short taxi" in a similar manner and no evidence was found that the pilots were unaware of the need to cross runway 26 to get to