that pilots should "use all available resources to ensure that the aircraft is positioned on the proper runway". Flight crews of FMS-equipped aircraft were recommended to "verbally announce that the proper runway and departure procedure are selected in the FMS and that the aircraft heading agrees with the assigned runway for takeoff".. On 17 November 2006, the FAA acting as ANSP modified ATC requirements to "formalise earlier verbal guidance on night shift controller staffing for facilities with both tower and radar responsibilities".. On 4 January 2007, Lexington ATC introduced a new requirement for all controllers stating that "a takeoff clearance for Runway 22 shall not be issued until the aircraft has been physically observed to have completed a crossing of Runway 26", noting that the requirement represented "an effort to add a layer of safety.… and avoid pilot confusion".. On 9 January 2007, the FAA issued guidance to Airport Operators which suggested that they should supply detailed information about runway and taxiway closures and airport construction (directly) to air carriers and fixed-base operators on the airport using both text and illustration format.. On 23 March 2007, the FAA announced that it was accelerating the certification process to facilitate the installation in air carrier flight decks of Class 2 EFBs and their use during ground operations in recognition that requirements for the ground use of these devices could be relaxed compared with the more stringent class C standards for the airborne use of the same EFBs.. On 16 April 2007, the FAA issued Safety Alert for Operators (SAFO) 07003 entitled 'Confirming the Takeoff Runway' to "emphasise the importance of implementing standard operating procedures and training for flight crews to ensure that an airplane is at the intended runway".. On 11 May 2007, the FAA issued a formal reminder on the requirement for runway lighting for all night takeoffs in Part 121 operations which also noted that pilots must check NOTAMs for runway lighting outages and taxiway and runway closures, that takeoffs are not permitted on closed runways and that "a pilot must think beyond pertinent NOTAMs because inoperative runway lights do not necessarily cause a runway to be closed by the airport authority". It also cautioned that a lit runway is not necessarily usable.. On 1 June 2007, the FAA acting as ANSP amended the required phraseology for issuing aircraft departure instructions to include "when issuing a clearance for takeoff, first state the runway number followed by the takeoff clearance (and) if the takeoff clearance is issued prior to the aircraft crossing all intervening runways, restate the runway to be crossed in conjunction with the takeoff clearance". (However, it was noted that this did not instruct controllers to wait until an aircraft has crossed such runways before issuing the takeoff clearance.. The Probable Cause of the accident was determined to have been "the flight crew members’ failure to use available cues and aids to identify the airplane’s location on the airport surface during taxi and their failure to cross-check and verify