A Serious Incident Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC). The elapsed time between the date of the event and the date on which it was reported to the Commission meant that it was no longer possible to retrieve relevant data from either the FDR or the CVR of either of the aircraft involved. However, relevant data was available from the QARs of both aircraft as were recordings of all relevant ATC communications with both aircraft although intercommunication between the TWR and GND controllers was conducted by word of mouth and not recorded. Aircraft relative positions during the reduced separation were retrieved from ‘SATCA’, the automated air traffic control system, which also enabled synchronisation of the QAR data from both aircraft. The 38 year-old Captain of the departing aircraft involved had a total of 7,430 flying hours experience, all except 188 hours of which were on type and the 30 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,650 flying hours experience all except 200 hours of which were on type. The 32 year-old Captain of the arriving aircraft involved had a total of 7,218 flying hours experience which included 6,842 hours on type and the 29 year-old First Officer had a total of 1,983 flying hours including 150 hours on type. The 40 year-old TWR controller involved had “11 years experience in air traffic control” and had become qualified to operate the TWR position at Malaga four months prior to the investigated event. It was noted that he had been on duty almost 7 hours and was in his second period in the TWR controller position following just over three hours in the GND/Clearance Delivery position. The 47 year-old GND controller on duty at the time also had 11 years air traffic control experience and had been qualified to operate the TWR position at Malaga for over six years. A single runway, 13, was in use for both arrivals and departures with excellent in-flight and on-ground visibility within the hours of darkness. The declared capacity applicable to single runway operations at the time was 16 arrivals and 16 departures per hour and movements were confirmed to have been comfortably within that limit. The departing aircraft was instructed by GND to taxi to “the holding point for runway 13” without specifying which one of the available runway access routes available once past position A3 (see the illustration below) to use. The crew decided to taxi to HN-3, which was noted as being the default option specified in the AIP. However it was noted that the applicable ATC procedures had required that the GND controller should only clear the aircraft to holding point A3 so as to leave the TWR controller to decide which runway access to use. It was also noted that the use of HN-3 meant that the time taken to reach the runway from a standing start at its holding point once cleared to do so would be significantly longer