performance calculator. FMS Limitations some FMS models allow insertion of weight and speed values that are inconsistent with, or outside the operational limits, of the aircraft concerned. In some models, speed entry omission will not result in the generation of a warning message the reference speed values suggested by some FMS can be easily changed. They do not enable routine detection of prior calculation errors. some FMS models allow insertion of weight and speed values that are inconsistent with, or outside the operational limits, of the aircraft concerned. In some models, speed entry omission will not result in the generation of a warning message. the reference speed values suggested by some FMS can be easily changed. They do not enable routine detection of prior calculation errors. Distraction time pressure and task interruptions are frequently cited in surveys as common factors contributing to errors. The observations showed that the crews' work load increases as the departure time approaches and that the normal routine of the captain was all the more disrupted. time pressure and task interruptions are frequently cited in surveys as common factors contributing to errors. The observations showed that the crews' work load increases as the departure time approaches and that the normal routine of the captain was all the more disrupted. Existing Mitigations checks on the "takeoff parameter calculation" function can be shown to be ineffective because they consist of verifying the input of the value but not the accuracy of the value itself in the same way, the check of data featuring on several media often proves to be ineffective. It is often limited to item by item comparisons. If the item is wrong, the check is correct but inadequate because it doesn't cover overall consistency pilots' knowledge of the order of magnitude of these parameter values, determined by empirical methods, is the most frequently cited strategy used to avoid significant errors. checks on the "takeoff parameter calculation" function can be shown to be ineffective because they consist of verifying the input of the value but not the accuracy of the value itself. in the same way, the check of data featuring on several media often proves to be ineffective. It is often limited to item by item comparisons. If the item is wrong, the check is correct but inadequate because it doesn't cover overall consistency. pilots' knowledge of the order of magnitude of these parameter values, determined by empirical methods, is the most frequently cited strategy used to avoid significant errors. Recovery Liabilities on Primary Flight Display (PFD) cockpit screens, the marker representing Vr is not displayed at low speed. Further, it can be difficult to distinguish it from the marker representing V1, especially when the two values are similar the possible decision to reject a takeoff based on an erroneous V1 no longer guarantees safety margins. on Primary Flight Display (PFD) cockpit screens, the marker representing Vr is not displayed at low speed. Further, it can be difficult to distinguish it from the marker representing