There are three main types of constraints with regard to the equipage and use of military aircraft: Institutional constraints. Market rules do not apply to military aircraft operations that are mandated to meet state security and defence requirements. Nevertheless, military aircraft require easy and cost-efficient access to training areas. The location and dimensions of such areas shall take due account of home base location and aircraft’s operational performance envelopes. Furthermore, aging fleets and constraints on defence budget spending create the financial challenge of fitting military aircraft with new equipment to satisfy global developments brought about by new ATM programmes.. Operational constraints. Defence and security threats set operational imperatives that military aircraft operations must be prepared for and fulfill effectively. These demands give rise to unique situations that need special handling and considerations, placing operational constraints that must be considered in terms of ATM measures. ATM delays or denied access to relevant airspace should not occur during these types of missions. This could sometimes have considerable impact on the service provided to civil aircraft (e.g. departing aircraft may need to maintain lower levels for a prolonged period of time or arriving aircraft may need to fly holding patterns due to air policing missions; a different set of airways may need to be used by civil aircraft during a large scale military drill; etc.).. Technical constraints. Equipage of military aircraft is predominantly focused on the mission and nature of the task that the aircraft is expected to fulfill. Consequently, the provision of ATM and communication, navigation and surveillance equipment on board military aircraft may have certain constraints due to limited space.. These constraints often lead to adaptation of ATM procedures so that military aircraft can be accommodated. As a general rule each state has a choice whether or not to equip its military aircraft with a particular technology and, even if the equipage is mandatory, there are long transitional periods. Examples of military aircraft exemptions are: RVSM exemption – even if a military (state) aircraft is not RVSM equipped it can still use RVSM airspace; controllers must provide 2000ft vertical separation for this aircraft;. ACAS exemption – ECAC Member States have commonly agreed on an ACAS policy and a mandatory ACAS II implementation schedule. This mandatory implementation does not apply to state aircraft.. 8.33 equipage exemption – there are various exemptions regarding military aircraft with different time frames (e.g. all state aircraft that go out of service by 2025 are exempted of 8.33 equipage).. CPDLC exemption – there are certain requirements if a State decides to fit its military aircraft with CPDLC equipment. There is a freedom of choice however whether or not CPDLC equipment will be installed or not..