There are a number of issues that can have a potential impact on safety when military aircraft are involved. The most notable of them are: Chicago Convention is not applicable to state aircraft. Therefore military personnel are sometimes not adequately familiar with the rules and procedures for civil air traffic control. Similarly, civil controllers are usually not familiar with military air traffic control procedures. This can easily lead to coordination and communication issues between civil and military controllers.. Coordination issues. For example, if another state’s military aircraft are operating close to the interstate boundary, the communication chain can easily become too long. Even during domestic military activities, it is possible that civil controllers are not able to easily obtain the information that they need due to low interoperability levels between civil and military units.. Different rules for civil and military air traffic control (e.g. different separation minima can be applicable between military aircraft and between military and civil aircraft). Operations over International waters – according to the Chicago Convention a state has sovereignty over the airspace over its territory, including the territorial waters. The airspace over international waters can be delegated to a state for the provision of air traffic services. This airspace however is not subject to sovereignty. Foreign military users need to follow different procedures depending on whether the activity is supposed to take place above sovereign territory or over international waters. In the former case negotiation with the state’s government is usually necessary while in the latter only a NOTAM is supposed to be published. Incorrect NOTAM publication (e.g. due to unfamiliarity of military personnel with civil air traffic control rules and procedures) can easily lead to unknown military traffic crossing airways at a level unknown to the responsible ATC unit.. Information about the position, level, speed and intentions of intruding aircraft is usually incomplete and/or unreliable.. Off topic discussions – in certain situations (e.g. a problem with a diplomatic clearance) it is possible that a controller (usually the planner but might be the executive as well) can get involved in lengthy conversations for clarifying administrative issues. This can distract the controllers from doing their main task – provision of adequate separation and may easily lead to reduced situational awareness..