should prioritise the harmonisation and standardisation of detect and avoid (DAA) capabilities, specifically the collision avoidance (CA) and remain well clear (RWC) functions,” the paper said. “We call upon ICAO to prioritise the harmonization and standardisation of DAA capabilities required by IFR RPAS, specifically the CA and remain well clear functions.” UTM without ATC safety nets — The CONOPS stresses what it calls “important differences” between air traffic conflict management for small UAS, even though conflict management resembles its ATM equivalent for RPAS. The document said, “The needs for strategic deconfliction and for collision avoidance (CA) are greater but, in principle, the same as for manned aviation. However, as the need for separation provision is less clear, the detect and avoid (DAA) performance will be of prime importance, especially if the UTM concept allows self-separation and CA to all hazards.”. RPAS integration with ATC safety nets — The CONOPS points out the need for ATC safety net–like capabilities without using the term. It said, “One of the key elements needed to enable RPAS integration is DAA. … The key function needed is the CA function, as a safety net that supports the pilot’s responsibility for the safety of the flight, in all airspace classes, and requires a capability against cooperative and non-cooperative targets.”. Combined ADS-B — Reports from 2019 ICAO meetings of stakeholders from the Asia-Pacific region said that combining real-time data from automatic dependent surveillance–broadcast (ADS-B) with other means of surveillance for aircraft separation (such as radar, flight plan track and ADS-Contract) has been successful. ADS-B data increasingly are shared among ICAO member states, often from airspace near their common flight information region (FIR) boundaries, through formal agreements. One report added, “All [ATC] safety net features (minimum safe altitude warning [MSAW], short term conflict alert [STCA], medium term conflict alert [MTCA] , route adherence monitoring [RAM] and danger area infringement/restricted area intrusion warning [DAIW/RAI] , etc.) should possess the same responsiveness as equivalent radar safety net features.”. Mode S — Various SKYbrary articles explain capabilities called Mode S (i.e., “select” mode) aircraft downlink aircraft parameters (DAPs). DAPS data greatly widen the ANSP’s options for implementing ATC safety nets, which function for any compliant aircraft, according to ICAO’s Mode S Downlink Aircraft Parameters Implementation and Operations Guidance Document, Edition 1.0, March 2019.. The options for this software application, which is installed in ATC secondary surveillance radar (SSR) systems, include a legacy process called Mode S elementary surveillance (Mode S ELS) or the upgraded Mode S enhanced surveillance (Mode S EHS). In Europe, for example, Mode S ELS is rapidly being superseded by Mode S EHS, EUROCONTROL said. Mode S ELS key benefits for ATC safety nets are “[improved] accuracy of multi-surveillance tracking and safety nets with more accurate target detection from Mode S radars and high resolution in altitude reporting; and [ability] to process more aircraft tracks than conventional Mode A/C radars.” Also relevant are unambiguous aircraft identification, better performance in congested airspace compared with mode A/C radars and mode