increase power and a possible propeller unfeathering asymmetry can end up in a loss of control. Pilots avoid being in "full idle" so as to keep some extra power in case of a go-around. He added that another difficulty on this aircraft was the low Vfe (maximum flap extended airspeed). This requires reducing airspeed a lot before being able to extend the flaps and there is a great temptation to select the "beta range" to be able to achieve this." The Report also explains the working principle on approach beta mode and reverse beta mode of the reversible-pitch constant speed three-blade propellers on the DHC-6. "On approach or during ground manoeuvring, as the reactivity of this mode of control is not satisfactory, there is a mode called “beta” in which the crew directly control the propeller pitch through the power levers. In this mode […] the propeller pitch is between + 17° and - 15°, as follows: A range from + 17° to + 11°, called “approach beta” and permitted in flight. In this range, the propellers are tractive.. A range from + 11° to - 15°, called “reverse beta” which is prohibited in flight. In this range, the propellers act as brakes, two different sub-ranges being identifiable: ground idle (9° to 0°) and traction reversal (0° to - 15°).. The manufacturer states that selection of reverse beta range in flight would immediately result in a significant loss in airspeed and lift, due to the high drag induced by the propeller settings. Thrust reversal would prevent the normal airstream flowing over the wings and tail and would likely lead the aircraft to stall." The aircraft involved in the accident was not equipped with a flight data recorder (FDR) or cockpit voice recorder (CVR), and the airport tower frequency was not recorded due to equipment maintenance. Mainly based on the evidence found in the wreckage, witness interviews, together with a salvaged recording from a tourist camera found on board led the investigation to the following conclusions: "The accident appears to result from the Captain’s use of the propellers in the reverse beta range, to improve control of his track on short final. A strong thrust asymmetry at the moment when coming out of the reverse beta range would have caused the loss of yaw control, then roll control of the aircraft. The investigation could not exclude three other hypotheses which can nevertheless be classified as quite unlikely: A loss of control during a go-around.. A loss of control due to a stall.. A loss of control due to sudden incapacitation of one of the pilots.. The Captain’s lack of recent experience on this airplane type, the undeniable difficulty of conducting an approach to runway 10 at Saint Barthelemy and the pressure of time during this flight were contributory factors. The low height at which the loss of control occurred was an aggravating factor." The Report's recommendations, beginning on page 52, also address institutional and organisational issues (see Further Reading).