This is an extract from the official Report on the accident published by the Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA): "When the aircraft began its short final before the La Tourmente pass, several people, including the AFIS [Aerodrome Flight Information Service] agent, saw it turn left with a steep bank angle then dive towards the ground. It crashed near a house and caught fire. All of the occupants perished, along with one person who was in the house." Further in the Aerodrome information section 1.10, the Report provides details on the specific topography of the area surrounding the airport. Due a mountainous ridge to the west of the airport the authorities had restricted the use of runway 28 and the majority of landings are performed on runway 10. When landing on runway 10, the aircraft passes at a very low height from an elevated ground, often lower than 10 metres from the terrain. “The aerodrome is classified as category D and authorized for restricted use […]. This regulation specifies that the aerodrome is reserved for aircraft with appropriate characteristics and performance and to pilots whose competence has been recognized by an accredited flight instructor. The list of pilots authorized to use the aerodrome privately is kept up to date by the Guadeloupe aeronautical district. The district recommends that pilots who have not landed there at least once in the year be checked by an accredited flight instructor. […] Aircraft landing on runway 10 fly over the La Tourmente pass at a very low height (less than ten metres). This area is subject to strong turbulence. […] Approaches and landings at Saint Barthelemy are particularly delicate and the margins are tight: in case of an incorrect track, only a go-around is possible. For a short flight, such a maneuver represents a considerable increase in flight time. [The flight] was already an hour behind schedule. The Captain probably wanted to avoid increasing this delay (this is perhaps the reason why he stayed at the lower range of the usual heights […]. Perhaps he even wanted to try a particularly short landing to avoid having to turn around at the end of the runway and thus make up a little of the lost time. Further on, the Report quotes the testimony of another company pilot regarding the difficulties associated with this approach: "one of the problems of the DHC-6 was the fact that, to follow steep approach paths like that of Saint Barthelemy, pilots quickly find themselves with the control column fully forward, even when the power is fully reduced. The problem is even more critical when the aircraft CG is to the aft. This is one of the reasons why some pilots use the "beta range" during the approach. In this case, it is possible to pass under the path with a low airspeed. If the power levers are mistakenly pulled beyond the "beta range", the propellers pass into "reverse" mode in a more or less symmetrical way. It is then necessary to