autopilot or auto-thrust. He added that the First Officer “had done this before and was confident and wanted to do it and was thankful for the opportunity”.. When subsequently established on visual final with AP and A/T disconnected, the approach was initially relatively well flown but below 500 feet, the speed had begun to become too low at the same time as the achieved vertical profile went below the (displayed) ILS GS. At around 400 feet, the Captain advised the First Officer that he was “slightly below” the ILS GS. When the required corrective action was not sufficient, the Captain again advised that they were “slightly below the glideslope” but although this was corrected, thrust was not sufficiently increased at the same time.. At around 120 feet agl, the Captain advised the First Officer to increase the thrust, which he did to 60% N1 by 60 feet but the First Officer then pushed his side stick forward and the aircraft pitched down from 2.8° to 1.1° in 2.5 seconds. As the pitch reduced below 1.8° at 35 feet agl, the First Officer pitched up slightly and at 20 feet - 1.6 seconds before touchdown - the Captain made sharp pitch-up command on his side stick (dual input) until touchdown at 1,100 fpm.. The Captain stated that he had at about this time “realised that the aircraft was sinking very close to the ground” and that a go around was necessary but although he had “taken control and started a go-around”, it was impossible to avoid a hard runway contact. He stated that “everything happened very fast and close to the ground (and that) he was unable to describe the exact sequence of events”.. During the initial runway contact, which occurred wings level but with the thrust recorded as still at 60%, a 2.24g loading was recorded increasing to a maximum of 3.32 g within ¼ second. Thrust was reduced to idle and after a further ¼ second, the aircraft began a bounce and thereafter, the recorded g loading began to reduce.. The Captain, having fully taken control began to increase the pitch and 1.5 seconds after the initial touchdown, he “commanded maximum thrust”.. After checking that the First Officer was "OK” and wanted to resume the role of PF, the Captain reported having passed control back to him on base leg and the First Officer then flew an ILS approach making use of all automatic systems including the auto-thrust to a normal landing.. The illustration below (not scaled) shows the point of the bounce as a vertical line and the change in forward airspeed, vertical speed, pitch and vertical acceleration before and afterwards. The Investigation noted that after this event, Germania had “acknowledged that its Airbus crews are generally not well trained on manual approaches due to the routine practice of using automatic systems”. As a result of the event, flying manually with manual thrust on visual approaches during line training flights was prohibited pending the formulation of “requirements, conditions