No information about the event was received by the Spanish Commission for the Investigation of Civil Aviation Accidents and Incidents (CIAIAC) until over six weeks after it had occurred and information on the seriousness of damage to the main landing gear was not received by the CIAIAC until almost four months after the event, at which point the event “was deemed to have been a Serious Incident” and a CIAIAC Investigation was opened. Prior to CIAIAC awareness of the event and immediately after the decision was made by Germania to ground the aircraft in Düsseldorf so that it could be inspected, the DFDR was removed and sent to Airbus for download in order to “determine the seriousness of the hard landing and specify the inspection actions to be taken to determine the scope of the damage”. These data were eventually made available to the Investigation and showed that the first attempt at landing had involved main gear runway contact at 3.32g at a 1,000 fpm rate of descent. Relevant data on the CVR had been overwritten. The two concerns of the Investigation once opened were to establish the facts of and context for the hard landing and to focus on the continued operation of an un-airworthy aircraft thereafter. It was found that the 38 year-old Training Captain was an A320 TRI who had accumulated a total of 6,830 flying hours which included 2,678 hours on type. The 30 year-old First Officer, who was PF for the flight and undergoing supervised line training had accumulated a total of 325 flying hours which included 96 hours on type. It was established that the flight had been cleared for an ILS approach and landing on the 3,406 metre-long runway 01 at Fuerteventura in benign weather conditions - surface wind from 040° at 6 knots, with CAVOK and a surface temperature of 26°C. The aircraft was observed by TWR to go around from the runway and when this was confirmed by the Captain and he was asked for the reason he was reported to have responded that it was because of “de-stabilisation on short final and on final in the landing flight path”. The subsequent visual right hand circuit at 1,500 feet was completed without further event and culminated in a normal landing nine minutes later. A combination of the DFDR data, the Captain’s statement and information provided by the Operator from their own internal investigation led to the following understanding of the sequence of events during the initial approach: It was the first time the Captain had flown with the trainee First Officer. He stated that “with almost 100 hours of flight experience”, he had “deemed him to be sufficiently proficient to be able to use fewer automatic flight systems”.. The Captain stated that during the flight he had discussed the fact that his training experience had led him to conclude that most pilots on line training “were reticent and hesitant to use manual power/thrust” and had suggested flying the approach without the