and restrictions for flying manually on visual approaches” during such flights. The Company also stated that “new procedures will be defined and proposed for the Flight Manual involving manual flight/manual thrust and work overload when not using automatic systems”. When the aircraft was eventually given a proper inspection by engineers, it was found that the damage / load limit exceedances caused by the hard landing were confined to the main landing gear and required, before further flight, replacement of the left main gear assembly and shock absorber and the right main gear shock absorber. All Airbus A320 family aircraft are fitted with a system which notifies the crew of a hard landing by generating a ‘LOAD 15’ Report. The crew stated that they did not see the ECAM message ‘G LOAD’ which would have been displayed if the excessive load had continued for more than 2 seconds and this corresponded to the fact that the peak load had in this case lasted less than 1 second. The Captain also stated that the ACARS printer did not generate a ‘LOAD 15’ message “which he would have expected” for any excessive loading but that to make sure, he had called the Company Maintenance Operations Centre (MOC) who then checked their computer. They confirmed that they had received one but “could not correctly interpret or decipher it” and could not respond usefully to the Captain’s request for help in finding it in the onboard avionics systems. No local maintenance support was available at Fuertaventura and, after a further call to the MOC in which they did not raise any objection to continued operation of the aircraft, the Captain decided, after conducting a careful external inspection during which he found nothing untoward, that he should fly the aircraft back to Dusseldorf. During this flight, the MOC personnel realised that the ‘Load 15’ Report they had received showed that a peak load well in excess of what was allowable had been registered and that the aircraft would have to be grounded on arrival, which it then was. The Cause of the Serious Incident was formally stated as “the performance of an unstabilised final approach, resulting from a decrease in airspeed and falling below the glide slope, as well as from the late decision to execute a go-around”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as “the fact that the manoeuvre was performed without (use being made of) automatic systems to control the airplane’s attitude/flight path or thrust”. It was also concluded that “the decision made after the event to continue to operate the airplane with passengers was risky and unsafe and resulted from an incorrect assessment of the seriousness of the hard landing”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that air transport operator Germania establish a training program for its Maintenance Operations Centre (MOC) personnel that ensures they provide correct support so that safe decisions are made in every aerodrome at all hours of operation. [REC 55/17]. The Final