Designees — Individuals and organizations in the aviation industry authorized to conduct examinations, perform tests and issue approvals and certificates on behalf of the FAA.. Organization designation authorization (ODA) — The method by which the FAA grants designee authority to organizations or companies.. As of March 2020, qualified organisations may apply to be holders the following seven types of FAA ODAs: Type certification (TC ODA) — These holders manage and make findings for type certification programs, including engineering approvals and manufacturing approvals within a certification program. They may issue airworthiness certificates, but they may not issue an original type certificate (TC) or an amended TC.. Supplemental type certification (STC ODA) — Holders may develop and issue supplemental type certificates (STC)s and related airworthiness certificates.. Production certification (PC ODA) — Holders may issue airworthiness certificates and approvals, determine conformity, perform evaluation leading to amendment of its production limitation record, and approve minor changes to its quality control manual.. Parts manufacturer approval (PMA ODA) — Holders may issue PMA supplements based on test and computation approvals, STCs, or licensing agreements.. Technical standard order authorization (TSOA ODA) — Holders may issue airworthiness approvals and determine conformity of articles, test articles and test set-ups in support of FAA managed TC or STC projects.. Major repair, alteration and airworthiness (MRA ODA) — Holders may approve data for major repairs and alterations, issue airworthiness certificates and approvals, and perform aging aircraft inspections and records reviews.. Air operator (AO ODA) — Current holders may conduct certification or portions of the certification process towards issuance of a rotorcraft external-load operator certificate. Future privileges under Order 8100.15 may add air operator, airman, air carrier, or air agency certification functions..