The following organisations also addressed how well ODAs functioned before the two crashes: Hearings by U.S. House of Representatives, 6 March 2020 — “Today, nearly one year [and five public hearings] after launching its investigation into the design, development and certification of the Boeing 737 MAX, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Majority Staff released its preliminary investigative findings,” the report said. Two ODA-relevant issues were: “Inherent conflicts of interest among authorized representatives, or ARs, who are Boeing employees authorized to perform certification work on behalf of the FAA; and Boeing’s influence over the FAA’s oversight that resulted in FAA management rejecting safety concerns raised by the agency’s own technical experts at the behest of Boeing. … In the coming weeks, [committee chairs] intend to introduce legislation that will address failures in the certification process uncovered by the committee’s investigation. …. “The committee’s investigation has also found that the FAA’s certification review of Boeing’s 737 MAX was grossly insufficient and that the FAA failed in its duty to identify key safety problems and to ensure that they were adequately addressed during the certification process.” U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Testimony 31 July 2014 — In remarks titled “Status of FAA’s Efforts to Improve Certification and Regulatory Consistency,” the GAO’s representative said that Professional Aviation Safety Specialists (PASS) — the labor union that represents some of FAA’s inspector workforce, among others — objected strongly to expanding delegation authority through ODAs for approving instructions for continued airworthiness (ICA).. The Joint Authorities Technical Review (JATR): Boeing 737 MAX Flight Control System — Observations, Findings and Recommendations had these conclusions — selected for high ODA relevance — from 28 stakeholder organisations: “As with any system that is designed and operated by humans, the certification process can never be perfect, and the two tragic crashes that resulted in the creation of the JATR reveal a critical need to review the process to determine whether improvement and modernization are warranted. … The recommendations do not address the desirability of the ODA concept in general, but they do recommend examining how to help ensure adequate communications in future certification processes about important characteristics of what is being certificated. “The BASOO delegated a high percentage of approvals and findings of compliance to the Boeing ODA for the B737 MAX program. With adequate FAA engagement and oversight, the extent of delegation does not in itself compromise safety. However, in the B737 MAX program, the FAA had inadequate awareness of the MCAS function which, coupled with limited involvement, resulted in an inability of the FAA to provide an independent assessment of the adequacy of the Boeing-proposed certification activities associated with MCAS. In addition, signs were reported of undue pressures on Boeing ODA engineering unit members (E-UMs) performing certification activities on the B737 MAX program, which further erodes the level of assurance in this system of delegation. “The FAA should emphasise that the ODA system should allow for direct contact between the E-UMs and the FAA technical experts without fear