During winter conditions, safe operation requires that any contamination be removed from critical aircraft surfaces and, in conditions of active precipitation, that anti-icing fluid be applied to the aircraft to prevent any recontamination in the interval between the Aircraft Ground De/Anti-Icing process and takeoff. Published Holdover Time (HOT) tables provide a time interval that an anti-icing fluid will normally remain effective. These tables are developed based on four primary criteria. These are: temperature. type of precipitation. rate of precipitation. type and dilution of the anti-icing fluid. The time interval available for safe operation, as provided in the published HOT tables, is based on the assumption that the temperature, and type and rate of precipitation remain constant. However, as fluid failure is based on the dilution caused by melting precipitation, it is the liquid water content of the precipitation that most accurately defines the time interval to fluid failure. There two primary factors that can diminish the reliability of the published HOT tables. These are: precipitation moisture content - although there is a correlation between temperature and the moisture content of frozen or freezing precipitation, there is a substantial LWE difference between wet snow and dry snow, either of which could fall over a wide range of surface temperature. rate of precipitation - precipitation rate, for HOT purposes, is determined on the basis of prevailing visibility. This can lead to an under or over-estimation of the actual rate of precipitation. These factors, in combination, can lead the user to false assumptions when using HOT tables. In conditions of wet snow and good visibility, the fluid could fail prior to the time indicated on the table whereas in conditions of dry snow and poor visibility, failure might not actually occur until well after the time indicated by the chart. These circumstances can be addressed by use of a Liquid Water Equivalent System..