fire and thermal damage out of range of the installed fire detection/warning system. Although the Investigation was unable to determine the exact location of the ignition source, it appeared to have been in the vicinity of the junction between the augmentor assemblies and exhaust muffler assembly. The Investigation was informed by mechanics familiar with the type of aircraft that exhaust fires fed by oil or fuel leaks into the engine exhaust duct did occur in the augmentors on this type of aircraft. Although in normal conditions, such fire would be exhausted overboard without damage to the aircraft, fire leaking out of the augmentor assembly at the junction with the muffler assembly would have produced the damage that was found on the accident aircraft. It was established that the accident aircraft had originally been manufactured in 1953 as a CV-340 and subsequently - at an undetermined date - converted to a CV-440. In the absence of any loadsheet or equivalent documentation, the Investigation estimated that the Take Off Weight prior the accident had been 21550 kg including cargo weighing 5460kg compared to the MTOW of 21773 kg. However, this weight required that both the Water Meth and Autofeather systems were operative whereas the evidence indicated that neither were and that this was routinely the case at the Operator. It was noted that the effect of the overweight take off would have been immediately apparent when either engine was shut down and would have made handling of the aircraft during the attempted turn back an extremely 'delicate' business if loss of control was to be avoided. In respect of the finding of the wrong engine having been feathered at the point of impact, it was concluded that this "likely occurred late in the accident sequence because the flight profile indicates that at least one engine was generating thrust until near the end of the flight". Three Safety Issues relating to the oversight of the Operation by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) were identified as a result of the Investigation as follows: Inadequate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) oversight of Part 125 operations. The investigation found that many of the operator’s operation and maintenance records were incomplete or nonexistent. The FAA requires annual inspections of each certificated operator, including a review of pilot records, pilot currency, and aircraft maintenance. During the last documented main base inspection, which occurred just over 2 months before the accident, the principal operations inspector (POI) should have discovered the recordkeeping discrepancies and instructed the operator to verify the captain’s currency; however, he did not. Likewise, the principal maintenance inspector and the principal avionics inspector should have discovered Fresh Air’s deficient aircraft maintenance recordkeeping during the last documented aircraft records inspection, which was conducted 7 days before the accident, or during any of the six inspections conducted in the year before the accident; however, they did not. Further, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) found evidence suggesting that FAA oversight of Part 125 operations was not seen as a priority.