Fresh Air’s POI told investigators that Part 125 was generally “a GA [general aviation] operation,” not an air carrier operation. While most of its flights were relatively close to San Juan, Fresh Air’s FAA-approved operations specifications (OpsSpecs) authorized it to operate commercially over the 48 contiguous states, meriting far more scrutiny than “a GA operation.” Multiple FAA inspectors failed to perform effective, basic oversight of Fresh Air, possibly due to a belief that Part 125 operations merit less scrutiny than Part 121 and Part 135 operations, and despite the fact that Fresh Air’s airplanes fly over populated areas within the national airspace system.. Inadequate evaluation of Fresh Air’s compliance with FAA-approved procedures. The investigation revealed the FAA’s failure to detect and address discrepancies between Fresh Air’s approved procedures and its operations, including cargo loading, pilot currency, company recordkeeping, and pilot evaluation. For example, Fresh Air pilots were operating the airplane with the autofeather and antidetonation injection systems off, yet using a higher gross takeoff weight than permitted with these systems off, contrary to the FAA-approved airplane flight manual. Because the POI had never directly observed Fresh Air’s operation, he was unaware that the airplanes were being operated contrary to the limitations outlined in the airplane flight manual.. Evaluation of Part 125 pilots using another operator’s OpsSpecs. The investigation revealed confusion among operators and FAA personnel regarding the applicable OpsSpecs that check airmen must use during certain checkrides. While it (is) unlikely (that it) affected the Captain’s capability to handle the accident, his competency check was not necessarily conducted using Fresh Air’s OpsSpecs or operations manual. While the investigation could not determine under which company’s OpsSpecs and operations manual the Captain was evaluated for the Convair, the Captain’s DC-4 evaluation was conducted using another company’s OpsSpecs and operations manual.. The Investigation determined that the Probable Cause of the accident was “the flight crew’s failure to maintain adequate airspeed after shutting down the right engine due to an in-flight fire in one of the right augmentors. The failure to maintain airspeed resulted in either an aerodynamic stall or a loss of directional control". Three Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the FAA should evaluate the effectiveness of your 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 125 oversight program and ensure that 14 CFR Part 125 operations are conducted at the same level of safety as that of Parts 121 and 135. [A-14-110]. that the FAA should require all principal operations inspectors of 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 125 certificate holders to conduct at least one en route inspection annually on each airplane type operated by the certificate holder. [A-14-111]. that the FAA should require check airmen who evaluate pilots under the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 125 lateral moves provision to use the operations specifications of the certificate holder employing the pilot who is receiving the proficiency check to ensure a proper evaluation of the pilot’s knowledge of those specifications. [A-14-112]. The Final