An Investigation was carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board (USA) (NTSB). The accident aircraft was not equipped with an Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) nor was it required to be, but radar recordings of the aircraft were available. The aircraft was being operated under FAA Part 125 regulations which are applicable to 'private carriage' of goods or passengers by 'large' aircraft, defined as having either a seating capacity of 20 or more or a maximum payload capacity of 6000lb (2722kg) or more. The 65 year old aircraft commander had about 9000 hours experience on the Convair 340/440 from 1977 onwards. He was the co-owner of the Operator, one of their two full time Captains and the Company's only "check airman". The 44 year old First Officer had 700 hours experience on the Convair 340/440 and 2716 hours in total. The available evidence suggested that the commander had been PF prior to the emergency arising but that a some undetermined point prior to the subsequent impact, the First Officer had taken this role. It was established that a VFR flight plan had been filed and the cargo loaded was 'bread products'. One minute and 42 seconds after the aircraft became airborne from runway 10, the First Officer declared an emergency to ATC following evidence of fire in the fright engine exhaust duct. The Captain then requested a left turn back towards the airport which was approved and clearance to land on the reciprocal runway direction was issued. After reaching a maximum altitude of 935 feet whilst in a 30° banked turn left some 2.5 minutes after becoming airborne, the aircraft continued to position for the return (see the annotated diagram below) but airspeed subsequently reduced and at the last radar return at an altitude of just 110 feet was estimated as just 88 knots, a speed some 9 knots below the published stall speed and close to Vmca which would have increased significantly as the crew made a turn 'into' the inoperative engine in the final seconds of the flight. The right wingtip struck trees at a bank angle of "about 39° right wing down and part broke off before the rest of the aircraft crashed into the nearby lagoon". Although the left engine throttle control was found in the fully open position and the right engine throttle control was found in the closed position, examination of the wreckage disclosed that at impact, the left propeller had been feathered whereas the right propeller pitch setting was indicative of that used for high power during take off. Although there was no sign of any mechanical failures which would have prevented normal engine function, it was clear that the effects of uncontained fire originating in the exhaust duct had led to the decision to shut down the right hand engine. Corresponding damage was found to the airframe at the right wing rear spar and the right engine nacelle aft of the power section with all of this