An Investigation was carried out by the UAE GCAA Air Accident Investigation Sector. The aircraft CVR and DFDR were removed and their data successfully downloaded. It was noted that the 39 year-old Captain, who was PF for the departure, had accumulated 8,130 total flying hours which included 1,325 hours on type. The 47 year-old First Officer had accumulated 13,000 total flying hours which included 2,309 hours on type. A relief crew consisting of a 50 year-old Captain with 12,300 hours including 392 hours on type and a 41 year-old First Officer with 8,927 hours including 1,420 hours on type were occupying the flight deck supernumerary crew seats. It was established that takeoff from the 4100 metre-long runway 13R had been conducted at a surface air temperature of 36° C in the late morning. As the aircraft accelerated towards Vr, the crew reported that they had felt vibration in the flight deck and that at rotation, which FDR data showed had commenced after 54 seconds of takeoff roll at 196 KIAS, a loud bang had been heard, a “L ENG FAILURE” EICAS message was displayed. The takeoff was completed with No 1 engine auto shutdown taking place soon after the aircraft became airborne. The AP was engaged at approximately 400 feet agl, the landing gear selected up at a recorded 539 feet agl and at 182 KIAS, the engine failure checklist was completed and a MAYDAY was declared. ATC then alerted the airport RFFS and requested an inspection of the runway during which tyre debris was discovered and the flight crew advised of this finding. The flight crew identified that the aircraft had a problem with the NLG but could not determine its condition. After just over half an hour airborne, during which preparations were made for an overweight (340 tonne) single engine landing on runway 13L at a calculated Vref of 201 KIAS with autobrake 4 set, this was completed uneventfully. It was noted that touchdown occurred approximately 1,280 metres past the runway threshold and the aircraft stopped after a further 2,590 metres with just 230 metres remaining. An RFFS inspection confirmed to the Captain that there were no signs of fire and all occupants were disembarked on the runway using passenger stairs at the R1 and R2 doors and bussed to the terminal building. The extent of internal damage to the failed No. 1 engine was considerable and included damage to the fan, compressor, and hot section. The prolonged landing roll created high brake temperatures and all MLG tyres deflated after their thermal fuses melted. Both nose gear tyres maintained their pressure but the left tyre was observed to have shed 90% of its outer tread (see the illustration below) which had disintegrated with several pieces then striking various parts of the aircraft structure and some being ingested into the No. 1 engine. It was also found that there was evidence that the No. 2 engine inboard fan cowling had been struck by tyre debris but had not been