event. On the wider question of FOD detection and removal at the airport, it was noted that there was no automated runway FOD detection system and detection relied on manual inspections. It was also noted that airport CCTV surveillance did not cover all aircraft parking areas and that FOD sweepers were not equipped with magnets and were therefore “not as effective as they should have been in removing potentially sharp metallic debris”. On the basis of the evidence gathered, the Investigation concluded that: There had been a significant possibility that the No.2 engine might have also ingested some pieces of tyre debris which could have resulted in a more hazardous situation than actually occurred and noted that Boeing had not performed a risk analysis of tyre debris ingestion causing the failure of either one or both engines.. There was considerable room for improvement in the effectiveness of FOD detection and removal on the manoeuvring areas of Abu Dhabi airport.. The number of tyre retreads was not a factor in tread separation and neither were the tyre manufacturing or retreading processes.. The Findings of the Investigation included the following: Abu Dhabi International Airport was not equipped with an automated FOD detection system to cover the runways, taxiways and manoeuvring areas.. Boeing had not performed a risk analysis of the possibility of nose wheel tire debris being ingested into one or both engines potentially leading to engine damage or failure.. The Cause of the event was formally documented as: “the shedding of the No.1 nose wheel tyre tread occurred as a result of the tyre contacting foreign object debris (and) the damaged tyre debris was ingested by the No.1 engine causing engine failure”. A total of six Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the United Arab Emirates should conduct regular inspections and audits on the airport ground lights fittings to ensure that they remain free of sharp edges or loose bolts that could have the potential to cause damage to aircraft tyres. [SR18/2018]. that the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the United Arab Emirates should implement mitigations to prevent damage to airport ground lights caused by towbarless tugs. [SR19/2018]. that the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the United Arab Emirates should carry out risk assessment to determine whether an automated FOD detection system should be installed or not. [SR20/2018]. that the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the United Arab Emirates should supervise a study on the need of a requirement for airports to be equipped with runway and taxiway sweepers fitted with magnets to attract ferrous foreign objects. [SR21/2018]. that Abu Dhabi International Airport should install an automatic foreign object detection system. [SR22/2018]. that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States should evaluate a requirement for The Boeing Company to carry out a risk assessment of nose landing gear tyre debris being ingested into both aircraft engines following tyre failure or tread shedding.