damaged by the impact and there was no evidence suggesting that any tyre debris had been ingested. The tyres fitted to the affected NLG were identified as having been manufactured by Bridgestone and it was noted that this manufacturer’s tyres were in exclusive use on all Etihad aircraft with the operator having no previous experience of NLG tread separation. It was noted that the Operator’s policy on re-treading of nose wheel tyres permitted up to three such re-treads and that the tyre involved in the event had been given its third re-tread. An extremely detailed examination of the failed NLG tyre and associated debris was carried out by its manufacturer. There was no evidence of any manufacturing defect or retreading issue which could have led to the tread separation. However, it was found that prior to the shedding of the tread, there was evidence that it had been damaged by prior contact with a sharp foreign object and that the tread detachment had subsequently occurred almost simultaneously in three areas as the aircraft rotated during takeoff. The Investigation was unable to determine when, where or how the initial damage had occurred but given the nature of it, it was concluded that either FOD or possibly the sharp edges of embedded guidance lighting on and in the vicinity of parking stands was the most likely cause. A potential connection between the sharp edges to embedded guidance lights and the use of towbarless tugs was found when it was established that at Abu Dhabi, towbarless tug disconnection was known to have resulted in lighting damage. It was, however, noted that the pushback prior to the investigated takeoff had been carried out using a conventional tug and towbar combination, but the initial tyre damage could have occurred during a towbarless tug operation when departing on a recent previous flight from an airport where one was used. The tyre manufacturer reported that the event under investigation was their first involving NLG tyre failure debris being ingested into and damaging a Boeing 777 engine. They also noted that their record of tyre tread detachment due to FOD between 2012 and 2016 had been 165 failures per million flights. In order to find out if any embedded manoeuvring area ground lighting might have been a source of tyre tread damage, the lights used which might have been encountered by the aircraft as it taxied from its gate into position on the runway were inspected, and it was found that some of those installed on parking gate centrelines had “sharp edges” which it was considered had potential to cause tyre damage. The reason for this was found to be impact damage caused by towbarless tugs when disengaging from aircraft after pushback and appropriate tug driver retraining was carried out. However, it was not possible to demonstrate that this had happened to the aircraft involved and it was also noted that no FOD item had been found during an inspection of the aircraft’s taxi-out route immediately after the