An Investigation was carried out by the Canadian TSB. It was established that the conflict occurred in Class ‘D’ airspace so that ATC separation was only provided between Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) aircraft. It was noted, however, that the ATC ‘Manual of Operations’ “requires that conflict resolution be provided when equipment and workload permits”. Such conflict resolution is stated as requiring “either visual separation or a minimum of 500 feet vertically or 1 mile laterally”. The occurrence controller was occupying the designated radar position for the airspace involved at the ATC Unit responsible for it whilst the shift supervisor was providing OJTI to a controller at the data position where the responsibilities include “identifying and resolving conflicts and coordinating with the radar controller”. At the time of the occurrence, it was found that the radar controller had been engaged in discussions with the trainee controller. The inbound aircraft later involved in the conflict was cleared for a visual approach to Runway by the occurrence controller when 20nm east of the destination airport and at 7000 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings. This visual clearance was unrestricted and permitted the aircraft to descend at flight crew discretion. The outbound aircraft involved asked the airport controller for Visual Flight Rules (VFR) departure whilst retaining its IFR FPL. It was noted that aircraft departing to the east IFR would be normally be issued with an ‘Island Eight’ SID but subject to suitable weather conditions, it was common for IFR flights to request a VFR departure “to expedite traffic during busy periods” and such a qualified clearance was issued in response to the request as “maintain VFR for 10 minutes after take-off. Climb not above 2,000 feet” and added a heading of 141° which was the same as part of the Island Eight SID. One minute before the departing aircraft was cleared for take off, the radar controller informed the airport controller that the inbound aircraft was 20 nm to the east and had been cleared for a visual approach to Runway 08. In turn, he was advised of the imminent VFR departure. Having cleared the departing aircraft for take off, the airport controller retained it on the TWR frequency until it had reached a position 3nm east of he airport and was climbing through 1900ft QNH in an attempt to ensure there was no conflict with local airport traffic. By this time, the inbound VFR aircraft was 10 nm east-southeast of the airport and descending through 3300 feet QNH. Having forgotten that he had previously issued a clearance for an unrestricted visual approach, the radar controller then instructed this aircraft to fly heading 270° to accommodate the departing traffic and advised that it would receive an approach clearance and frequency change shortly. On transfer to radar, the outbound aircraft made a call on the radar frequency advising that it was leveling at 2000 feet and in the turn to heading 141° but this was not heard by the controller who was “busy communicating with a