different controller regarding an unrelated control issue”. Shortly afterwards, the radar controller contacted the airport controller to seek information on the departing aircraft. Sixteen seconds later, communication was established with this aircraft and it restated its position. Without acknowledging that transmission, the radar controller immediately instructed the inbound aircraft to level off at 2500 feet upon which this aircraft replied that it had already descended through 2300 feet but would climb back to 2500 feet. The radar controller then informed the departing aircraft of the position of the inbound one 1.5 nm away at 2300 feet and six seconds later, the departing aircraft reported the inbound one in sight. Then, whilst another aircraft transmitted on the radar frequency, both aircraft received and responded to TCAS RAs and “seconds later” crossed flight paths with 300 feet vertical separation approximately 6 nm east southeast of Toronto City Airport. The diagram below shows the tracks of the two aircraft. The Investigation considered the possibility of fatigue having had an effect on the radar controller’s performance. It was note that his previous shift had ended the evening before at 2300. He was not scheduled to work on the day of the occurrence but had accepted an overtime shift offered shortly before it had begun at 0700 and was “not well-rested”. It was noted that during a four day period off duty prior to the late shift the previous day, he had been “attending to distressing personal matters that had been on-going since December 2009” which had led to “diminished sleep quality” with 6 hours per night becoming routine. It was noted that “chronic restriction of sleep from 8 hours to 6 hours per night results in daytime fatigue” and a concomitant reduction in performance of demanding tasks. The approach to the issue of fatigue by the employing ANSP, NAV CANADA, was noted as a “Fatigue Management Program” which had been integrated into its Safety Management System. This included “controller education, preventative and operational strategies, controller scheduling practices and the concept of shared responsibility”. The employer was found to rely on controllers to monitor their own fatigue and performance despite widespread awareness that the relationship between subjective levels of fatigue (i.e. how a controller feels) and estimates of future performance is complex and not completely understood. Reliance appeared to be placed on the use of a self-administered questionnaire designed to assess whether or not a person is fatigued. However, use of this questionnaire was not mandatory and no instructions on when it should be used and by whom it should be used had been provided. It was noted that “no other fatigue assessment is performed by either controllers or NAV CANADA”. It was concluded by the Investigation that “unacceptable levels of fatigue and performance decrements while on duty may not always be identified”. The formally stated Findings of the Investigation were: The (radar) controller did not initially recognise the potential conflict between the (departing and arriving aircraft) when validating the departing aircraft.. The (radar) controller