would be delayed as this system would not be available until the gear was down whereas according to the checklist for loss of all AC power, the auxiliary hydraulic system should be functional once the landing gear lever has been moved to the down position (although this action does not have any effect on the gear). She then called the senior cabin crew to the flight deck for a NITS briefing which included that a normal landing should be expected. The rest of the flight was without further event and a landing was made in benign weather conditions approximately 25 minutes after the smoke and fumes event had begun. The aircraft manufacturer stated that the number of reported static inverter failures affecting ATR 42/72 aircraft with or without consequential smoke in the flight deck they had recorded since 1989 was as follows: 68 events where the ELEC SMK warning was triggered (all causes). 21 events where the ELEC SMK warning was triggered and the cause was failure of a static inverter. 28 events where smoke was reported in the flight deck and the cause was failure of a static inverter. The source of the smoke and fumes in the case under investigation was found to have been the no. 2 static inverter. The failed inverter was a MOD LVL ‘B’ one whereas a 2016 SB had recommended upgrading these units to MOD LVL ‘E’ on the (usually non mandatory and therefore chargeable) basis of “product improvement”. This upgrade included the specific upgrade of the inverter output capacitor C311 to increase reliability. However, when the failed unit in this event was returned to the OEM it was found that the cause of inverter failure was malfunction of the C602 capacitor. The Investigation was told by the aircraft manufacturer that the event being investigated was the first case where a C600 series capacitor had failed without any evidence that C311 capacitor had also failed. It also advised that although the failure under investigation had been the first case of a C600 series capacitor failure leading to smoke in the flight deck, there had since been a number of other cases and that the OEM had issued an SB in May 2017 which had facilitated upgrading of static inverters from MOD LVL ‘E’ to MOD LVL ‘F’ by replacing five C600 series capacitors including C602 with ones which have had ‘burn in’ (the application of a known electrical load prior to system assembly from components). The aircraft manufacturer stated that although there had been an increase in reported smoke events associated with static inverters, the rate of these occurrences as of April 2017 was still within CS25 type certification requirements. Nevertheless, in June 2017, they had raised an Airworthiness Review Sheet (ARS) with EASA about the potentially unsafe condition. EASA had subsequently concurred with the steps being taken to address the matter and after it became clear that the measures being taken by the OEM and the aircraft manufacturer had been effective, the