ARS was closed. EASA advised the Investigation that this action was in accordance with their failure condition classification of a static inverter failure and the demonstrated probability of it occurring per flight hour so that mandating retrofit of later modification status inverters was not justified. The Investigation considered the implications of procedures which required both AC generators to be switched off when the electrical fault was in a single unit malfunction which in reality affected only one half the AC electrical system. Amongst the systems lost with no AC power available apart from both normal and alternate landing gear operation were: L & R Angle of Attack heating. L & R Pitot Probe heating. L & R TAT Probe heating. L & R Windshield Heating. Anti Icing of the ailerons, elevators and rudder balance horns. L & R propeller anti icing. All landing lights and all strobe lights. Flight deck overhead panel and instrument lighting. Taxi and Takeoff lights. Although in the case of a daylight flight clear of icing conditions none of the unavailable systems had added much to the level of operational risk caused by the equipment failure whereas at night and/or in icing conditions, loss of all AC power could have resulted in significant risk in its own right. Some of the published work on the expected frequency of icing conditions in the area and altitude band where the event under investigation took place and the relevance of these conditions to turboprop aircraft was considered by the Investigation and it was noted that there was a relatively high probability of encountering icing conditions. It was found that although the ELEC SMK checklist made reference to the option of “restoring unaffected equipment” it was found that no guidance was provided on how to go about this. The formally documented Conclusions of the Investigation included but were not limited to the following: There is no guidance available to flight crew on the reinstating of electrical power in order to regain the use of lost electrical equipment.. The OEM has instigated a production change involving a change of capacitor supplier and the ‘burn-in’ of capacitors used in the assembly of the subject static inverters.. The Aircraft Manufacturer has commenced a program for replacement of the subject static inverters on the world fleet of ATR 42/72 aircraft. Currently, this program is not mandatory.. EASA has reviewed the occurrence rate of static inverter failure including emission of smoke, its consequences, including additional flight crew workload, and stated that the number of events is commensurate with the safety objective.. The Probable Cause of the Serious Incident was documented as “the failure of the C602 (1-001-0306-0136) capacitor within the number two static inverter”. One Safety Recommendation was made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Avions de Transport Régional should consider consulting with operators of the ATR 42/72, as to the possibility of providing specific guidance to flight crew on re-instating electrical supply to unaffected equipment for essential services following use of