An Investigation was carried out by the Irish AAIU. The 39 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 6,850 flying hours on type and a total of 4,230 hours in command but her total flying hours on all types and her total time in command of the ATR72 were not recorded. The 33 year-old First Officer was recorded as having a total of 1,892 flying hours on type but their time on all types was not recorded. It was established that just prior to beginning descent to destination, a Master Caution appeared highlighting faults affecting AC Bus 2 and Static Inverter 2 followed almost immediately by a Master Warning accompanied by an ‘ELEC SMK’ annunciation. The flight crew quickly became aware of both the smell of electrical smoke and sight of it and both pilots donned their oxygen masks. Both pilots subsequently stated that they had seen smoke coming from the electrical panel behind their colleague’s seat. A MAYDAY was declared and the ‘SMOKE’ checklist memory actions were completed. The QRH was then used to confirm the correct completion of these actions and continue with the remaining checklist items. The first of these items invited them to determine the source of the smoke and since they were aware of this, led them to the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ checklist. This required that both AC generators be turned off and the separate checklist for this situation be also run as well as advising landing as soon as possible. Given the location of the aircraft, the only option in respect of landing was to continue to the planned destination. As the ‘ELECTRICAL SMOKE’ checklist was being run, the corresponding ‘ELEC SMK’ annunciation ceased as did the smell of smoke and the sight of it and the Captain determined that both pilots could safely remove their oxygen masks. As they did so, the cabin attendant stationed at the front of the cabin called on the interphone and informed them that she had briefly been aware of “a funny smell” in the forward cabin just aft of the flight deck access door. The Captain explained the situation they had just experienced in the flight deck and that the intention was to continue and complete the flight as planned. Once the loss of AC generators checklist had been completed, the Captain passed control of the aircraft to the First Officer and, having realised that one of the consequences of an absence of AC power was the disabling of both main hydraulic pumps and the consequent gravity-assisted extension of the landing gear, she called Cork ATC to advise them that an extended final approach would be required on that account. She noted with no AC power, much of the aircraft Ice and Rain Protection would no longer be available although this was not a problem in the prevailing flight conditions. She also reported having (incorrectly) concluded that since the flaps would now need to be extended using the auxiliary hydraulic system, their deployment