Optimum use of automation requires strict adherence to the aircraft design and operating philosophies and to the following general rules of operation. On highly automated and integrated aircraft, several levels of automation are available to perform a given task: The correct level of automation depends on: The correct level of automation often is the one the pilot feels comfortable with for the task or prevailing conditions, depending on his or her knowledge and experience of the aircraft and systems. Reversion to hand flying and manual thrust control actually may be the correct level of automation, depending on the prevailing conditions. FMS or non-FMS guidance can be used in succession or in combination (e.g., FMS lateral guidance together with non-FMS vertical guidance) as best suited for the flight phase and prevailing conditions. The pilot flying (PF) always retains the authority and capability to select the most appropriate level of automation and guidance for the task, including: The flight guidance control panel and the FMS CDU are the prime interfaces for the flight crew to communicate with the aircraft systems (i.e., to set targets and arm or engage modes). The PFD and ND are the prime interfaces for the aircraft to communicate with the flight crew to confirm that the aircraft systems have correctly accepted the mode selections and target entries: Any action on the flight guidance control panel or on the FMS keyboard and line-select keys should be confirmed by cross-checking the corresponding annunciation or data on the PFD or ND and on the FMS CDU. At all times, the PF and pilot not flying (PNF) should be aware of the status of the guidance modes being armed or engaged and of any mode changeover throughout mode transitions and reversions. The use and operation of the AFS must be monitored and supervised at all times by: If doubt exists regarding the aircraft flight path or speed control, no attempt at reprogramming the automated systems should be made. A lower level of automation or hand flying with reference to navaid raw data should be used until time and conditions permit reprogramming the AP/FD or FMS. If the aircraft does not follow the intended flight path, check the AP and A/THR engagement status. If engaged, disconnect the AP and/or A/THR using the associated disconnect push-button to revert to hand flying with FD guidance or with raw data and to manual thrust control. If hand flying, the FD commands should be followed; otherwise, the FD bars should be cleared from the display. If AP or A/THR operation needs to be overridden following a runaway or hard-over, immediately disconnect the affected system by pressing the associated disconnect push-button. Except in emergency situations, AP and A/THR must not be overridden manually.