rules of use (rules derived from the lessons-learned from the operational and human factors analysis of operational events): Before any action on the flight guidance control panel, check that the knob or push-button is the correct one for the desired function. After each action on the flight guidance control panel, verify the result of this action on: the FMA (i.e., for arming or engagement of modes), PFD/ND target symbols (i.e., for selected targets), and, by reference to the aircraft flight path and airspeed. the FMA (i.e., for arming or engagement of modes),. PFD/ND target symbols (i.e., for selected targets), and,. by reference to the aircraft flight path and airspeed. Announce all changes in accordance with standard calls defined in standard operating procedures (Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)). When changing the selected altitude, cross-check the selected altitude indication on the PFD. During descent, ensure that the selected altitude is not below the Minimum En-route Altitude or Minimum Sector Altitude and be aware of the applicable minimum vectoring altitude During final approach, set the go-around altitude; the minimum descent altitude/height (Minimum Descent Altitude/Height) or decision altitude/height (Decision Altitude/Height) should not be set on the flight guidance control panel Prepare the FMS for arrival before starting the descent. An alternative arrival routing, change in runway or a circling approach can be prepared on the secondary flight plan (“SEC F-PLN” or “RTE 2,” depending on the FMS terminology) In case of a routing change (e.g., “DIR TO”), cross-check the new “TO” waypoint before activating “DIR TO” to make sure that the intended “TO” waypoint is not already behind the aircraft. Caution is essential during descent in mountainous areas; ensure that the new track and assigned altitude are not below the sector safe altitude If you are receiving radar vectors, be aware of the sector minimum vectoring altitude If necessary, the selected heading mode can be used with reference to raw navaid data while verifying the new route or requesting confirmation from ATC Before arming the “NAV” mode, ensure that the correct active “TO” waypoint is displayed on the FMS CDU and ND. If the displayed “TO” waypoint on the ND is not correct, the desired “TO” waypoint can be restored by either clearing an inappropriate intermediate waypoint, or performing a “DIR TO” the desired “TO” waypoint. Monitor the correct interception of the FMS lateral flight plan In case of a late routing or runway change, a reversion to non-FMS modes and raw data may be done. Reprogramming the FMS during a critical flight phase (e.g., in the terminal area, on final approach or go-around) is not recommended, except to activate the secondary flight plan, if prepared, or for selecting a new approach Priority tasks are, in order: Horizontal and vertical flight path control Altitude and traffic awareness ATC communications. Horizontal and vertical flight path control. Altitude and traffic awareness. ATC communications. If cleared to exit a holding pattern on a radar vector, the holding exit prompt should be pressed (or the holding pattern cleared) to