Correct use of automated systems reduces workload and significantly increases the time and resources available to the flight crew for responding to: An unanticipated change, such as an ATC instruction or weather conditions. An abnormal or emergency condition.. During line operations, the AP and A/THR should be engaged, especially in marginal weather conditions or when operating into an unfamiliar airport. When operating in good weather and at low-traffic airports, the flight crew can elect to fly the departure or arrival manually to maintain manual flying skills. Using AP and A/THR enables the flight crew to pay more attention to ATC communications and to other aircraft, particularly in congested terminal areas and at high-traffic airports. Conditions permitting, the AP and A/THR should be used to fly unplanned maneuvers, such as a missed approach, to reduce workload. FMS lateral navigation should be used to reduce workload and the risk of controlled flight into terrain (Controlled Flight Into Terrain (CFIT)) during go-around only if: The applicable missed-approach procedure is in the FMS flight plan. FMS navigation accuracy has been confirmed, unless the aircraft has global positioning system (Global Positioning System (GPS)) equipment and the GPS availability and performance allow its use for primary lateral navigation. The safe and efficient use and management of AP, A/THR and FMS are based on the following three-step technique: Anticipate: Understand system operation and the results of any action Be aware of modes being engaged or armed; seek concurrence of the other crewmember, if necessary Understand mode transitions or reversions. Understand system operation and the results of any action. Be aware of modes being engaged or armed; seek concurrence of the other crewmember, if necessary. Understand mode transitions or reversions. Execute: Perform actions on flight guidance control panel or on FMS CDU. Perform actions on flight guidance control panel or on FMS CDU. Confirm: Crosscheck and announce the effective arming or engagement of modes and the correctness of active guidance targets on the FMA, PFD and ND scales and the FMS CDU.. Crosscheck and announce the effective arming or engagement of modes and the correctness of active guidance targets on the FMA, PFD and ND scales and the FMS CDU.. The optimum use of automation enables the flight crew to stay ahead of the aircraft and be prepared for possible contingencies. Before engaging the AP, make sure that: Modes engaged for FD guidance (check FMA annunciations) are correct for the intended flight phase and task; if not, select the appropriate mode(s); and,. FD command bars do not show large orders. If large commands are given, keep hand flying to center the FD bars before engaging the AP.. Engaging the AP while large commands are required to achieve the intended flight path may result in the AP overshooting the intended vertical or lateral target, and may surprise the pilot due to the resulting large pitch and roll changes and thrust variations. When interfacing with automation for selecting and arming modes and for guidance target entries, adhere to the following