the nearest airfield. Larger jet and heavy turboprop transport aircraft often use engine bleed air for wing and empenage anti icing in addition to air conditioning and pressurisation. This air must be maintained at high temperature and pressure during distribution so any leak can cause a structural fire. If the leak is in an engine pylon close to the point of bleed from the engine, it may not be possible to stop the leak by isolating the applicable engine air system and engine shutdown may be necessary. For all other cases, the temperature of the leaking air will determine whether sensor activation triggers a warning or a caution and the corresponding flight crew response drill, which will be designed to isolate the leak. As always, the greater the knowledge and understanding that crew members have of their aircraft systems, the better their ability to make well informed decisions. See separate article on Bleed Air Leaks Re-activation of a heat-sensing fire detection system following the use of an extinguishing system indicates that the risk of fire remains high. In contrast, re-activation of smoke detection systems following the use of fire extinguishers may be caused by interference by the extinguishant with the optical smoke-sensing system. Some extinguisher procedures allow for the discharge of two bottles, the second being discharged later in the flight. Crews should recognise that with optical detection systems, the agent used in this second discharge can obscure the detector system and has the potential to triggering a further fire warning. Whether or not this is likely in holds where both heat and smoke sensing are usually provided is often a matter of design such as the relative disposition of extinguishant outlets and optical smoke sensors. Fumes. Unlike heat and smoke, detection of fumes is not automated and there can be considerable variation in both their detection and their description by air and cabin crew. With a locked flight deck door, accurate communication from cabin crew to flight crew about detected fumes in the passenger cabin has become particularly important. Communication can be extremely difficult, particularly if crew members are using oxygen masks. Using the most appropriate communication method may need careful thought. With any potential combustion within the aircraft, fumes may be present within the air conditioning system. Crews should give serious consideration to the potential consequences of crew incapacitation by such fumes and it may be prudent for one or both pilots to use an oxygen mask set to 100% Oxygen. The origin of fumes may be local to the source, as in the case of faulty electrical equipment, the overheated contents of a galley oven, or a failed cabin florescent light fitting; or it may be spread away from the source through the air conditioning system. In the latter case, it can be extremely difficult to be sure of the cause, or whether the fumes could be in any way related to a fire hazard. When assessing ‘fumes’, aircrew must also decide if they may be hazardous