In early 2010, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture entered into an agreement with researchers to evaluate the effectiveness of avian radars at airports. While it had been previously established that radar can detect wild birds, there was little published information concerning the accuracy and detection capabilities of avian radar systems in regard to range, altitude, target size and effects of weather. In their study, researchers from the government and academia evaluated the ability of a commercially available avian radar system to detect and track free-flying raptors and water birds. The researchers, who focused initially on large species of birds, used a system in which field observers would notify a radar operator when a bird entered the study area, and the operator would confirm whether the bird was being tracked by the radar. According to a summary of the results, most of the large single birds seen by field observers within 2 nm (4 km) of the radar were tracked by the radar about 30 percent of the time. Flocks of large birds, including those that were located several nautical miles away, were tracked by the radar 40 to 80 percent of the time. The results suggest that radar can be a useful tool for monitoring bird flock activity at airports, but less so for monitoring large single birds. The radar system tested was capable of detecting and tracking large flocking birds to a distance of 4 nm (7 km), and likely to greater distances, the study said. But it also questioned whether real-time tracking and warnings of single targets are currently a feasible option. (Gerringer, et al) A separate study evaluated the effectiveness of three X-band marine radar sensors for tracking birds and flocks of birds observed on the airfield at Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD), one of the world’s busiest aerodromes. In the discussion section of their paper, the researchers said that, overall, the radar tracking rates for birds or flocks were lower than expected, based on the findings of other studies. The researchers attributed their results, at least in part, to size, complexity and activity/vehicle movement levels at ORD, compared with airports used in other studies. “Although the radar sensors we used were capable of tracking birds at relatively long distances (e.g., 4 km to 6 km [2 to 3 nm] from the radar sensor), these systems performed better when the bird or flock was close (e.g., less than 2 km [1 nm]) to the radars." (Phillips, et al) FAA Advisory Circular (AC) 150/5220-25, Airport Avian Radar Systems, provides guidance on the use of avian radar to supplement an airport’s wildlife hazard management plan. That guidance indicates that systems must be able to detect a medium size bird (about the size of a crow) with 90 percent confidence up to 1 nm (2 km) from the sensor and 75 percent confidence from 1 to 3 nm (6 km) away. Systems also must be capable of tracking at least 1,000 targets simultaneously