Early use of radar was to address specific high risk hazards at a few military bases and was effective only for detection of proximate aggregations of large birds. As at one early installation, RAF Kinloss in Scotland UK, the equipment was mobile and mainly used to monitor the approach to the runway in use. Since these pioneering applications, there have been big improvements in real-time detection capability. Real-time bird radar is still mainly used in military applications but is beginning to be deployed at civil airports where particular bird hazards have been identified. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport was the first civil airport to deploy real time bird tracking radar (in January 2010). The system detects individual birds from small sparrows to large Canada Geese up to approximately two miles away. The bird activity is then displayed in real time on a Google Earth map. Airport officials can take these maps with them on a laptop. The latest systems available use radar installations with a dual vertical and horizontal scanning configuration so that simultaneous 3D coverage is provided. Either or both of 360 degree area surveillance around an airport or the use of multiple sensors to scan individual runways and their approach and departure corridors is possible. Ranges of up to 10 miles are typically available. The detection and tracking software is specific to the bird detection task and may be configured remotely via LAN, WAN, internet or direct wireless links and the captured data is similarly accessible. Systems of this type typically have user-selectable visual, audible and messaging risk alert options and it is possible to integrate the radar display with air traffic control (ATC) radar and weather radar if required. It is possible to automatically link response (deterrence) to detection and provision can be made for the storage of the real time data in a suitable database so that it can also be used historically in any review of bird activity or the success of the response to it. Most systems are available as either fixed or mobile installations. The view from overhead of typical sector coverage at a multi-runway airport might look like the illustration below