Approach-and-landing accidents — that is, accidents that occur during initial approach, intermediate approach, final approach and landing — represent 55 percent of hull losses and 50 percent of fatalities. The investigation of this accident determined that at least the following factors were involved: Pilot-controller communications. The misunderstanding between the ACC controller and the flight crew resulted in the flight continuing in the wrong direction. The crew never provided the airplane’s position with reference to a VOR radial when stating their DME distance from the VOR, and the controller never solicited this information. Therefore, the airplane’s position was never determined.. Situational awareness. The crew did not correctly manage navigation and the flight path. The flight continued toward the north, opposite the direction to Beacon XXX. Furthermore, the crew did not adequately prepare for an aborted approach after the flap issue was solved. The crew’s situational awareness started to deteriorate after the flap problem. This initially triggered a decision to ask for a clearance back to the departure airport. Shortly afterward, at a distance of around 12 nm from the destination VOR, the problem was solved. The crew asked to start the approach again and requested a late clearance for a nonprecision approach to the runway, a scenario that the crew had not anticipated. The clearance was sufficiently late in the approach that it was difficult for the crew to make the rigorous and careful preparations required by a VOR-DME approach with high terrain nearby. The captain did not understand that he had received a valid clearance for another approach. Rather, he understood that he had to continue his present approach because he was worrying about potential CFIT and because of several unclear radio communications with the controller. After four requests for a left turn, the crew initiated a climbing right turn 18,000 ft, above the MOCA. Interrupted by the request from the tower controller to contact the ACC, the crew did not check that the airplane was continuing the turn along the displayed reference line back toward the original heading. When the airplane passed the VOR while continuing to fly north of the airport, Beacon XXX and other waypoints disappeared from the navigation display. The pilots turned their attention to enter the Beacon XXX fix and the other waypoints in the FMS. As the results did not match their mental picture of the situation, they did not accept the information.. The crew’s situational awareness started to deteriorate after the flap problem. This initially triggered a decision to ask for a clearance back to the departure airport. Shortly afterward, at a distance of around 12 nm from the destination VOR, the problem was solved. The crew asked to start the approach again and requested a late clearance for a nonprecision approach to the runway, a scenario that the crew had not anticipated. The clearance was sufficiently late in the approach that it was difficult for the crew to make the rigorous and careful preparations required by a VOR-DME approach with high terrain