An Investigation was carried out by the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) with successful download of relevant Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data. It was established that the aircraft commander had been PF for the take off and that he had called a rejected take off at a speed which was 17 knots above the applicable V1 speed and 4 knots above the applicable VR speed when he perceived difficulty in moving the control column to rotate. The maximum speed reached had been 164 KCAS after which the aircraft had decelerated to a stop 900 metres from the end of the 3900 metre runway. The TODR for the incident take off was subsequently calculated to have been 2555 metres. It was found that the PF had always previously taken off with the autothrottle (A/T) armed as per an acion detailed as part of the pre departure flight deck preparation checks and when it did not indicate as active following TOGA selection, he had intended to select it manually. He had believed that he had done so even though, at that point, the FD pitch command bars had reverted to centred instead of the 8° pitch up previously displayed, which occurs if the AP is engaged on the ground. It was noted that the Aircraft Flight Manual (AFM) does not permit AP engagement below 200 feet agl when airborne and also that a pressure of approximately 18-22 kg applied to the control column results in disconnection of the AP. It was noted that the switches to select both the AP and A/T are on the MCP, although not adjacent. In addition to the A/T selection switch, L and R A/T ARM switches, of a different appearance to the AP and A/T switches, are also available on the MCP and are adjacent to the AP selection switch. Air France instructions to pilots were stated by the Investigation to include arming the A/T during pre flight preparations undertaken by the aircraft Captain although this action was not included in any checklist. During take off, the A/T is engaged when the TOGA switches are pressed provided that such action occurs prior to 80 KIAS and thrust is then automatically set to that indicated on the FMS. It was additionally noted that the “After Landing Guide” in use at Air France at the time included disarming of the A/T but that equivalent Boeing procedures did not include such an action. The Investigation noted Boeing awareness of previous cases of inadvertent AP engagement during take off, most of which had resulted in a rejected take off. An All Operator Message had been issued to all Boeing 777 operators on the subject in 2009 noting that unintentional manual engagement of the autopilot before takeoff was possible and would significantly increase the effort required on the control column during rotation. The Investigation Concluded that the incident was due to: the Captain’s failure to arm the auto-throttle during cockpit preparation. the Captain’s decision to