An Investigation was carried out by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Department of the Kenyan Government Department of Transport. Relevant data were downloaded from the aircraft FDR and CVR and was also available from the airport surface movement radar at a resolution greater than that available to the runway controller in real time. It was noted that the 54 year-old Captain, who was PF for the flight, had a total of 14,531 flying hours experience which included 6,821 hours on type in command. He had flown about 77 hours in the accident aircraft in the 60 days prior to the accident and had previous experience on DHC8, F27 and LET 410 aircraft. The First Officer had a total of 823 hours which included 513 hours on type. It was established that the aircraft involved had been positioned from its home base at nearby Nairobi Wilson Airport the previous day with the accident flight Captain and different First Officer. On arrival, it was loaded with a cargo of qat in preparation for the accident flight. The accident crew consisted of the Capt and FO in addition to a maintenance engineer and loadmaster. According to air traffic control, the flight plan was filed for duration of 2.5 hours at an altitude of 19,000 feet along with 5 hours of fuel aboard. FDR data showed that 20 minutes after engine start, the flight crew made initial contact with TWR and a takeoff clearance for runway 06 was issued a couple of minutes later. Takeoff power was set with the left engine stabilising at 78% torque and 100% propeller rpm and the right engine stabilising at 80% torque and 99% propeller rpm. The Captain was then recorded saying “power is set” followed by “the left autofeather is off” and the First Officer calls “780”, a possible reference to both engine ITTs. About 16 seconds after takeoff power had been set, the first of a series of triple chime level 3 alerts occurred whilst at about the same time, FDR data recorded a drop in left engine fuel flow and ITT - although the engine torque recorded for both engines remained at 80%. These triple chime alerts then continued at one second intervals for the remainder of the flight but there was no recorded verbal response to them from either pilot. About 24 seconds after takeoff power had been set with the ground speed around 30 knots, the left engine torque rose quickly to the maximum figure which can be recorded - 120% - whilst at the same time, the right engine torque rose to around 100%. Simultaneously, the left engine propeller rpm fell from the 100% initially achieved by both propellers to 57% whilst other engine shaft speeds (Nh, Nl) remained approximately at their originally achieved values. At this time, the First Officer called out the newly increased left engine torque as 122% and then 126%. A few seconds later, half a minute after takeoff power had been set, the First Officer called “okay speed