alive sixty” and the Captain followed this with “do we reduce or” and the First Officer responded with “we can just cut”. When the Captain said “do we abort or continue?”, the First Officer responded by calling out the engine torques - 112% (left) and 94% (right). Further torque callouts were made in response to the Captain asking “how is it now?” of 102% and 94% and then a few seconds later 116%, 94%. After one minute from the setting of takeoff power, the Captain was evidently aware that the aircraft was not accelerating at the usual rate and was recorded saying “is it really going?” and received the response (re the engine torques) of “101, 95” which he acknowledged and almost at once again queried “is it going really, is the aircraft really moving”. Again the First Officer with the (unchanged) engine torque readings of “101, 95”. This time, the Captain responded with “it is not giving power” and the First Officer announced “okay speed has now reached about a hundred” following this with the torques “111, 95”. Approximately 1 minute and 18 seconds after takeoff power had been set, the First Officer called “a hundred now” and after a further 8 seconds “V1, Rotate” and the aircraft became airborne, according to ATC radar “near to the end of the (4,417 metre-long) runway”. Over a period of about three seconds, the First Officer was then recorded as calling “positive rate of climb” and the Captain responding with “gear up”. A few seconds later, the Captain said “it doesn’t have power [pause] it’s on one side” with the First Officer responding with “we can also turn back”. The first of seven GPWS Mode 3 “DON’T SINK” Alerts was then annunciated and the remainder followed as the flight struggled to climb. After the third of these, the First Officer said “we can turn back” but the Captain then immediately responded with “let’s just go” and the First Officer replied “okay”. After the fifth one, the Captain said “we can turn back?” and after the sixth Nairobi TWR called to transfer the flight to Radar but after receiving no response repeated the instruction and the Capt said “tell him [pause] tell him we have no power” and in the last recorded CVR speech, the First Officer began the call but the transmission suddenly ended “along with simultaneous sounds of distress”. According to FDR data, at no time did the airspeed exceed 102 KCAS and after an initial post takeoff climb of 120 feet above runway level, altitude then decreased by 60 feet before increasing by 50 feet. Also, immediately after it became airborne, the aircraft had begun a slow but continuous drift to the left away from the extended runway centreline. The accident site was just over 1 nm north northeast of the departure end of runway 06 coincident with an unoccupied single storey commercial building adjacent to a major road. The aircraft was found to have collided with the building at