an angle and when inverted and a fierce fuel-fed fire had immediately broken out which destroyed both the building and the aircraft. The flight time from becoming airborne until the end of FDR data was 51 seconds. No evidence was found that physiological factors or incapacitation had affected the performance of either pilot. The occurrence of a continuous series of ‘Triple Chime’ Warnings, which signal the highest level 3 crew alert and began well before V1 was reached, was completely ignored by the crew when an immediate rejected takeoff was mandatory. This audio alert would have been accompanied by flashing red Master Warning Lights centrally positioned in front of each pilot and another flashing red light on the Central Annunciator Panel (CAP). Since the origin of these warnings was unlikely to have been either Takeoff Configuration or Landing Gear up when Flaps at the landing setting, which are the only two sources of a level 3 Alert that can be cancelled, it is of note that this repeated warning was not cancelled. The Investigation was unable to determine whether either pilot had ever demonstrated their ability to fly the aircraft with one engine inoperative during training or otherwise. Available training records were annotated with ‘In Sim Only’ against engine failure training and “no evidence was found to show that the crew actually underwent any simulator training”. There was evidence that whatever was wrong with the left engine - evidenced from both CVR and FDR data - it was not the first time it had indicated a malfunction of some sort. An identical level 3 alert was recorded for the short positioning flight made the previous day but the First Officer on that flight denied any knowledge of it despite the fact that the crew “spent considerable time trying to troubleshoot the cause”. Other level 3 alerts had also occurred previously but there was no record of any related Aircraft Technical Log defect entry or relevant maintenance action. More generally, “there was no evidence of any maintenance having been conducted on the aircraft since its Certificate of Airworthiness issue two months previously”. Unfortunately, the condition of the engine after the accident meant that it was not recovered for examination. According to the information about the loading of the aircraft held at Despatch, the actual TOW (takeoff weight) was 20,167 kg including 5000 kg of cargo and was within the MTOW of 20,820 kg. However, given that the weight of cargo recovered from the accident site was 5,520 kg and that there had been unauthorised removal of some of the cargo from the accident site before it was collected together to assess its weight, it was concluded that the actual aircraft takeoff weight had exceeded the maximum permitted by an amount which could not be determined. This meant that the possible effect on the handling of the aircraft attributable to that cause could not be established. A review by the Investigation of the process by which cargo of the sort which had