no significant injury to the persons on board. The crew performance factors that contributed to the safe landing of the aircraft are the following: The Training Captain followed the golden rule of airmanship (aviate, navigate, communicate), by stabilising the aircraft pitch by using the trim wheel and by keeping the aircraft engine power as long as possible.. The Safety Pilot started to play a role in the cockpit by assisting the Training Captain and the Student Pilot by informing them about the status of the aircraft and later took over as PM.. Safety Action taken as a result of the investigated accident was noted as having included but not been limited to the following: Airbus has: Modified the “touch and go” and “stop and go” training procedures in Airbus A320 FCTM.. Restricted the extent to which ELAC reset can be performed during otherwise normal operations and has initiated development of an ELAC software modification to monitor the THS as it is reset to neutral beginning 5 seconds after touchdown so as to mitigate the consequences of a non-detection of a manual takeover of the THS (the failure that caused the triggering of the ELAC PITCH FAULT). The certification of this change as a global retrofit is planned for mid-2020.. Initiated development of a Spoiler Elevator Computer (SEC) software modification development to improve SEC robustness against landing gear bounce at touchdown with certification planned for the next SEC modification standard.. SmartLynx Estonia has made a number of changes to parts of their Approved Training Organisation OM including those dealing with: The Approval/Authorisation of Flight Training on an aircraft.. The duties and responsibilities of an aircraft Commander both before and during flight.. Flight Time Limitations applicable to Student Pilots undergoing flight training on aircraft which will be more restrictive than those which apply to line flying once qualified.. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Airbus consider amending A320 maintenance program with procedures necessary to ensure that the condition override mechanism in the Trimmable Horizontal Stabiliser (THM) override clutch unit is kept as per design throughout its whole life cycle.. that the SmartLynx Estonia ATO includes procedures clearly defining the role and the tasks of a Safety Pilot.. that the SmartLynx Estonia ATO modifies its Training Manual so that its touch-and-go procedures match those in the corresponding Airbus’ Flight Crew Training Procedures.. that All Aviation Safety Agencies ensure the compliance of Training Manual procedures for touch-and-go training at ATOs under their oversight which perform Airbus A320 type rating training with those in the corresponding Airbus’ Flight Crew Training Procedures.. that All Aviation Safety Agencies promote the use of a Safety Pilot when performing flight training on complex aircraft.. The Final Report was published on 31 October 2019.