up and the thrust levers were returned to the TOGA detent. With the landing gear in transit, a forward speed of 192 knots and a 0.7° nose up pitch attitude, both engines hit the ground with the vertical acceleration of 2.85 g. About 200 metres of runway remained. Two seconds after this impact, airspeed increased to 206 knots, and with pitch attitude now at 9.1° nose up after the nose landing gear had also hit the runway hard, the aircraft began to climb away at 6000 fpm. Ten seconds later, the aircraft reached its maximum positive pitch attitude of +21.8° and shortly afterwards the Safety Pilot called out “manual pitch trim only, manual pitch trim only” as annunciated on the PFDs. The Training Captain began to control pitch using the (stabiliser) pitch trim wheel and reducing thrust to Idle. After a further 15 seconds, the aircraft had reached a maximum height of 1590 feet with the speed now down to 144 knots (position 10 on the flight path reconstruction shown below). A rapid descent at 7,200 fpm began with the pitch attitude reaching 25.7° nose down before the thrust levers were moved back to TOGA and nose up trim wheel movement arrested the descent. This descent triggered several EGPWS activations including ‘SINK RATE’, ‘PULL UP’, ‘TERRAIN-TERRAIN’ and ‘TOO LOW, TERRAIN’ and the aircraft reached a minimum of 596 feet agl (position 11) as vertical acceleration peaked at +2.44 g during the recovery. The Training Captain then managed to stabilise the aircraft at around 1,200ft (position 12) with airspeed at around 155 knots using sidestick roll inputs and trim and thrust inputs for pitch control. He asked about the engines and the Safety Pilot responded that there was an engine 2 fire. The Safety Pilot then began to read aloud from the ECAM display “so we have flaps lock, flight control law, left right elevator fault, maximum speed 320, manual pitch trim use, do not use speed brakes”. For the next half a minute, the aircraft remained essentially under control again at around 1,300 feet with pitch attitude varying between -8°and +16° and averaging +5°. A MAYDAY call was made to ATC and the Training Captain proposed turning right, got it confirmed by the Safety Pilot, and declared this intention to ATC, advising that they intended to continue the right turn visually to begin an approach to the reciprocal direction of the runway. The Training Captain then instructed the Safety Pilot to take the place of the student and thereafter, the student and the ECAA Inspector went to sit in the passenger cabin with the other three students. The Safety Pilot called ATC to declare the engine two fire and requested RFFS attendance for the landing. He then suggested moving the engine 2 thrust lever to idle because of the fire but this was not agreed by the Training Captain who then called for “gear down”. Whilst the gear was in transit, engine two failed at around 1000 feet agl and