the ECAM message ‘ENG 2 FAIL’ appeared accompanied by a corresponding fire warning. Twenty seconds later, passing around 750 feet agl, engine one also failed removing all electrical power from the main bus bars and after a further half minute, the aircraft touched down hard in the runway 26 undershoot bursting all the tyres. It then continued for approximately 150 metres onto the runway before veering off to the left and coming to a stop close to the left runway edge. All occupants then evacuated via the forward left exit escape slide. Damage to the aircraft structure and to both engines was severe and later led to it being assessed as a hull loss. The Investigation was able to show that the ‘ELAC PITCH FAULT’ messages had resulted from the intermittent failure of the THS actuator override mechanism and had been triggered by whichever computer had been in control (ELAC1 or ELAC2) when erratic signals came from the pitch trim actuator micro-switches. The incorrect triggering of these micro-switches was found to be attributable to “a non-standard displacement of the override mechanism output piston" which, in turn, had resulted from non-standard functioning of the override mechanism clutch unit which was considered likely to have been a consequence of the oil it contained being almost twice of the specified viscosity. However, it was not possible to establish how this oil had ended up in the THS. During the final touch-and-go with ELAC 1 still not reset, the aircraft touchdown had been slightly bounced prior to the ELAC 2PITCH FAULT being triggered. The rebound from the first touch had then been enough to cause a discrepancy between the two Spoiler Elevator Computers (SEC) which had taken over pitch control from the two ELACs, with one seeking to control pitch based on ground mode and the other seeking to do so based on flight mode. This discrepancy then led to loss of elevator control by both SECs with the elevator position defaulting to neutral where it remained locked in position for the rest of the flight. Pitch variation using sidestick control of the THS was therefore impossible. It was observed that the time taken for the flight crew to recognise that elevator control of pitch was no longer available had demonstrated “the importance of the role of a Safety Pilot when handling abnormal situations during flight training”. Three Causal Factors which had led to the Accident were identified as follows: The intermittent THS actuator override mechanism malfunction which allowed both ELACs to lose pitch control:. The repetitive triggering of the ‘ELAC PITCH’ faults was caused by the non or late activations of the pitch trim actuator micro-switches, which were due to the insufficient stroke of the override mechanism piston. This insufficient stroke was caused by non-standard friction in the override clutch unit of the THS actuator which appeared to contain oil of a higher viscosity than that specified in the CMM. This higher viscosity oil might have been the cause of reduced friction in