at 1500 feet. A further similar fault was then triggered during the fourth touch-and-go but this time the single chime alert which the appearance of this message on the ECAM should (as it had previously) lead to did not occur. Probably because of this, the fault condition was not reset when it was annunciated on the ECAM on reaching 1500 feet and thereafter it remained until the end of the whole flight detail i.e. it was present when the accident occurred. The fifth and last touch and go for the third student was then accompanied by an ELAC2 PITCH FAULT which, given the existing ELAC1 fault meant reversion to Alternate Law flight control until the ELAC2 PITCH FAULT appeared on the ECAM at 1500 feet and was reset. During the fourth student’s training session, the second touch-and-go was accompanied by an ELAC2 PITCH FAULT triggered as before during the THS reset, this time whilst the trim heel was being manually held at around 1.5° nose up. Reversion to Alternate Law flight control again occurred until a reset was performed on reaching 1500 feet. The next (third) touch-and-go again triggered an ELAC2 PITCH FAULT but although reversion to Alternate Law occurred, it lasted (unknown to the flight crew) only one second. As VR was reached, the student initiated rotation by pulling back on the sidestick and by moving the thrust levers to the TOGA detent but the aircraft did not respond. An ECAM message ‘F/CTL L+R ELEV FAULT‘ appeared accompanied by a ‘MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY’ on the PFDs and the corresponding continuous repetitive warning chime. This alert was not noticed by the fight crew given their focus on regaining control over pitch attitude. The student continued to pull back on the sidestick - up to 13° nose up - but to little effect and the airspeed increased. FDR data subsequently showed that both elevators were at 0° and the THS was at only 1.5° nose up. At 152 knots, the aircraft began to lift off but a pitch attitude of only 0.3° nose up was recorded despite the student’s sidestick being close to full back deflection. As the Training Captain also began to pull back on his sidestick, the dual input aural warning was triggered which prompted him to select priority on his sidestick and call ‘I have control’. The recorded pitch attitude was still only 0.3° nose up. Four seconds later, with approximately 950 metres of runway 08 remaining and with airspeed increasing through 190 knots, the aircraft was only 19 feet agl and the pitch attitude had reached a maximum of 2.8° nose up. The thrust levers were moved to IDLE and the flap lever was moved from CONF2 to CONF1 followed two seconds later by the Training Captain calling “gear up” upon which the gear lever was selected accordingly. Two seconds after that, the aircraft reached its maximum height over the runway of 48 feet and began to descend. Pitch attitude was back to only 0.3° nose