the THS actuator override clutch unit. A design flaw in the Spoiler Elevator Control (SEC) computers which allowed a single event - the temporary decompression of the left main landing gear - to cause the loss of pitch control by both of them:. The absence of ground spoilers arming for landing in the context of touch and go's training may have contributed to the temporary decompression of the left main landing gear. The Training Captain’s decision to continue the flight detail despite annunciation of repetitive ‘ELAC PITCH FAULT’ ECAM caution messages:. The lack of clear framework of operational rules for pilot training flights, especially concerning the application of the MEL and the specific nature of operations that caused pressure to complete the training programme may have impacted the crew decision-making process. Seven Contributory Factors were also formally documented as follows: The SmartLynx Estonia Approved Training Organisation (ATO) does not clearly define the need for arming spoilers when performing touch-and-go training (these procedures are not in accordance with the Airbus SOP). The fact that there is no clear reference in the SmartLynx Estonia ATO Training Manual Touch-And-Go air exercise section to additional procedures that should be used, in combination with lack of understanding of the importance for arming the spoilers during this type of flight contributed to the Captain making the decision to disarm the spoilers during touch-and-go training enabling landing gear bounce on touchdown.. At the time of the event, the Airbus QRH did not define the maximum allowed number of resets for the flight control computers.. At the time of the event, the Airbus FCTM did not require to consider MEL on touch-and-go and stop-and-go training.. The oil in the Trimmable Horizontal Stabiliser (THS) Override Mechanism (OVM) casing was of a higher viscosity than that defined in the CMM. This higher viscosity might have reduced the friction of the OVM clutch unit.. The aircraft maintenance documentation does not require any test of the OVM during regular aircraft maintenance checks.. The SmartLynx Estonia ATO OM does not clearly specify the role of a Safety Pilot on the flight deck. The lack of task sharing during the event caused ECAM warnings to go unnoticed and unannounced for long periods.. The flight crew not resetting ELAC 1 when the ELAC 1 PITCH FAULT was displayed which led to degraded redundancy of the normal pitch control system.. The Investigation also concluded as follows in respect of the performance of the Training Captain and the Safety Pilot following the problems with pitch control: Considering the remoteness of the loss of control of both elevators, there is no specific crew training for MECHANICAL BACKUP in pitch during approach, landing and takeoff. This condition of the aircraft occurred for the crew in a sudden manner at rotation and during a training flight, where the experienced Training Captain is not the PF and cannot get immediate feedback on the aircraft behaviour and condition. Despite these difficult conditions, the crew managed to stabilise and land the aircraft with