An Investigation was carried out by the Estonian Safety Investigation Bureau. The FDR and CVR were recovered from the aircraft and both provided useful data. However, both recordings had been interrupted when the engines failed, the CVR recording restarting after the RAT had automatically deployed and both FDR and CVR powered up when the APU was subsequently started. Useful data were also recovered from the Non Volatile Memory (NVM) of on-board computers relevant to pitch control commands. At the time when the loss of pitch control occurred, the 63 year-old Training Captain who had a total of 24,046 flying hours including 13,500 hours on type was acting as PM and supervising a 43 year-old Student Pilot who had a total of 228 flying hours, none of which were recorded as on type. A 34 year-old Safety Pilot who was occupying the supernumerary crew seat and had a total of 3,024 flying hours of which 2,622 hours were on type subsequently took over from the Student for the remainder of the flight. The aircraft involved had only recently been acquired by the operator and on the day of the accident, it was being used for crew training during which each of the four Student Pilots on board were to fly a takeoff, five touch-and-go’s, one go around and a full stop landing from the right seat. An Inspector from the Estonian CAA (ECAA) was occupying a second supernumerary seat behind the Safety Pilot and the Student Pilots waiting their turn or after completing it were seated in the passenger cabin. The duration of the intended training, which was using the 3048 metre-long runway 08, was likely to be in excess of 5 hours. The Training Captain decided not to arm the ground spoilers for each planned touch and go and after each touchdown, he used the procedure in the Airbus Flight Crew Training Manual (FCTM) to set the Trimmable Horizontal Stabiliser (THS) at the takeoff position. This involved adjusting the trim setting by grabbing the trim wheel while the THS was automatically returning to 0°. During the first student’s flying session, two of these touch-and-go sequences were accompanied by Elevator Aileron Computer (ELAC) PITCH FAULTs for both elevator aileron computers (ELAC) as the trim wheel was being manually held at “around 1° Nose Up” resulting in Normal Law flight control switching to Alternate Law. However, ELAC PITCH FAULTs on the ground don’t appear on the ECAM until the aircraft reaches 1500 feet, at which point, both ELACs were reset in accordance with Airbus procedures and this restored Normal Law flight control. During the second student’s session, only a single ELAC1 PITCH FAULT was triggered at the same point in the THS reset operation and because only one ELAC fault was registered, Normal Law flight control was not interrupted. During the third student’s session, ELAC1 PITCH FAULTs were again registered, this time during the first and third touch-and-go cycles when faults were triggered and reset once they were annunciated on the ECAM