The accident was investigated by the ANSV. It was established that the aircraft had not been fitted with a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR), Flight Data Recorder (FDR) or GPWS/TAWS and that, because of the low weight of the aircraft, there was no regulatory requirement for any of these items to be fitted. The aircraft had been chartered at short notice for a medical mission from its base in Milan Linate. This required positioning to the location of a potential recipient of a heart transplant to collect the medical team involved and take them to Rome where a heart suitable for transplant had become available so as to obtain it and return with it to their base to carry out the operation. This had initially involved a positioning flight to Catania where a patient in need of such a transplant had been identified, but shortly after take off from Linate just after 2200 local time, the destination had been changed to Cagliari where an alternative recipient had been designated. The operating crew had consisted of two Austrian pilots, the aircraft commander being the Director of Flight Operations and Chief of Training for the Operator. He was found to have had significant experience on the Cessna 500 and similar aircraft, which were the most complex aircraft he had flown, The First Officer also had experience on the Cessna 500 and similar aircraft in proportion to his age. A third low experience pilot of Italian nationality and apparent management responsibilities in respect of both the aircraft operator and the (Italian) aircraft owner was also on board but the Investigation was unable to positively establish his operating status, if any. All three pilots had travelled from Austria to Milan during the afternoon of the same day of the departure from Linate in order to be available to position from there the following day to Olbia, Sardinia and undertake a planned air taxi flight from Olbia to Tirana, Albania. The change to the overnight charter which had subsequently occurred was not known to the crew until after their arrival in Milan. Following the uneventful completion of the initial flight from Milan to Cagliari, where the aircraft was provided with radar vectors to the Instrument Landing System (ILS) for runway 32 and landed at two minutes past midnight local time, the three-person medical team was boarded and taken to Rome Ciampino. Evidence available to the Investigation indicated that the return (accident) flight to Cagliari was flown with the aircraft commander in the right hand pilot seat with the First Officer in the left hand pilot seat in order to undergo line training necessary to complete promotion to Captain. As with the previous flights, it was flown on an Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) Flight Plan. On transfer to Cagliari APP descending in accordance with clearance to FL090, the crew were informed that runway 32 was in use and the weather was passed. APP then advised that an ILS PAPA approach should be expected. It can be seen