from the copy of the Jeppesen Chart below (as used by the crew) that this requires routing via the CAR VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR) before flying an intercept to the ILS LOC. This avoids mountainous terrain to the east of there aerodrome which results in an MSA of 5700 feet. Shortly afterwards, having just left FL100 with a re-clearance to descend to 5000 feet en route to the CAR VOR over the sea, the aircraft commander reported “field in sight” to APP and requested a visual approach. After specifically verifying that the aircraft would maintain its own separation from obstacles, this request was approved and the aircraft set course towards a 4nm final for runway 32. The cloud and visibility conditions recorded at the time of approval of the visual approach were compatible with the request. However, since there had at this point been no recent radar return of the position of the aircraft visible on the APP radar display, this position was verified by contacting Rome ACC who advised that on their radar, the aircraft showing FL 072 at about 22nm from Cagliari. APP then instructed the aircraft to change to the Cagliari TWR frequency with the proviso that descent should not continue below 2500 feet Altimeter Pressure Settings until approved by TWR. The aircraft checked in with TWR and was instructed to call on short final. In acknowledging this instruction, the aircraft commander reported their position as 23nm from the Cagliari passing an altitude of 4800 feet. Collision with terrain on track in the Sette Fratelli mountains occurred close to the 3333 feet high summit of Mount Bacumalu in “dark night” VMC just over a minute later. The aircraft was destroyed by the impact and a fuel-fed fire which followed and all six occupants were killed. Whilst the Investigation was in progress, the parallel Judicial Inquiry decided to organise a flight in an aircraft of the same type as that involved in similar flight conditions in order to determine the in flight visibility in relation to the claim by the aircraft commander to have visually acquired the airport at the point he did and to determine any relevant limitations to the radar cover feeding the displays at Cagliari APP. An ANSV Observer travelled on this flight and found that: visual acquisition of the airport was not possible as had been claimed by the crew of the accident aircraft when requesting and receiving approval for a visual approach.. the lack of any ground lights in the area of the Sette Fratelli mountains would have precluded the possibility of achieving effective visual separation from the terrain because as a result the area would have appeared as a uniform “flat black colour”.. The Cagliari APP radar display would not have provided continuity of radar returns from the aircraft.. The Investigation found no evidence of any relevant unserviceability in respect of the aircraft or of ground equipment. It was noted that the approach control service for the Cagliari CTR was provided