by the Italian Air Force from the military airbase at Decimomannu, located 8.5 nm north west of Cagliari airport and equipped with both Primary and Secondary radar feeds, the former with a 4 second refresh rate. The ground position of this radar was known to controllers to limit the reliability of returns towards the east - the area in which the accident aircraft made its visual descent. It was confirmed that the transfer of the aircraft from APP to TWR took place when the aircraft was approximately 25 nm from the field. It was found that, despite the fact that the Air Force “Certificate of Approval” for the APP radar service provided by Cagliari from the Decimomannu airbase on 21 June 2002 had recorded no problems or limitations with the service, subsequent to the accident on 20 May 2004, the Air Force had issued a Notice To Airmen to the effect that east of Cagliari, the coverage of the primary and secondary radar was not reliable below FL110. The content of this NOTAM was subsequently incorporated in the AIPs. It was considered that “the crew was not particularly familiar with the area around the destination airport” and concluded that the short notice of the requirement to undertake the flights concerned when a duty the following day had been expected would have meant that, despite the applicable flight time provisions being met, “the crew (would not have had) an adequate period of rest…..before starting flight activity at night”. It was noted that prevailing International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) provisions for the provision of Air Traffic Services were unambiguous in making the safety of aircraft from impact with terrain or obstacles the complete responsibility of the aircraft commander unless radar control service was being provided. It was noted that an ENAC provision numbered 41/8879/AM.O referenced in AIP Italy and dated 20 June 1991 had removed a previous complete ban on night visual approaches from flights operating for the purpose of commercial air transport or aerial work which had been introduced on 17 April 1991 subject to various conditions contained in another ENAC provision numbered 41/8879/AM.O and issued on the same date. It was noted that these conditions, available only in the Italian language, went beyond the corresponding requirements of ICAO Doc. 4444 but that only after the accident (on 25 August 2004) had and the responsibility for determining operational requirements for night visual approaches flown in Italian airspace been assigned to the State of the Operator - which in the case of the accident aircraft would have been Austria. It was found that the Operator’s Operations Manual Part ‘C’ (where specific guidance and requirements for operating into special aerodromes are required to be placed) simply referred to general information in the Jeppesen Route Manual also carried on board the aircraft. It was concluded that the Cause of the accident had been “the conduct of the flight to a significantly lower altitude than the prevailing MSA which was insufficient to maintain separation from