not have been waived. However if, as in the investigated case, there is no pilot report and only flight data is available, both Phase 1 inspections are at the airline's discretion. It was also noted that assuming a zero runway slope, the 486 fpm rate of descent recorded was below the landing gear design limit. Boeing also stated that “flight crew's judgment is the most reliable criterion to use for determining if a hard landing has occurred - data alone are insufficient to make this determination”. It was noted that although there is no automatic display in the 777 flight deck of the rate of descent at touchdown, there is a ‘Maintenance Access Terminal’ behind the right hand pilot seat which can be used to generate a "sink" report which provides values which can be input to the C of G Load Factor Chart to determining a vertical load factor. The Jet Airways OM Part A was noted to say that “typical sink rates at touchdown are of the order of 120 to 240 fpm and even a hard landing rarely exceeds 360 fpm”. It also noted that aircraft are certified for a sink rate of up to 600 fpm at MLW and a sink rate of up to 360 fpm at MTOW and stated that “a hard landing shall be considered to be any unusual or abnormally hard touchdown” following which “it is prudent for flight crew to (make a) report so that a special aircraft inspection can be carried out by Engineering”. Additional findings during the Investigation which, in the event, were not directly relevant to it, were noted as having including the fact that Jet Airways classified Hong Kong as a Category ‘B’ aerodrome. This meant that its OM ‘D’ required that pilots receive a specific briefing or self-briefing on such destinations. In the case of Hong Kong, it was observed that this briefing information did not include a range of subjects recommended for pilot awareness in the Hong Kong AIP which should have been covered in the OM Part ‘C’ to enable reference to be made to them in the briefing material. It was also noted that in general, many aircraft handling events occur below 50 feet agl where it can become difficult for a supervising Captain to make a decision and act. It was noted that based on related regulatory requirements for pilot training, airline operators including Jet Airways had developed training guidance but that only a few of them were using a suitably comprehensive list of such potential issues. The Cause of the investigated event was determined as “frequent change in pitch input during the landing phase of flight & touchdown with inadequate flare”. Two Contributory Factors were also identified as “the fatigue of the trainee pilot” and “lack of familiarity with the airport at Hong Kong”. Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Airline Operators reiterate the procedures associated with the reporting of suspected hard landings