had already completed nine satisfactory route checks with Jet Airways. Touchdown subsequently occurred with a recorded 3.23g vertical load and an “after landing shudder” was reported to have been felt by the crew. The remainder of the landing roll was normal. It was noted that the landing weight was 31 tonnes below the 251 tonne MLW. The Training Captain subsequently recorded on his assessment form that the planned Final Line Check sector had been “unsatisfactory” due to (amongst other observations) the “inadequate flare” and “touchdown short of course point”. It was noted that the trainee involved had finally gained his command on type some 3½ months after the investigated event. Four days after it had occurred, the exceedance was automatically detected by the aircraft operators OFDM programme and the flight safety department sent a corresponding email notification to the engineering department. The following day, Phase 1A and 1B of the required airframe inspection were carried out with no findings which meant that Phase 2 of this inspection was not required. Prompted by the finding that the landing had breached airframe structural limits despite this being considered unlikely by an experienced Training Captain, a very detailed analysis of the landing was performed for the Investigation by Boeing. This showed that just prior to the landing, the recorded rate of descent had been 486 fpm. On touchdown, “three successively increasing peaks were observed in the normal load factor of 1.65. 1.82, and 3.23, the final one just 0.7 seconds after the estimated touchdown time”. Touchdown had occurred with a left bank of about 1.3° at VREF+3 and after it, there had been a right rudder pedal input to de-crab the aircraft with the recorded lateral acceleration reaching 0.38 g to the right “as the speedbrakes extended and the weight of the aircraft settled onto the main gear”. The Investigation noted that the flight data indicated that during the flare, FDR data showed that there had been “frequent push and pull inputs” which had resulted in the pitch attitude achieved during the flare being less than required and the rate of descent too high, an observation supported by comparison with three other ‘normal’ landings at Hong Kong. Having noted that the trainee Captain had claimed during the Investigation that “he was not adequately rested” before the flight even though his duty had been within the applicable flight time limitations, it was speculated that his poor performance may have also been affected by his “anxiety and fatigue”. Boeing analysis also considered what AMM inspections were required after a suspected or actual hard landing. If a landing were to be reported as "hard" by a flight crew then Phase IA and IB inspections are required prior to the next flight but if flight data was immediately available, “an evaluation could have been performed to determine if the Phase 1B inspection could be waived”. However, in the case under investigation, the vertical acceleration had been above the AMM threshold, so that the Phase IB inspection could