An Investigation by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) established that 737 had reduced speed in order to meet a height requirement of the SID being flown which had led to the 767 climbing at a significantly faster speed. It was noted that on transfer from TWR to radar departures, there was 3.4 nm separation between the two aircraft. However, the departures controller expected them to climb at a similar speed and “did not recognise the loss of separation assurance”. Once the problem was identified, the controller’s response was judged to have been “not fully effective” and separation reduced to 1.9 nm horizontally when 500 feet apart vertically. However, as the closing speed was relatively low, it was considered that there had been “a significant period for the problem to be detected and rectified”. The Investigation reviewed recorded ATC communications and found that the 767 was not formally given the responsibility of maintaining visual separation with the 737. The controller was unable to explain why the visual separation standard had not been applied appropriately. The relevant element of required speed control procedures was reviewed and the following information was found in the Manual of Air Traffic Services: For Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) aircraft departing Melbourne, there was a mandatory maximum airspeed below 10,000 feet of 250 knots for “ATC separation and runway capacity purposes” unless ATC were to advise ‘cancel speed restrictions’. There was no required minimum speed for departing aircraft.. There was no documented generic requirement anywhere in the AIPs or in Melbourne local procedures which required pilots to advise ATC of any speed variation in the climb (or cruise) unless they were unable to comply with an ATC-issued speed instruction.. It was also noted that a standard procedure known as ‘Auto Release’ had been in use at Melbourne at the time of the event to facilitate handover of departing traffic so as to minimise voice coordination between Tower and Departures. This procedure was found to have been based on a similar arrangement at Sydney but the associated ‘Safety Assessment’ carried out by the ANSP for Melbourne had not included a detailed comparison of the two procedures and related risk controls and had failed to explain why the speed restrictions in use at Sydney were not part of the Melbourne procedure. Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) activation that indicated “a system-detected critical event requiring immediate controller intervention” was found to have occurred during the conflict and had been acknowledged by the Departures controller involved. It was noted that MATS-defined parameters for STCA activation in the Melbourne TMA were specified as 2.1 nm or a controller warning time of 60 seconds. During the course of the Investigation into the 2010 event, a similar loss of separation occurred at Melbourne on 12 October 2011 between an Airbus A320-232 being operated by JetStar Airways on a scheduled passenger flight from Melbourne to Auckland, New Zealand and a Boeing 737 800 being operated by Virgin Blue on a scheduled passenger flight from Melbourne