to Gold Coast. In this case, a slow speed climb by the A320 was also attributed to the need to make a SID height restriction. ATC procedures for this second conflict were unchanged from those in place the previous year and Auto Release procedures were again in use. Loss of prescribed separation occurred just as the lead aircraft was making a left turn which the following aircraft was not required to make. Again, neither aircraft TCAS had been activated. It was found that this incident had involved different controllers to those involved in the 5 December 2010 event. The Investigation considered that the two events had both independently demonstrated limitations in risk management which “had the potential to lead to higher-risk situations, particularly during high-workload periods”. A series of Findings relating to the 2010 event were documented as follows but it was noted that similar findings also applied to the 2011 event. Two ‘Contributing Safety Factors’ were identified: The Departures North controller expected the two aircraft to climb at similar speeds, did not recognise the loss of separation assurance, and assigned both aircraft the same flight level.. The Auto Release procedures at Melbourne Airport allowed for aircraft to be departed at or close to the separation minima, with no documented requirements to ensure jet aircraft would maintain a set climb speed or flight crews would advise air traffic control if the speed could not be achieved. [Significant safety issue]. Two other ‘Safety Factors’ were also identified: The Departures North controller did not effectively manage the compromised separation recovery.. Although the Melbourne Airport Auto Release procedures were based on those in use at Sydney Airport, the safety assessment report did not provide a detailed comparison of the procedures in use at both locations.. Two ‘Key Findings’ were also documented: The Boeing 737-700 aircraft climbed at a reduced profile speed, approved under local speed restrictions, to meet the Standard Instrument Departure height requirement.. The Boeing 767-300 flight crew maintained visual contact with the preceding aircraft.. Safety Action was noted to have taken by ANSP Airservices Australia - interim local action at Melbourne to deal with the issue raised - and by Safety Regulator CASA to proceed with a new generic requirement applicable to all radar terminal area aerodromes in Australia for jet aircraft pilots notify ATC when operating at a significantly lower speed than stipulated in any standard profile being flown. The Final Report was issued on 2 May 2012. In the light of the achieved and intended Safety Action, no Safety Recommendations were made.