occurrence was not sufficiently effective. The engine manufacturer has issued a modification addressing the specific finding of this Investigation. This new modification is currently implemented in all new production engines, and another Service Bulletin is available for retrofit.. Flight Operations The Pilot Flying’s decision to disconnect the Autopilot shortly after the first Master Warning increased his subsequent workload and reduced his capacity to assess and cope with the emergency situation.. The omission of the required Pre Take-off Briefing meant that the crew were not as mentally prepared as they could have been for the propulsion system malfunction they encountered after take-off.. Airline Safety Management TransAsia Airways did not follow its own procedures when selecting and training the Pilot Flying for command upgrade. Its Quality Assurance processes had not detected that the command selection upgrade process had been compromised.. TransAsia Airways did not use widely available crew resource management (CRM) guidelines to develop, implement, reinforce and assess the effectiveness of their flight crew CRM training programme.. While the TransAsia Airways ATR72-600 differences training program was consistent with the EASA ATR72 Operational Evaluation Board (OEB) report and compliant from a Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) regulatory perspective, it may not have been sufficient to ensure that their flight crews were competent to operate the ATR72-600 under all normal procedures and a set of abnormal conditions.. The ATR72-600 differences training records for the accident aircraft flight crew showed that Captain 'A' probably needed more training on the single engine flame out at take-off procedure. That meant that if the differences training records were stored, adequately maintained and evaluated by appropriate TransAsia Airways Flight Operations and/or Quality Assurance personnel, there would have been yet another opportunity to review Captain A’s ability to handle engine out emergencies.. Captain A’s performance during the occurrence was consistent with the performance weaknesses noted during his training, including his continued difficulties in handling emergency and/or abnormal situations, including engine flame out at take-off and single engine operations. However, TransAsia Airways did not effectively address the evident and imminent flight safety risk that Captain A represented.. Regulatory Oversight The Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) oversight of flight crew training, including crew resource management (CRM) training, is in need of improvement.. The systemic nature of TransAsia Airways' flight crew non-compliance with standard operating procedures identified in previous investigations, including the fatal accident to a Company ATR72 less than seven months previously, remained unaddressed at the time of the accident investigated here. Although the CAA had conducted a special audit after this previous accident, which identified the standard operating procedures compliance issue, they did not ensure that the Operator responded to previously identified systemic safety issues in a timely manner to minimise potential future risk.. A total of 16 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that TransAsia Airways document a clear company policy with associated instructions, procedures, training, and notices to crew members for ATR72-600 operations communicating the requirement to reject a take-off in the event that the