suddenly to 80° and the left wing collided with the taxi on the road bridge before continuing to bank left and enter the river inverted three minutes after becoming airborne from Songshan. The picture sequence below shows the final moments with aircraft stalled taken by a dashcam on a vehicle which was following the taxi. The aircraft as it descended out of control into the Keelung River just before and just after the left wing hit a taxi [reproduced from the Official Report] After reviewing the assembled evidence, the observations of the Investigation included the following: There were no recorded defects in the right hand engine AFS prior to departure. However, the ATPCS malfunction which created the circumstances which the crew proved unable to respond to effectively was attributable to specific 'compromised' solder joints in the AFU which led to random and usual transient electrical discontinuities that prejudiced the correct operation of the AFU. It was found that this problem had been known to the aircraft manufacturer ATR since 2005 and their response had been to say that it was related to component ageing and recommend inspections for continued integrity as mitigation. It was concluded that this response had been inadequate and noted that during the Investigation, engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney Canada had advised that "a product improvement has been made to the auto-feather control and is currently (being) implemented on all new production engines" with Service Bulletin 21880 being issued in October 2015 for the replacement of existing auto-feather control with the improved one on in-service aircraft.. All three pilots on the flight deck had achieved the majority of their ATR 72 experience on the -500 variant which, although covered by a type rating common to the -600, is sufficiently different to require that pilots trained initially on the -500 must undertake significant 'differences training' course before being permitted to operate the -600 variant. Of relevance to the annunciation of ATPCS faults during a take-off was an important difference in the pilot response to failure of the system to indicate 'ARM'. For the -500, TransAsia fleet policy permitted flight crews to continue the take-off if the ATPCS did not show 'ARM' as long as the RTOW had been checked before take-off, whereas ATR72-600 policy required crews to always reject the take-off if the ATPCS did not show ‘ARM’. Although -600 crews were so trained, the accident flight crew decision to continue with their take-off was contrary to this and increased the chances of the subsequent airborne system malfunction which led to auto feather of the right hand engine and uptrim of the left hand engine. However the distinction in ATPCS policy between the two variants was not documented anywhere and the -500 and -600 Normal Checklists both contained the procedure which was applicable only to the -500. It was noted that ATR guidance if the ATPCS 'ARM' annunciation was absent or intermittent during take-off was revised after, and as a consequence of, the investigated event so that it