guidance on how to evaluate the effectiveness of operator non technical training programmes such as crew resource management (CRM) and threat and error management (TEM) training programmes. [16-06-009]. that UTC Aerospace System Company work with the manufacturers of engine and aircraft to assess the current operating parameters and aircraft risks associated with the PW127 series engine auto feather unit (AFU) to minimise or prevent occurrences that could result in uncommanded auto feather. [16-06-010]. that Pratt & Whitney Canada work with manufacturers of the auto feather unit and airframe to assess the current operating parameters and aircraft risks associated with the PW127 series engine auto feather unit (AFU) to minimise or prevent occurrences that could result in uncommanded auto feather. [16-06-011]. that Avions de Transport Régional (ATR) work with manufacturers of the auto feather unit and engine to assess the current operating parameters and aircraft risks associated with the PW127 series engine auto feather unit (AFU) to minimise or prevent occurrences that could result in uncommanded auto feather. [16-06-012]. that Avions de Transport Régional (ATR) publish in the flight crew operating manual (FCOM) an operational procedure related to rejected take-off and expanded information regarding conditions leading to rejected take off. [16-06-013]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency require a review at industry level of manufacturer’s functional or display logic of the flight director so that it disappears or presents appropriate orders when a stall protection is automatically triggered. [16-06-014]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency study the content and the duration of the minimum requirement regarding a differences training programme between a conventional avionics cockpit and an advanced suite including enhanced automated modes for aircraft having the same type rating. [16-06-015]. that the European Aviation Safety Agency require a review of manufacturer's airplane flight manual (AFM) to ensure that a rejected take-off procedure is also applicable to both engines operating. [16-06-016]. The Final Report was published on 30 June 2016.