a second cross check”, but the rearward power lever movement of engine one had already been commenced, although it was then stopped at 66 degree Power Lever Angle (PLA). The aircraft continued climbing with IAS and HDG modes now set and with the selected speed of 106 knots and the selected heading initially at 131° which later changed to 092°. The PM then called “OK Engine Flame out Check”, the PF responded with “check”, the PM stated “check uptrim yes, auto feather yes” and the PF responded with “OK”. At almost the same time, the PM called out “watch the speed” which had reduced to 101 KCAS and the PF then announced that he was going to further reduce power on engine one and did so to the 49 degree PLA position. Whilst this was being done, the PM said "OK now number two engine flameout confirmed” to which the PF responded to with another “OK" but left the left engine power lever at the 49 degree PLA position. Thirty one seconds after the "ENG 2 FLAME OUT AT TAKE OFF" annunciation, the aircraft had reached 1,630 feet, the highest altitude recorded, and the airspeed was 102 KCAS. The IAS mode then reverted into PITCH HOLD mode for a continuous period of 20 seconds. The power setting was not sufficient to support continued climb and one second later the Stall Warning was active for one second. The PF then said “terrain ahead”, the PM replied “OK lower…” and the Observer said “you are low”. The Stall Warning was activated again for four seconds, this time with the stick shakers. The PM responded with “okay push, push back”, to which the PF stated “shut”; the PM then responded “wait a second…throttle throttle” and the engine one Power Lever was moved to the fully retarded Idle position and the engine two (left engine) Power Lever was advanced to 86 degrees. The aircraft was "now in a continuous left turn with a 10 to 20 degree angle of bank and in descent through 1,526 feet at 101 KCAS”. Engine one was then shut down. Eleven seconds after this shutdown was complete, the PM declared a MAYDAY as the aircraft began to bank to the right. The crew attempted to engage the AP again twice but failed whilst the Observer asked "how it had become like this". Immediately after two failed attempts to engage the AP, during which the Observer asked "How has it becomes like this", the PM first stated "both sides...lost" and then immediately followed this with "no engine flameout, we lost both sides". The PF began repeating "restart the engine" and, after a further 16 seconds, engine one had been restarted and had reached 30% Nh with the aircraft descending through 400 feet. The PF said “Wow pulled back the wrong side throttle” and "from that time on, the aircraft entered an aerodynamic stall from which it did not recover". An EGPWS PULL UP Warning occurred and the left bank increased