are "implemented in a timely and effective manner".. The Investigation formally documented a series of 9 Findings related to Probable Causes as follows: Powerplant An intermittent signal discontinuity between the right hand engine Auto Feather Unit (AFU) and its associated torque sensor may have led to the automatic take-off power control system (ATPCS) not being continuously armed during the take-off roll and being activated during the initial climb which resulted in a complete ATPCS sequence including the auto feathering of the right hand engine. The available evidence indicated that the intermittent discontinuity between the torque sensor and the right hand engine AFU was probably caused by compromised soldering joints inside the Unit.. Flight Operations The flight crew did not reject the take off when the ATPCS 'ARM' indication did not light during the initial stages of the take off roll.. TransAsia did not have a clearly documented company policy with associated Instructions, Procedures and Notices to Crew for ATR72-600 operations which communicated the requirement to reject the take-off if the ATPCS did not arm.. Following the uncommanded auto feather of the right hand engine, the flight crew failed to perform the documented failure identification procedure before taking any action. That resulted in the Pilot Flying’s confusion regarding the identification and nature of the loss of engine power and he reduced power on the operative left hand engine.. The flight crew’s non-compliance with TransAsia Airways ATR72-600 Abnormal and Emergency Procedures for an engine flame out at take-off resulted in the Pilot Flying reducing power on and then shutting down the wrong engine.. The loss of engine power during the initial climb and inappropriate flight control inputs by the Pilot Flying generated a series of stall warnings, including activation of the stick pusher. The crew did not respond to the stall warnings in a timely and effective manner.. The loss of power from both engines was not detected and corrected by the crew in time to restart an engine. The aircraft stalled during the attempted restart at an altitude from which the aircraft could not recover from loss of control.. Flight crew coordination, communication, and threat and error management (TEM) were less than effective and compromised the safety of the flight. Both operating crew members failed to obtain relevant data from each other regarding the status of both engines at different points in the occurrence sequence. The Pilot Flying did not appropriately respond to or integrate input from the Pilot Monitoring.. It further documented a series of 10 Findings Related to Risk as follows: Powerplant The engine manufacturer attempted to control intermittent continuity failures of the AFU by introducing a recommended Inspection Service Bulletin (ISB) at 12,000 flight hours to address ageing issues. Recorded AFU failures at 1624 flight hours and 1206 flight hours show that causes of intermittent continuity failures of the AFU were not only related to ageing but also to other previously undiscovered issues and that the ISB implemented by the engine manufacturer to address this issue before the