was the same for both variants: reject the take-off.. Neither TransAsia documentation nor the ATR AFM and FCOM specified an abnormal procedure for the all engines rejected take-off case as should have been made before the accident flight got airborne.. Once the unexpected right hand engine auto feather had occurred, the pilots failed to communicate with each other effectively or follow prescribed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). It was noted that "if the crew had done nothing more than confirm the loss of thrust on the right hand engine and returned to land using the remaining engine, the occurrence would not have occurred".. It was noted that "the flight crew’s performance reflected many of the known findings" of the 1998 AIS/AECMA 'Propulsion System Malfunction + Inappropriate Crew Response (PSM+ICR)' Report.. Although Captain A had passed his command upgrade and -600 differences training, it was concluded that "there were indications that his ability to handle an engine failure at takeoff was marginal" with a range of negative comments in his training file on "his understanding and performance of single engine flameout at takeoff procedures".. Although the -600 differences training programme for -500 pilots used by TransAsia "was developed in accordance with the corresponding EASA Operational Evaluation Board (OEB) report" and was in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, interviews carried out with TransAsia's -600 pilots "indicated that pilots without advanced automation experience found the differences training to be inadequate, especially in regard to FMS and electronic displays familiarisation". It was considered that the failure of Captain A to "utilise the autopilot and flight warning system to identify and manage the emergency situation...may have been a result of his lack of knowledge, understanding and confidence in using the aircraft’s automated support systems, which may, in part, have been a function of insufficient differences training". It was considered that the current 5-day -600 differences course and subsequent line training should be reviewed to see if it is "sufficient to ensure that TransAsia flight crews are competent to operate the ATR72-600 under all normal and non-normal conditions". It was particularly noted that the transition from the conventional flight instruments including analogue displays of the -500 variant to an EFIS environment and electronic check list of the -600 represented significant change and that "the visual pattern and information picked up by the crew in an emergency situation may not be retrieved at the same location with the same display".. The event under Investigation occurred less than 7 months after a fatal accident to another TransAsia ATR72 aircraft which was also attributed to poor flight crew performance and in particular to "systemic flight crew non compliance with procedures" and an absence of effective risk management at the Operator which had not been adequately addressed by the Safety Regulator. It was found that "these safety issues were still being addressed by the airline at the time of the event being investigated here" and concluded that Regulatory Oversight needed to be enhanced to ensure that the airline's safety improvement programs