automatic take off power control system (ATPCS) is not armed as required. [16-06-001]. that TransAsia Airways conduct a thorough review of the airline’s flight crew training programmes, including recurrent training, crew resource management (CRM) training, upgrade training, differences training, and devise systematic measures to ensure that: Standardised flight crew check and training are conducted; All flight crews comply with standard operating procedures; All flight crews are proficient in handling abnormal and emergency procedures, including engine flame out at take-off; The airlines use widely available guidelines to develop, implement, reinforce, and assess the effectiveness of their flight crew resource management (CRM) training programme, particularly the practical application of those skills in handling emergencies; Command upgrade process and training comply with the airline’s procedures and that competent candidates are selected; ATR72-600 differences training and subsequent line training are sufficient to ensure that flight crews are competent to operate the ATR72-600 under all normal and abnormal conditions; and All flight crew training records during the employment period are retained in compliance with the aircraft flight operation regulations; [16-06-002]. Standardised flight crew check and training are conducted;. All flight crews comply with standard operating procedures;. All flight crews are proficient in handling abnormal and emergency procedures, including engine flame out at take-off;. The airlines use widely available guidelines to develop, implement, reinforce, and assess the effectiveness of their flight crew resource management (CRM) training programme, particularly the practical application of those skills in handling emergencies;. Command upgrade process and training comply with the airline’s procedures and that competent candidates are selected;. ATR72-600 differences training and subsequent line training are sufficient to ensure that flight crews are competent to operate the ATR72-600 under all normal and abnormal conditions; and. All flight crew training records during the employment period are retained in compliance with the aircraft flight operation regulations; [16-06-002]. that TransAsia Airways improve the airline’s internal quality assurance oversight and audit processes to ensure that recurring safety, training, and administrative problems are identified and rectified in a timely manner. [16-06-003]. that TransAsia Airways implement and document an effective and formal pilot performance review programme to identify and manage pilots whose performance is marginal. [16-06-004]. that TransAsia Airways evaluate the safety culture of the airline to develop an understanding of the reasons for the airline’s unacceptable safety performance, especially the recurring non-compliance with procedures. [16-06-005]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration review airline safety oversight measures to ensure that safety deficiencies are identified and addressed in an effective and timely manner. [16-06-006]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration implement a highly robust regulatory oversight process to ensure that airline safety improvements, in response to investigations, audits, or inspections, are implemented in a timely and effective manner. [16-06-007]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration conduct a detailed review of the regulatory oversight of TransAsia Airways to identify and ensure that the known operational safety deficiencies, including crew non-compliance with procedures, non-standard training practices and unsatisfactory safety management, were addressed effectively. [16-06-008]. that the Civil Aeronautics Administration provide inspectors with detailed