Best practice embedded in the ASSIST principle could be followed (A - Acknowledge; S - Separate, S - Silence; I - Inform, S - Support, T - Time): A - acknowledge the problem, ask for the crews’ intentionsS - separate the aircraft from other traffic, provide accurate and optimal vectorsS - silence the non-urgent calls (as required)I - inform other aircraft and all concerned parties according to local procedures of the reported icingS - support the flight experiencing icing with any information requested and deemed necessaryT - provide, in a timely fashion, a revised clearance to move the affected aircraft out of the icing conditions. In addition, the controller might be required to: Take all necessary action to safeguard all aircraft concerned. Suggest a heading. State the minimum safe altitude. Provide separation or issue essential traffic information, as appropriate. Make an emergency broadcast. Immediate change of level and/or heading. Limitation in rate of climb/descent. Higher speed. In icing conditions: Avoid holding - or provide holding flight levels/altitudes away from the 0°C isotherm.. Enable continuous climb after departure - plan ahead - correct coordination between Twr/App/Control will ensure unrestricted climb.. Keep safety strip clear - due to higher stall speed, aircraft experiencing severe/moderate icing are likely to maintain a higher approach speed. Tower controllers should keep runway safety strips clear during such landings. For details consult the Runway Excursion article.. AIREP to other ACFT, other units and MET - ATCOs should relay all pilot’s reports for adverse MET conditions to other aircraft concerned and to the meteorological office. Often, even the less time-consuming ‘resume’ on the operating frequency provides valuable information for the pilots.. In icing conditions it may be appropriate to remind trainees or less experienced pilots of turboprop aircraft to: Check anti-icing and de-icing systems. Pitot heating. Stall warner heating. Carburettor heating. Propeller heating / de-icing. Wing anti-ice / de-ice. Windshield heating. Descent with higher power setting to increase bleed air supply. Higher approach/landing speed due to increase of stalling speed.