after touchdown by the Captain beginning manual braking with maximum possible brake pedal movement quickly reached but actual brake pressure then intermittently reduced by the anti skid system as patches of standing water were encountered. Twenty three seconds after touchdown, having remained on the runway centreline, the aircraft crossed the end of the runway with a ground speed of approximately 44 knots before eventually stopping after a further 80 metres. The illustration below is annotated accordingly. The Captain then made a PA call of “attention crew on station” and repeated it. Once the airport RFFS had reached the aircraft, they made contact with the flight crew and both passengers and crew subsequently disembarked via air stairs brought to the aircraft. The Captain subsequently stated to the Investigation that whilst he thought he had remained in the flare too long and had been aware that touchdown had consequently been “somewhat late”, he had “not seen the necessity for a go-around procedure”. The First Officer stated that he “had had the impression that a go-around was imminent, but he had not intervened”. He also stated that prior to touchdown the approach lighting “could be seen very well”. It was noted that the landing mass was just under 56 tonnes compared to the MLM of 64.5 tonnes. At the time of the overrun, the prevailing surface visibility was 1,200 metres and the runway 32 RVR was in excess of 2000 metres in “mist and rain” below a cloudbase being reported as 200 feet aal. It was noted that whilst an LNAV non precision approach procedure was available for runway 14, the associated obstacle clearance altitude (OCA) for Cat ‘C’ aircraft such as the A320 was 410 feet QNH, making a successful approach using it unlikely. In respect of the wet runway surface, it was noted that in respect of the achieved braking action against the RCAM categories, it had been between ‘Medium’ and ‘Good to Medium’ (see the second illustration below). The pilots used the RCAM method during their landing distance calculation and classified the runway braking action as ‘Good to Medium’ which showed a distance of 130 metres in excess of the required landing distance and Airbus confirmed that the calculated distance was “close to the actual values”. The Sylt Aerodrome Diagram annotated with data derived from analysis of FDR data. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The Investigation made no findings which would have impaired a safe landing under the prevailing conditions. There was some conflict between the statements given by the airport operator than the runway surface had only been damp and other evidence. On balance, it was concluded that the runway surface had been “contaminated with standing water”. The Investigation was unable to assess the amount of rubber contamination on the runway and no documentation to show when the last rubber removal procedure had been performed was available. It was considered that “contamination of the runway with water in not ascertainable quantity in combination with an unmeasured but existing amount