of rubber deposit” together constituted a contributory factor in the reduced braking action recorded and the consequent increase in the stopping distance required. In terms of the approach speed flown, it was found that the runway threshold had been crossed at approximately 151KCAS compared to the EFB VAPP calculation of 131 KIAS but it was not possible to determine what VAPP had been calculated by the MDCU or establish why the Captain had asked for a 5 knot addition to the VAPP originally set on the MDCU. It was, however, certain that whilst this increase would have added to the landing distance required, the original calculation had not been updated. The braking friction coefficient relative to the code for landing distance calculation. [Reproduced from the Official Report] Overall, the Investigation considered that based on the calculation of the landing distance required - 1,990 metres - “both pilots must have been aware that the safety margin was extremely small and about 130 metres long”. It was clear that especially on a short runway, in this case one which was also “covered with water”, a positive touchdown without a prior long flare was necessary. It was further considered that the Captain “should have considered this in a risk assessment and included it in his approach briefing". The importance of effective CRM as a safety mechanism was noted with its fundamental point being that “flight crew members monitor and observe each other and share which actions deviate from the standard procedure and give correction instructions”. Meaningful teamwork on the flight deck also means that the other person is included in the decision making process in which case, the First Officer would have felt able to call for a go-around in accordance with the operator’s SOP. It was concluded that “given the circumstances, one of the pilots should have made the go-around call” and that had this happened at the appropriate time, the runway excursion would have been prevented. The Cause of the Runway Excursion was formally documented as “the non-performance of the go-around procedure”. A Contributory Factor was also identified as “the addition of a 5 knot increase to the originally calculated VAPP and the consequent increase in landing distance required”. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 15 October 2020 and released the following month. No Safety Recommendations were made in respect of “organisation and procedures” related to the event since “at the end of 2017 the operator declared bankruptcy (and) there is no legal successor”.