An Investigation was carried out by the German Federal Bureau of Accident Investigation (BFU). The SSFDR and SSCVR were both removed from the aircraft and their relevant data was successfully downloaded. The Brake Steering Control Unit (BSCU) and the Centralised Fault Display System (CFDS) were also removed and data from the latter analysed. It was noted that the 61 year-old Captain, who was PF for the investigated flight, had a total of approximately 17,000 hours flying experience which included 5,757 hours on type. The 35 year-old First Officer had a total of 6,148 hours flying experience which included 4,038 hours on type. The flight was the first of the day for both pilots. The TAF for Sylt indicated that the cloudbase was such that it would be necessary to make an ILS approach for which only runway 32 was equipped and this request was made and approved. During the subsequent approach briefing, the approach and go-around procedures and the anticipated tail wind component were discussed and a ‘medium’ auto brake setting was selected. Clearance for the approach was given and flap 1 was selected, followed after about 20 seconds by flap 2. By around 11 nm from touchdown, the aircraft was fully established on the runway 32 ILS and was transferred to TWR. Passing about 2,500 feet QNH, the AP and A/THR were disconnected and soon afterwards, landing clearance was given with the spot wind 140°/11 knots and the advice that the runway was “wet with water patches”. This prompted a discussion between the pilots as to whether to change the previously selected auto brake “medium” setting but it was agreed to leave it where it was. Half a minute later, the landing gear was selected down and after a further half minute, flap 3 was selected. The Captain then instructed the First Officer to add 5 knots to the previously set VAPP on the Mode Control Unit (MDCU) and then requested full flap selection and called for the landing checklist with the aircraft about 4½ nm from touchdown. As the aircraft passed 400 feet agl with sufficient visual reference to complete a landing not yet acquired, the Captain said "land". The TWR controller then passed the spot wind of 140°/10 knots and just before the applicable DA of 230 feet QNH was reached, the Captain called runway in sight and said “continue”. The runway threshold was crossed at approximately 50 feet agl with a 163 knot ground speed. The aircraft began to float in the flare and six seconds after crossing the threshold, the Captain was recorded as saying to himself in German “come on, go down” followed one second later by the automatic callout “five“ and then the same again two seconds later. Touchdown followed approximately 930 metres past the threshold of the 2,120 metre-long runway 12 seconds after crossing it. This was about 4 seconds longer than the average time to touchdown during the 20 previous landings recorded on the DFDR. Autobrake was deactivated about 5 seconds