the conflicting aircraft, its rate of change and the change of this rate". It was also noted that "the measures to be taken in response to (RIMCAS Alerts/Warnings) are not the subject of specific procedures or particular attention during the regular training for emergency situations". The Investigation found that since the event which was the subject of the Investigation, there had been three breaches of the prescribed minimum separation between traffic on approach and departing or previously-landed traffic with varying RIMCAS Alert/Warning activations. It was concluded that the amber RIMCAS activation in effect is visual only and also that a Warning has no aural element, because "the RIMCAS system is better adapted to issuing alerts conditioned by the low-visibility operation procedures" in which approaching traffic subject to an 8 nm minimum separation that the runway controller manages by reference to his A-SMGCS screen. Under these conditions it is no longer possible to add an aircraft into the arrival/departure sequence so that RIMCAS amber Alerts "are in principle triggered only by runway incursions" which can be resolved based on the 80 second advance warning. More generally, it was considered that the fact that RIMCAS activation is based on time whereas minimum separations on/over the runway are defined as distances "may be perceived by controllers as a shortcoming in the effectiveness of the system". It was noted that the crew of the 737 had done everything they could to alleviate the potential conflict by promptly following the controller's requests to reduce speed. It was also noted that in a situation such as that encountered by the 737, pilots may decide to go around which cause airborne conflict with traffic departing ahead and that where they continue in the expectation of a landing clearance issued whilst a departing aircraft is still on the runway, a subsequent rejected take off by the departing aircraft may lead to separation on the ground becoming "highly critical". In respect of the decision making of the controller involved, for whom the prevailing workload was assessed as "medium", it was considered that: The starting point of the Serious Incident was the decision to introduce a relatively slow PC12 into the final phase of an arrival/departure sequence of two category 3 twin-jet aircraft. By instructing the PC12 to climb at its best rate when he intended for it to turn left only after it had passed the Geneva VOR, the controller delayed the point at which he could clear the F100 for take-off.. The stress caused by the dangerous convergence of the 737 and the F100 led to the controller failing to appreciate the relative motion of the two aircraft, given that he had "thought that separation was being restored when the RIMCAS red Warning was triggered". In fact, the difference in ground speeds was then still 55 knots (the 737 being faster) and it was not until 14 seconds later that the convergence ended.. An aural element for the amber RIMCAS Alert "would have drawn the controller's attention to