of the A-SMGCS runway monitoring display but "the controller, who was busy looking outside in order to manage his traffic, did not notice the alert". Fifteen seconds later, these two radar labels turned red and a simultaneous aural alert was generated which indicated that the situation "was becoming critical and that immediate corrective action should be considered". The 737 was at a height of 200 feet, 0.5 nm from the runway threshold and 1,215 metres from the F100 which was passing taxiway 'F' and accelerating through 85 knots. At this point, the Controller reported having "judged that separation was being re-established and considering that a go-around was not necessary" and deciding that the alternative of instructing the 737 to go around and the F100 to reject take-off "had an uncertain outcome" and so decided not to intervene. The 737, still closing on the 100, was cleared to land and as it crossed the runway threshold it was 1,206 metres behind the F100 and the two aircraft were both travelling at the same ground speed of 134 knots. Thereafter, the distance between them increased. The 737 pilots reported having "mutually confirmed that the aircraft which was taking off had indeed lifted off and continued the approach" and stated that it had "seemed to them that the reduced separation minima were complied with". Four seconds later, the F100 became airborne and three seconds after that, the 737 touched down, subsequently vacating the runway normally on taxiway 'C'. In connection with multiple line ups and reduced separation minima, it was noted that: an aircraft landing after a departing aircraft must not cross the landing threshold until the departing aircraft has passed a point at least 2,400 meters from the landing threshold of the runway and is airborne.. When an aircraft lines up at the beginning of runway 05, the lining up of another aircraft for an intersection take-off is not permitted, except from taxiway 'F' (taxiway 'Z' is further along the runway than taxiway 'F'). A line up clearance should not be issued if the aircraft will be required to hold on the runway "for more than 90 seconds beyond the time it would normally be expected to depart" (the F100 was waiting on the runway for about 2½ minutes). In connection with the alerting provided by RIMCAS (Runway Incursion Monitoring and Collision Avoidance) in respect of aircraft approaching an occupied runway in good visibility conditions such as those which prevailed when the investigated event occurred, it was noted that the initial amber visual alert is triggered when the aircraft on approach reaches 30 seconds flying time from the threshold. If a potential conflict situation persists, then at 15 seconds flying time from the threshold, an aural and visual warning is triggered "which may require immediate corrective action". In the case of an aircraft "close to the runway threshold", the triggering of such a warning "also depends on the distance to the closest point of approach, taking into consideration the observed distance between