Consider the schematic below, where RED indicates areas of severe weather (larger droplet size), gradually decreasing through AMBER and GREEN to clear: Route A: This is the most direct route to your destination BUT it carries the biggest risk to both the aircraft and its occupants. Route B: It would be very tempting to select this route in the belief that you can squeeze through the gap; but the Cb cells beneath may be developing upwards closing off the gap. Tilt the radar down to see what is below this apparent gap between build-ups. Route C: This could appear to be a reasonable balance of risk versus operational need as there are “2 layers of severity” between the current condition and the most severe. However, look at the cell to the right of this route; the rate of change in severity is marked over a short distance, which is indicative of wind shear. Route D: Apart from total avoidance of the systems this is the lowest risk route but it could have operational implications on fuel reserves, timings, etc. When faced with a wall of severe Cumulonimbus cells, in may be prudent to turn back. On the other hand, especially over the ocean or when already some way into an extensive storm system, turning around may not be an option. On such an occasion it is prudent to avoid traversing any areas where the edges of the various severity levels change rapidly e.g. Route E in the diagram below. The preferred route in this example would be Route F, with the aircraft flying at speeds around the Design Manoeuvring Speed. One final scenario is when you become “trapped” in a rapidly developing system, eg in the Inter Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) where Cb build-up can happen at phenomenal rates. Frequent and rapid changes of heading can be required to navigate safe passage through the system and you will need to maintain an awareness of your track; a 30 deg starboard avoidance followed by a further 40 degree starboard avoidance followed by another 40 deg starboard avoidance will soon result in you tracking backwards! On these occasions it may be worth allocating a very clear “split” in crew responsibilities - one pilot monitoring the weather radar and immediate weather avoidance and one pilot monitoring the aircraft navigation.