did not show any faults recorded at the time of the incident. The equipment manufacturer concluded that the malfunction had been "a unique event" and stated that they were not aware of any other such events. The context for the controller's error was considered but no issues with traffic load, time pressure, distraction or fatigue were identified. It was noted that when responding to the STCA activation which had alerted them to the consequences of their issue of a climb clearance, the controller had not followed standard practice in respect of "compromised separation recovery" despite having received routine recurrent training in this area within the previous 12 months. However, it was considered that "the controller’s response to the conflict alert was very prompt and it was effective in resolving the traffic conflict and re-establishing vertical separation". It was also considered that the controller’s decision to abbreviate the normal phraseology was "appropriate with respect to time limitations and their assessment that the tracks of the aircraft were diverging at that time". The formally-recorded Findings of the Investigation were as follows: A Contributing Factor was that: At least partly due to some task-related factors specific to this occasion, the controller did not assess the traffic for potential conflicts before issuing the climb instruction to the flight crew of the westbound A330.. It was also concluded that there had been two other factors that increased risk: The Traffic Collision Avoidance System in the A330 aircraft registered VH-EBO malfunctioned and did not provide the flight crew with traffic information or generate any safety alerts.. The convergence of many published air routes overhead Adelaide, combined with the convergence point being positioned on the sector boundary of the Augusta and Tailem Bend sectors, reduced the separation assurance provided by strategically separated one-way air routes and increased the potential requirement for controller intervention to assure separation. [Safety issue]. One Other Finding was also formally recorded: The reason for the malfunction of the Traffic Collision Avoidance System on the westbound A330 could not be determined and the equipment manufacturer considered it to be a unique event.. Safety Action taken by ANSP Airservices Australia in respect of the identified Safety Issue was notified to the ATSB on 1 September 2014 as follows: The Airservices SkySafe Taskforce - Airspace Stream is reviewing air routes in respect to the following criteria: Identify elements of route structure and airspace usage which generate the highest risk;. Mitigate risks by reducing conflicting traffic streams, increasing systemisation and reducing the impact of human error;. Examine the effectiveness of existing protocols for the regular review of route structure and airspace usage, with specific attention to emerging risks presented by traffic growth. The Taskforce is undertaking a review of the Australian airspace design that contributes to risk. Due to a legacy design feature requiring air routes to be from Navigation Aid to Navigation Aid, the Taskforce is considering that with the advent of GPS and improved aircraft navigation capability the need to track via Navigation Aids may