climbing and diverging to the south on their TCAS display, received a TCAS TA followed (12 seconds after the STCA activation) by a TCAS 'CLIMB' RA. The traffic was then sighted visually and, after 'Clear of Conflict' had been annunciated, the aircraft was returned to FL390. Recorded data from the two aircraft showed that the minimum vertical separation was 650 feet when the two aircraft were 4.1nm apart laterally and that the minimum lateral separation of 1.6 nm had occurred some 14 seconds later when the aircraft were 870 feet apart vertically. By this time, both the vertical and lateral separation were increasing as the aircraft were tracking to intercept separate one-way routes. The prescribed separation minimum was re-established soon afterwards. The Investigation found that the controller involved had qualified eight years previously and all their subsequent experience had been gained in the sub group of Melbourne ACC which included the sectors he was working on the day of the incident. It was noted that he changed to part time "in recent years". It was found that the MATS safety alerting section current at the time of the occurrence did not contain any explicit provision which would enable controllers to abbreviate safety alert and traffic avoidance advice phraseologies as a means to ensure timely provision of advice, but that it did contain a general provision allowing controllers to "exercise their best judgement and initiative when the safety of an aircraft may be considered in doubt". The apparent failure of the TCAS equipment on the westbound aircraft was reviewed. Data from the aircraft Quick Access Recorder confirmed that no TA or RA had been recorded in respect of the investigated incident. The crew also advised that they had "not been able to see other aircraft on their TCAS display during the rest of their flight in situations where the other aircraft’s crews could see them" until reaching the Perth TMA where traffic returns became evident. They reported that they "had been able to see other aircraft on departure from Sydney" and that there had been no annunciation of a TCAS malfunction thereafter. After arrival at Perth, function of the TCAS system BITE did not produce any fault indication Subsequently, a full system test was conducted in Sydney and a failure was identified between Transponder 2 and the TCAS computer and directional antennas. These two components were replaced and a function test confirmed that there was no longer any malfunction. The removed TCAS computer and Transponder 2 (both manufactured by ACSS and having respective P/N 7517900-10012 and 7517800-10100) were sent to the manufacturer in the US for testing in accordance with a test plan agreed to by the participants in the Investigation. The testing did not identify "any incorrect or anomalous findings" and analysis of the TCAS computer’s event log did not show any RAs or TAs corresponding to the incident, although it did record the ground testing performed after the incident. The analysis of the fault log from the transponder unit