An Investigation was carried out by the ATSB. Recorded flight data was retrieved from both aircraft and from the ATS Unit involved. It was noted (see the diagram below) that the ATS Unit concerned was the Melbourne ACC. It was found that the controller in the position responsible for the location where the conflict subsequently occurred had recently added the permanently combined Tailem Bend (TLM) / Kingscote (KSC) sectors to his original area of responsibility, the permanently combined Augusta (AUG) and Spencer (SPN) sectors. At this point he had only just taken over after a period monitoring another controller who was on a familiarisation shift on the TLM/KSC sectors. Low traffic levels were noted to have prevailed in all four sectors. It was established that when just to the west of Adelaide on the one-way air route Q12 at FL380, the westbound A330 requested climb to FL 400, their optimum cruising level, at 1212:57 whilst in the AUG/SPN combined sector. At this point, the controller had their display off-centred to the right whilst assessing pending traffic to the east. On receiving the request, the controller immediately returned their display to the default setting and, a few seconds later, issued the requested clearance, updated the cleared flight level on the aircraft label and re-designated the aircraft track. This action set up a potential conflict because there was no assurance that the prescribed 1000 feet vertical separation would exist when the aircraft passed at a point where there could be less than the required 5nm lateral separation. At the time the climb request for the westbound aircraft was approved, the potentially conflicting eastbound A330 was further west of Adelaide and eastbound on the two-way route J15 in between waypoint YORKE and Adelaide. The crew of the eastbound A330 later reported that they had noticed opposite direction traffic on their Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS) display when they were about 40 nm from it and had heard a flight crew on frequency request and receive a clearance to climb to FL 400. However, they had considered that it could not be the aircraft on their TCAS display since it was too close to them. 17 seconds after the westbound aircraft commenced climb from FL380, the controller acknowledged an Short Term Conflict Alert (STCA) between the two aircraft, subsequently reporting that they had "instantly recognised" the reason for the alert. The STCA was configured to provide an alert before prescribed separation had been lost. The controller responded by instructing the climbing aircraft to "maintain FL 380", to which the response was that the aircraft was descending back to that level. Recorded data from the aircraft showed that it had climbed 350 feet before beginning to descend back to FL380. The crew subsequently reported that they had not seen the other aircraft on their TCAS display and had not received either a TA or an RA in respect of it. Meanwhile, the crew of the eastbound aircraft, who had already observed the westbound aircraft EBO