that the grass adjacent to the runway edge where the excursion had occurred was subject to a monthly cutting regime next due to commence 9 days later. The side force coefficient of runway surface friction was found to be within limits during a routine check carried out just over two weeks prior to the event under investigation. It was noted that although Lion Air had a fleet of 10 Airbus A330 aircraft, the number remaining in operation during the Covid-19 pandemic which was ongoing at the time of the event had been “significantly reduced”. It was also noted that the operator’s simulator training was carried out by contractors based in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore and that travel restrictions had increased the difficulty in maintaining pilot proficiency and recency. The Lion Air OM was found to require, as per regulatory mandate, that “within the preceding 90 days, a pilot must have made a minimum of three takeoffs and landings in the type of aircraft which he is to operate” and that this requirement may be met by use of “an approved visual simulator”. It also stated that if any pilot does not make the three required takeoffs and landings within any consecutive 90-day period “recency of experience must be re-established as provided for in the Lionair Operations Training Manual (OTM)”. Right hand seat qualified Captains were additionally required within the preceding 90 days to have made a minimum of one takeoff and landing from that seat in the type of aircraft which they were to operate. It was noted that the Indonesian Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) which is responsible for the safety regulation of operators, had, on 26 May 2020 issued an exemption from certain pilot proficiency checks and recent experience requirements because of the disruption caused by Covid 19. This was noted to have permitted an aircraft operator to: Assign a pilot who has not conducted a proficiency check in the last 6 months as pilot in command.. Assign a pilot who has not conducted a proficiency check in the last 12 months as second in command.. Assign a pilot who has not met the requirement of recent experience of conducting 3 takeoffs and landings within 90 days.. The following day, the DGCA had issued a further alleviation to allow the extension of pilot proficiency checks with a maximum period of validity of 6 months where the following conditions could be met: The operator must have conducted recurrent aircraft technical ground training and a corresponding check.. Eligible pilots must have experience of more than 3 years or 2,000 consecutive flying hours experience on type and be assessed proficient based on analysis from the last proficiency check and any safety issues since.. Risk assessment and mitigation of the pilot must be made in accordance with the applicable provision.. Two Safety Recommendations have been made at this stage of the Investigation as follows: that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation develops guidance for implementing the alleviation (in respect of pilot