The occurrence was rated by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) - the Komite Nasional Keselamatan Transportasi (KNKT) - as a Serious Incident and an Investigation was commenced. Relevant data from both the CVR and the FDR has been successfully downloaded and relevant recorded ATC communications and information on the prevailing weather conditions were also obtained. It was noted that the 48 year-old Instructor Pilot who was in command and occupying the right hand seat had a total of 16,916 hours flying experience which included 2,216 hours on type. Prior to the investigated flight, his most recent previous flight was one month earlier occupying the left hand seat but it was over six months since he had operated from the right seat. His normal period of proficiency before a routine assessment was required had been extended by the Indonesian CAA for six months beyond its normal end date in accordance with an alleviation issued in May 2020 because he met the specified eligibility conditions. The normal company OM recency requirement for right seat-qualified Captains, which was in accordance with the corresponding regulatory requirement, required that at least one takeoff and landing must have been made from that seat in an aircraft or a simulator in the 90 days prior to any intended further right seat operations. The 46 year-old Captain under supervision, who was occupying the left hand seat, had a total of 17,130 hours flying experience which included 235 hours on type. He had previously been employed by Thai Lion Air where he had gained his qualification to operate in command on the A330 ten months previously. He had not flown since 1 February 2020 following which he had moved to Indonesian-based Lion Air to operate the same type as Captain. The investigated landing was the first of the five sectors or 25 flight hours “standardisation training” required before he could resume his Captaincy unsupervised at his new employer. During the preflight briefing, it was noted that the Medan TAF indicated the possibility of a “light thunderstorm and rain” whilst the TAF for Batam, the alternate was much better. With this information in mind, the Training Captain in command, who was going to occupy the right hand seat as PM for the 2½ hour flight, decided to load an additional 1,200 kg of fuel. After an uneventful flight thus far, with the Captain under supervision acting as PF, the aircraft deviated to the right by about 10 nm to avoid an area of cumulonimbus cloud, following which ATC instructed the flight to proceed to waypoint ‘ZAIDA’, take up the hold and expect an approach to runway 05 at Medan. During this hold, the Captain under supervision suggested that the Training Captain should take over as PF in view of the adverse weather conditions at the airport but he declined and the Captain under supervision continued as PF. The pilots were aware that a company aircraft ahead had gone around due to windshear and that the aircraft following, an