Indonesia Air Asia Airbus A320 had requested runway 23 instead of runway 05. On request, ATC advised that the visibility on final approach was 10 km to which the crew responded by saying that something they described as “the big thundercloud” was visible on the approach and also requested runway 23 for landing. ATC accepted the request and provided radar vectors to position the aircraft for an ILS runway 23 approach. The aircraft subsequently reported established on the ILS 23 LOC and a landing clearance was given with the wind was from 240° degree at 20 knots and the runway wet. As the aircraft passed approximately 1,000 feet QNH, the Captain under supervision passed control of the aircraft to the Training Captain and took over as PM. The TWR controller was then heard advising an aircraft further out on the approach that the wind was from 290° at 11 knots. Passing approximately 500 feet, the AP was disengaged and the PM advised that the wind was from 275° at 6. Then, as the automatic call out of ‘RETARD’ occurred, the PM noticed the aircraft was getting close to the left runway edge and advised the PF to fly right. The aircraft then touched down and the PF used right rudder to realign the aircraft with the runway centreline but the left main landing gear was subsequently found to have departed the runway surface some 370 metres beyond the threshold near to taxiway ‘D’ before fully regaining it after 30 metres and then reaching the runway centreline near to taxiway ‘E’. Once the aircraft speed was down to about 70 knots, the Training Captain handed aircraft control back to the Captain under supervision and the aircraft vacated the runway via taxiway G. The pilot then reported to TWR that on touchdown they had “slightly veered to the left and might have hit a runway light”. Once parked, an engineering inspection found grass in the area of the left main landing gear assembly and deep cuts to the tyres of two of its wheels. A runway inspection was then carried out and two broken runway lights were found. Subsequently, it was found that both the tyre markings and the left main gear tyres themselves had striation marks almost perpendicular to the direction of travel of the aircraft at the time of the excursion (see the second illustration below). There was no evidence that reverted rubber aquaplaning had occurred. The left main gear tyre marks as it left the paved surface. [Reproduced from the Official Report] The tyre striation marks on the runway surface just prior to the excursion. [Reproduced from the Official Report] A SPECI issued for the time of the touchdown gave the surface wind as variable at 11 knots, the prevailing visibility as 700 metres in thunderstorm and rain with these conditions expected to continue temporarily for another half hour. It was noted that the 3,750 metre-long asphalt surface runway was 60 metres wide and equipped with centreline lighting and