Clouds sometimes have supplementary features attached to or partly merged with them. Incus: The upper portion of a Cumulonimbus spread out in the shape of an anvil with a smooth, fibrous or striated appearance. Mamma: Hanging protuberances, like udders, on the under surface of a cloud. Occurs mostly with Cirrus, Cirrocumulus, Altocumulus, Altostratus, Stratocumulus and Cumulonimbus.. Virga: Vertical or inclined trails of precipitation (fallstreaks) attached to the under surface of a cloud that do not reach the Earth’s surface. Occurs mostly with Cirrocumulus, Altocumulus, Altostratus, Nimbostratus, Stratocumulus, Cumulus and Cumulonimbus. Praecipitatio: Precipitation (rain, drizzle, snow, ice pellets, hail, etc.) falling from a cloud and reaching the Earth’s surface. Mostly encountered with Altostratus, Nimbostratus, Stratocumulus, Stratus, Cumulus and Cumulonimbus.. Arcus: A dense, horizontal roll with more or less tattered edges, situated on the lower front part of certain clouds and having, when extensive, the appearance of a dark, menacing arch. Occurs with Cumulonimbus and, less often, with Cumulus.. Tuba: Cloud column or inverted cloud cone, protruding from a cloud base; it constitutes the cloudy manifestation of a more or less intense vortex. Occurs with Cumulonimbus and, less often, with Cumulus.. Asperitas: Well-defined, wave-like structures in the underside of the cloud; more chaotic and with less horizontal organization than the variety undulatus. Asperitas is characterized by localized waves in the cloud base, either smooth or dappled with smaller features, sometimes descending into sharp points, as if viewing a roughened sea surface from below. Varying levels of illumination and thickness of the cloud can lead to dramatic visual effects. Occurs mostly with Stratocumulus and Altocumulus.. Fluctus: A relatively short-lived wave formation, usually on the top surface of the cloud, in the form of curls or breaking waves (Kelvin-Helmholtz Waves). Occurs mostly with Cirrus, Altocumulus, Stratocumulus, Stratus and occasionally Cumulus.. Cavum: A well-defined generally circular (sometimes linear) hole in a thin layer of supercooled water droplet cloud. Virga or wisps of Cirrus typically fall from the central part of the hole, which generally grows larger with time. Cavum is typically a circular feature when viewed from directly beneath, but may appear oval shaped when viewed from a distance. When resulting directly from the interaction of an aircraft with the cloud, it is generally linear (in the form of a dissipation trail). Virga typically falls from the progressively widening dissipation trail. Occurs in Altocumulus and Cirrocumulus and rarely Stratocumulus.. Murus: A localized, persistent, and often abrupt lowering of cloud from the base of a Cumulonimbus from which tuba (spouts) sometimes form. Usually associated with a supercell or severe multicell storm; typically develop in the rain-free portion of a Cumulonimbus and indicate an area of strong updraft. Murus showing significant rotation and vertical motion may result in the formation of tuba (spouts). Commonly known as a 'wall cloud'.. Cauda: A horizontal, tail-shaped cloud (not a funnel) at low levels extending from the main precipitation region of a supercell Cumulonimbus to the murus (wall cloud). It is typically attached to the wall cloud, and the bases of