an assumption for the direction of the wind. Aircraft Category is based on threshold IAS (1.3 x Stall IAS) and is shown on Table 4: Aircraft Category: A: B: C: D: E: Threshold IAS. less than 91 kts. 91 kts or more but less than 121 kts. 121 kts or more but less than 141 kts. 141 kts or more but less than 165 kts. 166 kts or more (but less than 211 kts)*. For PANS OPS only* For PANS-OPS, the TAS is based on aircraft altitude and the visual manoeuvring IAS (Circling IAS). The latter is shown on Table 5: Aircraft Category: A: B: C: D: E: Circling IAS. 100 kts. 135 kts. 180 kts. 205 kts. 240 kts. For US TERPS, TAS calculation is based on aircraft altitude and threshold IAS appropriate to category (shown on Table 4). PANS-OPS assumes a bank angle of 20° for aircraft of all categories. US TERPS assumes a bank angle which varies with aircraft category, but is never less than 20° - see Table 6: Aircraft Category: A: B: C: D: E: Bank Angle (degrees). 25. 25. 20. 20. 22. Because the IAS used for TAS calculation is greater and the assumed bank angle is lower, the radius of the circling area used in PANS-OPS is larger than that used in US TERPS. This means that an obstacle within the assumed circling area calculated using PANS-OPS criteria might fall outside the obstacle area calculated using US TERPS. This is believed to have been a major factor in the following fatal accident, which resulted in considerable loss of life: B762, vicinity Busan Korea, 2002 Additionally, pilots not aware of the increased bank angle expected in US TERPS calculations might, in certain circumstances, stray outside the circling area due to the increased circling radius. In summary, circling procedures based on US TERPS calculations afford considerably lower safety margins than those based on ICAO PANS-OPS. It is therefore essential that pilots understand these differences and are aware of the basis of calculations for all airfields at which they intend to operate, including alternates. The basis for calculation of minima is usually printed on the approach plate (see Further Reading: Jeppesen Chart Basics - a presentation). National authorities or operators may require adjustments to be applied to operating minima to compensate for these differences. Some other less significant differences exist between ICAO PANS-OPS and US TERPS. For details refer to the relevant documents listed below.