failed completely provided that reliable primary data is received. Note that in this case level information will be less reliable and more frequent pilot reports will be necessary.. Sometimes two replies are received at the same time (if the slant range and the bearings of the aircraft the same). This phenomenon is called "garbling" and may result either in the "detection" of a false (non-existing) aircraft or in a target not being detected (the radar considers that there is a false target).. Another phenomenon that may produce false indication is FRUIT (False Replies Unsynchronised In Time or False Replies Unsynchronised to Interrogator Transmissions). This happens when the radar receives a reply from a transponder that has been interrogated by another radar. Since all SSRs operate on the same frequencies, it is not possible to detect that the reply is related to another radar's transmission. Moreover, as the time of the interrogation is not known, the range calculation will most likely be wrong. As a result, a false target may appear on the situational display. Additionally, if another (valid) transponder reply is received at the same time, garbling could occur. Garbling and FRUIT are aggravated by the need of "classic" SSRs to use several interrogations for proper azimuth determination and can be mitigated by: Using an MSSR (monopulse SSR). This is an advanced radar that uses a different beam pattern that provides more accurate azimuth determination. As a result, fewer interrogations are required to determine the azimuth. Mode S selective interrogation. This is a feature of the Mode S SSRs that allows them to interrogate a specific aircraft (other aircraft may receive the interrogation but would ignore it).. Using an MSSR (monopulse SSR). This is an advanced radar that uses a different beam pattern that provides more accurate azimuth determination. As a result, fewer interrogations are required to determine the azimuth.. Mode S selective interrogation. This is a feature of the Mode S SSRs that allows them to interrogate a specific aircraft (other aircraft may receive the interrogation but would ignore it).. SSRs are vulnerable to antenna shadowing (i.e. the onboard antenna is shadowed by the aircraft fuselage, e.g. due to the bank angle). This is mitigated by placing more than one antenna (usually two - one on top of the aircraft and one at the bottom).. The advantages of the PSR and SSR are often combined by co-locating them.