and maintaining flight path control all the way to touchdown.. Excellent teamwork among crewmembers with each focusing on his own area of concern while supporting others both verbally and technically without criticism.. A firm resolve to bring the flight to a successful conclusion. Nobody gave up or gave in to negative thoughts.. The firm yet charismatic behavior of the captain, which ensured effective support.. Good judgment and decision making were exhibited throughout the flight, along with proper and timely setting of priorities. Examples of good judgment and decisions included: The immediate decision of the captain to establish priorities and delegate tasks to his crew based on the assumption of a simple engine failure even though the exact nature of the problem was unknown. This focused them on a manageable set of tasks and avoided fixation on problem-solving, which might have compromised the effective application of the operations golden rules.. A decision by the crew to refrain from pulling the aural warning circuit breaker to silence the multiple alerts and alarms they were receiving. Even though the alerts hindered the clarity of communication with ATC, they preserved awareness of existing failures and any possible additional failures. The crew considered the benefits from the alerts to be sufficiently important to tolerate the intrusive noise.. The decision by the captain to use the resources of the two positioning FEs to assist in making calculations on the fuel dumping procedure and landing weights. This distributed the high workload across five crewmembers rather than three.. The decision by the captain to delay the fuel dumping procedure for a few minutes while overflying inhabited areas at low altitude. This preserved safety on the ground and created additional time for planning.. The captain’s decision to make an overweight landing rather than to risk additional flight time in a crippled aircraft.. The captain’s decision to delay gear extension until 300 ft above ground level to benefit from the attenuated roll and pitch movements produced by ground effect.. The decision to notify ground personnel of the high wheel temperatures to protect them from harm..