This event is an excellent example of how the application of various human factors techniques can combine with technical knowledge and good flying skills to produce effective airmanship and successful problem resolution. The main lessons that can be derived from this event include: Follow SOPs, set clear task priorities and maintain discipline.. Do not abandon good airmanship no matter how desperate the situation appears.. Follow the operations golden rules by considering trajectory control (aviate and navigate) as first priorities, followed by communication and system management.. Be alert for additional unexpected events which often arise under abnormal and emergency conditions.. Practice effective CRM by: Clearly defining objectives (e.g., when the captain decided on an IFTB and an overweight landing). Providing mutual backup and support to other crewmembers whenever possible, even if a full cross-check is not feasible. Communicating all intentions and actions so that the entire crew is fully aware of what is going on. Giving encouragement and constructive advice to fellow crewmembers. Using all available resources.. Clearly defining objectives (e.g., when the captain decided on an IFTB and an overweight landing).. Providing mutual backup and support to other crewmembers whenever possible, even if a full cross-check is not feasible.. Communicating all intentions and actions so that the entire crew is fully aware of what is going on.. Giving encouragement and constructive advice to fellow crewmembers.. Using all available resources.. Keep decision making flexible by: Avoiding the temptation of trying to bring a bad situation to an end quickly. Keeping your options open even after initial decisions have been made. Discussing perceptions and impressions with other crewmembers to refresh situational awareness. Staying ahead of the aircraft at all times. Sharing tasks whenever possible to reserve capacity for additional decision making. Keeping it safe and simple by not engaging in unnecessary analysis while an event is unfolding. There will be abundant time to evaluate what happened after you are safely on the ground.. Avoiding the temptation of trying to bring a bad situation to an end quickly.. Keeping your options open even after initial decisions have been made.. Discussing perceptions and impressions with other crewmembers to refresh situational awareness.. Staying ahead of the aircraft at all times.. Sharing tasks whenever possible to reserve capacity for additional decision making.. Keeping it safe and simple by not engaging in unnecessary analysis while an event is unfolding. There will be abundant time to evaluate what happened after you are safely on the ground..