The following key elements describe the mechanics behind the change in ATM operations. Each element is complemented with a set of questions which could be further expanded in order to provide the understanding of its details. Trigger. What was the specific, first trigger of change? Was there a problem to fix, or a need for improvement? Would the change eventually have occurred (in one way or another) in any case, without this trigger? Pressures. What pressures were exerted to support the change? Against the change? Sources of such pressures? Which stakeholders? How is the pressure exerted? Benefits. Who benefits most from the change? Is there any quantitative evidence of benefit? Is the change accepted as a trade-off for some other benefit? Public Interest. Interface with public – what effect, if any, is expected from interaction with public? How does such interaction work? Is it filtered? Approval. What are the levels of approval required: - national / regulatory authority - local assessment (e.g. airport, local government) Decision. By whom was the final decision to adopt the change announced? What decision-making process is required to adopt change? Who will endorse the change? Timing. Timing of change compared with other changes? Seen as lower / higher priority than would usually, due to other changes taking place / being discussed at same time. How did such other change(s) (if any) improve or worsen attitude to the change in question? Staff motivation? Technical compatibility? Consultation and facilitation. For pilots and controllers - level of interest in change? Ownership? Personal responsibility? Facilitation of change - same as those exerting pressure for change? How well do those exerting pressure understand the process / are able to facilitate it? Public consultation? Level of enforcement? Level of support. - supporting documentation / information - supporting training - supporting tools Could procedure be adapted, e.g. with more, or less, autonomy of decision making, to allow greater compliance / fulfillment? Would greater, or lesser, degree of ‘systemisation’ help? Context of integration? Are there any local, national or environmental constraints? Considering the specific ‘problem’ the change was trying to address, what alternative changes were formally considered, if any? (Alternatives include either completely different types of change, or different ways of carrying out the actual change adopted). Why were alternatives not adopted in end? Still any scope for such alternatives? Consequence of taking no action? Is the alternative acceptable/unacceptable? To whom? Where are there any specific (anticipated) disadvantages of planned change? Again considering the specific ‘problem’ the change was trying to address, to what extent was the adopted change the best way to address the ‘problem’?