Apart from the turning wheels of our own internal psychology directing our moods, there are other, more, prosaic reasons for changes in mood, and an awareness of these is recommended. Hypoxia is known to manifest itself as mental confusion, including: anger, poor judgment, loss of muscle coordination, slouching and loss of consciousness. Mood disturbances are generally extreme and can include deep sorrow, uncontrollable laughing, nervous exhaustion, aggressiveness (even violence) and other antisocial actions. Sometimes a crewmember may appear to be drunk, or enter into a deep depressive state with a complete lack of will to conduct any task. Even the application of oxygen in response to hypoxia can bring on a period of euphoria, or magnify the negative moods originally brought on by the lack of oxygen (oxygen paradox). Fatigue leads to a degraded mood and loss of motivation[3]. Connected to fatigue is the mood trigger Jet Lag, and to some extent, for workers in regions with prolonged Sun-up & Sun-down seasons Seasonal Adjustment Disorder. Interrupting the circadian rhythm can affect the secretion of melatonin, which can act as a mood regulator; also, changing time zones will interfere with sleep patterns in the short-term and contribute to depressed mood. These two triggers will often occur in conjunction with fatigue thereby compounding the problem. Stress, whether it is triggered from personal or work-related situations, changes the chemical balance of the whole body which manifests itself in changed: behaviour, emotions, sensations, mental imagery, thought-processes, interpersonal relationships and tendency to use alcohol, drugs or other “escapist and self-medicating” actions, such as gambling and shopping[4]. Pretty much all of these are preceded by, or followed by mood changes. If the stress is prolonged and severe, then a person’s general day-to-day attitude (outlook) will also change, thereby making negative moods more likely. Stress is an illness that needs to be treated and those suffering from stress need to be understood and not dismissed as “miserable, obnoxious, feeble, or useless”. See your doctor if you think you are suffering from stress. An inability to come to terms with an illness (especially a career, or life-threatening disease), including stress, can clearly lead to depression and other associated conditions. Some illnesses and medical conditions, such as thyroid disease and hormonal imbalances can also contribute to changes in mood (and personality). There is even a group of conditions whose primary identifying symptom is mood change – Mood Affective Disorder[5]. Some people are very good at disguising psychological conditions, such as bulimia and body dysmorphic disorder, and can be considered as “high-functioning”; their “disguise” will be a projected “false” mood. Keep an open dialogue with your doctor and employer regarding progress of treatment for an illness. Some medicines are specifically designed to “improve” a patient’s mood, from depression to a more functional level – e.g. anti-depressants like fluoxetine and olanzapine. In fact some National Aviation Authorities have recently permitted pilots to fly whilst taking anti-depressant medication (with some conditions). However, these drugs can have side-effects that paradoxically amplify the original