The Investigation found that the accident occurred because: “the crew lost control of the airplane as a consequence of entering a stall immediately after takeoff due to an improper airplane configuration involving the non-deployment of the slats/flaps following a series of mistakes and omissions, along with the absence of the improper takeoff configuration warning”. It was also concluded that: “The crew did not identify the stall warnings and did not correct said situation after takeoff. They momentarily retarded the engine throttles, increased the pitch angle and did not correct the bank angle, leading to a deterioration of the stall condition. The crew did not detect the configuration error because they did not properly use the checklists, which contain items to select and verify the position of the flaps/slats, when preparing the flight”. And that specifically, that the flight crew: did not carry out the action to select the flaps/slats with the associated control lever (in the ‘After Start’ checklist);. did not cross check the position of the lever or the status of the flap and slat indicating lights when executing the ‘After Start’ checklist;. omitted the check of the flaps and slats during the ‘Takeoff Briefing’ item on the ‘Taxi’ checklist;. and that “the visual check done when executing the ‘Final Items’ on the ‘Takeoff imminent’ Checklist was not a real check of the position of the flaps and slats as displayed on the instruments in the cockpit”. The following Contributing Factors were also identified: The absence of an improper takeoff configuration warning resulting from the failure of the TOWS to operate, which thus did not warn the crew that the airplane’s takeoff configuration was not appropriate. The reason for the failure of the TOWS to function could not be reliably established.. Improper crew resource management (CRM), which did not prevent the deviation from procedures in the presence of unscheduled interruptions to flight preparations.. A total of 33 Safety Recommendations were made by CIAIAC as a result of the Investigation of which 8 were issued whilst the Investigaton was in progress as follows: That the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) require the manufacturer, the Boeing Company, to include in its Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) for the DC-9 and MD-80 series, in the Troubleshooting Manual (TSM) for the MD-90 series, and in the Fault Isolation Manual (FIM) for the 717 series, specifically identified instructions to detect the cause and to troubleshoot the fault involving the heating of the RAT temperature probe while on the ground.. [REC 01/09] That the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States establish mandatory airworthiness instructions to modify the procedures contained in the aircraft flight manuals for the Boeing DC-9, MD-80, MD-90 and B-717 series so as to include a functional check of the TOWS prior to each flight.. [REC 07/09] That the European Aviation Safety Agency and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the United States require the Boeing Company to evaluate the operating conditions,