and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) require takeoff stall recovery as part of initial and recurring training programs of airline transport pilots.. [REC 18/11] That the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) study and assess the stall recovery procedure in the Aircraft Flight Manuals (AFM) of large transport airplanes to include a check of the flap/slat lever and its adjustment, if required.. [REC 19/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) establish requirements for flight simulators so as to allow simulator training to cover sustained takeoff stalls that reproduce situations that could exceed the flight envelope limits.. [REC 20/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), in keeping with ICAO initiatives, introduce in its regulations the concept of critical phases of flight and define those activities considered acceptable during said phases.. [REC 21/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and national civil aviation authorities, when evaluating operator training programs, expressly ensure that: the concept of sterile cockpit is stressed, the importance of adhering to said concept is stressed, along with the consequences of even minor distractions, and examples of accidents are included in which non-compliance with regulations involving the sterile cockpit was a relevant factor.. the concept of sterile cockpit is stressed,. the importance of adhering to said concept is stressed, along with the consequences of even minor distractions, and. examples of accidents are included in which non-compliance with regulations involving the sterile cockpit was a relevant factor.. [REC 22/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ensure that national authorities require commercial air transport operators to prohibit their crews from using personal portable electronic devices on the flight deck.. [REC 23/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) develop guidance material for the preparation, evaluation and modification of checklists associated with normal, abnormal and emergency procedures that is based on the criteria that govern safety management systems.. [REC 24/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) clarify whether or not checklists are subject to the acceptance of national authorities and, if so, that it draft instructions so that said authorities apply uniform criteria and methodologies, such as methods for assessing the systems and procedures in use at the operators for managing checklists and quality assurance systems in general.. [REC 25/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) perform investigations or studies intended to know the status of application and the real effectiveness of the current (EU) requirements applicable to Crew Resources Management (CRM). The results of these studies should permit to identify the weak points existing in this field and should contain proposals on how to strengthen them.. [REC 26/11] That the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) standardise the CRM training that must be provided to the operations inspectors of national authorities, and define the criteria that must be met by said inspectors in order to exercise their duties as inspectors in the area of CRM.. [REC 27/11] That Spanair expand its operations and instructional procedures to clearly specify the methodology and