An Investigation was carried out by the Spanish Accident Investigation Board, the Comisión de Investigación de Accidentes e Incidentes de Aviación Civil (CIAIAC). Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data were available to aid reconstruction of the event, but some of the FDR data was corrupt due to a recorder fault. It was noted that prior to the accident take off attempt, the aircraft had taxied out for departure but had returned for engineering attention to a faulty Ram Air Temperature (RAT) probe heating which had been functioning on the ground contrary to design intent. It was found that release to service based upon an incorrect application of the Minimum Equipment List (MEL) had occurred, but that this could not be linked to the subsequent accident. It was established that the takeoff, with the aircraft commander as PF had been unintentionally attempted without the flaps/slats being set to the required and intended position. Four seconds after becoming airborne over the runway, the stick shaker had activated and both pitch and roll control were lost as a stall occurred. The crew did not realise that the incorrect configuration was causing their problem and after 14 seconds airborne, the aircraft, having taken up a northeasterly track, impacted terrain at a position some 60 metres from the runway centerline. It continued for a further 1093 metres before coming to a final stop. It briefly became airborne again on reaching the edge of the elevated runway strip before further final impact led to break up and an intense fire. A maximum height of 40 ft was reached. It was found that there had been no activation of the take off warning system (TOWS) during the take off roll and it proved impossible to establish reliably what caused the TOWS to malfunction. However, it was found that there had been many previous instances in the world fleet where inoperative TOWS had been linked to faults with RAT probe heating like the one which had led to the accident aircraft returning to the gate after its initial departure. This association was attributed to a ground sensing relay which was by design common to both the airborne-only RAT probe heating and the on-ground only TOWS. However, in the specific case of the accident aircraft, no such association could be proved. Breach of SOPs during the taxi phases of the flight in respect of both the use of personal phones and in respect of the principle of a sterile flight deck had occurred. However, the key indiscipline was a failure by the crew to complete various Normal Checklists properly. Some items had been omitted and / or required items not actioned or checked. Conversations with a third person in the flight deck on topics that were irrelevant to the pilots’ duties were also noted and were considered to have contributed to a degree of crew distraction from their primary tasks. The Investigation noted that the TOWS was required to be operational prior to dispatch of