a flight but that whereas at Spanair, a check of the system was only specified for the first flight of the day, the corresponding recommendation in the Boeing FCOM was a check on the first flight of the day and on “through flights”, a term that was not clearly defined. The accident aircraft had no provision for the annunciation of TOWS failure to the crew and it was noted that the design criteria for TOWS like the one installed in MD 80 series aircraft were those of a back-up system rather than those of an essential system as required for certification of newer aircraft types based on more demanding reliability standards. This was allowable because ‘grandfather rights’ dating to the original DC9 family certification applied. The Investigation found several factors potentially related to pilot knowledge and training deficiencies which it was considered were the basis for human errors at various stages of the operation. It was considered that although Spanair CRM training was in compliance with regulatory requirements, “the circumstances of the accident pointed to bad coordination and improper CRM that failed to mitigate the individual errors made by both pilots”. The failure of training to include recognition and recovery from a take off stall was also noted, as were concerns in respect of use of the MEL, including generic concern that European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) guidance did not require that the source of a malfunction be identified as a precondition to the raising of an ADD - in the case of the accident aircraft the one for the faulty RAT probe heating activation - and other airworthiness issues. Inadequate regulatory oversight of both flight operations and continuing airworthiness at Spanair was also highlighted in the particular context of the pace of change in the Spanair operation and the case for enhanced regulatory oversight at such times. Various issues relating to the effectiveness of the Madrid Airport RFFS function were also noted during the Investigation. The Investigation considered the record of prior accidents and incidents involving inappropriate take off configuration and subsequent stall for which the TOWS did not provide a warning including an MD82 at Detroit (1987), a Boeing 737 at Medan, Indonesia (2005) and an MD83 at Lanzarote, Spain (2007). Various Safety Action taken during the course of the Investigation, including by Boeing to improve the clarity of various documentation which was found to be open to mis-interpretation, was also noted.