organisation to the one used at Manchester. On this occasion, the crew of another Flybe aircraft departing from the same runway 15 minutes later reported "a foreign object" on it and a runway inspection requested by ATC found the engine access panel 300 metres from the threshold of the runway. The panel was subsequently found missing after the aircraft it came from had arrived in Glasgow. This panel too had been found with all its latches closed and it was found to have caused damage to the left wing leading edge de-icing boot and the wing skin as a result of its detachment. The Flybe response to the Belfast event had been to issue a 'Notice to Engineers' which required that "following completion of all work either an independent person carries out a walk-round inspection to verify all access panels are fitted/secure, or the certifying engineer must return after a notable period of time for a double check of the security of the disturbed panel security" and stated that "the independent person could be a technician or a pilot, and the notable period of time could be after completion of paper work". The Investigation found that this Notice "did not require the additional walk-round inspection to be recorded in the maintenance paperwork or the aircraft Technical Log". It also noted that Flybe 'Notices to Engineers' were not being copied to their contracted maintenance organisations and so the Manchester personnel were unaware of the previous Belfast event. In addition, a Flybe "expectation" that each item on the Daily Check Task Sheet would be signed for and the individual pages would each then be certified complete before the corresponding 'Daily Check completed’ entry was made in the aircraft Technical Log was done, and the Flybe procedure requiring that signed hard copies of the task sheets and Technical Log pages should then be posted to the their HQ, were being universally ignored. It was found that the way in which the maintenance personnel in both events had inadvertently not secured the access panel they had had to open to accomplish the oil check was considered in some detail. It was concluded that in the absence of a AMM procedure detailing how this should be done, it was found from interviewing contractor engineers at both Belfast and Manchester that a common technique was being used to secure the engine access panel which meant it was occasionally possible for the panel locking pins not to be engaged in the receiving fixtures on the nacelle side. Once this had happened, the only evidence of the unlatched condition would be a very small gap between the access panel and the surrounding nacelle panels which would not be easily noticed when on steps looking down from above in darkness and relying on a head torch to supplement area lighting. It was also observed that the difficulty in seeing any gap "would have been further exacerbated on the incident aircraft as the surrounding panels were painted purple rather than