An Investigation was carried out by the UK AAIB. The access panel involved was found to have been the outboard main engine bay access panel on the left engine, one of two such panels on each engine, one on each side. The aircraft's vertical stabiliser skin was found to have been punctured on both sides. Impact marks were also present on the stabiliser leading edge de-icing boot and both VOR/LOC antennas had sustained damage. The panel was subsequently found in a grass area alongside the runway approximately 440 metres from the runway threshold and "sections of the panel hold-open strut were also recovered from the runway and adjacent paved areas in the same vicinity" (see the illustration below). All four latches on the recovered panel were in the closed position. It was noted that the departure involved was the first flight of the day and that the aircraft had been remotely parked away from the gate used overnight. Whilst it was so parked, the operator’s contracted maintenance organisation had carried out a routine 'Daily Check' on the aircraft that included checking the oil level in the left engine which required opening the nacelle panel - which was subsequently lost. Forty minutes prior to departure, the crew who were to operate the aircraft arrived at the gate to which it had positioned and 20 minutes after that, with 20 minutes remaining until the STD, the 45 year-old Captain - who had 7,120 hours total flying experience but only 142 hours on type after joining the Company five months previously - conducted the pre flight external check. As it was still dark, he used a torch to supplement the area lighting but "did not identify any issues with the aircraft". Airport CCTV footage of this inspection being conducted showed that it lasted three minutes in total and had included the access panel area being illuminated by torchlight. The push back crew subsequently "conducted their own walk-around check of the aircraft, also identifying nothing of note" and the aircraft departed the gate on time and taxied to Runway 23R for takeoff. Once airborne, the apparently uneventful 90 minute flight to Hannover was completed. Once the passengers had disembarked, the attending ground crew advised that a panel was missing from the left engine. Having inspected the aircraft, the crew then contacted Flybe Maintenance Control who in turn informed Manchester Airport Operations staff who then, over two hours after the aircraft had taken off from Manchester, conducted an inspection of runway 23R which led to the discovery of the missing panel and its attachments. The Investigation found that an identical but previously unreported event had occurred in respect of the same panel on the same aircraft just over a month previously just after it had taken off from runway 22 at Belfast in darkness on the first flight of the day. In this case, the preceding overnight stop at Belfast had also involved the same Daily Check being carried out by a different contracted maintenance