white, providing much less contrast to the shadow cast by the access panel". This situation was reproduced in trials and demonstrated by photographic evidence in representative lighting conditions. The Flight Operations requirements for pilot pre flight external inspections included in the Operations Manual Part 'B' were noted to include the need to pay "particular attention....to ensure that all panels, equipment bay doors (and) engine cowlings are properly closed and secure" with "the inboard and outboard engine access panels....highlighted as a specific checklist item". However, evidence assembled during the Investigation indicated that there was no effective and universally applied pilot training and familiarisation on these 'panel closed and secure checks'. The Investigation noted that the pushback crew had also not detected the unsecured hatch during their pre push back walk-around but accepted that they could be expected to detect more than obvious impediments to departure. However, it was noted that they had not been provided with any relevant safety information by Flybe and that it would be in any aircraft operator’s interest to ensure that ramp crews had access to and understood safety-specific information relevant to their walk-round task. Bombardier advised the Investigation that over a period of 12 years, they were aware of "nine other incidents of engine access panel loss in-flight" in the type world fleet, with the evidence available in each case indicating that, as in the two Flybe cases, all the panel latches had been closed. The overall Conclusion of the Investigation was that "(although) the aircraft sustained limited damage which did not compromise its ability to complete the flight safely....there was the potential for more serious damage to occur and the departure of such a large panel from the aircraft could also have endangered people on the ground". Safety Action taken as a result of the event during and known to the Investigation included the following: Flybe revised their procedure for maintenance personnel to require that a sticker must be placed over the bottom of the panel when it is closed in order to provide a visual and tactile confirmation to the engineer that the panel is correctly closed and their pilots were advised of this new procedure. They also introduced a new requirement for their in-house 'Notices to Engineers' to be copied to their various contracted maintenance organisations.. Bombardier "commenced development of a modification" which will add a pictorial advisory label to each engine access panel to provide guidance on how to ensure that it is correctly closed and latched. They also issued an "AMM Temporary Revision" which included instructions on how to correctly close the engine nacelle access door.. . The Cause of the panel loss was formally stated as "following overnight maintenance work, the outboard engine main access panel on the No 1 engine was not securely closed by the engineer, due to the latch bolts not engaging in the nacelle receiving features when the latches were closed". Possible Contributory Factors were identified as: the technique used by the engineer of closing the