they are the last link in the chain before the aeroplane is ready to take off. Therefore one can be blamed for a possible delay. They recognised that there is always an expectation that departures will be on time and although there was obvious pressure from pilots, it also came from colleagues. In many cases they felt that such pressure was “unreasonable” because “not enough time is allocated to the de-icing procedure”. They also felt that the function is generally understaffed quoting the example that “a person who is loading an aeroplane can be suddenly assigned to do the de-icing procedure without being informed of this task in advance”.. The aircraft operator advised that the boarding gate is usually closed ten minutes before departure after which the Captain must have the load and trim sheet for approval and acceptance not less than seven minutes before departure. Only after this acceptance is complete can the doors be closed and de-icing, when required, then commence. The contract between the aircraft operator and Aviator for aircraft de icing at Gothenburg was found to require them to “remove frost ice and snow from aircraft using de-icing fluid” and to “perform final inspection after de-icing/anti-icing operations and inform flight crews of results”. The aircraft operator was a member of the ‘Northpool’ fuel and de-icing audit group and Aviator’s de-icing function for them at Gothenburg had been most recently audited towards the end of the 2015/16 winter season. A finding during that audit that Aviator’s quality assurance programme had not been implemented prior to the start of the 2015/16 season had been addressed by action acceptable to Northpool. On the basis of the evidence gathered, the Investigation made a series of observations relating to the de icing operation which included, but were not limited to, the following: the de-icing order did not cover the underside of the elevators and ailerons because it was not appreciated that there were any frozen deposits there. The inspection of the elevators was conducted from ground level in the dark and was inadequate. It was in any case difficult to detect visually.. the poor delivery of the de-icing requested was considered to be less a result of a lack of “current knowledge and know-how” than a consequence of the time constraints, including self imposed ones, which created circumstances conducive to rushing to complete.. there is widespread confusion about whether the “incorporated” method of post de-icing inspection - inspection conducted during the de icing operation - is as effective as a separate inspection afterwards. SHK takes the view that “it is reasonable to assume that the risk of missing residual ice or other contamination is greater when using the incorporated method than when using a separate control”. However, it was noted that the incorporated method is consistent with the former AEA guidelines to which both ICAO and EASA refer and although these are not binding, “they have become normative for both operators and regulators through ICAO’s and EASA’s references to them (and)