An Investigation was carried out by the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority (SHK). No arrangements to protect the FDR data were made after the flight but equivalent QAR data relevant to the event were successfully downloaded. Relevant data on the 30 minute CVR was overwritten after the crew “forgot” to electrically isolate it after the flight. It was found that the 49 year-old Captain had accumulated 9,994 total flying hours which included 7,220 hours on type and the 43 year-old First Officer had accumulated 5,584 flying hours which included 3,000 hours on type. The First Officer was the designated PF for the flight but the Captain took over that role at the onset of the severe airframe vibrations. It was established that prior to the flight, the aircraft had been parked outside for approximately 40 hours during which time there had been rain followed by snow and sleet with the temperature varying between “a few degrees above freezing” and -5°C. It was noted that during this period the wind direction was such that precipitation impacted the aircraft from behind and that the elevators of this aircraft type are usually angled upwards when parked. Independently conducted pre-flight inspections of the aircraft by both the Operator’s engineer and the aircraft Captain confirmed that ground de-icing would be required. The Captain contacted the de-icing team and instructed them to perform “a one-step de-icing of wings, stabiliser, rudder and fuselage”. This was then carried out on stand using an “Elephant” de icing vehicle crewed by two people. Upon completion, the Captain received a verbal report of the start time of the de-icing, the quantity of fluid used and the type of fluid used - Type 1. A full record of the de-icing operation was recorded on the airport CCTV system. After completion of pushback and engine start, the crew carried out the flight control check specified in the ‘After De-icing’ Checklist which included holding the elevators in a specified position for 30 seconds so as to allow any fluid which might have been in the inside of the elevator to drain out. The subsequent takeoff was from runway 03 in light winds and a surface temperature of -5° C. QAR data confirmed crew reports of excessive vibrations beginning during acceleration as the airspeed passed 214 knots at about 3,200 feet. The commander reported having taken control of the aircraft and disconnecting the AP. The First Officer declared an “emergency” and a wish to return to Gothenburg ATC. The crew then carried out the QRH drill for a ‘Pitch Oscillation’ and as the airspeed reduced as required by this procedure, the vibrations, having continued for a recorded 48 seconds, ceased. When airspeed was again increased, similar vibrations occurred for a recorded 26 seconds, until it was again reduced, this time to about 180 KIAS. A descent and an immediate left turn were made to position visually for a straight-in approach to runway 21 and the rest of the flight was uneventful with the crew announcing a