it is therefore important that (they) are properly evaluated and secured”.. There is considerable ambiguity as to exactly what a “post-de-icing check” represents. It is certainly not widely seen by service provider personnel as meaning that frozen deposits on the specified surfaces have been removed rather that the required action has been completed. It “should also be noted that the (aircraft) Operator has not specified what method of checking after de-icing should be used despite the applicable regulatory requirements”.. It was formally concluded that the Cause of the event was “partly the fact that the operator lacked detailed enough procedures for performing a complete contamination inspection and that existing routines were not fully applied and partly the fact that the operator had not properly checked, evaluated and controlled the subcontractor’s working methods”. One Contributory Factor was also identified as “that the de-icing operation had insufficient organisational support to help the staff resist requests for an on time departure and to ensure that the de-icing was properly executed despite actual or perceived time shortage”. Three Safety Recommendations were issued as follows: that the ICAO should investigate and evaluate the risks of recommended methods for de-icing and post-de-icing check, especially the incorporated method as referred to in the ICAO Annex 6, Part I, Doc 9640 and consider and decide whether the reference should be changed. [RL 2017:10 R1]. that the EASA should investigate and evaluate the risks of recommended methods for de-icing and post-de-icing check, especially the incorporated method referred to in the referenced documents in GM3 CAT.OP.MPA.250 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012, and consider and decide whether the reference should be changed. [RL 2017:10 R2]. that the Swedish Transport Agency should evaluate the need to change their supervisory procedures to ensure that AOC holders have appropriate procedures for contamination inspection and de-icing operations. [RL 2017:10 R3]. The Final Report of the Investigation was published on 7 December 2017.