“normal operations” status to the TWR controller on short final. Once the aircraft was back on stand, the Captain made a defect entry in the aircraft Technical Log reporting “strong sudden vibrations after flap retraction at 200 knots, slowed to 180 knots and vibrations ceased, approach normal”. The pilots stated that they had “forgotten to perform the procedures to preserve CVR and FDR recordings after the occurrence”. The Operator’s engineer inspected the aircraft in order to establish the source of the vibrations and found that there was “extensive ice contamination on the primary and secondary flight control surfaces, mainly on the elevators, rudder, ailerons and flaps” which was recorded on photographs including the ones below. Contamination was also found on the underside of several flight control surfaces. All the ice was removed and, after a flight test, the aircraft was released for service without consulting the manufacturer to see if any inspections to ensure that no damage had occurred to the aircraft were appropriate. Later inspections of the elevator system detected play in the elevator dampers and drop-links that were beyond normal tolerances but it was not possible to determine whether this deterioration had occurred before, during the course of or after the investigated event. When the vibrations occurred following the procedure for pitch oscillation meant an airspeed reduction and this led to the vibrations ceasing. However, the speed was reduced to a lower speed than that prescribed in this procedure. The crew subsequently stated that the vibrations experienced seemed significantly stronger, more abrupt and at a higher frequency than the vibrations experienced during simulator training for “Pitch Oscillation”. It was concluded that prior to the pre-departure attempt at de-icing, frozen deposits on the airframe including flight control surfaces were likely to have initially consisted of “several layers of ice and snow”. Ice contamination of the underside of the elevator and ailerons was probably due to the fact that the aircraft was parked tail into wind and that those surfaces which had ice on the underside had been angled towards the wind. The frequencies measured during the vibrations were found to have been similar to those recorded during previous occurrences of airframe vibration in flight on the aircraft type involved but were “too high to represent a rigid body motion of an aeroplane of this size”. All the available evidence pointed to the most likely cause of the vibrations being ice loading on the elevators which had increased their weight and set up a dynamic interaction with aerodynamic forces and the structural vibration modes of the entire airframe to create a flutter instability with limited amplitude, a so-called “limit-cycle oscillation” (LCO). It was noted, without any implied criticism of the type certification process, that the aircraft type involved was, by design, potentially sensitive to relatively small mass imbalances and thus “at an increased risk of aeroelastic instabilities such as flutter”, especially those arising from, for example, very small amounts of excess weight on control surfaces such as an elevator servo