tab. The Investigation sought to establish more about the de icing operation which, given clear skies and an absence of precipitation during the short flight, clearly indicated that it had not been effective. It had been carried out by a contractor called ‘Aviator Airport Services Sweden’ (Aviator) and should have been in accordance with the procedures contained in their general De/Anti Icing Manual (DIM) and their ‘Local Procedure Document’ for services at Gothenberg. Their employee who had carried out the fluid spraying stated that the operation being investigated was his personal first one of the 2016/17 winter season and he had not yet completed the annual refresher training for 2016/17 which was required to have been completed by 31 December 2016. He also stated that he was usually the vehicle driver rather than the fluid sprayer and that the Captain ordered a de-icing of the stabiliser, fuselage and wings but that he “clearly remembered” that de-icing of the lower surfaces of the stabiliser and wings had not been included. He described the de icing carried out as “a rushed operation” but remarked that this was not unusual given the pressure to support “every time on time” departures. He also noted that several more departing aircraft had been in the queue for de-icing and that the wind direction that morning relative to the orientation of the parked RJ-100 had been such as to blow the steam from the heated fluid back towards his face making it more difficult to see what effect the spraying was having on the ice concealed beneath a top cover of snow. He accepted that his attempt to confirm that all frozen deposits had been removed whilst achieving this was not a very good way to be sure of this and with hindsight he “concluded that he had probably not inspected the result thoroughly enough”. No separate post-spraying inspection of the aircraft was made. Further interviews of Aviator de icing personnel at Gothenberg were conducted to help the Investigation form a better understanding of the on-the-ground reality. Despite the general perception of a “safety first” and “no-blame” management culture, the interview findings included the following: The ‘post de icing check’ was generally equated with the report that the requested task had been completed and was not also indicative of a discrete check after completion of spraying. However, the DIM explicitly described the post de-icing check as “a procedure to check if there is any remaining contamination”.. The DIM and the Local Procedures Document were “seldom used by the de-icing operators as reference material”.. The de-icing operators were generally unaware of the degree of contamination which may have been built up during a longer ground stop. One of the de-icing operators stated that he could sometimes tell that there would be difficult conditions for aircraft de-icing based on scraping ice off the windshield of his car in the morning when preparing to drive to work.. All of the de-icing operators perceived the working conditions as stressful, especially because