In its earliest and most basic configuration, a Passenger Boarding Bridge consisted of a fixed platform, which may or may not have been height adjustable, connected to the terminal building by an enclosed bridge. The aircraft would follow the ground marshaller or the stand entry guidance and stop with the aircraft door abeam the platform. A retractable gantry would then be extended from the platform to allow passengers access to the aircraft. Although relatively rare, there are PBBs of this type still in use. Passenger Boarding Bridges are now, more typically, mobile units which use an articulating mount to fasten them to the terminal at one end and are supported on powered wheels at the other end with the bridge between built as an extendable tube. This arrangement allows the bridge to be retracted and moved out of the aircraft safety zone during aircraft arrival and departure and, once the aircraft is parked and secure, manoeuvred by a trained operator to come in contact with the aircraft at the desired boarding door. These units are height adjustable to allow use with multiple aircraft types. Typical Passenger Boarding Bridge installation, Source:Wikicommons Further refinements of the PBB include split bridges which, from a common airport terminal access point, eventually divide into two passageways, each servicing a different aircraft door. Most of these are designed to accommodate two boarding doors forward of the wing on the same level as would be the case on large aircraft such as the Boeing 777 or the Airbus A330. However, there are split bridges that are designed to access doors on two levels to accommodate boarding of the Airbus A380 as well as some installations that have an "over-the-wing" capability to allow simultaneous boarding of the aircraft via both a forward and a rear door. Refinements in proximity sensors, which are mounted on the PBB, are also routinely being engineered to help prevent accidental aircraft damage due to abrupt contact by the moving bridge. Double Door Passenger Boarding Bridge installation, Source:Wikicommons