The major risk associated with use of a Passenger Boarding Bridge is aircraft damage. This damage can be classified as follows: Engine Damage - although increasingly more rare, fixed pedestal PBB installations are still in use. These require that the aircraft be taxied up to the structure and stop at a specific point. Overshooting that point in aircraft with a short boarding door to engine nacelle distance can potentially bring the engine in contact with the PBB structure. Fuselage Damage - by design, the PBB will be brought into contact with the aircraft at the boarding door. Proximity switch failure, inadequate operator training or poor operator technique can all lead to the PBB striking the aircraft with greater than intended force. This can lead to dents, skin puncture or structural damage to the aircraft. Door Damage - Aircraft landing gear struts will extend or compress as the aircraft weight changes during loading and offloading. Most, but not all, PBB are designed to self adjust to maintain the appropriate relative height as the aircraft moves. Should the auto-level mechanism fail, or the bridge operator fail to make manual adjustments when required, the bottom of the outward opening aircraft door may come in contact with the floor of the PBB causing damage to the door. There are also a number of disadvantages associated with the installation of a Passenger Boarding Bridge. Some of these are as follows: Terminal Design - PPBs can only be used for parking stands adjacent to the terminal structure. Using them exclusively requires that terminals have long "fingers" with ramp areas in between or that multiple terminal buildings are used. Whilst older design terminals can be retrofitted to include PBBs, it is likely that a need for remote stands, busses and boarding stairs will remain. Commuter Aircraft - most commuter aircraft such as the Dash 8, the ATR 42/72 and the Bombardier CRJ have boarding stairs built into the aircraft door. While a PBB can be adapted for use with these aircraft, the solution can be somewhat cumbersome and the use of the PBB often reduces the ramp capacity for these aircraft types.