the passenger cabins and from some of the 13 in the Cabin Crew Rest Compartment (CCRC) did not function correctly. Examination of all these masks found that they were serviceable. In the case of those in the CCRC, it was found that not all cabin crew members seemed to appreciate that when lying down in the bunks, releasing the lanyard pin to allow oxygen flow to begin requires them to make a conscious effort to pull on the mask. The fact that the suitability of the diversion airport listed in Company documentation had apparently been questionable led the Investigation to examine the RFFS categorisation system and its potential effects on the flight planning of en route alternates of the available RFFS capability and its effects on occupant survival in the event of an emergency evacuation in the presence of fire. It was noted that the normal RFFS category for an Airbus A380 is 10 - with category 9 automatically acceptable subject to an aerodrome movements criterion provided in ICAO Annex 14. It was noted that the lowest en route diversion RFFS Category which an A380 operated by Singapore Airlines could accept was Category 4 based on a submission to and approval by the regulatory authority based on the proposition that "the probability of an in-flight diversion to an en route alternate is no higher than that of an in-flight diversion to an EDTO en route alternate which allows the use of that minimum for planning purposes". Although the requirements for RFFS Category 4 (1 vehicle instead of 3 and only 8% of the quantity of water for foam generation required for Level 10), the Investigation was unable to find any risk-based justification in ICAO Standards for this or indeed any reduction in the normally required RFFS when selecting en route diversion aerodromes. It was nevertheless concluded that "presumably ICAO has done a thorough risk evaluation to come to the conclusion that (any) correspondingly lowered level of fire protection remains acceptable, with or without any additional measures to be put in place". The effect of this situation was noted as being that flight crews contemplating an en route diversion would not be aware of the potential consequences of diverting to aerodromes with fire protection levels less than those for the origin and planned destination of flights. The Investigation also identified some potential confusion in the way the automatic acceptance of a 'normally-determined-minus-one' RFFS Category was documented in Annex 6. The formally stated Conclusions of the Investigation were as follows: The Door 3L failure was traced to a crack passing through a number of rivet holes on the door skin. The crack was probably caused by high cycle fatigue under varying amplitude loading due to the fluttering of the Batch 1 CP that was initially installed on the aircraft. Once the crack was initiated, the stiffer Batch 3 CP could not prevent further propagation of the crack.. There were traces of sealant and paint in the crack surfaces as well as on