An Investigation was commenced by the Singapore AAIB. The DFDR was removed and relevant data successfully downloaded but the CVR data had been overwritten and were no longer available. An Interim Report providing information on the initial progress in the Investigation was completed on 21 September 2015. It was noted that the operating flight crew consisted of a 56 year old Captain with 16,815 total flying hours including 4,465 on the incident type accompanied by a 37 year old First Officer with 6,261 total flying hours including 1,903 hours on the incident type. A relief crew was also on board - a 49 year old Captain with 15,041 total flying hours including 1,100 on type and a 40 year old First Officer with 2,608 total flying hours with 392 on type. It was established that door 3L was already the subject of an ADD submitted on 23 December 2013 after a "loud noise" coming from it had been reported and a slightly worn seal was found on the door's upper edge. This action allowed a 120 day period for any necessary rectification. After the door had been reported as noisy en route by the Cabin Crew on the previous day’s flight by the aircraft from Singapore to London but inspection by one of the pilots had not found "anything unusual other than the loud noise", maintenance personnel at Heathrow had carried out a full inspection of the door but found "no anomaly other than the slightly-worn seal noted previously" and the existing ADD remained open. After take-off from Heathrow, the member of cabin crew seated at door 3L heard the noise but did not detect any air leak or vibration. The senior cabin crew was advised and, after also not detecting any air leak or vibration, elected to inform the flight crew once the aircraft had reached its cruise altitude of FL370. At this point, the cabin altitude was indicating the normal (for this aircraft type) of 6,000 feet. However, it was reported that the noise was loud enough in the area around the door to prevent PA announcements being heard. Once notified of the situation, one of the flight crew then inspected the door but reported that nothing unusual was apparent except the noise. Although aware of a localised PA audibility problem caused by the door noise, the flight crew initially decided to continue towards destination whilst monitoring the (normal at that time) status of the aircraft pressurisation system on the basis that a worn seal at the affected door was already recorded as an ADD and that the subject door assembly had been specifically inspected by maintenance personnel after the previous arrival into London. An ACARS message was sent to the Company requesting that the problem be rectified before the next flight. Then, about five hours into the flight, an ECAM 'Cabin Altitude Advisory' was annunciated. It subsequently disappeared, but about 30 minutes later the cabin altitude began to climb slowly. Eventually, an ECAM Warning of excess cabin