the countersunk surfaces of two rivet holes, meaning that the crack was present when CP was replaced in August 2012.. As regards the PSUs in the bunks in the CCRC, some cabin crew members did not seem to be aware that a conscious effort is needed to pull on the mask, when lying down, in order to release the lanyard pin to allow oxygen to flow to the mask.. The amount of water required to be made available at an aerodrome of Category 'X' can be significantly different from that required of a Category 'X-1' aerodrome. The smaller amount of water available at the Category 'X-1' aerodrome could compromise the desired RFFS protection level. ICAO guidance material does not seem to offer a methodology for airline operators to evaluate the extent of the compromise in fire protection level when an aerodrome of a lower category than the aeroplane category is used.. Safety Action taken during the Investigation was noted as including the following: Airbus issued an Alert to all A380 Operators which included the introduction of a smartphone noise recording procedure for flight crew.. Airbus issued Service Bulletins for both door structure reinforcement to provide additional margin against vibrations and requiring repetitive ultrasonic inspection pending the incorporation of the door structure reinforcement, the latter of which became the subject of EASA AD 2014-0253.. Airbus encouraged Operators to retrofit Batch 1 or Batch 2 Door Cover Plates with Batch 3 components and initiated monitoring of the retrofit status of all in-service A380 aircraft.. Singapore Airlines sought to enhance cabin crew awareness of the correct use of the passenger and crew rest oxygen system by multiple methods.. Singapore Airlines carried out a fleet-wide inspection to verify that all A380 passenger doors were free from crack initiations and changed all door Cover Panels to the Batch 3 improved type.. Singapore Airlines updated its procedures to include the use of megaphone as an alternate means for unforeseen situations where the cabin noise level prevents cabin announcements from being audible to cabin crew and/or passengers (in response to Safety Recommendation R-2015-008 issued in 2015 -see below). Five Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: In the Interim Report completed on 21 September 2015: that Singapore Airlines assess the effectiveness of the use of megaphones as a means for its crews to give instructions to passengers in an emergency when the noise level in the cabin is such as to prevent passengers from hearing clearly the instructions through the aircraft’s public address system. [R-2015-008]. In the Final Report that the Aircraft Operator review its potential use of en-route aerodromes with a lower RFFS category than that reflected in ICAO guidance material. [TSIB RA2017-008]. that the CAA Singapore review the operator’s potential use of en-route aerodromes with a lower RFFS category than that reflected in ICAO guidance material. [TSIB RA-2017-009]. that ICAO consider providing guidance material on assessment of risks when an aircraft has to land at an aerodrome of a lower