altitude occurred. An emergency descent was initiated as the cabin altitude approached 10,000 feet and a MAYDAY was declared to Kabul ACC. No response was received until the call was relayed by another aircraft. It was decided to turn back towards Ashgabat, which was the nearest "Decompression Alternate (DA)" - a term used by the Aircraft Operator to "denote an identified aerodrome used for diversion after an aircraft has experienced a decompression when flying over high terrain" - listed in the Operator’s A380 Supplementary Procedures and identified on the flight plan. Kabul ATC were informed accordingly and although the applicable Emergency Checklist did not require it, it was decided to manually deploy the passenger oxygen masks as a precaution. During the diversion, the flight crew reported that Turkmenabat ATC had advised that Ashgabat was "not suitable for A380 aircraft" and they had, after consulting the Company via SATCOM, decided instead to continue westwards and divert to Baku in Azerbaijan. This revised plan was successfully accomplished. After arrival at Baku, the skin of door 3L was found to be torn and bent backwards at the top left hand corner of the door and the window blind on the door was observed to have collapsed. The illustrations below show this. According to Airbus, this was the first record of such a door skin failure since the start of A380 operations. The Investigation found that the cause of damage to the door had been a fatigue crack which passed through several successive rivet holes in the door Cover Plate (CP). This (Batch 1) CP was found to have been installed after reports of door noise in 2008. However, over the next 4 years, reports of noise from the door continued and eventually, in August 2012, the installed GFRP laminate CP was again replaced, this time with an improved (Batch 3) type which included a steel plate embedded in the GFRP laminate to improve its stiffness. However, the Investigation found evidence that showed that the fatigue crack had already been present when the door 3L CP was replaced in 2012 and it was considered that this crack had probably been the result of "high cycle fatigue under varying amplitude loading due to the fluttering of the Batch 1 CP that was initially installed on the aircraft". In respect of the noise from door 3L prior to the failure to sustain normal pressurisation, the Investigation did not establish whether the flight crew had recognised the extent to which the noise had caused discomfort to passengers or prevented them from discerning the content of PA announcements. However, since there was no guidance for the Operator's flight crews on how to respond to such situations, it followed that the decision on how to respond would be made on an ad hoc basis. The Investigation also found that the manual deployment of oxygen masks after the emergency descent due to rising cabin altitude had been followed by reports that the supply of oxygen from a few PSUs in