- bearing and distance to a navigation point or navigational aid. Example: ARR/BAMBI320008 (which means bearing 320 degrees and distance 8 NM from BAMBI point) (b) Alternate aerodrome(s) (4 characters – ICAO) Insert the ICAO 4-letter location indicator(s) of not more than two alternate aerodromes, separated by a space or, if no location indicator has been assigned to the alternate aerodrome, insert “ZZZZ” and specify in Item 18 the name of the aerodrome, preceded by ALTN/. Rules concerning indicating alternate aerodromes positions (if not listed by ICAO code) are the same as for DEP/ and ARR/ elements. OTHER INFORMATION This item is for all other additional, important or helpful information (not all are presented here; only those mostly used by GA pilots). (a) “DEP/” followed by the name of the departure airport or bearing and distance to navaid/navigation point closest to departure point (if no designator is assigned and “ZZZZ” is inserted in item 13). Up to 50 characters may be used. Example: DEP/SMALL AIRPORT (b) “DEST/” followed by the name of the destination airport or bearing and distance to navaid/navigation point closest to destination point (if no designator is assigned and “ZZZZ” is inserted in item 16). Up to 50 characters may be used. Example: DEST/BIG AIRPORT (c) “TYP/” followed by type(s) of aircraft, proceeded if necessary by number(s) of aircraft, if “ZZZZ” is inserted in Item 9 Example: TYP/2 DE HAVILLAND HERON. Up to 60 characters may be used. (d) “REG/” followed by the registration markings of the aircraft, if different from the aircraft identification in Item 7. Example: REG/4XDKM. Up to 50 characters may be used. (e) “ALTN/” followed by the name of alternate aerodrome(s) or bearing and distance to navaid/navigation point closest to alternate point, if “ZZZZ” is inserted in Item 16. Up to 100 characters may be used. Example: ALTN/MEDIUM AIRPORT Flight plan 2012 introduced also new “alternate” element for Item 18: TALT/ (Take Off Alternate). (f) “DLE/” followed by details related to delay enroute (for example for the need of flight training). A place in space should be described as in, for example, DEP/ item, either by navaid or bearing and distance from a significant point enroute, along with duration of the delay. Up to 11 characters followed by 4 digits may be used. Example 1: DLE/XYZ0015 – delay over XYZ navaid, duration 15 minutes Example 2: DLE/ROMIX2300200040 – delay at point 230 degrees and 20 NM from ROMIX point, duration 40 minutes (g) “COM/” followed by significant data related to communication equipment as required by the appropriate ATS authority. Up to 50 characters may be used. Example: COM/UHF only (which mean that pilot will be able to communicate on UHF only) (h) “NAV/” followed by significant data related to navigation equipment as required by the appropriate ATS authority. Example: NAV/INS (which means that inertial system is available and cerified on board). Up to 50 characters may be used. (i) “EET/” followed by significant waypoints or FIR boundary designators with accumulated estimated elapsed times