An Investigation was carried out by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) aided by successful download of Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data undertaken by the UK AAIB. It was established that the 25 year-old First Officer had been designated as PF for the accident flight and that the 53 year-old aircraft commander was the aircraft operator's Boeing 737 Fleet Captain. He was also a Training Captain, although he had not been operating in the latter capacity on the accident flight. The flight was uneventful until the off-set VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) approach to runway 28 at Jos was under way. The only available Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach - to runway 10 - was not available due to unservisability. A thunderstorm with heavy rain had been affecting the airport shortly before the aircraft began the approach and although the rain had stopped, the most recent Meteorological Terminal Air Report (METAR) timed about 40 minutes earlier was still giving BKN cloud just below 500 feet aal (compared to the 600 feet MDH for the approach being flown) and a prevailing visibility of 2500 metres (compared to the 2800 metres increased minimum with no approach lighting). It was found that the approach had been unstable at the specified 1000ft aal 'gate' but that instead of the mandatory go-around being flown, the approach had been continued. When the TWR controller sighted the aircraft at about 1nm from touchdown they reported that it was "struggling to align to the centreline of the runway". The initial touchdown occurred on the right hand MLG just 135m metres from the threshold of the 3000 metre-long runway with the right engine cowling touching the pavement. The aircraft then "skidded off the runway to the left into the grass area" at speed before re-aligning parallel to the runway. The right hand engine "ingested foreign objects that resulted in fan blade damage" Three runway edge lights and armoured electrical cabling were damaged before the aircraft regained the runway centreline and came to a stop with 1000 metres of runway remaining. In addition to the engine damage, the NLG shock strut collapsed and both NLG tyres burst and there was some ground contact damage to the lower fuselage. Although no fire occurred, the Investigation considered that "there was a risk of fire", no emergency evacuation was accomplished. However, as it was impossible to taxi the damaged aircraft, the commander subsequently requested steps to disembark the passengers. The Investigation found that "the unstabilised approach led to the Captain attempting to make necessary corrections with inappropriate procedure" whereas "proper control" of the aircraft was lost and this resulted in the runway excursion. It was noted that good airmanship requires that, with a co-pilot as PF, "if a deviation from the extended runway centreline occurs, the Captain should either take control of the aircraft early enough with a standard callout" or make call for a “go-around”. The Investigation also found evidence of confusion during the