touchdown "precipitated by lack of adequate communication and insufficient standard call-outs". During touchdown, the crew comment “I wanted to go-around; I thought you were the one flying”, was considered to indicate that neither the Captain nor the First Officer had been in control of the aircraft. It was also concluded that, based on the CVR data, the flight crew "did not adequately make reference to checklists in the approach phase of the flight" and that they "did not brief or execute a missed approach when it became obvious that the aircraft was unstabilised". It was established that the commander, who had already operated three line training sectors after coming on duty at about 0630 that morning some 11 hours prior to the accident, had not been expecting to operate the accident flight and was "hoping to go home". He had only opted to take the flight when the rostered Captain became unavailable down route and the standby Captain advised that they were "indisposed". It was concluded that, as the B737 Fleet Captain and as management staff of the airline, he had had "the option to cancel the flight if he so wished" but that there had been "an element of organisational pressure (on him) to operate the flight, which he had accepted". It was considered that the Captain had been tired prior to the accident flight and noted that "this was confirmed during the course discussions with the First Officer before the flight". It was further considered that a 90 minute wait for refuelling had "added to anxiety and further tiredness" especially as operations at Jos were limited to the period between sunrise and sunset. The Investigation found that a lighting fault affecting both approach and runway lighting had been regularly reported during the weeks leading up to the accident but "nothing was done to rectify the issue". It was also noted that the ILS on runway 10 had been unserviceable for three months. Both systems were returned to service "shortly after the accident", in the case of the ILS within 24 hours of the accident. Although runway friction level was not considered to have been a factor in the accident, the Investigation found that the runway was "contaminated with rubberised deposits at the touchdown zones" and noted with concern that "evaluation of runway friction level has never been carried out" by the responsible agency - the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria. The formally stated Cause of the Accident was: "the decision of the crew to continue the approach in an unstabilised condition, coupled with the Captain's inappropriate attempt to take over control of the aircraft". Three Contributory Factors were also identified: Fatigue, which impaired the Captain’s performance and reflected the effects of a long, demanding duty day associated with earlier duties as a Training Captain.. Poor Crew Resource Management.. The prevailing weather condition.. Two Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation as follows: that Aero Contractors Nigeria should review its Safety Management System making all safety