A very common de-icing system utilizes pneumatically inflated rubber boots on the leading edges of airfoil surfaces. This typically includes the wings and horizontal stabilizer, but may also include struts, cargo pods, or even antennae. The system uses relatively low pressure air to rapidly inflate and deflate the boot. This is usually done in a sequence of segments, for example, the outer wings followed by the inner wings followed by the horizontal stabilizer. Depending on the manufacturer's specifications, the system may be operated either automatically, through a timing circuit, or manually, using a cockpit control to initiate the boot cycle sequence. Early pneumatic boot designs had relatively low volume air supplies to draw from, and were slower to inflate and deflate. A phenomenon which was thought to be occasionally observed with these systems was known as "ice bridging", in which the boot expanded under the ice and stretched it without breaking its structure. This led to a space beneath the ice shape which allowed the boot to inflate and deflate with no effect. The problem was addressed by allowing a particular thickness of ice to develop before inflating the boot. Once the requisite thickness was attained, the boot inflation would shatter the ice and clear it off the surface. At least with contemporary, rapidly inflating systems, there is almost no evidence other than anecdotal which supports the existence of this phenomenon. That said, research dating from the mid 1950's and validated within the last few years has indicated that several uniform cycles of boot inflation/deflation may be required to thoroughly shed an ice accretion. It is likely that the results observed after the first couple of cycles may be less than satisfactory. It becomes extremely important to adhere to the manufacturer's recommendations for system operation as found in the relevant Pilot Operating Handbook or Flight Crew Operating Manual (or their equivalents). Equally important is the correct maintenance of the boots, including adequate treatment with restorative substances and inspection for pinholes and other damage.