An Investigation was carried out by the Swiss BFU/BEA. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) recordings were successfully downloaded as was the content of the non-volatile memory (NVM) from the EFIS Symbol Generators, the Digital Flight Guidance Computers and the Digital ADCs These sources indicated that there were no relevant airworthiness issues in respect of the accident outcome. It was established that the aircraft had been making a VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range (VOR)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) approach and had crashed 4050 metres short of the threshold of runway 28 in a position displaced laterally by 150 metres to the right of the runway extended centreline. The impact and an intense fire thereafter was found to have destroyed most of the aircraft fuselage and large sections of both wings with only the rear part of the airframe, which had been detached from the rest, unaffected by the fire. FDR data showed that immediately prior to the first contact with the trees at an altitude of 1854 feet amsl, the aircraft had been flying on a heading of 274° M with a ground speed of approximately 118 knots. As the go around was attempted and during the initial contact with the trees, engine thrust was increased and pitch attitude changed from -2° to +5° with the 1200 fpm rate of descent reduced to nil. The final position of the wreckage was about 250 metres beyond and below the point at which the aircraft had first come into contact with trees. The prevailing weather conditions were reviewed. It was noted that the wind velocity in the area of the accident was “from the south at a speed of 3-5 knots” and had no bearing on the accident. It was apparent that “below FL 80 the cloud (had been) compact down to the cloud base” and that “the cloud base in an extended circle around Zurich airport was not uniform”. An analysis based on the statements of a number of pilots suggested that the mean cloud base had varied by sector. For the accident aircraft approach, the consensus was FEW at 500 feet aal and BKN at 1000 feet aal. This was considerably lower than was being broadcast on the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) at the time and applicable in the vicinity of the aerodrome. The VOR/DME approach was noted to have applicable minima of 2390 QNH (equivalent to 974 feet aal) and 2000 metres Runway Visual Range (RVR). The vertical profile from a range of 6nm was equivalent to a slope of 3.03° which intercepted the runway PAPI set to 3.7° at a position 2.4nm from the runway threshold (see the IAP Chart below). In a number of matters of detail, the IAP was found not to be ICAO compliant with these differences “not provided for in the relevant national regulations” and not notified to ICAO. It was also noted that whilst the Jeppesen IAP chart which was used by the crew included limited terrain contouring and some obstacles