time, the responsible persons of the airline did not make correct assessments of the commander’s flying performance. Where weaknesses were perceptable, they did not take appropriate measures.. The commander’s ability to concentrate and take appropriate decisions as well as his ability to analyse complex processes were adversely affected by fatigue.. Task-sharing between the flight crew during the approach was not appropriate and did not correspond to the required procedures by the airline.. The range of hills which the aircraft came into contact with was not marked on the approach chart used by the flight crew.. The means of determining the meteorological visibility at the airport was not representative for the approach sector runway 28, because it did not correspond to the actual visibility.. The valid visual minimums at the time of the accident were inappropriate for a decision to use the standard VOR/DME approach 28.. A total of 14 Safety Recommendations were made as a result of the Investigation, all prior to the publication of the Final Report. On 11 April 2002, the following 8 Safety Recommendations were issued: that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should investigate whether criteria can be laid down according to which not only the flying experience of the individual crew members is taken into account for the composition of a flight crew. In particular, the extent to which guidelines concerning qualitative criteria can be laid down and appropriate control procedures drafted for their application should be examined. This should be performed in order to ensure that until the necessary aptitudes are demonstrated, crew members newly assigned to a specific aircraft type or to a specific operation are guided and supported by an experienced crew member. The Federal Office for Civil Aviation should if necessary propose to the Joint Aviation Authority (JAA) an amendment of the relevant specifications in JAR OPS 1. [Recommendation No. 33]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check the criteria, regulations and procedures which govern the selection and conversion of pilots of aircraft with piston engines or turboprop propulsion systems to aircraft with jet engines or aircraft with modern equipment (e.g. Saab 2000, Embraer and Airbus). [Recommendation No. 34]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check the performance and knowledge of those Crossair pilots and if necessary those of other operators whose career includes peculiarities, gaps, or particular incidents. This check should not be limited to looking through a pilot’s dossier, but should include long-term observation and at least random checks on performance on scheduled flights. Appropriate measures should be taken for pilots with inadequate performance, in cooperation with airline management and psychomedical experts. [Recommendation No. 35]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check the extent to which the Crossair standard flight procedure needs to be adapted. In particular it should be checked whether, during a non-precision approach, the minimum descent altitude (MDA) should be set on the mode control panel instead of the go around altitude (the current Crossair procedure). [Recommendation No. 36]. that