Warning (MSAW) system was noted. It was considered that if an MSAW system had been in use it is highly probably that an alert would have been triggered in sufficient time for ATC to provide a useful warning to the crew. It was stated by the Investigation that such an alert would have occurred once the aircraft descended below the procedure vertical profile and “at the latest on leaving the OCA/MDA prematurely”. It was estimated that with such an alert “even in the most unfavourable case, there would still have been approximately 20 seconds to warn the crew of their dangerously low altitude”. As part of the Investigation, and in the context of the gross violation of minima which was found to have occurred, the background of the two pilots was examined by the Investigation in some depth. The Captain was found to have had substantial flying experience but very little of this had been on jet aircraft or on any aircraft type with complex flight management systems. His career was found to have involved a number of serious incidents, some not known to Crossair until after the investigated accident. He had also failed jet aircraft type conversions in the past and, at various stages in training and on line, had demonstrated a lack of competence with, and understanding of, various aircraft technical matters and a tendency to deliver poor Crew Resource Management and did “not always adhere strictly to SOPs”. The Investigation found that the Captain “had only been confronted with training in crew resource management (CRM) in the last few years of his career” and noted that “experience has shown that (embracing) this process takes several years". Appendix 9 of the Final Report presents a normalised timeline of performance-related comments made by instructors in respect of the Captains competency during line, route and simulator checks from1968 onwards. This data shows little sign of any trend of either improvement or deterioration over time but a pattern of consistently erratic performance is evident. It was found that the Captain also had part time employment as a light aircraft instrument flying instructor and had flown as such on both the day of the accident and the preceding one prior to beginning duty with Crossair in the afternoon. It was concluded that this had created the possibility that fatigue may have had an effect on his subsequent performance. It was also noted that there was no system in place for either employer to track the flying and duty hours worked at the other. The First Officer had only recently trained as a pilot and had joined Crossair following the acquisition of a professional licence. He had completed qualification on the accident aircraft type on 12 May 2001 and, including conversion training had accumulated 348 hours on type and had a total of 490 hours total flying experience prior to the accident. However, it was noted that he had slightly more experience on the RJ100 than the Captain having begun his course about