two months earlier. It was also noted that the First Officer “was unanimously described by witnesses as sensitive and friendly”. Records from his passage through the Crossair pilot selection procedure showed that he “tended to subordinate himself” and he was described as “lively, but not aggressive, seeking harmony”. The Investigation considered the effect of this pilot combination and noted that “communication and cooperation between the commander and the copilot took place calmly and professionally” during the approach and considered that “the pronounced calmness which the commander exhibited almost continuously had very probably created in the copilot the impression of an experienced superior who was acting prudently and consciously”. It was noted that, although the evidence showed that the First Officer had been aware of the violation of MDA, he made no attempt to prevent the continuation of the flight below it. It was concluded that “the accident shows that efficient cooperation, which includes optimal use of the crew for mutual monitoring in particular, was present only to an insufficient degree”. In respect of the decision to begin using runway 28 and the variation in cloud cover between the different approaches, the Investigation noted that at airports with precision approach runways, ICAO Standards require that cloud observations in ATIS broadcasts “must be representative of the middle marker position of the instrument landing system” whereas the same observations in METAR reports “must be representative of the entire airport area and the immediate environment”. In respect of the change, shortly before the accident, to the use of non precision approaches to runway 28 in preference to ILS approaches to runways 14 or 16, it was noted that this was a consequence of a change in operating practices based on night noise abatement considerations in respect of the approaches to both precision approach runways over German territory introduced with effect from 19 October 2001. The basis for this was a State Agreement between Switzerland and Germany. The formal statement of Cause was as follows: “The accident is attributable to the fact that on the final approach, (under) own navigation, of the standard VOR/DME approach 28 the aircraft flew controlled into a wooded range of hills (controlled flight into terrain - CFIT), because the flight crew deliberately continued the descent under instrument flight conditions below the minimum altitude for the approach without having the necessary prerequisites. The flight crew initiated the go around too late.” Causal Factors were identified as follows: The commander deliberately descended below the minimum descent altitude (MDA) of the standard VOR/DME approach 28 without having the required visual contact to the approach lights or the runway. The Copilot made no attempt to prevent the continuation of the flight below the minimum descent altitude.. Also, the following Factors were identified as contributing to the accident: In the approach sector of runway 28 at Zurich airport there was no system available which triggers an alarm if a minimum safe altitude is violated (Minimum Safe Altitude Warning - MSAW).. Over a long period of