the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should examine measures which ensure that large aircraft without a terrain awareness and warning system are retrofitted with such a system as quickly as possible. [Recommendation No. 37]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check whether the current system of weather observation from runway 16 and the configuration of the measuring instruments is appropriate, above all in critical weather conditions, for providing a weather report which contains information which is as applicable for runway 28 as it is for runways 14/16. Especially when the weather for the runway 28 approach sector is worse or more changeable than for the airport as a whole, crews should be provided with a specific weather report. Until an improved weather observation system is introduced, the increased minimums imposed for the approach to runway 28 after the accident should be maintained. [Recommendation No. 38]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should arrange for the approach sector of runway 28 to be equipped with a minimum safe altitude warning system which provides an automatic visual and acoustic warning of critical altitude violations. The ATC operating regulations must then be complemented by regulations on warning crews in the case of such critical altitude violations (analogous to the MSAW already installed for the approach sectors of runways 14 and 16). [Recommendation No. 39]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should use its influence to ensure that obstacles below approach paths are entered in broadly distributed publications such as the Jeppesen route manual, for example. [Recommendation No. 40]. The Final Report notes that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation subsequently commented to the effect that the issues raised in the first three of these recommendations were essentially matters for a aircraft operator rather than matters requiring more regulation or other external intervention. The matters raised in the remainder were accepted. On 2 October 2003, a further 6 Safety Recommendations were issued. During this interval, the name of the aircraft operator involved changed from Crossair to Swiss International Airlines. The additional recommendations were as follows: that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check the extent to which a visual descent point (VDP) should be added to the approach charts for non-precision approaches. [Recommendation No. 94]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check the extent to which the valid minimum visual ranges for non-precision approaches should be adapted, so that a final approach with the necessary visual references is possible from the visual descent point. [Recommendation No. 95]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should check whether the terrain profile along the approach path should be entered in the approach charts for all categories of instrument approach. [Recommendation No. 96]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should, together with the operator, check how a complete check on total flying duty time and rest time can be guaranteed. [Recommendation No. 97]. that the Federal Office for Civil Aviation should, within the framework of the quality systems required