there was no representation in either respect around the runway 28 final approach track whereas the corresponding AIP chart showed two obstacles, one of which was the hill with which the aircraft collided which had an obstacle light at 1880 feet amsl. CVR and FDR data was used to determine the circumstances of the accident. It was found that the aircraft had essentially followed the procedure in Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC) until MDA with the Captain, acting as PF having acquired intermittent ground contact and declared this to the First Officer. The crew had heard the previous aircraft advising ATC after landing that their approach to runway 28 (the first that evening) had been “pretty minimum” with the runway in sight only from 2.2nm. Upon reaching MDA at 3.5nm from the runway threshold, the Captain had declared his intention to continue descent whilst the First Officer had “said quietly to himself 2400”. It was concluded that neither of the pilots had visual contact with the runway or with the approach lights and unequivocally concluded that “therefore the conditions for going below the minimum descent altitude (MDA) and continuing the final approach visually were not met”. Twelve seconds later, the GPWS/TAWS annunciation ‘500’ occurred and after a further 10 seconds the GPWS ‘Minimums’ annunciation occurred, indicating, as a consequence of Crossair policy to set this call at 300 feet for all non precision approaches, that the aircraft was at 300 feet agl even though still over 2nm from the runway threshold. Two seconds later, the Captain called and began a go around, disconnecting the previously engaged AP and as this transition began, the initial impact occurred. From the FDR data (see the diagram below), it was apparent that the angle of descent after MDA had increased and that for about a minute before the go around was initiated, a constant rate of descent of 1200 fpm had been maintained, with the aircraft deviating below the procedure vertical profile as well as to the right of track. The Investigation considered that the available evidence indicated that during the final stages of the approach, the Captain “was increasingly orientating himself according to the inadequate visual references” and that “this unconscious changeover between instrument flying and visual flying may have made it more difficult for him to determine the actual position of the aircraft in relation to the runway with regard to its altitude”. It was noted that despite the clear specification of the duties of the two pilots as PF and PNF in the Operations Manual, “the flight crew did not comply with these instructions”. It was established that no GPWS warnings had been annunciated as the associated Alert envelope had not been breached. It was noted that although new-build aircraft of the same type as the accident aircraft were being delivered with EGPWS (TAWS) installed, at the time of the accident there was no retrofit option available for older aircraft such as the one involved. The absence of an Minimum Safe Altitude