to locate one system's abnormal procedures from two unconnected sources” and that this might well make it more difficult to locate the correct abnormal procedure. It was also considered in respect of the flight crew response to the event and its consequences: the failure to recall the augmenting crew member at the onset of the malfunctions was inappropriate and that “the full potential of the crew should be available during emergencies” and. the emergency descent should have been announced with a MAYDAY declaration and that Finnair “should emphasise the importance of using the distress signal in situations when it is needed”.. The formal determination of the Investigation Commission on ‘Probable Causes and Contributing Factors’ in respect of both the investigated events was as follows: “Both serious incidents were caused by malfunctioning of the engines’ bleed regulated pressure transducers' (Pr). The malfunctioning was caused by freezing of water that had accumulated in the bleed regulated pressure transducers' pressure cell rooms, extremely confined by design. Due to malfunctioning the transducers provided faulty pressure information to Bleed Monitoring Computers (BMC). Due to the erroneous information the BMCs closed both engines’ bleed air systems which resulted in loss of pressurisation in cabin, i.e. an increase in cabin air pressure altitude. The extremely cold air mass en-route during a long time period contributed to the fact that the water froze in the pressure cell rooms. Furthermore, the relatively rapidly increasing ambient temperatures en-route may have contributed to the engines’ bleed air system faults.” It was noted that in September 2011 Airbus had published SB A330-36-3039 applicable to all A330 aircraft fitted with GE CF6-80E1 engines for the replacement of the existing bleed system regulated pressure transducers on one engine of each aircraft with a modified version. Airbus stated that this newer version of the failed pressure transducer had been designed to function more effectively in cold soak conditions than the version fitted to the incident aircraft, but the Investigation Commission concluded that “it (is) possible that, even in the newest version, water can condense in the (transducer) and when it freezes, it interferes with bleed system pressure measurement”. The following four Safety Recommendations were issued at the conclusion of the Investigation: that EASA require Airbus S.A.S. to replace the pressure transducers ZRA380-00 by pressure transducers (p/n ZRA691-00 or equivalent) of A330 aircraft equipped with GE CF6-80E1 engines with such that function in conditions approved for the A330 fleet.. that EASA require Airbus S.A.S. to also include Dual Bleed Loss abnormal procedures in the A330 ECAM action.. that EASA and ICAO sufficiently lengthen the time recording requirement of CVRs so as to cover the entire routing of the flight.. that Airbus S.A.S. improve the procedures of promulgating its operational bulletins by distributing them via communications channels intended for operational divisions.. The Investigating Commission noted that: Airbus has advised that the QRH procedure for a dual bleed loss is to be published in a revised form before the end of 2012 and accompanied by corresponding ECAM display