An Investigation was carried out by a Commission appointed by the Finnish Safety Investigation Authority. The Investigation was combined with that already started into a similar occurrence to another Finnair Airbus A330 eleven days earlier during similar cold-soak cruise conditions. It was noted that all A330 crew had been made aware of the earlier incident and its context and so were not entirely surprised when a similar situation occurred. It was noted that the augmenting First Officer had not been recalled from scheduled rest when the event occurred. Flight Data Recorder (FDR) data from both events was available to the Investigation but the 2 hour Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) data had been overwritten in both cases; in the first because the crew failed to successfully follow the instructions for stopping it after necessarily accessing the under floor avionics bay following an en route diversion and in the second because such access is not available in flight. The sequence of related events depicted below is taken from the Official Report. A rapid descent from cruise level was commenced about two minutes after the loss of pressurisation and when the high cabin altitude warning occurred during the descent, it was continued as an emergency descent. The interval between the failure of the left and right engine bleed air systems was found to have been 12 minutes. It was noted that the augmenting First Officer had not been recalled from scheduled rest when the event occurred. It was established that exceptionally cold temperatures had prevailed at the occurrence altitudes in both events, although these temperatures were within applicable AFM limitations. It was found that water which had accumulated in both engines' bleed air systems had then frozen inside the pressure cell rooms of the bleed air system regulated pressure transducers which are situated in the engine pylons and not fitted with any heating system. The freezing was considered to have caused the transducers to malfunction leading to the generation of false pressure information and the input of this to the Bleed Monitoring Computers (BMC) which shut down the failed system. The ECAM cabin pressure page had been displayed and a bleed air system overpressure condition annunciated. It was noted from FDR data that the ambient air temperature had risen relatively rapidly after a long period of extreme cold en route shortly before the failures occurred, although the relevance of this fact in respect of the malfunction was not definitively established. It was also noted that because of the initiation of a descent prior to the rising cabin altitude reaching the level at which the ECAM High Cabin Altitude Warning and the continuation of the descent thereafter as the prescribed emergency descent, the cabin altitude had not exceeded 11000 feet. It was observed that the prescribed abnormal procedure for a single engine bleed air fault is displayed on the ECAM but the dual bleed loss abnormal procedure only appears in the hard copy Quick Reference Handbook (QRH). The Investigation considered it “illogical to have