linked to a tailwind is often taken into account for landing and less so for the approach. In the flight file, the reported wind for the approach was a tailwind of 25 knots. The threat was therefore not easily identifiable during flight preparation.. The presence of other threats possibly perceived as more serious, such as windshear, might have overshadowed this threat.. The risk linked to a tailwind is often taken into account for landing and less so for the approach.. In the flight file, the reported wind for the approach was a tailwind of 25 knots. The threat was therefore not easily identifiable during flight preparation.. Insufficient monitoring of the glide path by the PM and the PF during the approach.. Not taking into account the controller’s suggestion to fly a missed approach.. The crew not having an objective in terms of altitude and distance to the threshold and not carrying out the checks at the key points of the approach, in particular on passing the Final Approach Point (FAP).. The two pilots having had little exposure, in training and line flying, to the interception of the glide slope from above despite their aviation experience.. Safety Action taken by Air France was noted as the publication in July 2020 of an information document on intercepting a glide slope from above to be used in support of ground training sessions which included the following reminders: If an aeroplane is above a 5° flight path to the runway threshold, there is a significant risk of acquiring a false glide slope signal.. To check the plane’s position with respect to a 5° flight path to the runway threshold, multiply its height in thousands of feet by two (e.g. at 5,000 ft, the 5° flight path is at 10 nm from the runway threshold).The FCOM includes a procedure for intercepting a glide slope from above once established on the localiser.. The Final Report was initially published in the definitive French language on 9 September 2021 and this was followed on 15 October 2021 by an English Language translation. No Safety Recommendations were made.