of a go around. As a result of this action, the AoA remained close to 12°, the threshold of the ALPHA PROT protection (which was triggered again for ten seconds), and the indicated airspeed was being held below the VLS. When the flap/slat setting was changed from ‘FULL’ to ‘CONF3’, the airspeed increased above the VLS again having been below it for a recorded 46 seconds. On reaching 4,000 ft, the crew retracted the flaps/slats to CONF2 and engaged AP2 and the A/THR and after radar vectors onto to a second runway 05 ILS, it was continued to a landing without further event. It was noted that the Airbus A320 FCOM included a procedure to intercept an ILS GS from above once established on the LOC with the AP engaged which consists of arming the APPR mode, setting a selected altitude which is above the actual altitude and engaging V/S mode, initially at -1500 fpm. Recovery action from the upset according to Air France documentation (which defined an upset as a pitch attitude exceeding 25°) should have involved disconnecting the AP and the A/THR and flying manually wings level and making a nose down pitch input “of sufficient amplitude to enter a nose down attitude” whilst adjusting thrust and returning to level flight with sufficient speed. It was observed that whilst the First Officer’s initial actions were in line with the first items of the published recovery technique, his subsequent holding of pitch to around 15° “corresponded more to the FD commands being followed than carrying out the recovery technique”. It was concluded that the consequence of this was to prolong the time below VLS and that “fully following the upset recovery procedure linked to an excessive nose-up pitch might have contributed to the crew getting out of the low energy situation more quickly”. It was noted that in the event that a false upper (9°) ILS lobe is encountered with the autopilot engaged, the adoption of an excessive pitch attitude is already automatically avoided by protection which is provided as part of the standard avionics fit for the A320neo, the A350 and the A380 and is also available for some A330/A340 dependent on the version of their onboard computers at build. The same “anti pitch-up excursion protection” is also intended to become progressively available on all other A320 family aircraft, including the A320ceo, from 2023. Similar Events: the Investigation noted two similar events which had been subject to independent investigation as one involving an Air France Airbus A340-300 at Paris CDG in 2012 and one involving a Ryanair Boeing 737-800 at Eindhoven in 2013. Five potential Contributory Factors to the event were identified as follows: The underestimation of the threat that a strong tailwind represents during the approach, mentioned for the landing phase during the approach briefing and insufficiently taken into account thereafter. Several factors may explain this underestimation: The presence of other threats possibly perceived as more serious, such as windshear, might have overshadowed this threat. The risk