managed speed mode with the PFD now showing the ILS GS as almost at full scale fly down. The annotated ground track and corresponding vertical profile flown. [Reproduced from the Official Report] On reaching 1,900 feet QNH, the AP mode changed to ALT mode and level flight began, taking the aircraft even further from the nominal 3° glide slope (point 5 on the illustration). The crew “did not realise that the aircraft was in level flight” and the aircraft was still in cloud. They set the slats/flaps to ‘CONF2’, then to ‘CONF3’ and then to ‘FULL’ given the relatively limiting 1904 metre LDA of the intended landing runway. According to the crew, the landing checklist was carried out immediately afterwards. At this point, the ground speed was 175 knots and continuing to decrease. The aircraft then reached the 9° slope of the ILS GS false upper lobe and as a result the AP G/S* mode engaged (point 6 on the illustration). The aircraft continued through the 9° ‘slope’ in level flight but since this false lobe has the effect of reversing the guidance signal, the AP then initiated a nose-up pitch attitude and over the next 20 seconds or so, it increased to approximately 30°. The crew indicated in their statements that the increase in pitch, although rather quick, had to them been “barely perceptible”. As this was happening, ATC instructed the crew to fly a missed approach but received no response. The increased pitch attitude resulted in a significant increase in the AoA and a concurrent significant decrease in airspeed. The A/THR then started to increase thrust and when the AoA reached the trigger threshold, a low energy alert was activated and the aural alert “SPEED SPEED SPEED” was activated (point 7 in the illustration). Two seconds later, ALPHA PROT stall protection phase was activated and the PF First Officer moved the thrust levers in the TOGA detent but did not call out his actions. Immediately after this, the crew disconnected both APs and the ALPHA FLOOR stall protection phase was activated. The First Officer reported seeing the TOGA LK message appear on the Flight Mode Annunciator (FMA) and briefly moved the thrust levers from TOGA to IDLE in order to disconnect the A/THR and then cancelled the TOGA LK and returned the levers to the TOGA position. As the pitch attitude reached 30°, the AoA reached 16°, exceeding the 15° Alpha for one second before decreasing in response to the combined effect of the ALPHA PROT activation and nose down inputs made by the PF. The indicated airspeed also decreased, reaching a minimum of 96 knots (20 knots below the lowest speed the A/THR can set (VLS)) and 2 knots above the stalling speed at 1g (VS1G). The PF then commenced a climb on the runway centreline at a rate of approximately 1,000 fpm holding a pitch attitude of 15° consistent with the PFD command bars in Speed Reference System (SRS) mode which is applicable in the case