associated with smoke and fumes. Pratt & Whitney Canada advised that since December 2014, they were aware of 19 events in which the No. 4 Bearing Key washer on PW150A engines had failed and “in most cases the engine was subject to an unscheduled removal”. Four of the 19 events were stated to have involved an in-flight shutdown (IFSD) of the affected engine and in one case, the shutdown had been uncommanded. Safety Action taken by Pratt & Whitney Canada in response to these events included the following: In December 2015 it was decided to routinely replace the No. 4 bearing washer at each shop visit.. On 26 January 2016, a SIL had been issued to affected Operators /MROs explaining the root cause of the problem and preventative action to be taken. This advised that “the distress condition of some washers, had resulted in metal chips being released into the oil system with possible symptoms being reported as loss of oil sealing, loss of oil pressure, cabin air contamination and in some cases In Flight Shut Down (IFSD) of the affected engine” and that “the cause of the washer wear (distress) was identified as stress in the filet radius of the key washer which may initiate cracks that could propagate until there is material release”.. On 29 February 2016, an improved key washer with an ‘infinite life’ was made available and until such replacements were made, interim actions to reduce the incidence of washer distress events were taken.. The Conclusions of the Investigation were that: The Aircraft Commander had made appropriate decisions and took necessary actions during the event.. The cause of the No. 4 Bearing Key washer distress has been identified and the part has been redesigned so that an ‘infinite life’ will now apply on replacement with interim guidance for inspection and replacement of the pre-modification parts provided.. It was decided that “accordingly this Investigation does not sustain any Safety Recommendations”. A Factual Report of the Investigation was published on 20 June 2016.